-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: RF Online
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/rfonline/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique player-versus-player dynamic.
 Three playable races to choose from.
 Good music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Low-level quests are generic and boring.
 Traveling around the world is painfully slow.
 Very little variety in terms of items, quests, classes, and enemies.
 Bland environments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 15, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 5.6, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 1,490 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: CCR, Inc
Genre: Sci-Fi Online...
Date:     Feb 21, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
RF Online has a compelling player-versus-player component, but the rest of the game is tedious and 
 uninspired. 

  As full as the market is for massively multiplayer online role-playing games, it seems that there 
 are always plenty of people who are looking for something new. At least, that's what Codemasters 
 is hoping for with its first foray into the world of massively multiplayer games, Rising Force 
 Online. Although the game is your standard MMOG for the most part, it has one significantly unique 
 design element that sets it apart from the crowd.  

          You can choose from three different races: the Bellatos, the Corites, and the Accretians. 
     

  RF Online is a sci-fi themed massively multiplayer role-playing game that you can play for the 
 price of $50 for the game and $15 a month. It takes place in the galaxy of Novus, where a perpetual 
 war wages between three playable factions: the industrious Bellatos, the mystical Corites, and 
 the mechanical Accretians. The three factions fight for control of the Crag mine core, which produces 
 rich ores that provide economic sustenance. The problem is that there's an epic beast, known as 
 the Holystone Keeper, guarding the mine core at all times. The Holystone Keeper can't be killed, 
 and he will instantly destroy anyone who approaches the mine core. Luckily, the monster can be 
 temporarily fooled into befriending one particular race, depending on the outcome of the most recent 
 chip war.  

  Chip wars happen three times a day, every eight hours. A chip war is a free-for-all, player-versus-player 
 conflict where control of the mine core is temporarily up for grabs. Each faction has a chip control 
 tower, and the first faction to destroy one of its enemies' towers wins the war and gains the good 
 graces of the Holystone Keeper, effectively gaining a monopoly on mining the core for a period 
 of time. How long that monopoly lasts depends on the health of the victorious faction's own control 
 tower at the end of the war. However, the last person to hit the destroyed control tower can attempt 
 to run the chip back to the mine core. If successful, his or her faction will get a full seven 
 hours to mine under the protection of the Keeper. It sounds like a lot of work just for the sake 
 of digging some ore out of the ground, especially since you don't actually  need  control of the 
 core in order to mine. But the huge mining bonus you get for controlling the core, plus the morale 
 boost you get from a victory, makes it worth your while to enlist.  

  Large scale player-versus-player warfare is an appealing concept, and while the frenzied chaos 
 of the battles can be exciting if you're well equipped, you aren't required to participate. In 
 fact, you have to be at least level 25 before you can even damage a control tower, which makes 
 these daily battles somewhat exclusive. You can participate in a player-versus-player battle at 
 any level, but unless you're around level 30 or higher, you won't stand much of a chance. Even 
 high-level characters can expect to die often in chip wars. Luckily, the only penalty for dying 
 at the hands of another player is respawning at one of your faction's bases and having to run back 
 to the battlefield. If you kill an enemy, you earn contribution points, which are used to determine 
 your rank among all the players in your faction, and the highest ranking players for each faction 
 get special leadership privileges.  

  This race warfare isn't limited to chip wars, either. You'll often run into members of opposing 
 factions in the course of completing quests. You can kill other players as you see them or even 
 go hunting for them if you're looking to earn more contribution points. There are certain areas 
 in the game that are more heavily contested than others, so it's usually fairly easy to avoid getting 
 trounced by other players if you want to. It does seem unbalanced that there's no apparent penalty 
 for simply picking off low-level players, and you'll often see people thrashing players who are 
 away from their computers.  

          The Holystone Keeper can be your best friend or your worst enemy.     

  If you aren't 
 into the player-versus-player style of combat, there are plenty of giant bugs, overgrown reptiles, 
 and other exotic creatures to do battle with. You'll get very familiar with all the wildlife in 
 the first half of the game, because almost every quest you get until you reach level 25 just involves 
 killing 20 of these, 10 of those, and so on. The quests and rewards are sent directly to you, so 
 you don't have to bother tracking down a non-playable character. You can check your journal to 
 find out exactly where you need to go to find the creature you need to kill. It's convenient, but 
 the lack of any context for the quests makes them feel entirely perfunctory. Occasionally you'll 
 get some background information about why the quest is necessary, but it's never very compelling. 
 Capturing 20 of a certain type of creature to help some scientist compile a report on the natural 
 history of the planet is a pretty flimsy story to begin with, but when you get several quests with 
 the same story, it just starts to feel lazy. There's no attempt to disguise the fact that the quests 
 are simply there to make you to grind your way through level after level. It would be just as easy 
 to turn you loose at the beginning of the game and say, "Get to level 25 so you can participate 
 in the player-versus-player battles." It also doesn't help that every race gets the same quests, 
 so even if you create multiple characters, you pretty much have to play the game in the exact same 
 way every time.     

   

  The combat itself is equally uninspired. When you click on a creature, you'll see the name of the 
 creature and anywhere from one to seven colored dots. The more dots that are lit up, the higher 
 level the creature is. You can kill a low-level creature in one or two hits, but high-level battles 
 can take quite awhile. Even if a creature is several levels higher than you, you can still have 
 a fighting chance as long as it isn't strong enough to kill you in a single hit. You can chug healing 
 potions at will, because the cooldown time is only a couple of seconds. As a result, you can take 
 on creatures that are way out of your league as long as you keep your finger on the potion button. 
 It helps that potions are relatively cheap, and money is easy to come by. It removes any sense 
 of strategy from combat, though, because you simply have to hit the potion key every few seconds 
 and maybe use a special attack every so often just to speed things up. If you do happen to die, 
 you'll be penalized anywhere from 5 to 20 percent of your current level of experience.  

          Depending on your faction, you can get some cool toys at higher levels, including lumbering 
 mechs, powerful summons, and real big guns.     

  Your effectiveness in combat has to do with the gear you equip and the skills you use. There are 
 a few dozen skills divided into four tiers that can be used by any character, regardless of class. 
 These skills can all be assigned to the function keys on the keyboard, making them quick and easy 
 to activate. There are also class-specific skills that you can learn as you reach higher levels 
 in the game. Most of the skills are basic buffs or special attacks, and the skills become more 
 powerful as you use them.  

  When you start the game, you can choose from four base classes, unless you choose the robotic Accretian 
 race, which doesn't have any magic users. The classes are warrior, spiritualist, ranger, and specialist. 
 When you reach levels 30 and 40, you earn a class promotion, which allows you to further specialize 
 in terms of skills and proficiencies. Despite that, the fact that there are only four basic classes 
 that are mostly the same for each race makes your options seem limited.  

  The major difference between the races is prevalent only at higher levels in the game. Each race 
 gets a special weapon at level 30. The Corites get summons; the Bellatos get MAU's, which are giant 
 mechs; and the Accretians get powerful launchers, which are massive, deployable guns.  

  As with any role-playing game, a major component of RF Online is item collecting. Enemies drop 
 loot as they die, which you can pick up and use, trade, sell to non-player characters, or put up 
 for auction. Most loot consists of raw materials that a specialist can use when crafting items, 
 but occasionally you'll find a weapon or piece of armor, as well. There isn't much variety in the 
 items in the game, though. Since every character uses the same few items, you'll end up seeing 
 a lot of cookie-cutter people running around with the exact same equipment as you. The lack of 
 breadth saps the excitement out of hunting for rare items, since there aren't that many items to 
 find.  

  The items that are in the game look good, even if you do end up seeing them on every person you 
 encounter. There are massive beam axes, ridiculously long swords, glowing staffs, huge guns, and 
 so on. The armor looks nicely detailed, if a bit garish at times. The three races each have a distinct 
 style, and the character models all look detailed and animate well. Again, the problem is that 
 there are only a handful of models for each race, so everyone you see looks exactly the same. The 
 creature models are nicely detailed and show a good variety in size and morphology, although you'll 
 see some models used several times throughout the game, only they'll be different colors to indicate 
 a higher level.  

  The environments look fairly good at times, but there's a lot of empty space in the game, which 
 means that most of the time there isn't anything interesting to look at. That empty feeling is 
 compounded by the fact that you have to run everywhere you go, since there aren't any mounts in 
 the game. It's awfully boring to spend 10 minutes running through a barren wasteland with nothing 
 to see but fuzzy ground textures and blocky landscapes. What's worse is that there's a stamina 
 gauge, and if you run out of stamina, you can't run anymore and instead have to walk at a painfully 
 slow pace until your gauge refills.  

  The sound in the game is about what you'd expect, but it works well here. The music is mostly excellent, 
 with appropriately dramatic orchestral tunes and fast-moving electronic beats that match the action 
 well. The sound effects are the standard clashes and clangs of weapons and grunts and hisses of 
 enemies. It all sounds good, but it's nothing you haven't heard before.  

          The chip wars are fun, so it's a shame that everything else is so boring.     

  RF 
 Online is built around an interesting three-way race-war dynamic that offers a refreshing change 
 of pace from the standard player-versus-environment questing. Unfortunately, you have to spend 
 a long time grinding your way up to the appropriate level to experience the best parts of the game. 
 As fun as the chip wars are, they aren't quite worth all the time and effort it takes to reach 
 a level where you can enjoy them. As it is, RF Online is a bare-bones massively multiplayer online 
 role-playing game with one great mechanic mired in hours of derivative, uninspired gameplay.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (106 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vedomedo
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  So yeah, i read some of the other reviews and they all seem to be concentrating alot on the "BOT" 
 part... well i got one answer for u guys PRIVATE SERVERS!
  
  If you play on the "retail" servers (even though the game is free) there are ALOT of botters and 
 almost no GM's. So after a while i got really pissed off when a botter came by and stole my kills, 
 so i started playing on a private server!
  
  The server im playing on is a 30X rate server so the game wont take long if you want to be high 
 lvled. This may seem boring or somewhat like cheating, but its much better than competing against 
 bots. Also because its a private server, u can count on the gm's being there and therfore the server 
 is MUCH better!
  
  The bad thing about this game is the gear, if you have played mmo's like WOW or such, this will 
 be a lettdown. There aren't many weapons / gear in general, so you will see alot of guys running 
 round looking the same, but if you can look past this the game is REALLY fun!
  
  I would advise you all to give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkpiggy17
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 26, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  So i played on a private RF server for a couple of months last summer. It was a very fun game, 
 but that was probably because of my low standards for mmo gameplay. I had only ever played runesccape 
 and martial heroes before rf in terms of mmo's so i didn't really have a great frame of reference 
 to judge it with. Basically, it's not a horrible game. It just really starts to suck horribly once 
 you hit about level 30. At that point, it becomes an utter grindfest in which you spend all of 
 your money on potions and then kill some more guys and get some more money so you can do it all 
 over again. After a solid week or so of play, you hit level 31. WHOOPDEFRIGGINDOO. It's honestly 
 not as exciting as i'm making it sound. And that's saying something. DON"T BUY IT OR PAY TO PLAY 
 if you feel the need to play it find a private server and download the client. Totally free for 
 a few weeks of entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mantrhax
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  The Bad :
  Lots of money farms using bots....
  Bots, bots and more bots
  High Level players can PK low level players in training grounds
  Linear, the game leads u to 
 where it want
  dont have a history/background impossible to get suport online
  really dated gameplay/interface
  
  
  The good : hummm cant think any thing good about, ahh 
 its free !!!
  
  I played this game for a few days, got bored fast, too much fast to be honest... every place u go 
 to hunt mobs, u find some philipine dude with hunt bots, gold farm bots, bots and more bots.... i 
 said bots ? yeah a lot of then.... and noone do nothing to get ride of then.... codemaster dont give 
 a xit.
  
  Stay away from this garbage, its a jackpot from codemaster
  just to get some money selling items to players, the game itself has nothing
  good to keep anyone 
 playing for more than a few daysm unless u are some a hardcore crap lover....
  
  Thats what happens when u dont develop ur own MMO
  
  Bad things about codemaster : RF Online 
 and Starforce Copy Protection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordOfTorment
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 6, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I played this game when it first came out and found it horrible and stopped. I started up again 
 after all the big patches and I'd have to say that I find it slightly better than when I first 
 tried it. This game is essentially the same as all the other free MMORPGs you can find out there 
 but the difference is that this one allows you to choose between different races. The controls 
 are tolerable but not horrible, the graphics are real nice, the lore is practically non-existent. 
 In the end what drew me to this game and what keeps me playing is the fact that it's sci-fi and 
 the graphics are nice. Substance-wise it isn't much of a game since all the quests I've done are 
 the exact same and every single time I try to kill a monster for a quest, 15 bots will run in and 
 steal the kill making me waste several stacks of ammo and potions before I can finally finish the 
 quest. All in all... compared the the MMOs you pay for, monthly and non-monthly (World of Warcraft, 
 Everquest, Guild Wars, EVE) ... I'd have to say that this game is relatively bad. Compared to the 
 free MMOs (Silkroad, Flyff, Flysis) ... this game is relatively good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitronumber9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  For anyone thinking of getting RF Let me sum it up in a sentence. There is more I like on this 
 than FlyFF.
  
  Firstly RF online is a MMORPG with the most open selection of weapons iv'e seen in a MMORPG everything 
 from simple swords to laser guns and magic staffs there is bound to be a weapon to suit your style 
 here, and the best bit is no matter what your class, you can use any one you want, though it's 
 recommended to stick with the weapon best required for your class.
  Anyway as for classes you have 3 races and 4 base classes and (3 for accentra) each class can specialise 
 in 2 sub professions and 2 more later in the game.
  Each race is constantly at war with the others which can add some real fun to the game as you try 
 to survive in often hostile conditions though this can also be very annoying when your trying to 
 do a quest. But since thiers normally a war every day, you can get revenge and have fun doing so. 
 
  The environments are lovely looking from rolling hills, vast deserts and robotic bases to dark 
 caves, dungeons and a mixture of them all.
  
  Though RF online is good, but it also has its bad points. The first is the lack of sight in the 
 game, you can see roughly about 150 meters around you which can be incredibly annoying when your 
 trying to avoid certain monsters and the total lack of a world map (there is an area map but not 
 a world map) means alot of exploration and the lack of difference in quests (kill certain number 
 of certain creature) will put off people wanting a good quest orientated game and the musical soundtrack 
 is surprisingly weak, but see through those problems, and your bound to enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrxdemix
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 17, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  If you've played an MMORPG you know how addicting they can be. RF Online is a sci-fi MMORPG released 
 by Codemasters 2 years ago. Recently, due to poor sales, they made the game free-to-play. It is 
 set in a world where 3 different races duke it out to see who is the best. You have Accretia, Cora 
 and Bellatio. Bellatio are small human-like guys and girls who love technology. They have access 
 to robots at high level that neither of the other 2 can use. Cora are a magical race, and will 
 remind you of elves from other RPG's. Accretia are the typical bad guy, sporting a huge body and 
 a mean ego. The twist is that they are robots. They have no flesh so they are a great jump from 
 the typical RPG
  
  The graphics are quite possibly the best out of ever free MMORPG on the market. The colors are 
 great and the character models as well as the armor look very good. The only problem is that the 
 environment doesn't look that great. The textures are quite bland and there is very little to look 
 at. The UI also looks quite nice at first, but unfortunately you soon find out how sloppy it is. 
 As far as screenshots go, this game looks better than the average MMORPG and is quite possibly 
 it's strongest point.
  
  The audio, while good at first, becomes repetitive quickly. The same few songs are played on loop 
 and there are very few sound effects. The problem is, since this is a grinding game, you'll be 
 resorting to the audio to keep you going. Unfortunately, the audio will bore you and only push 
 you towards possibly quitting the game. The few songs that the game does sport are quite good, 
 however, and this should be noted.
  
  The gameplay is definitely the weakest point of this game. Moving around has never felt so clumsy 
 and combat feels unpolished. All you really do is click on an enemy and then press spacebar, which 
 will grow old fast. If you've played Lineage 2 or some other free MMORPG's, this game feels about 
 the same. The good thing is that at higher levels, the PvP experience can be quite fun. The bad 
 side to this is that there are only a few abilities per class, so you will be forced to press the 
 same few buttons for the remainder of the game
  
  Overall, the game is one of the better free MMORPG's on the market. The graphics are lovable and 
 the audio could have used some more quantity. It does have an endgame so getting to max level can 
 be rewarding, but judging from how long the grind is, it most likely isn't worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixsidix
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  The game has improved alot since its release and players who stuck with it all the way will notice 
 this more clearly. The new update brings new excitement and adventure for all levels to enjoy and 
 even makes it more easier to level a new character. 
  
  Lots of new players have joined and found the game to be very addictive and are thrilled by the 
 adventure and combact that is taken place every day every hour.
  
  With the server merger of the old servers and the addition of two new servers since the game with 
 F2P RF Online has seen an increase of players and new guilds also the return of some old guilds 
 great past players.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KilIitWithFire
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, it's there, free, and a good time sink. If you like MMOs, but are too cheap or poor too buy 
 one then GET THIS GAME.
  
  It's no WoW, but at least it isn't MapleStory. 
  
  The basics are this:
  -You have your elf type race (the Cora) Magic is what they are the best 
 at.
  -You got your Robot race, (Accretians) Warriors. Fighting is their thing.
  -And finally you have the stand in for humans, (The Bellato Union) ... Duh.
  
  -You have the 
 basic priest, warrior, range class, et cetera
  -One cool thing is the specialist which eventually can pilot a gundam type thing
  
  The games 
 UI is pretty middle of the road, and the control scheme is just... well it feels a little off. 
 The story is alright, but the game lacks the ever importantquest tracking. The gear is the basics. 
 The higher your lvl the better the gear. The fighting is the same old same old, but the animations 
 look good, and the graphics and sound a really good. It will probably take you about 15 minutes, 
 maybe less, to get the controls, fighting, and communications right.
  
  So, fun, free, and it ain't that bad. BUT, if you hate grinding then.. too bad :)
  Not to say 
 that the grind is redonkulous, but its a major part of gameplay (1/3) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Lots of people say that this game is boring and all you do is grind. Well thats true 
 but grinding is nothing below lvl40, where you can reach lvl39-40 in about a hour or two (which 
 is really really good^^) if you get into the right parties. it isnt really that boring either cause 
 you'll make lots of friends, do some bds, and half the time your grinding you'll be chatting to 
 someone or just listening to sell chat. Also you are really driven to reach lvl40 and then PvP 
 like mad! (and to choose your lvl40 class) Be prepared to get killed alot though and the people 
 that complain about that are idiots because they would do the exact same thing if they could. So 
 be prepared to die alot XD
  
  PvP is where the game really starts and well worth the grind. When your a lowbie you'll get killed 
 maybe a dozen to two dozen times as you try to reach lvl40. But once at lvl40+ you can easily kill 
 50+ or 100+ if you know what your doing or go with your friends to pvp. There is a chipwar which, 
 in theory, you can participate and do some damage to the other race at lvl25. But now with soo 
 many lvl50s you'll want to be lvl45+ to enter unless you want to spend the whole CW debuffing people 
 which I dont think is very fun. It is also easy to start your own mini wars against other races, 
 just raid their areas with a group and if your lucky they'll respond with their own group of people. 
 Also half the time you'll find that the chance to pvp will come to you when a opposing race member 
 tries to attack you.
  
  There is a lot more then just killing stuff though. You can get guilds which give you company while 
 grinding, help you grind and you can pvp with them. There are PBs to kill which give really good 
 equipment. Battle dungeons which give Leon piecies which you then combine to get a Leon weapon. 
 Dark holes which give you relic weapons (which look kickass) . The scary task of upgrading weapons 
 but there is a huge variety of upgrades and combination available. And also just getting new equipment 
 is really worth grinding for or farming for.
  
  All sumed up, this game is amazing! download now! its free and you'll be able to go to space with 
 the next big update! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonahzg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Changable interface- to make gameplay more comfortable, 3 warring races, over 55 classes total, 
 giant robotic mech battle suits, pvp wars, and pure science fiction- This game is surprisingly... 
 excellent. Why would someone pass up the oppertunity to play this game? it's F2P and it's better 
 than world of warcraft, if you like organized pvp, a chance to become the leader of your race, 
 the ability to make an awesome looking character, and science fiction, then this game is for you. 
 You can play this game in any style you wish, if you want to play it like diablo, you can change 
 it to click to move and go overhead view, if you want to play it like world of warcraft, then goto 
 WASD mode. Graphics are simply stunning for a free game, i just love looking at all the awesome 
 armor and weapon styles. The game has 4 possible starting classes that can all branch into different 
 things, and each class branches into different things based on your race. Simply a good MMORPG, 
 nuff sed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallywest
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Now i know theres been some negativity regarding this game, but honestly its mostly because of 
 the grinding, which is all you do. Thats not a big deal considering thats the fastest way to level 
 in most mmos.
  
  But if you give it a chance, you will find a great world with a wonderful community, and some of 
 the best pvp around. Really getting into your faction is a blast, and since everyone has a common 
 goal, its easy to unite.
  
  Graphically its great, minus some pretty uninspired backgrounds, but the models look awesome.
 
  
  So, I basically say this game is pretty bad if you play till level 6 and give it up, but if you 
 put some real time into it, the payoff is substantial. Chip wars are an absolute blast, and you 
 don't get idiots yelling at you for making a mistake (a la Wow) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiyoy_araguy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This is not really good for other players. But I have played it here in our country. There has 
 been a lot of new patches and features that our RF here bacomes intense every month. We have permanent 
 x5 PT and Experience.
  
  The game actally gives you 3 races to choose. And each race has it own Uniquness and also waekness...
 
  
  The game has only 3-4 classes but here, we make it a lot of variance in terms of there PT. For 
 example in COra, A summoner can wear a Ranger and Warrior type Armor.
  
  What even gave this game more intensity.... We have a war called CW (chip wars) It actually occurs 
 during 1pm, 9pm and 5am... This is where all RF players gather to battle at the Crag Mines. This 
 is were you actually can enjoy battling other races and massive armies... Cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilass
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 26, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  this game has it all its just amazing in everyway i just love the graphics and the design and the 
 combat i have to tell you it has the best mmo combat in the world dont be fooled by the ratings 
 Gamespot dosent know how to rate for **** :P and second of all this game has style and has an awseome 
 grinding system !!! TRY IT TODAY !! believe me you wont be dissappointed!
  im telling you this game rocks from every side of it !! i just love this game i love it and plus 
 its very addictive! and it grows on you like a bitc* its just a nice game just dont believe gamespot 
 or any other site you have to try it your self ! to decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nalvan
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 25, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  I'm happy with the game for one crucial aspect, it's not after the WoW-replica award here like 
 some others, such as LOTRO which won't last long given the constraints of the Tolkien lore. But 
 this game has found a spot on something to see as remarkable in its own light. Aside from that 
 it contains much of the same structures of EQ or Anarchy Online with massive grind sessions. The 
 PvP is where the gaming experience makes for a 180 degree and made all that grinding worthwhile. 
 Only wish they made more class branches for the existing classes or just make a whole new class, 
 support class of some sort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faith256
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  I did not play TBC, because by the time it was released I was utterly bored with WOW, gave up twice 
 and only came back when my ex wanted more. 6 x 60 and WOW basically loses the solo ability, you 
 have to do everything in a large guild, and even then... it just loses the flavour and becomes monotonous.. but 
 isn't that what you would expect from a mmporpg.
  
  For some reason RF online has a low score which is a surprise, because its an awesome game, I have 
 some problems with it...
  
  I can definitely see developers carrying the new techniques and ideas forward, which is how our 
 games evolve anyway. That said there are some irritating quirks that could have been fixed, or 
 could have taken advantage of evolution... but certainly these are minor quirks, and do not harm 
 the game play.
  
  This game not only evolves it pushes the boundaries, tries new things.. but it actually still functions 
 within the story line created.
  
  I keep hearing no story line as a reason for poor scores, but where does story line come in when 
 you talking about uber pvp, race pvp, 3 factions competing as a whole race team against another 
 faction, hidden alliances, and trators playing within, spies, giving up intelligence, scouting 
 ahead, using massive strategy, such co-ordination.
  
  I'm bored... cause thats what happens with mmporpgs, but its still a good game.
  
  Team or Solo. 
 Innovation
  
  Flashy cool looking armour, flashy cool looking moves, live the dream of walking about in a massive 
 hulk of armour - MAU or become and blades, flashy manouvres 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan00025
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  RF online is the best MMO I ve played and I ve played a lot.
  
  Gameplay is what makes this game worth buying, it make up for the very poorly design storyline, 
 or quest, The game offer a huge battle every 8 hours for control over a mine which is your factions 
 economy and also special events every ones in a while. Their is 3 sides so the battle most of the 
 time are 3 way which make it more difficult and require more strategy from each side. The top 10 
 players in your faction are elected leaders and the first is like the king or Supreme Commander. 
 It suprised me how well people listen to does 10 people they follow orders and do as they are told 
 and in most mmo its just every men for himself. The graphics are good for an mmo
  Sound is awesome, from firing a gun to using a sword it just sound perfect and the music is alright.
 
  
  Storyline Worst thing in the game and probably the worst in all mmo
  I can summaries it in one sentence, All the quest are Kill # of this and loot # of this from this 
 creature, that is it! That the 2 type of quest you re going to get for the whole game. All it s 
 really there for is to get you to lvl 45 so you can start PvP. And to get to lvl 45 (max is 50 
 I believe) doesnt take you that long. Took me 10 days to get to 44 then to get to 45 it take so 
 long I mean each monster give you not even 1%!!!!!!! Also You do not have to complete any quest. 
 All player look the same ( by clothing) One type of Armor per lvl
  different armor by profesions
  
  Good
  + Very good gameplay
  +Awesome PvP
  +Great Sound 
 effect
  +Great player co-op
  Bad
  -Very poor Quest making 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unerlord
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 3, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most interesting games i played so far. This is challenge and entertaining as 
 well. Did not take long to pick it up and is very user friendly, i enjoy this game very much. RF 
 online has a 3 race system meaning that each race is fights each other for the control of the mines 
 and the winner get to mine and get upgrades of it. The armor and weapons are very graphical and 
 action as well, the massive armored unit used by the balato union is the coolest. The raids that 
 each race dose on the other helps introduce new players into the game experience and helps make 
 them be prude of the race that they chose. In the end it all comes down to loyalty and good graphics. 
 I would recommend this game to anyone. !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Litie
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  When you first log onto RF online your greeted by a very stunning log on screen. It looks cool, 
 could be an intro to a great game.
  
  You can choose from three races, each race having a slightly different type of element to it's 
 play. Each race can only interact with their own race. The main pull of the game is the pvp element. 
 One on One fights can last a very long time if both players are evenly matched since potion spamming 
 is the main way to keep yourself alive. you'll probably try a chip war or two if you reach a decent 
 level. Chip wars are three on three race battles to destroy the other races chip. The race that 
 wins this battle gains control of the center of the mine. The mine is a place where players can 
 mine for ore to either sell, or prospect for gems and such. Graphically RFO is stunning. While 
 there are some jagged edges here and there it looks extremely nice. There is a problem with the 
 lack of enviorment. While what it does have looks great, it only has a small taste of it's graphical 
 capabilities. The sound in RFO is amazing. Each blast has it's own SFX. Every thing is crisp and 
 clear. The music is also very pleasing and rather nice to listen too. The only problem is there 
 is not enough of it. The gameplay is rather repetitive. Since all the quests simply involve killing, 
 or item collecting it was grind grind grind. The skill you learn are limited, and the rate at which 
 you level somewhat reflects how strong your character will be (the slower you level, the stronger 
 your character is) . Because of this you may reroll several times to get the game down right.
  
  After everything RFO wolf in sheep's clothing. Looks and sounds nice. But ultimately could 
 be much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torak101
Rating: 3.4
Date: Feb 7, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  Yes, I was hyped for a new SciFi game, RFO looked like it was gonna be good. It had the art style 
 and PvP that I thought I would enjoy.... boy was I in a for a shock.
  My main question for RFO is: If you are going to put ZERO effort into making anything that even 
 resembles remotely interesting PvE, why put it in to begin with? Why have people grind away like 
 Zombies doing the worse PvE at all? Stick to the strengths which is the PvP in the case of this 
 game.
  I was also very disappointed at the scope of the game. The single world is somewhat small and on 
 maps . No ground vehicles save 1 mech using class. No Flying vehicles, no star ships, no nothing.
 
  Race selection .... one big elf who uses magic, one small elf who uses mechs, and a robot.... who 
 all do basically the same thing, kill the SciFi equivelent of rats to gain levels so the can eventually 
 do something interesting like the PvP.
  If you like mindless grinding like in all other MMO's this might be your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abz_hitman
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 28, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  OK 1st of I'd like to say I played this game from the beta stage (around mid- January) until October 
 and I was level 47. I have experienced almost everything this game offers and i have to say it 
 isn't much, the game has so much potential but it seems Codemasters failed on the basics when releasing 
 this game to Europe (EU) and the US. do not, whatever you do, ever buy this game.
  
  there are 3 races to choose from:
  Accrecians (acc) : these are cyborgs and are waaaay overpowered 
 in the Codemasters version. although accretians lack any spirit classes, they greatly make up for 
 in the other classes. accretians have extremely high defence and high offence. Bellatio (bells) : 
 these are mini elf like creatures. they are a balanced race in both range, magic and melee type 
 characters
  
  Cora: this race resembles elves in character design. this class is supposed to have the highest 
 attacking ability of all races and the lowest defence.
  
  this game is dominantly player v player (PVP) based with next to nothing in terms of player v enemy 
 (PVE) or Quests. every 8 hrs there is a PVP event called a Chip War (CW) , the chip war lasts upto 
 3 hrs. in that time one race must obtain another races chip and take it to the ore mining core 
 where an indigenous creature that guards the mining core. the ore, when processed, gives many rare 
 items that then can be used to improve your chars equipment to give you the upper hand in PVP battles 
 and PVE battles when you are levelling your character.
  
  there are high level creatures that drop rare items also these are called Pit Bosses and a group 
 of characters are required to kill one. to obtain the higher levels in this game players must travel 
 to neutral areas, these areas have all 3 races levelling. obviously this has been done so to encourage 
 PVP during levelling of your character.
  
  guilds can be created and recently a system was placed for interracial guild v guild (GVG)
  
 
  the graphics are very impressive, so long as you are using an nvidea Graphic card. Unfortunately 
 there seems to be an error only present in the EU and US version with ATI graphic cards, when the 
 settings are used to maximum the system crashes. also there are synchronisation issues and sometimes 
 you may find yourself dead for no apparent reason.
  the sound has bugs when playing for more then 2-3 hours. the enemy sounds effects seem to get mixed 
 up.
  
  OK that's what the game is supposed to do and it works when the population of this game is more 
 then the odd 50-60 players (around the time I left it was more like 10-15 players present during 
 the CW) .
  there is a major balance issue with this game, the accrecian race is ridiculously overpowered, 
 and the cora are pathetic in defence. the only race that has any balance is the bellatio. OK if 
 that's the case why don't codemasters fix it? simple they don't have the rights to. the publishers 
 for Korean and Japanese RFO they can and do change the settings for their versions of the game. 
 they change the settings based on race population, so if bells are few in population they increase 
 the stats for them so they don't get overwhelmed, if the cora are too many in population their 
 stats are reduced so they don't overly dominate. Codemasters, in their short sightedness or maybe 
 plain laziness decided they didnt need/want the part that allowed tweaking of the race settings. 
 because of this EU and US now have the race stat settings from Korea/Japan. the population over 
 in Korea and Japan versions are:
  accrecians: lowest population almost half of cora.
  bells: more then acc but significantly less than cora
  cora: their population is around 2:1; 
 cora : other race.
  to keep the balance both Japan and Korea increased the stats for both bells and especially accretians, 
 whilst lowering the stats for cora.
  compared to EU &amp; US population:
  Accretian: most population
  bells: almost the same amount as accretians
  cora: around 4:1 other 
 race : cora
  
  as you have realised due to cora being so low in population and weaker in stats and accretians 
 being so high in stats this creates an imbalance in the game which has lead to its downfall. in 
 PVP accretians easily slaughter other races, the only way to stop an acc is to have 2 other race 
 to every accretian. But that is not possible due to poor population; just to add some perspective 
 high elemental defence classes (such as rangers) can be killed by a single elemental attack from 
 a launcher class accretian. the affect is not only in PVP but when levelling characters; bells 
 and accretians can level in higher level areas sooner then cora due to the higher stats. this means 
 that bells and acc obtain more higher level characters; which allows them to obtain rare items, 
 further increasing their stats. this has an accumulative affect and simply destroys any balance 
 in the game.
  
  codemasters in their limited wisdom have decided not to fix this even though they are well aware 
 of this imbalance. many cora and bell players make acc chars and just power level to high levels, 
 further adding to the imbalance.
  
  there are many other faults with this game, such as random experience loss. when an enemy kills 
 your character you may find you have lost up to 15% of experience. this can be infuriating when 
 it takes 1-2 hours just to get 1% of experience. mysterious item loss, sometimes, although it is 
 rare, you may find an item has suddenly disappeared from your inventory or bank. if you inform 
 CM about it they decline to retrieve it (i lost 2 high level pieces of armour and both times CM 
 refused to replace even though they admitted it was a bug) .
  if you think you can trust the stats you are seeing for your character, guess again. Codemasters 
 official standing is if you want to check which item gives u the best stats check it on an enemy, 
 as the stats on your screen are probably all wrong due to translation errors. levelling your character 
 initially it easy, however when reaching high levels the grind becomes almost unbearable, when 
 reaching high levels don't be surprised to spend 2 hours trying to get 1% of experience.
  
  this game has massive potential if executed properly, the publishers in the Korean and Japan versions 
 have seen to its success and it is reflected in the popularity of this game in the respective countries. 
 however codemasters have single-handedly destroyed this game and all its potential. overall this 
 game looks very appealing however when actually playing it shows its true form, this game falls 
 pathetically short of its hype, and needs serious attention if it has hopes of being a serious 
 game. do not waste your time and money on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robin3311
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 3:16 am PT
Review:  When i played this game. I thought it was ganna be diff. I wasent all sicked about it though.
 
  
  Char Models - Okay the models are cool looking. I know its made my some famouse cartoon guy or 
 w/e. I really dont know. But very cool sleek armor.
  
  World Graphics - This is the down fall. Its not such a great world to look at. It has pretty good 
 poly count. But still... Its a bunch of caves and crap.
  
  How to Level - GET RDY TO GRIND ! WOOT..... Its ganna be like World Of Warcraft.. where... ur quest 
 is to kill 10 bats... now kill 10 of these... repeat. over n over. And you cant even get into the 
 action till lvl 20's.
  
  The good about the leveling - You can get in ur 20s in a few days. ppl do hate the point that ur 
 not right in the action. But same in Guildwars u have to wait till 20 i think to Arena. I dont 
 know. Guild Wars sucks &gt;_&lt;
  
  The wars - This is the cool thing. Its very fun in the wars. Very fun. I think its worth the wait. 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  --------------The sum 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  This game aint no World of Warcraft or EQ2. Dont look for a replacement. I did enjoy this game. 
 Its a game ur ganna play for fun. When ur bored of playing EQ2 or that game called..... world of 
 warcraft. if you are looking for a great MMORPG ur ganna need to get EQ2. But if u want a game 
 that gives you all the levels for free you can play World of Warcraft. Wow is for the younger players. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aiur_08
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 4, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  RF?? dont think that the game was not superb at all. you know the graphics are almost highly detailed 
 more even if you full your resolutions on it. so much intense on this game. i dont like a little 
 in this game is the sound and the quest. its quite boring at all. but its okay.. i like the most 
 is the graphics and the gamesplay!! its fun!! so c'mon and play now! maybe you will join me in 
 my guild . all of members in my guild are 45 and above. hehe! lets ROCK!! i love this game!! im 
 lvl 50 Accretia rules!! long live the empire!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M1Dw1nT3r
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 1, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  ==============================================
  This is a rant, if you really like this game, I'm sorry I just
  want to spread the word so others 
 do not make the same
  mistake as I did when I got this game.
  ==============================================
  
  I got RF online and I played it for 40-50 
 hours total, I didn't even finish my first free subscription to it because it was all flash and 
 no substance whatsoever...
  
  Where should I start, the classes, the races, the value or the meaningless PvP? Well let's take 
 each of these elements and grind them down to gravel.
  
  One thing that wowed me BEFORE i bought the game was the graphics, really nice looking graphics, 
 it had a nice feel to it, it looked like the bloom effect was turned up on max and the anti-aliasing 
 was tickling it really nicely, it ran smooth and everything was great. And to my surprise, it even 
 looked good on my (at the time) low end system! CCR Inc gets my Kudos for that!
  
  Let me tell you this first, if you are NOT into Asian cartoons like Manga, Anime etc, and if you 
 hate it's guts and wish it nothing more than death, you will absolutely HATE this game.
  
  This game has next to NOTHING when it comes to character customization, diversity what? There's 
 always ALWAYS people that look like you in this game, even WoW has better character diversity! 
 If you're looking for good character customization, I recommend checking out Everquest II or even 
 Star Wars Galaxies!
  
  Ok, so you start out as one of three races, you have the elf looking religious people, you have 
 the small gnome midgets with the cute hair and you have the robots...
  
  The movement controls are absolutely uncomfortable, you actually CLICK to walk, that's right! You 
 click where you want your character to walk and it walks there. I don't know about you, but in 
 my taste that is highly annoying!
  
  The religious elf people's population consists of 98% females, because the people that play that 
 race are prepubescent little boys that like to peak up their miniskirts, so don't be surprised 
 if you can't find any diversity at all. All the small-mouthed big-eyed females have miniskirts 
 and long elbow gloves and colorful hair.
  
  The gnome midgets are small little engineers that don't look very different from the religious 
 elf people, they would actually get along quite good by the looks of those two but due to some 
 reason they are at war with each other. The gnome midgets are small and uhm, oh yeah, CUTE! They 
 don't look like old men like the most gnomes in the MMO's (WoW or Eq2) but because of their body 
 size, they have to make up for their small sizes and drive huge robots, or well, mechs... A mech 
 costs a lot of cash (which really isn't a lot of trouble to achieve if you read on) , and you have 
 to be a certain level to ride one.
  
  So what's next on queue to be bashed? Oh yeah the Robots!
  
  The robots are the evil doers 
 in the game, they run around and robot themselves all day long, don't ask what that mans, but at 
 least the race that you ought to think has the LEAST diversity actually has the MOST diversity. 
 Because when you loot new armor plates for your robot character, he actually gets cooler looking, 
 very big plus!
  
  The game has some cool looking clothes, if you're into Anime, some huge collars on your big leather 
 jacket, some nice goggles to put on your head, yeah you'll look like something out of Final Fantasy 
 with your gear... You'll be one of many Cloud and Sepheroth looking people!
  
  So what does the game actually contain? They have a thing called Chip Wars every now and then where 
 you fight for a big abandoned mine in the middle of the game, the race that wins the Chip Wars 
 get the cave, and what do you do in the cave?
  
  YOU STAND THERE WITH A MINING DRILL WHILE AFK AND GET RICHER AND RICHER! Go watch TV! Go hangout 
 with your friends! Go to bed! Go kill yourself! YOU'RE GETTING RICH BABY! Way to go to DESTROY 
 a game's ECONOMY! AFK MONEY MAKING!? WOOHOO!!!!!!!!!
  
  Sorry, but that really pissed me off in this game...
  So money is no problem, how is experience 
 and the actual combat?
  
  Well when you start out, there is a road from your HQ that leads up to a big portal or a door that 
 leads into another zone, and everything is lined up on or by the road for you to kill, from level 
 1 to level 20... It's like, hi I'm a little monster and behind me is a bunch of other monsters 
 that each and every one of them are slightly higher than me so just continue on the path if you 
 don't get XP from me.
  
  What!?
  
  Yeah you literally walk a road and kill stuff by it, and believe me, don't worry if you pick something 
 to big to chew, you have HEALING POTIONS WITH INSTA-HEAL WITH INSTA-CAST!
  
  Say what!?
  
  Yeah! Go buy 6000 healing potions, put them on your hotbar and get ready to bash your button 
 like crazy! You just need to click your heal bottle or whatever whenever you're in a fight to survive, 
 the one player with the most healing potions wins!
  
  I really wish I could travel time and stop myself from paying for this crap!
  
  And the Customer 
 Service is WORSER than Sony Online Entertainment's! I had several bugs with my game and errors 
 as well as problems, since the game is Asian the Game Masters need to forward the bugs to the HQ 
 in Asia and the Western countries don't get patches until they are all translated and after huge 
 delays... This game would be worth it's value if it was like Guild Wars, pay for the game but no 
 monthly fee! I play a LOT of MMOs and I do not complain about monthly fees, because those games 
 actually deserve the cash!
  
  I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone, it'll only make you feel stupid for getting it. I should 
 have listened and read the reviews of the other people here on GameSpot before I bought it, they 
 all recommended against buying this and now I'm one of them. Be better than me, DO NOT BUY OR PAY 
 FOR RF ONLINE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebaste
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game already for a year in the philippines server and me and my friends are 
 challeged with this game since its not the common MMORPG that you only have to focus on how to 
 lvl up your character but the stat of your character needs to be experience first literaly speaking 
 like if you want to max it out. Example your defence stat gain experience only when you are being 
 hit by monsters or the other player on other races. With all the sounds and graphics is great and 
 what I havent experienced before on an MMORPG is having the 3 races clash and perform for the I 
 goal wich is to win the war during CHip wars having 3 chip wars a day completes it.
  
  The complete recipe elves, cyborges and mechs.. cant ask for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  RF online has the same old layout of any other MMORPG but what makes this different from the others 
 is the introduction of the ability to select mechanical characters which resemble cyborgs. The 
 story revolves around three galactic forces fighting for control over a planet , namely - Accretian 
 Empire (mechanical being who only believe in technology) , Holy Alliance Of Cora (humans who are 
 against technology and prefer only magic) and Bellato Union (union of free traders who use both 
 magic and technology) . The palyer is allowed to choose from any of the following civilizations 
 and proceed to kick both the other civs asses.
  
  In a nutshell the game has good graphics but lacks sound quality and an impressive gameplay. Save 
 your money and play another free MMORPG or get something better like WoW or Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shade_wolf
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  I got this game free with the July issue of pc gamer, and was contemplating buying it before then. 
 I played this game for about 2-3 days and got horrifically bored with it. It's the sort of game 
 where you think "It'll get better later on" but it really doesnt. And even if it did get better 
 later on, it should be gripping from the start, the sort of money you pay for a subscription. Its 
 an interesting idea, and the chip wars do give this game its individuality, but a lack of features 
 elsewhere, means this game hasnt got what it takes to compete with the likes of guild wars, and 
 world of warcraft. Im glad i didnt pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerdoraemon
Rating: 3.9
Date: Aug 18, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited about getting this game.... it looked so cool. the videos were awesome, the pvp, 
 fighting seens, monsters looked really cool, but it was all fake. not like the reviews. i grindid 
 to level 22, the whole way just fighting monsters and spamming pots like crazy. no fun quests like 
 WoW, Diablo, or any of the mmo's. there was no one who would grind with me, and all i did every 
 day was fight the same monsters and use 5000 pots until i get a new weapon, then the same thing 
 over again. i went to a CW (chip wars) and i dont understand how that was fun. one half of the 
 group just attacked a big pole, and everyone else attacked some ppl who hav 5mil pots with them 
 that almost never die unless 3 ppl were teaming them at once. if your going to spend 15 bucks a 
 month, then get WoW, monster hunter freedom, Diablo2, or anything other than this game.
  
  Pros- good graphics.... (really thats all)
  
  Cons- spending 5 hours to grind to next level, 
 higly expensive rare weapons, spamming pots when fighting, grinding takes forever, and pvp is boring. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  In a distant sector known as Novus, three factions war for control. Engage in an awe-inspiring 
 universe where enthralling fantasy blends with galactic sci-fi. Create your character, choose your 
 faction and take arms with thousands of other players.
  
  
  The race for supremacy has begun...
  
  
  
  
  
  - Develop your character through epic 
 quests and combat, with dynamic skill expansion across a huge range of options.
  
  
  - Build immense war mechs, create devastating weapons or summon deities and demons to fight for 
 you.
  
  
  - Wrest control of resources from your enemies in epic daily faction v. faction battles.
  
 
  
  - Form guilds, groups and cross-faction alliances to fulfill yourobjectives.
  
  
  - Fight with advanced combat mechanics for a unique battleexperience.
  
  
  - Experience smooth 
 and seamless travel as you continue your adventures.
  
  
  - Glory in jaw-dropping character & environment detail unseen in anyother online game.
  
  
 
  - Constant updates provide a never-ending supply of content in anever-expanding game world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hub0
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  I played this game for just a few hours and found no point to keep on going. 
  At first I thought, "Wow, Elve-like people, humans and robots battling out... fun fun fun." But 
 what it lacks is depth and giving charactors a little more freedom.
  First you have different skills to go for, standard MMORPG component, but somehow RF failed at 
 setting up a good skill tree. The three races have almost the exact SAME skills for each jobs. 
 Then what's the point of having three races if they're pretty much the same?
  Secondly RFO failed at something that many other MMORPG failed at, custumizable status points. 
 This is a MMORPG! I played the game for just a little while and soon realized that eventually everyone 
 is gonna look the same if they're the same job as each other. Where can we see the players' own 
 style, we can't! Because if they change equipments, they will suck! So everyone will hack each 
 other with the same sword and shoot each other with the same guns. You mostly just buy a bunch 
 of potions, the potions are really cheap by the way, which reduces the level of difficulty that 
 the game needs, and you go out to kill the monsters, earn money, buy better weapons and armor, 
 and start the entire cycle all over again, until you have the best stuffs, you go fight in the 
 Chip War (or something like that) and find swarms of your lost twin brother! 
  So.... no depth, no strategies, no point working with other players since you can do everything 
 on your own with ease, and the constant war between the three races can get annoying when you just 
 want to fight monsters while the other guy is looking for weak players to kill.
  Well, enough with the bad things, the good things are surprising well done in some ways.... the 
 game has a good history, the graphics are really good no doubt, the music is also quite good. But 
 what RFO failed at is just way too fatal, nothing can save it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reppageki
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The graphics is neat. The environment feels like youre really in the game. Armors and weapons 
 are very detailed. It doesnt even required high-end video cards. Average or above average video 
 cards go well with it.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  
  The BGMs fits the sci-fi type of genre. I hate the sound of the monster when you hit it, because 
 it is randomized for every time you log in. Imagine a scorpion-like monster screams like a girl 
 when you hit it.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  The gameplay is highly addictive. Chip wars are done three times a day. Its the time when you 
 fight for the glory of your race. Crag mines (the place where chip war is held) is the place to 
 show-off what youve leveled up for. Its also the time to PvP for a good reason. It also has a 
 PT system which is like proficiency
  
  Quest: 6/10
  
  The quest is repetitive and boring. At lower level youll just kill 5 of X, 5 of Y and 5 of Z. 
 At higher level, youll kill a whopping 20 of X. For level 43 above, you will kill different kinds 
 pit bosses.
  
  Interface: 10/10
  
  Very user-friendly. The control have good sensitivity which is good for PvP and PvE.
  
  Comment: 
 
  One thing I hate most in RF Online is the looting system for boss hunting. The highest damager 
 takes all. If the character has a party, the party takes all the goodies. Whats bad about it? 
 From start to end of the game this people are still the ones monopolizing the pit boss hunting. 
 How can other people out damage these people if theyve got these +20/25% attack accessories. Most 
 pitbosses can be killed alone. BTW, +20/25% is something that is hard to imagine even a full pted 
 character cannot outmatch it. Im not whining. Ive been a council and even an archon. These kinds 
 of people have these types of accessories. Having it means superiority.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Reaper
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 24, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm doing these comparisons to world of warcraft, since many people are familiar with WoW. I've 
 played many MMORPGS, and i'm not being biased.
  
  The good
  
  Rising forces online, has incredible graphics, and really good sound and music. The environment 
 in the game, makes you feel like you are really in it. Especially if you're in the towns. A good 
 variety of items, and interactive gameplay. The creativity in the game is pretty nice, excluding 
 making your own character.
  
  Quests
  Questing in this game, isn't like World of warcraft. As you gain levels, the game automaticly gives 
 you quests your level. As soon as you gain a level, theres a popup that has a person that wants 
 you to do something for him. All the quests are alike, the guy asks you to kill monsters, and collect 
 a number of items. It's usually 20 items. After you get the items, you don't even have to turn 
 it in. instead, a popup comes up and says "Thank you for blah blah". During the time you farm for 
 the items, you level. Another popup comes up, and it asks you to get the same amount of items, 
 from a different type of monster. For the belleto, heres one of the quests
  
  [beginning belleto quest] - lunkers
  The guy asks you to collect / kill 20 lunkers. As soona s 
 your done, he says that those were the wrong type of lunker. So you hunt a different type of lunker, 
 and you have to get the same ammount each time. (20) . After your done that, he says "Thank you, 
 but our science guys (yeah, the translation in this game is horrible) need a different type of 
 lunker" Through the whole chain of quests about lunkers, its always about receiving the wrong type 
 of lunker, and he keeps degrading his scientists.]
  
  unlike world of warcraft, You get a quest, and these quests are usually the same too, but they 
 are atleast more creative than RFO. For one of the quests for the horde, you have to slay a raptor. 
 You need to bring a zevrah (zebra) corpse after you've killed it, to a dead tree. Then the raptor 
 will come and eat it. As soon as its in site, you have to kill it. Now thats creativity. Unlike 
 RFO where its "kill 20 of these" each time, finish the quest, only to have the guy say "You have 
 collected the wrong ones". You also recieve pretty useful rewards in world of warcraft, including 
 a reasonable amount of XP. In RFO, they give you things you don't even NEED, and small amount of 
 XP
  
  Leveling
  
  Leveling in world of warcraft is pretty easy, get quests, which are a plenty. Do the quest, cash 
 in the quest, you get alot of XP. In RFO, you run around, going where a quest tells you to go, 
 then kill them to level. In other words, grind. Don't get me wrong when i say this, but the sound 
 in RFO is incredible. Exept, it has the same sound over and over again. Especially grinding. Making 
 it feel like Long... grind... that you fall asleep on. You don't even recieve that much XP from it. 
 In RFO, xp is less important than your skills. Like defense, and things. You have to level those 
 up as well. So as you're leveling, your defense and other skills like shield, will slowley increase. 
 But if you're leveling only for XP, in other words go in a group and slay elite monsters, you're 
 gona level up twice as fast, and you're going to end up with a gimped character, since you wont 
 level your skills. I found that in RFO, a really cool feature is taht you get a Mech or "MAU" (Massive 
 assault unit) if you're a specialist. If you can take the grind and get it, thats great. Exept 
 that MAU are really expensive to both upgrade and buy. It's like paying 100 gold for a mount in 
 WoW, exept you'll be using your mount more often. If your mau dies.. then thats more money you're 
 gona have to cough up.
  
  Sound, music , creativity
  The sound and music is beyond WoW, all sound and music is better than WoW. It doesn't play over 
 and over and over and over again. Unlike WoW, the same background music plays, no matter where 
 you are. By that, i mean excluding cities and dungeons. Icons almost never look alike. The only 
 point RFO lost on creativity, is the fact that you cant make your character unique. You'll see 
 that all warriors will look alike, all archers etc. etc.
  
  PVP
  
  Like lineage 2, RFO has large scale pvp. Cora vs Acr. and bel. during chip wars are intense. Tons 
 of people. PVP in WoW on the other hand doesn't have such a large scale PVP feature- not that it 
 doesn't happen, it does happen exept it happens less often. Most of your pvp in WoW, will be in 
 Battlegrounds and contested/enemy territory. I can't say whether RFO or WoW pvp is better or not, 
 its very similar to eachother.
  
  Territory
  Like world of warcraft, RFO has enemy territory and such. In RFO, if you win a chipwar, you get 
 the core. What you can do at the core, is mine... yes mine for ore. Thers a thing called "Afk" mining, 
 where you buy a ton of batteries for your mining tool, then sit there and press "Mine" then go 
 watch t. v or something. AFK mining is very dangerous, because somebody from another faction can 
 come kill you. In world of warcraft there are two very large continents, you can go around freely 
 and get flight paths and fly from city to city. Travel is alot faster in WoW, than in RFO.
  
  Gameplay
  Overall, the gameplay in World of warcraft is alot better. The game play in RFO, 
 is really really really crappy. You have to grind grind grind grind grind, the quest suck, and 
 some things are too expensive. Learning curve in this game takes atleast an hour, because it takes 
 atleast 30 minutes for the tutorial to be over, unless you hit the "Esc" key. The PVP, is really 
 intense on chip wars. But its not as fun as WoW pvp. If they made this game with less grind, more 
 character custimization, better quests and more areas, not to mention fixing the terrible translation, 
 this game would be gold.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kato-cha
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 21, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  ... However, more than a few shall be disappointed. RFO (Rising Force Online) is a MMO that isn't 
 like any I've ever seen on quite a few levels. For starters, it has a wide, and (mostly) friendly 
 community. I only played ths game for a week or two before I gave up. 
  
  As for story, RFO delivers the promise of a vast story of three factions pitting against each other 
 in skirmishes for a planet's resources.... But you can't really -feel- like you're involved in 
 the gameplay until you've played the game for a -long- time. 
  5/10
  
  For gameplay, RFO promises epic battles that happen about once every 5-8 hours, known as the Chip 
 Wars. In these you must fight the two other factions to their chip holder (a large structure that 
 holds the 'Chip') , which is often enjoyable for high level players. However, for newbies, all they 
 can really do is spectate, because they cannot do damage to -anything-, and they are often a target 
 for the more uber players, who think that killing newbies is fun. The only real way to participate 
 in the Chip Wars is to reach level 30, which is over half of the level cap (50) . Now, this wouldn't 
 be a problem, but this game is the mix between a PVP arena, and one of the longest grinds I have 
 ever been involved in in my life. More than often, you will have more missions than you can complete. 
 A mission is granted every couple of levels, but you need to level up about 3-4 times before you 
 can actually complete the mission. And this could be overlooked... If there was a roleplay community... 
 However, there is absolutely no roleplay on RFO at all.
  Gameplay 2/10
  
  I can't really complain about the sound... It isn't bad... But it isn't anything phenominal... 
 What else is there to say?
  sound 7/10
  
  The graphics are beautiful, and the characters feel real, and with personality... Well... Almost...
 
  Graphics 7/10
  
  As for value, I'd have to give this game a thumbs down... It's just too much work and not enough 
 reward.
  
  Full score: 4.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightrider2k9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 13, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  RF online is a really good game' you cant really experience the game until you reach lvl 20 or 
 30 but playing solo is'nt so boring. Some comments of other persons will say that its not funny 
 to play solo but be patient the game is fun even in solo or low lvl. Of course some parts of the 
 game will be broing like waiting in the mines or traveling far away without anything to do. But 
 what MMO games arent some times boring? Anyway... i think that its a really funny game.. the graphics 
 are impresives and team battles are funny. All the characters are completely unique and there's 
 a really big variety of weapons and equipements. And dont worry there's alot of people playing 
 so you will never miss fun. Theres alot of persons to chat with, enemies are pretty cools, funny 
 to kill and fight with. So enjoy playing the game! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracoes
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 18, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  Oh dear. Oh dear oh dear. Codemasters are just falling flat on their faces lately. This game is 
 poorly explained, repetative, ridiculously hard and exceptionally dull. It has pretty music and 
 some pretty scenery, but explains nothing about whats going on, is very slow and tedious to get 
 into, and lacks any kind of depth or flavour. Dont even bother with it; youll be sent on mindless 
 errands to kill things over and over and over and over, and gain very very marginal experience 
 for doing so, with non-intuituve skills and little benefit, and made to fight things some ten levels 
 below you, which you cant even stand up to in a one on one fight unless you're loaded with hundreds 
 of potions. There is no strategy or skill involved, just a mindless slug-fest requiring endless 
 button pushes to keep up your health and will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigEfenRobot
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  This game is alright. Not bad but not Spectacular. IF you havent played WoW then play it if you 
 have then move on, and continue playing WoW. The reason WoW players put all other mmorpgs down 
 is because the gameplay pails in comparison. You cant just go play WoW and then play EvE or RF, 
 you will say..."Man this game sucks" because WoW has so much more depth and is more fun.
  
  One thing I love about this game is the style of the characters. Very cool. Great music also.
 
  The pvp is realy great but I just cant stand the quests. If they would have made the quests right 
 this wouls have been a realy good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squids-Ahoy
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  While playing RF Online, I was constantly trying to overlook the bad to favor the good, the enjoyable 
 setting, the fact there were no fairies, giant robots abounds, and actually menacing monsters. 
 After a few hours, it became apparent that the effort was futile, as constant crashes, flat out 
 boring grinding, and some dumbfounding design choices ruin what could have been an excellent game.
 
  
  RF Online is a Korean styled MMO, which generally favors old school grinding as opposed to innovation. 
 This certainly appeals to the Asian continent, on which this game is proclaimed a virtual king, 
 but the reception in the US has been chilled with due cause. It's not that other games don't have 
 a harsh grind, but the process is so pronounced in RF Online that it consumes all that is good.
 
  
  The setting is fantastic, with a war against machines, magicians, and elves that use robots and 
 magic over the rights to mine precious resources. The gameplay is geared towards the player becoming 
 high level enough to fight for the right... to  
 The only thing standing between you and the pvp element is the Antichrist of grinds, armed to the 
 teeth with constant slowdowns in your journey.
  
  Normally, when a game crashes, I brush it off and restart. When it's happening every half hour 
 to a hour, and freezing your computer, then I start to take notice. Like the squid that lives in 
 your BMW, it's always in the back of your mind, no matter how much you want to ignore it. In addition, 
 I experienced an odd bug, a random switch of keybinds from one thing to another. It only happened 
 for a few functions, but since the game doesn't give you the option of looking at the keyboard 
 functions and figuring what goes where. 
  
  The graphics are pretty utilitarian, with the bright point being the robot designs. They look and 
 are animated exquisitley, which is fantastic, but it also unintentionally highlights the poor job 
 done with other models. The backgrounds, landscapes, and architecture are pretty mediocre as well.
 
  
  The sound does an adequate job of rendering bleeps and bloops of a futuristic war, though there 
 isn't anything partiuclarly exceptional. The music is by far the outstanding element, with a score 
 that can excite, create tension, or mystify. 
  
  There is no adequate way to quantify the irritation with this game considering how much I wanted 
 to enjoy it, but since Codemasters is offering a 10-day trial currently, you have a no risk assessment 
 of whether or not you want to fork out 50 bucks with 15 a month for a game that is pretty run of 
 the mill.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 6, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  I played RF Online for many, many hours, from beta to about a month ago. I just ran out of steam. 
 There isn't a whole lot to do in the game, but what the game focues on is very good - PvP.
  
  The 3 factions are unique in appearance and the way they do battle and progress. The Chip Wars, 
 to control the Crag Mine and it's resources, take place every 8 hours and are the highlight of 
 the game. Preparing for this is also fun, but can get repetitive. The Grind in RF Online is similar, 
 if not worse, than other games of this type. RF Onine is often compared to Lineage II, but I see 
 only a few small similarities. Character models are alike and the graphics engine, which I believe 
 is some version of the Unreal Engine.
  
  Graphics are good, but the environments are thoughtless and bland. Sound could be a lot better, 
 but the basics are there. There are many items and drops are frequent at lower levels, but become 
 too spare at higher level. Crafters are key (called Specialists in the beginning) , and they can 
 make items that are usually very hard to find, sometimes taking hours to farm.
  
  There are very few quests, and they are not particularly fun. They do give good experience and 
 items sometimes. What drives this game is clearly the PvP, centered around the Chip Wars. However, 
 after a while, there doesn't seem like there is enough "pay-off" for victory. It becomes the same 
 old thing. 
  
  RF Online was fun, but it needs more content and more to keep players interested. For the hardcore 
 PvP'er, I would recommend trying it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virck
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  By unhealthy I mean there is too much PvE, people say "go play Guild Wars" when guild wars isn't 
 what I want. I get the point to having to play the game for 72 hours to get your character to a 
 decent level to play PvP, then get 1 shot by someone with no life. Rewards come with time, this 
 game gives you massive rewards with time, but there is also massive faults to PvE and PvP, PvP 
 is nothing like any other game, it's "Ok, we obviously need to focus on this one guy.... then go 
 after that other guy."
  
  Potion Chug fest is how I describe this game, why even have a price on potions if they're a basis 
 to the character? Maybe we should balance out the game and give curtain classes healing abilities? 
 What would that do to soloing? We would need other means to heal ourselves after battles.
  
  Get PvE out of PvP MMORPG's ..... please? Guild wars almost hit the spot on the perfect balance 
 between PvE and PvP but they made their maps too expansive and long grinds to get each classes 
 neccessary skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Kampfer
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 9, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  RF Online is a game that doesn't lie. You are playing this game for PvP or because of the SciFi/Fantasy 
 element. Otherwise, go somewhere else. 
  
  That may be a rather blunt thing to say but it's the truth. RF is a bare bone game that doesn't 
 rely on flash and glitter to make its players happy (but it does have excellent graphics) , the 
 rewards come from being able to face down an opposing race member and beating them to the ground. 
 
  
  This game is a grindfest. 70% of your time will be spent grinding and leveling up, on the same 
 monsters. Not too much emphasis is placed on teamwork for levels below 25 and you are better off 
 going solo until you reach lv25 since experience is based on damage dealt rather than the kill 
 itself. After lv25 though, the grind to lv30 begins. At this point, groups are a necessity. Trying 
 to get from lv25 to lv30 could take days as opposed to joining a power leveling group who can get 
 you to lv30 in a matter of hours. Once you reach lv30 you can really become useful to your race 
 and guilds will be more likely to take you in when you can be of use to them.
  
  Guilds are the backbone of this game. Joining a good guild is the equivalent of being adopted into 
 a rich family. With a myriad of lv30-40 players ready and willing to help you out it becomes far 
 easier to enjoy aspects of the game that would be impossible to do successfully solo, such as raiding 
 enemy towns.
  
  The main draw to the game, the Chip War is an amazing event to see. Most will tell you to join 
 in the CW when you get to lv30, but to have a better chance at survival lv33-35 are what you should 
 shoot for. Since your leaders during CWs are actual players, it is up to them to determine how 
 an attack should be carried out. The will sometimes ask for diversionary tactics or just a classic 
 Zerg Rush. It's all up to the players in charge. 
  
  Each of the 3 races has a unique ability, but that's not the only thing to consider before choosing 
 which side you'd like to join. Accretians make excellent tank characters. Even the Accretian damage 
 dealing classes lend themselves well to tanking. Cora on the other hand are built completely around 
 dealing damage. The Cora spiritualist class is deadly and when combined with their summons they 
 can utterly destroy anything in their path, though that's not to say Warriors can't match them, 
 because they can. Bellatos however are a cross between the Accretia and Cora. They can make good 
 tank characters with their Miller and Shield Miller classes and the MAUS and Black MAUs, as well 
 as powerful spiritualists capable of dealing heavy damage. But Bellato spiritualists lend themselves 
 better to healing and troop support rather than causing destruction by themselves like Cora spiritualists 
 can.
  
  The major twist about RF is that levels aren't everything, combat and still points (pt) are. Every 
 time you use a skill or weapon, you earn pt in that category. The higher your pts, the more bonuses 
 you receive for that skill. For example, high melee pt will give you extra attack power, high defense 
 pt will give you more HP, and this also applies to skills such as combo attacks or Buffs. As you 
 use your skill and your buffs they will level up. High level skills deal out more damage and high 
 level buffs last longer. 
  
  Pt is more important than your actual level because it determines what kind of gear you can wear. 
 To wear melee armor you need high melee pt, to wear ranger armor you need high range pt, to use 
 a shield you need high shield pt, etc. Players can choose you only level pts that are required 
 for their class but this will lead to very limited characters. Players that level all their pts 
 will have more versatile characters that can cope with far more situations than limited characters. 
 
  
  This game has great character development and PvP. However, the lack of content will surely turn 
 off players of western MMOs such as World of Warcraft. If you like an RPG that does away with all 
 the candy coating this is the game for you. Otherwise, you might want to spend your $50 somewhere 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coronatus
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 25, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  RF Online really is a game made by a far eastern developer, for a far eastern market. However, 
 apparently someone got the funky idea of releasing this one worldwide though.
  
  The game is about three peoples which got nothing better to do than to meet on the battle field 
 once a day shooting their brains out for no apparent reason. And they do it in typical anime style. 
 When you pick up that heavy armor consisting of little more than underwear you wonder how this 
 thing can ever have the armor class it does.
  
  The game just reeks of far eastern online gaming. Don't get me wrong, that's not necessarily a 
 bad thing. However, it's clearly not fit for an international market since the target audience 
 in the US or in Europe simply isn't overly enthusiastic killing pimped out bunnies and other cutsie 
 critters to level up their almost nude androgyneous avatars. Anime enthusiasts however will feel 
 like heaven on earth.
  
  Chat cuts off words in the mid
  dle as soon as you write long
  er chat lines.
  
  That's fine with kanji symbols but won't work with plain old western letters.
 
  
  If you like it anime, if you want a game that simply delivers a far eastern way of life by all 
 means go for RF Online. If you don't mind staring at an almost nude avatar all the time, then it's 
 your kinda game. Perhaps I'm too old but I don't buy a game for its nudity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: to0slickforyou
Rating: 8
Date: May 17, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  the graphics of the game itself is really nice, the weapons are pretty cool but leveling is pretty 
 tough if it is by yourself. unlike guild wars, it doesn't seem as if people are as social well 
 not for beginners at least. i finished my 30 days free and stopped. it was a nice 30 days but this 
 game isn't just for me. furthermore it doesn't seem to be that quite compatible with ati cards 
 and therefore i can't have the glow on, which is the essence of it looking real nice. also, it 
 requires a decent video card, even though the minimum requirements says something like 32 meg 9200 
 or equivalent or something like that, there is no way anyone can play like that unless you have 
 at least 128 meg. good game that can be appreciated if you don't mind grinding, but can get boring 
 at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hokage_the_1st
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 17, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great, but the there is just to much stat grinding for you to do before you can 
 truly enjoy the game.
  The first time you play the grinding would not be that hard, only when you reach higher levels 
 will it be a true grinding experience, and as you try and explore different types of characters, 
 you find yourself just doing the same thing over and over again. 
  The race vs race concept and chip wars is highly addictive, but you need to have a high level character 
 for you to appreciate it and survive the ordeal.
  The character models are awesome, but the game lets you down on the single player side of the game, 
 most player can overlook this drawback, but it is a side of an MMORPG that one cannot go without. 
 They could have at least put more time in making different types of monsters for players to hunt. 
 A variety of monsters you hunt would be a much welcomed addition.
  For an MMORPG veteran, a very good game for you to try, 
  this game is not for a person who dislikes 
 stat grinding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_eckhaus
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 14, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  its a cool game and best of all its free (no monthly expenses) . you have to play this game. the 
 sound is so cool . and for the conficuation it gives you advise . the grafics are pretty cool but 
 it could be better the gameplay is also verry easy. the camara controls are just right click and 
 a mouse movement. it is only a poor thing that you must click somewhere to move your caracter to 
 that point. i prefure the wasd ceys. you also level up slowly but its okee. if youlevel up to 
 fast it is also boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_smell
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  RF Online is an epic mix of traditional fantasy MMOG mixed with unique futuristic sci-fi action 
 to bring an entirely new and original take on the existing MMORPG genre. Set in a deep space galaxy 
 known as Novus, take your pick from three all-powerful warring factions leading your character 
 into the final battle for total control over the entire Novus galaxy. Choose from either the Bellato 
 Union, taking control of individual robot battle units like never seen before within any MMOG, 
 Holy Alliance Cora, the mystical and fantasy orientated race utilizing the power of magic and finally 
 the mighty Accretia Empire, a futuristic alien race intent on spreading destruction across the 
 entire sector with their advanced weaponry systems.
  
  At first glace the game appears quite impressive, three races, multiple classes (three-four basic 
 and then tiered after that) , diverse skill tree, large race vs. race vs. race scale battles all 
 in a sci-fi universe. The small Bellato Union with their giant MAUs, the Holy Alliance Cora with 
 their magical summons and the Accretia Empire with their doomsday siege weaponry, would make for 
 a very exciting and rewarding experience. This however, based on your play style and your familiarity 
 with western MMORPGs, could be a good or bad thing. 
  
  WoW has changed the face of the MMORPG for the western world when it was released. It boasts now 
 the highest fan base in the Americas and is rapidly becoming the number one MMOG of all time, if 
 it isnt already. There is quick leveling at lower levels that mean everyone gets powerful very 
 quickly and then at level 60 or so spends all their time trying to find the right drop to complete 
 their epic gear. This is the MMORPG that the western world plays and thus wants. However to compare 
 WoW to RFOnline would be unfair to RFO.
  
  RFO is based on the Korean way of MMORPG, which is to totally devote your life to the grind. 
 The grind is the nonstop PvE or PvP action to get that next 1% or in some cases the next 0.01% 
 exp. With a max level in the current patches to RFO being lvl 50 this may seem low, but seeing 
 as the game is still only two months old, there are only a handful of players over the lvl 40 mark 
 and only enough to count on a single hand are nearing the lvl 45 mark. Not only will you grind 
 for hours and hours for a single percent of exp (and I do mean only 1%) , you will also grind 
 away your PTs. 
  
  PTs are your current skill level is things like melee, range, defense, and shield. Every time you 
 attack or get hit by a monster or enemy race with enough damage, you will gain a certain number 
 of skill points. These skills points level up your PTs, which in turn allows you to wear stronger 
 armors, equip more powerful weapons and cast more deadly magic. As you level your max PT increases 
 which in turn you will have to level up or you may end up become gimped (a high level characters 
 term for someone who power leveled and didnt raise their PTs and now cant wear better armor or 
 carry a bigger stick)
  
  This action of leveling up and then maxing out your PTs creates the before mentioned grind. Most 
 players after playing the first 10-15 levels realize what is actually required to continue and 
 most run back to the ease of WoW. Most reviewers also stop at this point and complain that the 
 game is lacking content and too tedious. True the game doesnt have large map scrawling quests 
 with delivering eggs from a mountain top to a NPC three towns over for a piece of worthless gear 
 because that is not the focus of this game. The Race vs. Race vs. Race (RvRvR) is the primary focus 
 of this game. With the current patches there are at least three maps that you can encounter enemies 
 of another race and engage in PvP play. However this is not recommended for anyone under level 
 25 and at that should only do so after level 30. So levels 1-29 are a grind to get to the PvP mode. 
 But once you get there, a magical thing happens, the game gets really exciting. Currently there 
 is a giant battle for control of the central mining area (more later) every 8 hours that faces 
 all three races against each other is a battle of dominance. Depending on the server you choose 
 to play on this can be a blast or frustrating as hell. The main server (Spirit) is the most balanced 
 so far and makes for large scale, fairly even battles every 8 hours. The other servers tend to 
 have some imbalance (on water its really bad apparently) that means one race wins all the time. 
 The GMs have promised to fix this imbalance soon but there is no time table. 
  
  Winning the Chip War (CW) for mining control gives the victor access and protection at the center 
 of the map where members of the winning faction can mine ore at a faster rate. The minerals mined 
 can then be processed into materials needed for the crafter class or sold for cash. Also the amount 
 processed as a race determines the tax rate for all goods bought and sold on the market. If you 
 dont process the ore mined, the tax rate will climb and everything will cost more and then the 
 inverse. A nice system really seeing as it seems to punish those with the largest population that 
 neglects to control the tax rate. 
  
  As for the PvP portion of the game, you will not find any 1v1 battles this time around because 
 of the potion system. There are no healers in the game so health is restored with potions that 
 can be bought at must sundries littered throughout the towns and maps. Once you get to the PvP 
 part of the game you will find that you need to cooperate with other members of your race to take 
 down enemies. People complain about this fact, but once you try it a few times it can be a blast. 
 
  
  Wrap Up:
  The reason that this game scores low by most reviewers is because the game takes a while to get 
 into and most reviewers cant spend the time to get a character to lvl 30 with decent PTs and start 
 the bulk of the game. If you want a game that is quick to get into and with easy leveling, then 
 RFOnline isnt for you, find a copy of WoW and play there. If you dont mind the Korean grind and 
 lack of exciting quests, then youre found the right game. The game is undergoing some bigger patches 
 from the home planet so more options are being added soon, so even if this games doesnt appeal 
 now, come back in a few months and see if the new feature intrigue you. There will be in later 
 patches, guild bought bases, guild vs. guild battles, inter-race soccer games (not kidding) , space 
 battles, planet scale wars, guild controlled planet vs. guild controlled planet (at least a year 
 off) and so on, so the world is expanding and shouldnt be thrown aside because of the long grind.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rixel
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  I'm the kind of person who likes to play games atleast once, given the chance. And RF Online, one 
 of the latest MMO releases by Codemasters and co, was no exception. After my one month trial, I 
 chose not to renew my subscription, and here's why.
  
  So, to start off, in a nutshell, RF online is about the collision wars going on between 3 factions 
 over resources within the world the game is set in. You start off by choosing which faction you'd 
 like to be apart of; The Bellato Union, The Holy Alliance Cora and The Accretia Empire being the 
 choices, and then you select your desired subclass. Here, the game really doesn't differ from most 
 other Online RPG games, giving you the class choices: A warrior (self explanatory) , A ranger (ranged 
 melee class) A spiritualist (basically a cross between a priest and a mage) and the Specialist 
 class (this being a hybrid of all the classes combined) . There's not too much variation in terms 
 of the looks you can choose for you character, so expect to be running into other versions of yourself 
 early on within the game.
  
  Once the game actually starts, you run through a rather basic and somewhat pointless tutorial. 
 I'm obviously going to be slightly biased on this point, as I'm a casual MMORPG player so I pretty 
 much know the basics anyway. For new players: OK, it will suffice to show you how to play the game, 
 but it drags on for those who want to just jump in and play. Thankfully, however, there is the 
 option to skip the tutorial and get into the main game. 
  
  Depending on your chosen faction, you will start off within a different looking zone to most others. 
 After a basic dialogue box which sets you off on your first quest, with a weapon of choice, you're 
 then free to start setting up your games interface. You have to manually drag and drop your spells/moves 
 onto the bar provided, which is kind of annoying but nothing major. The look of the interface itself 
 isn't that bad but it would be nice to be able to set some kind of scale to it without effecting 
 the resolution of the entire game. Overall the games interface and windows, again, don't differ 
 that much from the setup of most other MMORPGs nowadays, so there's not much to say on this note. 
 The control scheme to couple with the games interface isn't exactly amazing though. You cannot 
 assign new keys to your hotbar, and to enable you to use the number buttons for your spells and 
 actions, you are required to manually press a button every time you go in game. The same goes for 
 movement; point and click is the movement scheme here, although you can use the WSAD controls if 
 you wish, although, again, you must press a button upon starting the game to enable you to do this.
 
  
  With your quest lined up and with your new shiny weapon, you go to your location, which is nicely 
 pointed out to you on the mini ma.... oh wait, no it isn't. I'll point this out now: The game does 
 nothing for you. Everything has to be done manually. You have to wander around a world you're not 
 even vaguely familiar with trying to find the creatures you have to kill. And in terms of questing 
 (for the amount of time I played this game) this is all i did. Killing creatures. Finally, after 
 finishing my first quest, I'd progressed to level 2. I was there expecting another quest to present 
 itself. It didn't. So, I thought of the next best thing: Quest NPCs. Are there any? No. The only 
 way I could see to progress in this game at this stage, was to grind it out. So I did, till level 
 3 when, finally, another quest was available to me. Again, I had to kill some more creatures, only 
 this time it was different. This time, the creatures I had to kill were far too hard for me; possibly 
 4+ levels above me. Back to grinding I guess. Most people say that the game starts when you hit 
 level 20. But to get to level 20, you pretty much need to grind it out, and considering that you 
 need to earn more experience per level, this can get extremely tedious indeed.
  
  The in game graphics didn't hinder my experience, but they didn't improve it either. They were 
 sort of dated and had a very Lineage II like feel to them. The scenery was very bland and minimalistic, 
 least to say it was repetative. If the developers had made the world feel more epic, instead of 
 uninspired, then they probably would have scored higher.
  
  The games sound is not that bad considering the other aspects of the game didn't live up to expectation. 
 The opening music is fairly cheesy, and sounds like it belongs in an anime programme on kids TV, 
 but the in game music isn't too bad albeit repetitive.
  
  All in all, this game certainly didn't impress and I was even more disappointed with it as I'd 
 been tracking it here on Gamespot since it was first announced. I don't think enough time and effort 
 was mulled into the games design, nor do I think the developers have played other MMORPGs on the 
 market. I genuinely wish I could have played the game more to see what higher level gameplay offered 
 and also to take a look at what the PVP action is like, but in order to do that you have to play 
 a game which was way too much of a grind, a game that didn't have much variation and a game that 
 was mainly just damn boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameloading
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  RF Online is the very first true mix between Fantasy and Sci Fi, and CCR has done a great job.
 
  
  RF Online has 3 diffrent races, the Holy Alliance Cora, The Accriatian Empire and the Bellato Union.
 
  
  The Holy Alliance Cora are your fantasy elves. If you like elves, knights and wizards then the Cora 
 is your thing. they also have 2 classes that has the ability to summon spirits to aid them in battle.
 
  
  The Accretian Empire is a race of cyborgs. They were humans, but they replaced every body part 
 with metal. The accretian empire are an unique race that you won't see in any other MMORPG. the 
 accretian empire lack any sense of magic, but they have the ability to carry huge Launchers, and 
 they can upgrade them with Siege kits.
  
  The Bellato Unions is a mix of those two. they look like small humans. they use some magic and 
 some sci fi elements. for example, they have the ability to use Holy magic, and some classes can 
 ride a huge mech called an MAU.
  
  Graphics:
  RF Online's graphics look really good. The character models are done well, and the maps are full 
 of detail. The graphics have some sort of manga style, which actually works great in this game. 
 the races also really look diffrent from each other, giving you a real "its us or them" feeling. 
 Sadly there isn't a lot of customization avaible (this is for a technical reason) , but what is 
 there looks great. weapons and armor look very detailed, and you hardly find any graphical glitches.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  RF Online is focused on Player vs Players encounters, keep that in mind when playing this game. 
 Players have the choice of diffrent classes, a warrior, a spiritualist, a ranger and a specialist 
 which is basicly a crafter with some nifty tricks. all these classes can evolve into stronger classes. 
 for example, a Cora spiritualist can change his class into a summoner at lvl 30, giving him the 
 ability to summon spirits to aid him. An Accretian ranger can change his class into a gunner, giving 
 him the ability to use special skills for his launcher.
  Altough RF Online is class based, you are not forced to one way of playing. 
  RF Online has something 
 called a PT system. by using diffrent types of weapons, your characters stats increase. for example, 
 using a bow or a gun increases your "ranged" PT stat. not only does this increase the damage you 
 do with ranged weapons, but you can also wear new armor and it will increase your stamina. where 
 in other games a mage class will always use magic, its very normal in RF Online to see a mage pick 
 up a sword and shield and head into mellee combat to raise his stats.
  
  PVP:
  RF Online's PVP is unique. its fully faction vs faction based. all 3 can try to kill each other 
 in the world of Novus. every 8 hours, an event called a chipwar will take place. in this so called 
 chipwar, thousand of players head over to the mining area to take down the chips of other races 
 and bring them down to the guardian. if the guardian is friendly to your race, you can mine in 
 the core to increase your chance to find Ore. the first race that brings a chip to the guardian 
 wins.
  
  the thing that makes RF Online's pvp differ from other pvp games are the potions. in RF Online, 
 you will be forced to use a strategy called Potion spamming. you basicly keep using a potion every 
 3 seconds to heal yourself or your force (points you use to use skills, mana in other games) . this 
 makes 1 vs 1 pvp pointless and impossible and forced group fights all over the world. you will 
 hardly see anybody fighting alone, its always group vs group. I can tell you that this is actually 
 a lot more fun.
  
  PvE:
  Sadly, Potion spamming also has his downpoints. the PvE in RF Online gets repetive fast and can 
 feel like a heavy grind. there is no chalange at all, you can take down mobs 6~7 lvl's above you 
 as long as they don't kill you in one hit. you can just keep using potions. the pve is fully focused 
 on dealing damage and taking damage, as so called De-buffs don't work on pve mobs and only work 
 in pvp. the PvE is not really bad as I make it sound here, its not really annoying, but its definitly 
 not something to write home about.
  
  in Short:
  RF Online is a great game that really shows what asia has to offer. this game will give you an 
 unique PvP experience unlike everything seen before. the PvE could use a lot of work but the PvP 
 definitly makes up for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silpherx
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun at first, with a unique use-it-to-level-up skills system and unique races not 
 usualy seen in other mmorpgs. however, after 4 weeks of playing, it was apparent that content is 
 seriously lacking. the gameworld is tiny, there are little to do but grind on the same few mobs 
 to level, and even drops and items selection are extermely limited. mass pvp is great fun tho, 
 with chip wars and race leaders you feel like in a good battle. but that alone cant rid the balance 
 issues between races. some race and classes are way overpowered, and others not. until this game 
 is fixed and content is expanded, avoid it if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: himayes
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is unbalanced, them GM's are next to useless, and the pvp needs work.
  
  Now dont get me wrong there are good thing about this game. The graphics are decent, the sound is 
 ok, and its fairly easy to start playing. and majoraty of the problem with the game dont start until 
 you are about level 27 and up.
  
  First of all the so called PT grinding is boring at best and very annoying at its worst. Second 
 the as you get higher in levels the mobs at sasme levels as you give less and less drops. Which 
 affect your ability to buy the very expensive health pots.
  
  At level 30-40 you will be forced to farm (hunt) the same mobs that you killed at level 15-20 just 
 to afford the health pots you need. Which of course makes it difficult for them to level because 
 now your killing what they need to kill.
  
  On the plusside you can mine for ore to sell while afk. But 8 hours of mining will only get you 
 about 600k. At level 40 you are going to spend well over 1mil just to train your character. 
  
  At level 30-40 there is a map with high level mobs for you to train on. It cost 250k for a 
 ticket there ,and another 250k to come back ,about 600-700k health pots, and how ever much you 
 spend on ammo. And did i forget to mention that the mobs upthere rarly if ever drop items. So when 
 you are done training there it takes about a day to get back the money that you spent so you can 
 do it again.
  
  The races in the game are not balanced at all. The are three of them the Cora (elves that can use 
 high magick and summons) , the Bellato (short elves that use some buff like magick and mechs) , and 
 the Accretian ( robots that use big guns called launchers and stqatus launchers) .
  
  Now right off the back its the combat system and how it works for the cora that makes the game 
 unbalanced. Every class in every race has skills they can use. Every skill has a global cooldown 
 timer. Which means if you use a tier 1 skill uyou cant use another tier 1 skill until the timer 
 runs out. It prevent you from chain casting you skill and its a good idea. But that being said 
 it dosne really apply to the Cora .Because of the way that their skills are setup they can definit 
 ly chain cast.
  
  The Cora also have a heal pet (summon) and the Second highest defence in the game. Which wouldn 
 be so bad except that the pet s always healin them combined with heal pot that makes them almost 
 unkillable (i know i play one) . Now the other races have pots to but the pot are also on a global 
 cooldown.
  
  And finally the PvP portion of the game. Once uyou PvP for about an hour or so you realize that 
 the PvP is geared more toward griefing than real combat.
  Almost al of the PvP in the game is one of five types
  
  1: A Medium to large group againt 
 one person. (god forbid that you fight someone one on one you might lose.)
  
  2: KIlling people right on the teleport pad. ( Sure they are still loading and cant see you or fight 
 back yet but hey whats a coward to do.)
  
  3: Killing people who are ten to fifteen levels lower than you. ( if they were your level you might 
 lose.)
  
  4: Killing people who are already fighting a mob and have lost health. ( Its too hard fighting some 
 who can consentrate on just you.)
  
  5 : killing people who are afk mining. ( your to weak to kill any who is actually play.)
  
  
 If you like greifing this is the game for you if not you a better off buying a book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bafucin81
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2006 4:34 am PT
Review:  From lvl 1-24 it's easy to lvl up and no pvp. At lvl 25 you can help your race in the Chip War 
 and also fight some other players if you feel like. Tho you will die kind of fast. At lvl 30 you 
 get more power and here the fun starts. Well for me it did.
  
  XP is much slower at 30 but I enjoy PvP so for me it's no problem. I get my xp and cash from time 
 to time.
  
  If you are a player from WoW, SWG, EQ etc and looking for a game with story, quests, rp and so 
 on... then RFO is not a game for you.
  
  RFO is a massive Race vs Race game. Focus is pvp. RFO also have great music and it look good. Other 
 games have alot of freaking lag, RFO don't. I love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebladedx
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  RF Online was my first MMORPG, first experiance with the game from the very start, theres going 
 to be a lot of grinding involved. I found the graphics and visuals very full, vivid, clear and 
 colourful, personally i think have been very under appreciated by most reviers.
  The game itself starts off fairly quickly enabling most players to rich level 7-10 by the end of 
 the day depending on how much time the spend on it. After a good couple weeks on the game, levelling 
 stop and grinding begins. One of my main disapointments about this game is the horrible levelling 
 system. Instead of having a level cap of 200 and enabling easy levelling it stops at 50. This results 
 in extremely difficult lvelling at high levels.
  
  Even grinding isnt easy on this game because of what is commonly know as "kill stealing" this is 
 where some random player will just come up and finish off your enemy stealing the majority of the 
 XP points, and trust me after a while this becomes REAALLYYY anonying.
  
  The amount of levels/map are very impressive mind, i have owned the game for a month or so know 
 and i still havnt explorer it all. With each new map comes bigger and badder enemies to destroy, 
 though combat in general is very bland.
  
  In general combat involves watching your character mindlesly slash you enemy with the only variety 
 being the occasional special. Whats more you are allowed a infinate amount of pots, so if you have 
 money and dont get one hit killed your set for the night, which although comes in useful it does 
 get vvveerryy boring.
  
  The game is comprised of 3 main rases; a magic race, a robot/cyborg race and a race which is a 
 mix of both. The main reason i baught this game was to get a robot and go round killing things 
 and i tell you something it aint easy. Im pretty sure if i didnt have the promise of whats known 
 as a MAU to look foward to, i would get bored of this game REAL fast. What im looking foward to 
 now is a RF Online 2. There is SO!!! much unforfilled potential in this game and with a fair few 
 upgrades and this game would maybe be on the same legendary trial was warcraft.
  
  Although i do play this game everyday i actually watch videos on my PSP/TV etc too keep me entertained, 
 otherwise i would have given up a long time ago. If you want this game make sure you have something 
 to do while you play otherwise its too damn boring.
  
  A good game with too many problems, unforfilled potential and it costs a lot as well. I really 
 liked this game to start but the grinding has got to me. Sorry RF but it had to be said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_R5GTT
Rating: 2.9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  Complete waste of money. Not only that but they expect you to pay a montly fee for this game, no 
 chance. At least i've learnt my lesson to do some research before buying a game.
  
  The characters have very little customisation. Traveling around the maps is extremely slow and 
 painful and the game has loads of bugs. Missions are boring and very fustrating. The online community 
 didnt seem to be very helpful with simple questions which I ended up finding out the answers in 
 a forum. Also the server seemed to disconnect every so often.
  
  You are much better off playing Guild Wars, Wow, or City of heroes/Villains. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csportsreal1ty
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Prior to playing this game I did some reading on it. From what I read it sounded like the next 
 best MMO to come out.
  
  I pre-ordered the game and played the beta. My first thoughts were, "Hey this game doesn't look 
 too bad. It's not set in the medievil times like most MMO's" After playing the beta for about 2 
 hours I realized the game gets repetitive QUICK! The quests consists of no more than killing 20 
 monsters here and 10 there. If you enjoyed the PvE of WoW then you will get bored quickly with 
 RFO. 
  If you can manage to play up to level 25 then you can engage in "Chip Wars". This is an all out 
 battle for what they call a "Control Chip". Three races, which include, Bellato Union, Holy Cora 
 Alliance, and the Accreatian Empire, battle in an all out war to see who can "capture" the other 
 races CC (control chip) and bring it down the the Crag Mine. If you do infact win the Chip Wars, 
 you are rewarded with 7 hours of mining, a couple thousand currancy, and some contribution points. 
 Contribution points are basically given to you when you complete quests, win cw (chip wars) , and 
 killing another character from another race. These points add up and you could become what they 
 call a "Race leader", which basically means you can tell your whole race when CW is. 
  
  If your into the PvP MMOS then by all means go out and get this game, but if you love MMOs that 
 have PvE, PvP, depth, and alot of context to the game then I would suggest purchasing WoW (World 
 of Warcraft) , EQII (Everquest 2) , etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nakichiel
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Rising Force Online is a MMORPG with, besides the usual fiction, a lot of Science-Fiction elements. 
 somewhere far away lies the sector Novus where three races fight for total victory. At which faction 
 lies your loyalty? 
  
  If you play the game for the first time, you will have to make an account on the website of Codemasters. 
 Here you will type your serial code, after which you choose the payment method. The first moth 
 is free, after that it will be 13 (about $15?) a month. When all that is done, and confirmed, 
 you can create your own character on a server. At this moment there are six servers which all have 
 room for three characterslots. 
  
  You can choose from three factions: Holy Alliance Cora, Bellato Union or Accretian Empire. If the 
 choice is made, the other two slots will be from the same faction. The Cora are specialized in 
 magic, the elf-like Bellato are good traders and use technological weapons, and the accretian are 
 all about technology: they are cyborgs and battlemechs. 
  The options to visualise your character are very limited, but that can't stop the fun. Later in 
 the game you get so many different items, that you will always look unique. After creating and 
 visualising, you give the character a name and you will see a short FMV of the enviroment your 
 race lives in. Then you get a tutorial which is quite convenient. 
  
  In RF Online you will get your first missions very soon to get your level up. After a while you 
 are asked to slay monsters that will get stronger each new mission. The most missions start in 
 your huge headquarter. There you will find other characters that need help and shops to buy and 
 sell stuff. The communication with NPC's is easy and trading between two players is very safe because 
 of an approval system. 
  
  The surroundings where you have to venture out to are very wide and stretched. You can walk trough 
 hills and fields for hours, but caves, bridges and deserts are represented aswell. Everything looks 
 nice, but it's all very plain and that can make long trips very borng. lucklily you can transport!
 
  
  In the first few missions all you have to do is some hack n slash, but when you are around level 
 20 you will have to do team missions and defeat monsters that require more than the regular beating. 
 and of course you can do some PvP or Race vs Race
  
  To keep the game exciting there is a fight for the control of the mines every eight hours. In those 
 mines you can dig out some special orbs to improve your weapons & gear, however, only one faction 
 can be the boss!
  
  Later in the game you are able to specialise your character. You can learn some special abilities 
 by practicing a lot and if the levels and skills are high enough, you will get extra abilities 
 that other people will never get. Unfortunately, this takes a very long time.
  You can also make a clan, or a guild. and only people from the same race, of course. 
  
  The 
 soundeffects and music are okay, the loginscreen tune is quite nice. But they never impress, it's 
 very casual. The graphic quility is easily adjustable, so for PC's with an older videocard this 
 game is playable. The worlds that RF Online offers are pretty, but they look like paintings sometimes, 
 nothing ever happens. 
  
  RF Online is a pretty game that has lots to offer. However, it takes really long before something 
 really intersting happens and that makes the price/quality ratio very unbalanced in the beginning. 
 for 13 a month you wants some good content instead of the regular hack and slash. This MMORPG 
 offers too little gameplay for it's price. For beginners and experienced RPG players this is a 
 fine game, but be prepared for a long way to get an appropriate level so you can do some interesting 
 quests.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rik0shey
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  I felt I gave this game plenty of chance to keep me interested but it's just not going to happen. 
 I played this game to level 40 Cora Spiritualist   Summoner   Grazier on Spirit Server. I have 
 put alot of time into this game and it seems like it was all wasted. 
  
  This game had so much hype I was really looking forward to it. But after playing it to level 40, 
 I'm just very disappointed. This game has absolutely NO CONTENT. The only thing there is to do 
 in this game is spend hours and hours grinding your experience, then more hours grinding your PT 
 stats, then more hours grinding your skills/magic up. Usually in MMO's you are grinding because 
 you have content to look forward to at higher levels, but not in this one. There is nothing new 
 to do at any point in the game. It's just that you get stronger at PVP. The "quests" in this game 
 are not really quests. EVERY "quest" you get at higher levels are merely "go kill 10 of these" 
 or "go kill 20 of that". The only PVE element of this game would be pitbosses. And even the pitbosses 
 fail to keep your interest. 
  
  My guild (Fanatics on Spirit Server) did pitbosses very frequently for the rare items. Usually 
 killing bosses in MMO's are fun guild events, but really in this game it was more like a job. The 
 fights weren't very fun, just go in, warrior tanks the boss and everyone attacks the boss. All 
 the pitbosses were exactly the same, they just looked different. Being able to fight the bosses 
 doesn't take much skill, just whether you have enough firepower because they just have mass HP.
 
  
  Another downside to the game is the support from Codemasters. They like to ignore their player 
 community. GMs in game are never around and hard to contact because theres no system for it. There 
 is constant PKing within Cora going on and never any consequences because GMs are hardly on. They 
 never respond to the constant questions on the forums. This game has been out over a year in Korea 
 and they still have not received new content so don't expect any coming to America soon either. 
 So expect to pay $15 a month for the worst service around.
  
  So I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone unless you really really have fun with spending ALOT 
 of time grinding for a tiny bit of PVP which takes place at the 3 a real day wars.
  
  -wrek0shey Cora 40 Grazier - Fanatics guild 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Protomanextreme
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 13, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I decided to edit this game further since I have gotten considerably far in 2 types of races, Bellato, 
 and Cora, and have decided to be more specific on this review
  
  Gameplay: this game has amazing gameplay, nice animations, but nothing that makes it stand out 
 per se Dungeons and Dragons online, but the system is Great for Pvp. I am an addict myself, but 
 this may be considered for Hardcore players, as some people quit before level 30, where the game 
 picks up due to the grind.6/10
  
  Graphics: Definitly one of the top 3 mmo graphic rated games. the looks and details of avatars 
 and enemies and towns are breathtaking, this is one of the better points of the game. 10/10
  
  Sound: this game has awesome sound effects, and beutiful music. easy 10/10 here.
  
  Value: 
 this is where the game is low. Codemasters is a greedy company, and they even told players of a 
 "breathtaking amazing event" which was really a greedy ploy, in which the race that invited new 
 players who fully subscribed would get double PT ( point skills, which allows you to use equipment 
 and improve stats) . The game is not worth 50 Dollars, and hopefully drops to 30 or less in the 
 upcoming months. Also you are required to use a credit card ( debit is fine) as there are no gamecards, 
 which can be sometimes tedious.
  
  My Opinion: This game is really good, but does have its low points. the Pvp is great, but there 
 are sometimes rude people in the game, there arent scammers, and there is the occisional botter. 
 This game has a semi hard grind, but nothing to where Lineage 2 was, and if you liked that you 
 will love this, and so will other players. ive also noticed that from certain mmos you will like 
 a certain race more often.
  cora: Lineage 2/final fantasy/ medival type games due to the magic power, and the classic elf look. 
 They also can summon, which is unique to their race
  Bellato: Star wars galaxies or sci fi type, or gundam type fans, due the the MAU ( like a machine 
 robot fighter you enter) which is unique to their race, does masive damage, and has a whopping 
 150k hp, but is a bit costly.
  Accrecian: same as above but more stricly Scie Fi/Robot type due to the fact they are robots, and 
 they have Launchers, which is basicly a super gun almost that does damage comparable to mau, but 
 no where near its hp.
  that about sums up my revised review^^ :P o. o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dixi_normus
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty crappy overall. the only thing i really liked was the music. now im not level 
 25 yet so i cant tell you what the pvp is like but honestly there is no real incentive to even 
 attain that level. I got this game on a whim and it was a bad choice. i thoroughly regret dropping 
 50$ on this tile. The concept of mass pvp is cool but if thats what your going to launch a game 
 on dont make players grind for 25 levels to get to experience it. i understand maybe like level 
 10 or something so people could be experianced before they get slaughtered by people but to have 
 to grind for 25 levels and countless boring hours with no story what so ever is un called for. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SubaruWRXSTi20
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  RF Online is a game in its infancy to the NA/UK area, but has been out for quite some time in other 
 regions. As stated in every other review out there, this is a PvP focused game. If you are interested 
 in PvE only, I suggest you stop reading here and go on searching for another game.
  
  And for those who are wondering, I currently have a level 37 Accretian on the Spirit server, so 
 I have definitely played through this game quite a bit.
  
  Gameplay:
  Well, let's just say things start out rough for a new player. You choose your race and your starting 
 class, and get into the game. After getting through the almost pointless tutorial (They really 
 idiot-proofed this one, although they really should have covered more since some info is left out 
 of both the manual and this.) , things start getting a little better. Now, the grind in the beginning 
 goes by extremely quick and you see yourself quickly going from level to level and moving on to 
 tougher mobs. What makes the grind so interesting is there are so many things leveling at the same 
 time, at lower levels it seems to be hard to keep track. On top of the usual "exp" grind, progressing 
 your character's level, there are also character abilities that you are leveling up parallel to 
 your exp. Every time you hit an enemy with your sword for at least 2% damage, you gain Melee PTs, 
 making your sword proficiency better. On top of Melee, there's Range, Defense, Shield, and your 
 racial PTs. Getting back to the different races, each has their own special trait for lack of a 
 better word. Accretian Robots use large missile launchers which can transform to even larger siege 
 cannons, Cora mages have their summons, and Bellatos have their giant mechs. On top of Exp and 
 PT, you also level your special skills which in turn makes them stronger as well. With this system 
 in place, it really discourages power leveling, so if you want a strong character end-game, you 
 really have to work for it. That being said, this is a Korean MMO, so don't expect level 50 to 
 just be handed to you. With potions being inexpensive and on a 3 second cooldown timer, you can 
 find mobs much higher level than you without fear of dying, which also leads to no downtime. Quests 
 are given at the beginning of every level and are only really there to "lead" you to the next mob 
 that you should be fighting for experience.
  
  Now for the main aspect of the game, PvP. For all the people that complain that PvP is pointless 
 because of the very small potion delay, that is on purpose. If you're fighting a character on par 
 to yours, you aren't supposed to be able to take them down with ease. Since this is a RvRvR game, 
 you really need a support group to effectively kill anything. I know everyone has covered the Chip 
 War every 8 hours, so I'm just going to digress from that and say it is extremely enjoyable in 
 my opinion. Lots of insane action which leads to the 3 hours (if that) flying by. On top of the 
 Chip War, there are various neutral areas where anything goes really. One of my favorite past times 
 is raiding enemy settlements with a small group just to stir things up. With every kill you gain 
 contribution points (and with every death you lose it, but only CP) , the top 10 CP holders in the 
 race getting special bonuses such as the ability to talk to the entire race. The small potion delay 
 is very defeatable if you have a well-coordinated team. Focus fire and timed burst damage are key 
 to taking out even the most pesky tank. There's nothing more satisfying than really having to earn 
 every CP.
  
  I find the economy to be rather innovative and player driven. There is a tax rate that fluctuates 
 due to Chip War wins/losses and the amount of gold held by a specific race. There's also an auction 
 house so you don't have to run around every territory spamming "WTS/WTB" in Map chat.
  
  However, there are still quite a few bugs to be fixed but this game is still new. For those who 
 say the game sucks because of them, just give it time. The chat system is atrocious, that I will 
 admit, but at least they tweaked the filter. Character movement is rather easy to get used to, 
 and targeting is fine as well. However, your experience will definately change depending on what 
 server/race you choose, since this game is VERY player driven.
  
  Graphics:
  Being an accretian, the local landscape is very bland with war torn desert with the occasional 
 grassland mixed in. However after spending some time in the other races areas, I must say they 
 have a LOT more to look at. The armor/weapon designs, in my opinion, are very slick and detailed. 
 Obviously the higher level you are, the better you look. A lot of people complain about the lack 
 of character customization and the fact that lots of people look exactly alike because of the same 
 armor/weapons. However, since this game does not display your level in PvP, being able to determine 
 level with weapon/armor designs is key. Some of the PvE enemies also look extremely detailed, especially 
 the more difficult ones. However, I have some of the eye candy turned down to help with the chip 
 war graphics lag (which can have 100+ people on your screen at one time) , so your experience may 
 be even better.
  
  Sound:
  Not really much to say on this subject but I will say that the music/ambiance/sound effects are 
 rather well done. Playing for extended periods of time tends to lead to your sound looping and 
 not working (but it may be just for me) . I have turned my music off however since I am an avid 
 PvPer and use voice communication through Ventrilo (I also heard that there's an in-game overlay 
 for teamspeak, although I cannot comment on that) . Overall for the time I had it enabled, I found 
 it enjoyable, especially the Crag mine battle themes.
  
  Value:
  Since it's brand new, of course it's going to be in the $50 range. The monthly fee can range anywhere 
 from $15 (one month plan) to $10 (yearly plan) per month. So if you want to save a couple bucks, 
 you can prepay months in advance.
  
  Conclusion:
  All I can say is this game is highly addictive. I've been playing since release and am showing 
 no sign of burnout. This game is far from perfect, since things are still being fixed. However, 
 I will give credit to the developers as it seems they are working to fix this game, throwing in 
 some fixes in the weekly server downtime. The servers I will say are great. I have no problems 
 with disconnections and I have not seen any unannounced downtime at all.
  
  So basically it boils down to this:
  - Looking for extensive PvE content: Not for you
  - Not 
 willing to work for your character: Not for you
  - However if you have a bloodlust and are willing to put in the necessary time to develop your 
 character, I suggest you give this game a try.
  
  As stated before, this game is very community driven, so your experience may vary between which 
 server and race you choose. Some servers have a problem with population balance between races. 
 Some race leaders just don't care (which they can be booted if you surpass them in contribution 
 points) . It seems each race has its time to shine and is the most powerful, however with appropriate 
 numbers and leadership, anything can turn the tide of battle.
  
  Thanks for reading :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgandy
Rating: 3.9
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  When I saw this game I had to have it immediately. Two weeks later I am trying to give it away 
 on eBay and no one wants it. 
  
  Just a few items to get to the point...
  Graphics are very dated. Game interface very inefficient. Fixed camera angles. Yes... fixed. I could 
 not believe that. The sound tracks where horrible. The opening theme sounds like a cheesy 80's 
 pop ballad. And they do sing. And you have to listen to it until you get a config and signed in. 
 There is more but I have wasted more time than I like on this game. 
  
  Your choice....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinoyboy20
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 7, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: It pains me to say but after playing for a 2 months I feel like I've been ripped off... 
 things got old to fast and doing one war ever 8 hours gets really boring.. FAST. Expect to grind 
 ALOT, I wouldn't mind if the grind was fun to do like in Lineage 2 or WoW but killing the same 
 mobs for 1 week just got to me.
  
  Graphics: Not bad but a lot of things look the same.
  
  Sound: For once I really don't mind turning my sound on rather then off and playing my own 
 music! The only thing I really don't like is the opening music b4 you start the game.
  
  Value: Wont last long if you like grinding then this is the game for you... new patches might make 
 this game better but who knows when that will come
  
  Tilt: Over all its a great game for people who want to try something new. This game isn't meant 
 for everyone and this isn't an easy game it takes time but later on its well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talkingprimate
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  Why is it that all Korean games are mindless grindfests? Seriously, this game reminds me of the 
 10 or so other Korean mmorpg's I've played where you literally do nothing but kill the same things 
 over and over and over again. There is little story, the quests are pathetic, there feels like 
 no purpose to the game. The PvE in this game is horrible, sticking sharp objects into your eyes 
 is possibly more fun.
  
  The graphics are decent at times, though often quite bland and boring. The sound if fairly well 
 done.
  
  Some will say PvP is this games selling point but there are games that have much better PvP and 
 have much better PvE (Such as DAOC) , and don't have the flaws present in RF.
  
  Pass on this game at all costs, there simply are too many good MMORPG's that are superior to RF 
 Online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokisul
Rating: 3.9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  I bought this game the other week, hoping to move on from my regular mmorpg's to something new, 
 that hadnt been done to the max yet, and everyone was a fresh low level, so was lots of new thoughts 
 etc...
  
  Started the game... oh so much diversity in your choices... and this got me... IT WAS LINEAGE 2!!! 
 the interface is exactly the same, just the world and skins etc is dif... So nothing new at all 
 there...
  
  Basically, you just go around fighting whatever the quest log suggests you fight, which involves 
 a lot of running around... but due to the portals, you just appear anywhere you want! Theres no 
 difficulty at all, everything is easily within reach. Wheres the challenege?? 
  What makes it worse, is how you can just buy a few stacks (99) of health and force potions, shortcut 
 them to keys... and fight ANYTHING you want, just keep spamming your hp potion and you live forever! 
 In actual fact, during PvP you can do this too, so the match would end with who runs out of potions 
 first! how lame is that?
  
  The game is a constant grind for xp, worse more than FFXI where you only have to get to 10 before 
 you can do parties etc... in this one, its level 25!!!! so about a week later, your 25 and can 
 do chipwars... which is fun i must admit, but thats bout it... i mean if i played this game for 
 a year... i would run out of intresting new things... you get to level 30, and you realise all 
 your gear looks like everyone elses as theres only 3 variations or so to each level! 
  
  But yeah, tho its a grind in xp, and its very very easy and simple... reason i dont like it? There 
 is NO STORY WHAT-SO-EVER!!! its non-progresive! Theres no big mystery at the end... 
  I got to admit, since i left FFXI, i havent found another game like it : ( shame in that its got 
 a xp grind too grrrr!!!
  
  Overall:
  Graphics are amazing, so is the spells and stuff you can obtain thru the higher levels, mechs look 
 cool, summons arent bad, the enviroment is pretty good, tho repetative (no fancy shores or anything, 
 water is basic, but suppose that it makes it load faster) . One VERY VERY impressive point, was 
 how it doesnt lag, even if 200 people are in front of you!! handles it VERY well, as you realise 
 when you goto the mines. 
  But, xp grind 1-25 is just stupid, gameplay is simple, no challenges, its just a case of who has 
 enough potions to do things, currency is even easier to obtain, so no real farming at all.
  One intresting thing tho, and ive not really seen this before, but the music was very nice! its 
 own theme tune, very anime to be honest, i liked it, reminded me of ff a bit....
  Oh and chat.... it seems everyone has come from either WoW or Guild Wars to play RF-Online... so 
 you can gather where im going...
  
  This game was a major dissapointment, nothing new or intresting, just another standard MMORP with 
 a exhausted concept, glad it came with a 30day free trial :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genrallevve
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  it's just about the player.
  comeared to outher online rpg: this is the first relly mix of fantasy and sci-fic some people like 
 it some not.
  the good:
  * it's cheaper then WoW and SWg per month if you chose the three month payment methode
  * eth 
 clip wars is great battles about the best mining place (well you don't really get the mining place 
 only the 20 meters protector onto ypur side) that ofthen host tousends of players three times every 
 day.
  * it has a gold market that's kinda like the stockmarket. but if you by them the tax will lower 
 and all npc objeckts get cheaper and if you sell them it get's more expensive.
  the bad: 
  * the monsters arn't so different from each other.
  *theres only three races.
  *if your not 
 a warrior with great armor you will have to by a lot a LOT of expencive helth bottles.
  *boring starting quests
  gameplay: i haven't got to the real pvp part (level 30) but i can tell 
 about it a lot.
  first you chose your race
  cora holy alligance:
  these are like elfs and is for the players that like fanasy more.
  they don't got the technical 
 power that the outher two races have but they have very powerful magic.
  their special is different big summons
  
  bellato union: these small fellas have better technics 
 then the cora but aren't as strong in attack power then the accretians. and has better magic then 
 the accretian but worse then the cora.
  their special is their assault robots to ride that make them stronger
  they are a mix of everything 
 and if you can't choose this is the race for you
  
  accretian empire: theas big droid is a sybole of raw power.
  the doesn't have any magic as the 
 two outher races but their stronger in attack power. if you whant to be a strong warrior this is 
 the race for you.
  their special is a arm gun thats as big as themself.
  
  when you start you sould do some of the boring qusts to reach some level.
  when you reach level 
 10-13 you sould start looking for a party to join.
  thats were the fun begins.
  and at 30 you are atlast able to survive in the clip wars for ten minutes  =) .
  see you there 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seepyou
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  This is why I like RFO; you may get bored (or not, will explain later) , tired (that is up to you 
 and how much you play) and say Enough! But after WOW disappointing me with not following up after 
 lvl60 with the same excitement and content which led to my leaving the game only two months after 
 hitting lvl60, I'm ready to go back to a smarter model.
  Anyone that has played DAoC will tell you this; not much to do before you hit max level. But that 
 is when the game BEGINS! This is called never having to run out of goals, and RFO is such a game. 
 You see, MMOs are about longevity, having always something to do and never saying "now what?" and 
 leaving it to play something else because you dont know what else to do. In RFO you have to work 
 for your character. You have to care enough to build him properly, to understand that when you 
 hear other people saying how much fun they are having in PvP, it is because they worked hard for 
 it and are now enjoying the fruits of their labor.
  Some might argue that since this is a game, one need not work for it. I would say that anything 
 not worth working for it, is not worth doing!
  Yes, the game is repeating; but only in the unimportant things. Keeping your character maxed in 
 his skills need not take over your gaming life if you make sure that you can at least yield the 
 next items. The argument against this is that you will not be good at PvP. My response is to wait 
 until you are of a respectable level (40+, I plan to do it after 45) . At that level your stats 
 will have caught up with other people's and you will have done it in less time (if you dont know 
 why, then all I can ask is to take my word for it) . Because even after you get to that level, you 
 will continue to raise your stats by PvPing and the difference to others will be negligible (except 
 the time it took to get there) .
  The game is beautiful, especially if you are already drawn to the eastern aesthetics (i. e. Manga) . 
 And while it is true that there is not great diversity, it only applies to the same race of the 
 same level and the same class! Every race is vastly different, ever 2-3 lvls you get new armor, 
 and every 3-5 lvls a new weapon, and all of those are of noticeable different design! It is like 
 the army, every rank has a different design, and to me that is the parallel! You are a member of 
 an army, this is mass PvP, you are doing your part, and your items will identify you as your race, 
 your level and your class. That is all I require for diversity.
  Also, the game is vastly more complex (but not complicated) than the review leads people to believe. 
 The game mechanics are working perfectly, the economy is completely linked to the war results and 
 because of the healing pots that one can consume in combat, the whole strategy of the war becomes 
 not about one person, but about your team! You can no longer just go it alone, you have to stick 
 to your team mates, build guilds and fight together, arrange plans and build defense lines! I've 
 seen plenty of Chip Wars to know, that only organization will lead to victory.
  
  This game is about the PvP. This game is about you working towards an end goal. This is about rewarding 
 the player for the many hours he invested to not rush, to not power level. This is about a race, 
 not an individual. And, finally, this is a game that you will continue to play for a long time, 
 after you reach max level, because you will have a goal, always!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AeRoWaRRiOr
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 16, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  Rising Force Online, is first of all, an "anime" graphic mmog. For every fans of Lineage and those 
 others game, you'll enjoy the characters. For others like, well, you'll find them just simply done.
 
  
  Let's start with the pros of that games...
  
  First of all, it's true about the addictive part of the game. Once you've started, you really want 
 to get throught the first 30s levels so you can try PvP system. So somehow, the game push you to 
 play the game for a full week and then after you can realise that the game got some very nice stuff 
 starting at this level. The music of the game was also very well done.
  
  A good part of the game, is no matter which class you choose, you can boost any skill you want. 
 So from that point, the customisation is awesome since you can master spell of the spiritualist (caster) 
 while been a warrior. The only matter is that you don't have much mana as they do.
  
  For the cons now, and sorry for having so much to say...
  
  First of all, it's true it's really 
 just about killing beast until level 25-30. I mean, you just run through those damn and long boring 
 plains all along to find the creatures you have been told to kill 20 times. Let's not forget that 
 the quest are automatically receive "in your hear" by the faction's NPC leader at the required 
 level. You don't even need to retrieve those quest, the reward is magicly given to you once you 
 have complete the carnage "problem". So I assure you, it's all about only killing beast.
  
  Another problem with the game, is the lack of customisation. First of all, you don't have a big 
 selection about the appearance of you character, so, you might looks like other people. Also, the 
 armor "sets" are unique. Meaning by this that everyone from your level will be wearing the same 
 armor has you. At each 3 levels, there's a "new set" of armor, so at the end, every 50s ends up 
 being all the same.
  
  No level "reward". What I mean here is that unlike others "good MMOs", when you leveled up, usally, 
 you get some point to put in a talent tree or some abilities points to boost your stats. Well that 
 game isn't build that way. You only way to "upgrade" your skills is to repeatedly use them. For 
 being quick, is tooks me about 4 hours to boost my shield skill, 4 hours of staying there getting 
 hit and healing myself.
  
  Another big point that make no sense to me, is all that potion abuse system. Here we go, let's 
 say we have a 18 warrior, he gots about 1600 of life. The matter is that monster hit you for 200 
 damage, as normal hit. Since mobs have like 3000-4000 HP at this level, and that your hit do about 
 ~200 damage, this mean they should "overcome" you, but no, because you have healing potion. What 
 I'm gonna say here, is true, at every level, from 10 to 50, you must carry AT LEAST, an ammunition 
 of 300-1000 potions of healing. Since the cooldown is about of 3 seconds, well its like if you 
 were "buying" yourself and quick healing spell. That is for me something really stupid in the game...
 
  
  The maps is also a pain in the neck. It's so long to walk from your grinding place to another, 
 couldn't they add something to watch while we're running in those plains..? While we talk about 
 the graphic, if you have played Guild Wars, well, for the characters, it's about the same, about 
 the environment, Rising Force Online is worser.
  
  For my conclusion, I strongly recommend you to think about all the cons I mentioned up there before 
 buying the game. Don't forget, people will tell you "it's the future of the MMOs...", well don't 
 believe the hype, get WoW or something else instead, in which you can do something else then killing 
 monster when you get tired. If you really are ready to pay 60$ for the game, and 15$ more each 
 month to be able to grind monster all the days long you're gonna play the game, well, buy it. If 
 you don't want to pay the monthly fee and have something quite similar, get yourself a copy of 
 Guild Wars, it's even better then RFO and there's no monthly fee, you actually only have to pay 
 for expansion pack. In the end, if you just don't want to buy this MMOs, well, congratulation, 
 you really saved 60$... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGOmen
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  It's common knowledge that excessively playing games is a waste of time when you could be outside 
 with friends and family, but never have I played a MMoRPG that made this fact so painfully obvious. 
 Admittedly, this is my first Korean MMoRPG besides the beta in Lineage II, however it is so uninspired 
 in it's CW (Chipwar) downtime that I realize that I have a stack of newspapers in corner that I 
 have yet to read for the day.
  
  Through my free month of the game with it's purchase I managed to get an Accretian Level 30 Defensive 
 Warrior and a Bellato level 33 Specialist Driver on Fire and Earth respectively. Though I do not 
 regret taking the time to get to these levels, which was incredibly easy by just spamming an inventory 
 full of potions against high level Ace Monsters, I do indeed regret ever spending $49.99 for a 
 game barely worth half of the price. The game has potential to be a moderately good MMO, but it 
 still hasn't done the majority of the things it should have during beta phase. It is perhaps years 
 from being a worth-while game, and by that time a title more deserving of a MMOG Vet's attention 
 will arise and attract a large amount of the player base that is currently on the servers.
  
  Rumors have passed by saying that Codemasters plans on adding level caps up to one hundred, 
 but no where in the near estimated future. With the level increase, the rumors say that they intend 
 to add new "CW" type of battles such as a "Time Conveyer" war for levels 50-75, and a galactic 
 war spanning across worlds and or solar systems for levels 75-100. All are merely speculation from 
 what I can tell, as no real proof was ever shown to me by the people spreading the rumors around.
 
  
  MMOG Review Format:
  
  Economy: The economy in this game is entirely player controlled, and not directed by people who 
 are greedy and just jack up a price at the local auction house. In fact, any transaction at the 
 auction house in the game does nothing but help the race's economy, as only money in existence 
 will be circulating and thus no new money will be created. Players are able to buy gold with their 
 race's currency, which lowers the tax rate for the entire race in general. In short, the more gold 
 each player buys = the better the economy for the race on that servers (I. E. Potions cost less 
 at NPCs, MAUS cost less to summon, etc.) . The economy is much, much better than most of the MMOGs 
 that are currently on the market.
  
  PVP: Again, this game is much better at delivering a PVP system that is superior than most that 
 are currently on the market, once you're at a high enough level to participate in them. The Race 
 Leader function along with their private channels that all players of the same race can see allow 
 for hundreds if not thousands of players to listen to orders and execute them in unison without 
 others flooding the channels on different tactics. In addition, the chip wars themselves are usually 
 intense battles with hundreds or thousands of people trying to do one simple goal; destroy the 
 other team's chip. By winning this war that takes place every 8 hours, your race acquires the central 
 mine, allowing you to AFK mine at ten times the normal speed than you would outside of the mine. 
 In between chipwars, however, it is incredibly boring and tedious to play the game, unless you 
 are able to AFK mine, where watching your character mine is more entertaining than actually playing 
 the game.
  
  Music: The music in the game is relatively good when you first start the game, my favorite being 
 the log-in voice music that starts every now and then when you load the game. Overall it is relatively 
 diverse and acceptable enough to support hardcore grinders at any given time. 
  
  Game play: Other than the pvp this game is incredibly boring, tedious, and just overall painfully 
 obvious that you're wasting your time, a feeling you do not want to get if you're trying to have 
 some fun. The movement in the game takes a little while to get used to, as the initial key settings 
 are horrendous at best. In addition, having skills set to the "F" keys was the absolute dumbest 
 move the original makers could have done, as I find myself taking my entire hand off the keyboard 
 just to hit a potion button, when I would rather just hit "1" or "2" quickly to heal myself. In 
 addition, in particularly on Bellato, they (Codemasters) changed the names of each areas on the 
 map without changing the quests info on those areas, making it so the quest tells you to go somewhere, 
 and the map shows an entirely different place all together. While you should be used to traveling 
 and adventuring in these types of games, it does not stop people from flooding the main Map Channel 
 with frivolous questions over and over again pertaining to every aspect of the game.
  
  Graphics: The character model graphics are pretty much top notch when it comes to MMOGs, but the 
 environment is completely uninspired with the monster placement being lower than abyssimal, depending 
 on your initial race. Bellato and Cora have monsters scattered about, with higher level monsters 
 even being in newbie areas, but Accretian monsters are relatively well placed each player's levels.
 
  
  Story: The majority of this game's story isn't actually seen in game, but rather by outside sources 
 such as the info you can read on their main website, some movies you can download from their site, 
 and or the voice music that sometimes comes up when you start the game up. Other wise you are just 
 given quests each level telling you to do something for the sake of your race's government, which 
 is essentially the same as any other race, for Bellato and Accretian at least.
  
  Quests: Nearly every quest in the game is a "Kill # of blank Mobs" type of quests that has no real 
 story behind it other than "Oh, yeah... You need to do this because it will help our research or 
 make a vaccine for a virus that you should have know earlier, but don't until now for some reason." 
 The good thing about the quest system is that it is directly given to you so you don't have to 
 go to a certain NPC to get it, do something in another area, and then return just to get a mediocre 
 reward. You are sent the information of the quest on your intercom or whatever, and once you complete 
 it they upload the credits and experience you've earned straight to you. Also, if you press "J" 
 you will be able to learn more info on the quest, such as where the monster is located. This does 
 not, however, work for the Bellato side, as the places on the map are named differently from the 
 places that the quests give info to the player about.
  
  Grind: Grinding in this game is tedious, uninspired, and potion-spamming.
  If you say it isn't 
 any worse than Diablo 2, which had relatively fun grinding, then you are dead wrong. In RF Online 
 you use up some 99 potions in under 145 seconds in every fight you are in while soloing at higher 
 levels. In Diablo II you had Life Leech to take care of most of your worries, with an occasional 
 potion here and there, unless you were a magic class type.
  Grinding is what this game is all about, along with PVP that happens every 8 hours if you are an 
 appropriate level not to get "One Shotted" by a higher level enemy. Sadly, level grinding is also 
 followed by tedious skill grinding that cause more grief than entertainment, as a game should.
 
  
  Interface: An incredibly bad interface awaits players of this game, and hotkeys are equally as 
 bad being in the "F" key section where you have to take your hand off the key board just to reach 
 and use a potion. There really isn't much more to say about the Interface other than it is incredibly 
 bad, free online games provide much better interfaces that this premium priced MMOG does.
  
  Concept: The overall concept of the game has great potential with the three races of differing 
 technologies and beliefs. Too bad it was poorly executed with tedious game play and potion spamming 
 PVP combat. The Chip Wars turned out to be a moderately entertaining event that happened every 
 eight hours, but in between that it was just not worth it just to participate in it without AFK 
 mining if you have the mine or turning your computer off, thus gimping you in future wars due to 
 the lack of your level.
  
  Role Play Capacity: Many MMOG gamers like to role play in the genre for various reasons including 
 but not limited to adding more depth to the game and more diversity in your own experiences with 
 the game's world. Though, this is the type of person that would, typically, enjoy and go through 
 a game such as "Unlimited Saga" which possessed a nice story, but horrendous game play and graphics 
 overall as a text based Ps2 game.
  
  End Content: The estimated "end game content" will probably just be the same as the rest of the 
 game, only with no level grinding due to being a max level. Being a part of the chip war as a max 
 level character every eight hours, and then waiting until the next one happens in-between.
  
  Battle System: The battle system is relatively boring, especially levels 1-30 where you have 
 no real skills to speak off other than the ones you can buy as a specialist, which are basic until 
 you can level up your PTs (Skill points) and obtain level 30 to get more specific spells and abilities. 
 
  
  Communication: The chat interface is perhaps one of the worst I have ever seen in a MMOG or a online 
 game in general. If you have a long name your chat space is limited to just a few words before 
 it goes to the next line, and you cannot scroll up if people are putting up messages, as it will 
 simply go back down to the first message despite your efforts. Words don't fall to the next line 
 if they are too big, instead they are separated like War (Next line) iorr. The whisper mode is 
 just as bad, but at least shows up in a different color than the rest of the text so you know it 
 was sent, if the chat section does fly by too fast if you have map chat open. Thankfully you can 
 turn off certain channels, but you will effectively be gimping yourself of sometimes valuable information 
 that could be use in the near future.
  
  Customization: Every five or six levels after level 19 you get access to different looking armors 
 depending on your PTs. But overall there isn't much customization in terms of armor, colors, weapons, 
 etc. Weapons gradually become more menacing and powerful, but you are still able to tell what level 
 they are quite easily since all of the weapons and armor are the same for each level on the race 
 with no diversity. Codemasters said that they were trying to add a way to color your weapons and 
 or armor if possible so we'll just have to wait and see about the future in customization in the 
 game.
  
  Item Acquisition: Items fall on the ground when you beat a monster, being reserved to you for about 
 9-12 seconds before other players can pick them up even though you killed the monster. If you are 
 being attacked by multiple monsters you must disengage quickly to pick up the items you want and 
 just waste potions by spamming them when being beaten when targeting the weapons. Items can also 
 be acquired by NPCs from levels 1-30 and auction houses for all levels.
  
  Housing: None
  
  Character "Power": If you're into getting ultra strong characters when at high levels then 
 this is a game for you if you can stand the grinding. Your powers escalate to very high amounts 
 at end-game levels, and you will be dishing out damage in thousands, and taking such damage as 
 well.
  
  Max Level: 50
  
  Money Acquisition: Getting money is incredibly easy in this game. AFK mining is one main source 
 of getting money if your race owns the mines, and grinding monsters it sell their items is another 
 way of making money.
  Later in the game, if you're a specialist with a high level craft, you can make a decent amount 
 of money by crafting high level armors that arent sold by the race's npcs anymore if you have 
 the materials to do so.
  
  Leveling Swiftness: The Initial 1-30 levels seem incredibly slow your first time through, but if 
 you buy an entire bag full of 500 potions at level 13-14 and solo ACES you will be able to get 
 to level 20 in a few short hours at most. Still, after level 23 or so the leveling dims down and 
 you need to party to get any acceptable amount of EXP each time you hit a monster or source of 
 experience.
  
  Value: The value of this game is relatively "Fair" if you're not one who tires of a thousand or 
 so hours of grinding just to get to a decent high level. But that in itself just about sums up 
 the value of the game for most people in general, in my opinion.
  
  There were many things, mainly flaws, that I left out about the game. But that is because I believe 
 that they will most certainly be fixed in the near future. That is not to say that some of the 
 ones that were told here won't be, but they are some things that people need to know about how 
 the game is at the moment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: secondomen
Rating: 2.9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  The graphics at least on the character models are good, the enviroments are bland and boring. The 
 mobs all look unique but at the same time are far from exciting. As far as gear and money, neither 
 are a problem to obtain. Like most MMORPG's ranged players have an advantage soon in the game in 
 PvP. I joined the world of RF looking forward to the PvP. I was really disappointed to see how 
 the PvP pans out. The PvP involves the players spamming pots to outlive the enemy. Unless u are 
 outnumbered greatly by higher lvl players you wont die. I found myself tanking several chacters 
 at the same time and they would not be able to drop me becauze of the potions but at the same time 
 I could not drop them because they spammed potions or ported to town. SO goes the PvP in RF-Online. 
 Just like all MMORPG's its not done and the game at this point seems unfinished and very small. 
 With only a few zones to lvl and PvP in and some of those being buged this game was a huge disapointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuska
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok, there have been a lot of bad reviews. I hated most of them, made me get a whole new thought 
 of the game. Well, most of those reviews are wrong, and are only due to bad class selection or 
 lack of experience.
  
  -Gameplay and Controls-
  I went to buy the game, ignoring most of the bad reviews. Let me tell you, they were WRONG. I think 
 this is the best MMO out right now. Just so your game isnt' ruined, the H key triggers keyboard 
 / mouse mode, and the \ key triggers 1,2,3... instead of f1, f2, f3... for the hotkeys. I reccomend 
 pushing both of these buttons when you login for the best gameplay (unless you prefer the other 
 mode more) .
  
  -PvE-
  Ok, let me talk about the game. You may have heard about grinding and how thats all you do in the 
 game and it gets boring. Well, this game doesn't have you running to NPC's for quests, and have 
 the right ammount of quests to keep you free (unlike WoW) . It gives you 1-2 quests per level, and 
 you will usually have about 3 quests on you. Sometimes you won't be strong enough for the quests, 
 but it tells you whats coming. At level 13 is where you get your first armor set that buffs your 
 class specs, and that'll really help so don't give up please!
  
  -Weapons, Armor, and Spells-
  Wow! This is something that makes the game special. The weapons 
 make a HUGE difference on your effect. In WoW, this was not the case (unless you have full sets) . 
 When i say huge, i don't mean riggid, I mean it has more noticable effect. I don't want you thinking 
 this is something too powerful, if so just pretend you didn't hear this because you'll understand 
 when your playing. Basically, if you have a staff that makes your spells kill a mob in 6 hits, 
 when you level up and can use your new staff, you'll kill those same mobs in around 4 (or 3) . There 
 are also Intense items, which are weapons and armor at that same level but the intense one has 
 the effect of the next item in it's class (aka, stronger) . You can upgrade items too. Spells in 
 this game are in item form which you can purchase at a vendor or from other players. You can put 
 it in your spellbook and then take it out later if you want to sell it. I'm still at low class 
 spells so I won't get into that. Oh, and for you WoW players, items DON'T BIND! You can let people 
 borrow weapons, you can sell old weapons, you can do anything because they DON'T BIND!
  
  -Cities, Proffessions, and Game Originals-
  Oh boy! This is by far a great part of this game. 
 I'm Cora, (and i'm sure other races' cities and details are just as great) , and their capital (HQ) 
 is awsome! A huge place with large portals and 2 floors of shopping areas. There are wide spaces 
 and many people. What I especially like it FLIGHTS AND DESTINATION ANNOUNCEMENTS. You can travel 
 planets with a spaceship (I haven't been on one yet because of ticket price and i'm still lvl 20) . 
 In the game, there are announcements on flights and departures with specific flight times. The 
 aircrafts are very nice, and there are lots of different spaceship models. In some areas, you will 
 see a big spaceship fly over your head while fighting mobs. It's a great experience, and flights 
 last 5-10 minutes, (so i've heard) . If you miss a flight, you'll have to 45 minutes until the spaceship 
 departs in your area ( at least for HQ ) . Oh and there are no fake ship teleportations. You'll 
 see it take off, you'll see it depart, you'll see it fly over other places, and so on.
  
  -Summary, Conclusion-
  Very great game, I love it. I suggest people from WoW to get it if your 
 looking for something new or different. Even if not, it's definetly worth a try, and it comes with 
 first month free (14.99 per month) . I love this game, and sorry to say, but i'm ending this review 
 and i'm gonna go play RF only. If you want my info, i'm on Spirit server and my SN is Starwish 
 . See ya around!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4rkw4y
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  I'm going to give this game a 5, and I hesitate to give it even that. Admittedly, I did not play 
 this game long, reaching lvl 15 showed me enough to know that this game did not live up to its 
 potential. Not much changed from lvl 1-15, besides the weapons and armor, which by the way is the 
 exact same as every other character of your race and level. Character creation was incredibly limited, 
 which would have been forgivable, if the play experience itself wasn't also incredibly limited. 
 Reaching level 15 took hours of incredibly repetitive play that involved popping potions and buffing 
 after every 2-3 fights. While characters in this game look great (think FF-XI) , the environments 
 lack any sort of awe inspiring detail that you can find in a game like FF-XI or WoW. Veterans of 
 this game will not deny that this game does not even start until lvl 25, when you can start to 
 PvP. If you have the patience to play through a sub par beginning game to reach that lvl then more 
 power to you. I however am more inclined to go to a game that is fun from the start. The only redeeming 
 qualities here are the unique take on the MMO genre, and a few of the music tracks. I think the 
 best NEW product out there is DDO. The best overall MMO out on the market is still WoW... so lets 
 stop labelling products WoW killers until another MMO can attain a 9.5 rating. I'm giving this 
 game an overall 5, because only the 2nd half (past lvl 25) is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samurai_Rocket
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  After being addicted to the timesink that is World of Warcraft, I've decided to take a break from 
 the game. I've only gotten two level 60s, but I felt like I've seen pretty much everything there 
 is to see in the game. And even though that technically couldn't be farther away from the truth, 
 I've gotten my fill of it.
  
  For now, I needed a new game. Something to fill in the void between now and other, bigger MMOs 
 coming out in the future such as Warhammer Online, Middle Earth Online, Vanguard Saga and so on.
 
  
  RF Online, a korean developed MMO PC title created by CCR, was just released this past week on 
 to retail stores nation wide, and has been a game I've been personally following in development 
 since early beta stages. The whole premise was enticing- A science fiction, player versus player 
 oriented MMO where magic, technology and mechs collide into one giant orgy of war and death. Three 
 different races pitted against each other for control of a planet- Cora: The magical, elf-like 
 creatures which are dominant in the use of magic, Accretia: The miltaristic, cyborg race that prefer 
 brute force and strength above all else, and the Bellato: A short, midgetlike form of humans which 
 excel in combining bits of magic and bits of technology to utilize giant, mechanical robot tanks 
 (AKA Mechs) .
  
  Gameplay-
  
  After playing beta, retail and joining a relatively large guild, I've found out that like many 
 other korean games, this one follows a very similar formula in gameplay and character development. 
 It's quite clear that the basic purpose of the game in terms of leveling and strengthening your 
 character is through the repetitious, and often mind numbing act of slaying monster after monster 
 after monster for hours on end. The one big thing for me that makes it stand out from other korean 
 MMOs, and other american/european developed MMOs which follow the same formula, is the fact that 
 downtime is non existent. I mean that in the most literal sense, in that there is absolutely zero 
 downtime.
  
  This is achieved by use of potions, which can be bought in stacks of 99 and are incredibly cheap 
 to purchase. One can simply spam potions all day to keep their health maxed while grinding off 
 mobs that are several levels higher than him or her. This, along with the game's smooth combat 
 animations and skills, makes the fighting much more fast paced and interactive. This is what makes 
 the grinding in RFO much more forgiving than say, in Final Fantasy 11 or Ragnarok Online.
  
  Of course, that is the PvE focus of the game. But the main, central focus the game developers 
 put their mind and money into is the PVP. And this, in my opinion, is where the game truly shines. 
 Every 8 hours, an event takes place called the Chip Wars. This is where the three races of the 
 game, Accretia, Bellato and Cora, wage war with each other for control over an area called the 
 Crag Mines. This zone is rich in resources, and of course resources leads to money, and money leads 
 to a richer economy and stronger characters. After each race musters as many players as they possibly 
 can, they must march across the crag mines to reach an opponent's Control Center. A control center 
 contains a chip, which is basically a key to the most mineral rich areas of the crag mines.
  
  If a race is successful in destroying an enemy's control center, that entire race gains access 
 to the Crag Mine Core, where one can easily earn 1 to 2 million credit in just a few hours of mining. 
 These chip wars can sometimes end up being literally epic in size, pitting hundreds and hundreds 
 of players against each other in full sized armies as they fight for control of the zone. This 
 is what makes the PVP aspect of the game stand out from other MMOs- It has a true purpose. Not 
 just for yourself, but for your entire race. It greatly rewards those that win, work together and 
 cooperate. It is also extremely satisfying, watching hundreds of players on screen at any given 
 time fighting with and against each other.
  
  Another great aspect which I love about the game is the simple act of earning resources. Mining 
 can be done while being away from the computer, so essentially you can make money overnight while 
 sleeping. You will always be guaranteed to be richer every single day, so long as you remember 
 to leave your character online to mine. This makes the game more forgiving for those that simply 
 don't have the time to play as much as others do.
  
  However, this is where the game essentially ends in terms of options. The crafting is shallow at 
 best, and not as rewarding as in other MMOs such as World of Warcraft. The questing system is laughable 
 at best, only giving you pointless tasks such as killing x mob y amount of times. There are no 
 real instance zones, and the world seems to be a bit smaller than in most other MMOs. Also, character 
 customization is seriously lacking making every soldier in the battlefield look essentially the 
 same. If you live for competitive PVP and don't care for fluff, then I highly recommend this title.
 
  
  Graphics-
  
  The graphics were a mixed bag for me. Character models, character designs, weapon designs and animations 
 were extremely well done. The armor pieces, weapon models and animations look extremely professional, 
 very creative and give you even more of an incentive to continue developing your character and 
 to make him or her stronger and stronger. By the time your character reaches level 50, he or she 
 will look like a god among ants.
  
  However, the environment leaves much to be desired. They are basically large, endless plains spanning 
 out in all directions with no real substance in between points A and B. Zones sometimes feel flat, 
 empty and uninspiring. I remember stepping into Dun Morogh for the first time in WoW and was captivated 
 by the detail, artwork and lighting surrounding me. I didn't feel anything of the sort in this 
 game, unfortunately.
  
  Sound-
  
  The sound is exceptionally well done. The musical soundtrack, sound effects, and ambient noises 
 actually do help to pull you further into the world of RFO, but unfortunately there is no voice 
 acting whatsoever to be found in the game. In this sense characters do feel less life like, but 
 the overall ambience and musical score do help greatly with the overall gaming experience. 
  
  Overall-
  
  I would highly recommend that players who enjoy competitive gameplay, PVP combat 
 and MMO gameplay to consider trying this game out. Keep in mind though, that this game isn't casual 
 gamer friendly as some other MMOs. Leveling can become downright painful at times, but it is offset 
 by the fact PVP gameplay in this game is so entertaining. It depends entirely on your tastes, but 
 if you are looking for an extremely deep, complex and large gaming world to play in, you may want 
 to look elsewhere.
  
  This cannot be compared to MMOs such as Everquest II, World of Warcraft or Ultima Online as it 
 simply doesn't have the amount of activites you can do in comparison to those games. This shouldn't 
 really be called an MMORPG, rather it should be labeled as an MMOPVP game. There is no real story, 
 there are no actual quest lines, the crafting is shallow, and the game essentially leads you on 
 a straight line. Hell, there isn't even any role playing in it.
  
  It's a simple, fast paced, action oriented PVP game where the objective is simple- To dominate. 
 If you don't want to bother with all of the extra fluff available in larger MMOs currently available 
 in the market, you may enjoy this game. Either way, it's quite addictive, entertaining, and an 
 extremely rewarding gameplay experience.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stephen149
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  RF Online is an amazing game. The combat is fast paced, there are tons of items, weapons, and armor, 
 and there is also alot to do.
  
  People get the impression that this game is all grinding, and in a way it is until you are level 
 30, but there is tons of quests that you receive at every level up. You get sent on missions to 
 kill things, capture things, etc. What I like about the quest system is that you don't have to 
 find the person to give you the quest, you just receive it automaticly so questing is alot easier 
 than in WoW where you have to go back to town all the time.
  
  The combat is fast paced. It doesn't seem very "turn based", yet it is. It's not like WoW where 
 there is a long pause between each strike when you're fighting something. Your character is using 
 spells, striking the enemy and using buffs all at the same time and it makes the combat really 
 enjoyable.
  
  The weapons and armor variety is awsome. There are tons of items to use, find, and sell. I've got 
 a seperate bag just for the things that I will be using when I'm a higher level. That's how many 
 things there are to find in the game.
  
  If you are a person who found this game boring, then you haven't played it enough. I admit, I didn't 
 like it at all at first but once I was around level 3 or 4 I started to understand it more and 
 I really like playing it now. You just need to adjust.
  
  Overall RF Online is a game that most MMO fans will like. There are some thing that you won't like. 
 For example, you can't change your controls (yet) . Most of the problems are being fixed in an up 
 coming patch. But there are so many things that you will like, including the things I said above. 
 If you like MMO's, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDeArnise
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Most MMO's take time to mature while the developers and publishers work to iron out the wrinkles 
 or bring in some changes and additions to suit the player community's needs. This appears to be 
 the case with this import MMO from Korea. Rising Force Online is not World of WarCraft, not Lineage 
 2, not EverQuest, not Guild Wars.
  
  Mechanized "AI".... small, deceptively strong and intelligent people that can construct mechanical 
 things... and Elf-like beings with the power of magic. Add some futuristic items, and this is what 
 you get ... Rising Force Online. THIS IS ANOTHER ONE OF THOSE GRINDER MMO'S, so if you're one with 
 fairly little time on your hands on a regular basis to play a game like this, then this may not 
 be the game for you. This game carries all the usual grind of killing, acquiring items through 
 quests and slain monsters, crafting or buying stuff as needed, working up certain skills and spells 
 so that they're stronger and/or last longer, and being the best you can be. The Player v. Environment 
 aspect is typical run-of-the-mill, except that with enough health potions, a good weapon and armor 
 combination, and good alertness, a player can take a lvl 5 character and do a quest that involves 
 taking out baddies at least 6 levels higher than that of the character. Not only do you have character 
 levels to worry about, but you also have skill and class pts to deal with, whether your character 
 uses melee weapons, ranged weapons, shields, magical force, crafting, and so forth.
  
  The PvP is RvRvR, in that you have the "AI" robot-like Accretians v. the small, mighty Bellato 
 v. the Elf-like, spiritual Cora. Every 8 hours -- 3:00am PST/6:00am EST/11:00am GMT; 11:00am PST/2:00pm 
 EST/7:00pm GMT; 7:00pm PST/10:00pm EST/3:00am GMT -- there is a Chip War, lingo-ed in-game as CW. 
 Each race has a Chip to defend, and they must also work on weakening then capturing the other races' 
 chip. The winning race gets to mine in the core, protected by a powerful entity called the Holystone 
 Keeper (lingo: HSK) . This is important because players can get 1 ore every 6-15 seconds in the 
 core compared to 1 ore per minute at the portal. More ore turns into more currency, which can mean 
 more gold, and thus better NPC rates for the race. In addition, the top PvP'ers for each race get 
 special abilities, like communicating with all players with characters of that race, and use other 
 abilities to lead and coordinate CW assaults and defenses.
  
  Technically, there are a few issues at the initial release, even though Codemasters does do weekly 
 server maintenance on Wednesdays. For one, the chat window is pretty small, with no Wordwrap feature -- the 
 letters of a single word can be wrapped around individually. Second, there has been some players 
 believing that the excessive use of health potions can be curbed so that players are forced to 
 fight monsters at or around their own level. In this author's opinion, that can only be achieved 
 through a tweak of the quest system so that each quest suits the player's character lvl the best. 
 Third, the hardcopy game manual doesn't do a good job explaining most of the things used in-game, 
 like being able to chat with others in the same region, or that the commands are case-sensitive. 
 This means that in order to Map chat, or to properly whisper to another player's character, you 
 have to type "/Map", or "/" then the message exactly as it is.
  
  Right now, there are four servers available for RF Online, and as of the time of this review, the 
 Chip Wars seem fairly even depending on the server you play in. For example, Cora wins most of 
 the CW's on Spirit, while in another server, it's Bellato winning most of them. This doesn't mean 
 that the winning race gets free pass to the core. They must deal with straggling foes of the other 
 two races by running or sneaking past them, or rely on higher lvl characters to keep them busy 
 or take them out, for some characters on losing races like to move about the mines or sneak into 
 the core, and take out anyone much lower in lvls than they are. THIS IS ALSO A PAY-TO-PLAY GAME, 
 as it is $15/month and you get the first 30 days free. Otherwise, most of today's computers with 
 fast-enough broadband should be able to run this game well. So if you have the time and committment 
 to work up a metallic, AI-like Accretian, a small but strong and intelligent Bellato that can create 
 powerful MAU's, or look hot and magical in a Cora frame, then this is a game worth trying.
  
  AUTHOR'S PREVIOUS MMO EXPERIENCE
  Asheron's Call (2000-2002)
  Anarchy Online (2001)
  
 Lineage 1 (2001)
  Ragnarok Online Alpha & Beta Testing
  Earth & Beyond Online Beta Testing
  Planetside (2004)
  EverQuest 1 (2004-2005)
  Auto Assault 
 Beta Testing
  Guild Wars ( Currently Playing, will get GW: Factions ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necbone
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is not for the regular crowd.... this is for the hardcore mmo'er who understands the situation- 
 kill monsters to lvl.....
  
  theres no fluff, key bindings, no streamlined UI, no monster AI, no character uniqueness, horrible 
 chat system, flawed potion spamming design, and no true healer class. you kill monsters to get 
 around 30 and then pvp or somethin, but goodluck enduring yur journey, kuz it sucked for me; i've 
 played so many games, that i dont accept that kind of straight forward grind, atleast cover it 
 up with something..... its cool you can be a robot, but theres only 3 colors to chose from....
 
  
  There is afk mining too; i have no clue how horribly that will effect an economy (thats a stretch 
 to even say economy) ....
  
  i couldnt deal with the grinding to get to the pvp, i tried..... maybe i'll comeback to this game, 
 but everytime i tried to play it i started to think, "why do i play video games, geez, i gotta 
 go outside"......
  
  dont get this.... try Eve, wow, anarchy online, eq2, even lin2..... maybe theyll finish/port up the 
 localizations and show us the full game in a couple years.... i dont even right reviews, but this 
 game pissed me off... no trial, so dont buy!!!
  
  the potion SPAMMING got me ver mad tho, its 2006, why are dev's still doing this.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egg99
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review on this site and I thought I'd make it for RF Online since many opinions 
 about the game seemed to be split right down the middle.
  
  First and foremost, this game is an MMO. Alot of people don't seem to realize this when they complain 
 about the grinding and repetition in this game. All MMOs consist of grinding and an unhealthy amount 
 of repetition to get to the higher levels; because high levels are where the fun is at. This is 
 the basic formula for any tried and true MMO game...
  
  Now, saying that, this game's primary fault is it takes this tried and true MMO formula to the 
 next level by making your grinding experience unreasonably long. The weird part about RF Online 
 is that the grinding isn't necessarily boring, it just seems to take FOREVER. There are also two 
 reasons to grind, instead of just one. The first is your level, which needs to be raised just like 
 any other game. The second, however, (and the reason which makes the grinding experience so over-the-top) 
 is for raising your PTs. When you level up, your class' point cap will raise by two or three. Leveling 
 these is how you define your character and make him stronger; not just by level alone. It's a good 
 idea, since it allows for more specialization, but in actuallity it only prolongs the PvE. Knowing 
 this, I'll carry on with the review.
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  
  The gameplay in RFO is both good and bad. The action is face paced, which is a positive. Not to 
 the point where it's hard to keep up, but fast enough to keep you on your toes. However, beyond 
 the fast paced action, the action itself is quite repetitive. There is no specific healer class 
 in this game so all players use potions, hence the "potion spamming POS" comments in other reviews. 
 This seems to be a bad idea at first, but it really isn't as horrible as your first impression 
 might lead you to believe. PvP battles don't take 10 minutes to kill one person either since multiple 
 people are always attacking more than one person, so combat stays at the nice fast pace that it 
 starts out as.
  
  The quests are a joke, for a lack of a better word. They're not even quests at all. Your race commander 
 comes on the screen and tells you that you need to kill x amount of y monsters, and once you complete 
 this the rewards are delivered right to your inventory. There's no running back and forth between 
 NPCs that are in different towns and whatnot. Depending on your preference this can be good or 
 bad, I personally love it, but that doesn't distract from the fact that these "quests" aren't even 
 quests at all; they're just instructions to target a specific monster while you grind so that the 
 thought of rewards and a little bit of XP might take your mind off the extremely long leveling 
 process.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  The graphics are where the game truely shines IMO, aside from its excellent PvP aspect. They're 
 not state of the art like Quake 4 or anything, but the game is a fantasy game and isn't meant to 
 look that real to begin with. Instead you get great looking characters and weapons that fit the 
 world very well. There's a sharpness feature in the options tab that adds a sort of blur-like effect 
 to everything and makes things stand out real well. RFO is also unreasonably nice to your system 
 resources, and in-game there is virtually no slowdown or lag whatsoever. The game is able to portay 
 over a hundred characters on screen without your framerate taking a hit of more than 2 or 3 fps, 
 and the only time you encounter an occasional lag spike is in the massive PvP battles. When you're 
 PvEing though, the game plays absolutely flawlessly. The weapons and armor are also very nice looking, 
 ranging from Gundam-based armor lookalikes for the Accretia to crazy looking beam axes and spears 
 and bows for all classes. Once again, having the sharpness feature all the way up really adds some 
 nice touches to these already-great looking weapons and armors. 
  
  Sound: 7/10
  
  The sound in RFO isn't anything revolutionary, but it isn't anything to scoff at either. The stabbing 
 sounds from swords and spears are appropriate, and when you get a critical attack during a combo 
 it really feels like you're kicking the crap out of something. It's got a real umph sound to it. 
 Also, the thing that made me the most happy, was the fact that the footstep sounds weren't making 
 my head explode. This is the only MMO I've ever played where running didn't annoy the hell out 
 of me.
  
  Value: 8/10
  
  There's alot of value to be had in RFO. The same can be said for any MMO really, it all just depends 
 on the player. It'll keep you going playing for a long time if you choose to stick with it, and 
 there's a fair amount of replay value should you choose to make another character or choose to 
 follow a different skill branch. I can't say much for what there is to do when you hit level 50 
 since I'm far from it right now. Supposedly the next big updates are supposed to introduce a variety 
 of intriguing things though; such as vehicles, raised level cap, a crapload of new (and better 
 looking, if that's even possible) weapons, customizable armor (so every person's level 30 armor 
 doesn't look the same) and even space combat from what I've heard. As it stands right now, the 
 game is a typical MMO, but it should have a significantly higher amount going for it a little later 
 into its lifespan.
  
  Overall/Conclusion:
  
  Rising Force Online IS a good game, despite what others are saying about it. It has the best PvP 
 system to date, massive battles, fast paced action, great weapons and armor, and so much more. 
 The one problem with it, as stated above, is that getting to the point where you can enjoy all 
 of this just takes too damn long. For the first 30 levels you're simply training yourself to participate 
 in PvP, nothing more, nothing less. 30 is when you get your first class change, which is a good 
 thing, since all classes pre-30 have exactly the same skills. Once you get your class change, you 
 get alot more customization and different skill trees and you're finally able to be worth something 
 in PvP. Why the creators decided to make you wait 30 levels before you could have or do any of 
 this is beyond me. In all honesty, Rising Force Online isn't an overly deep game at all. The PvE 
 is, in a word, mindless. Not painful, just mindless. The PvP, like so many have said before me, 
 is excellent and the game's main strong point. It's alot of fun, and it's rewarding on a massive 
 level economy-wise. And with so much more coming to the game in the later patches, it seems RFO 
 is an extremely rewarding game - if you have the patience to survive the pre-level 30 grinding. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suharar
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  A few friends bought this game so i thought what the hell and bought it too, all i can say is i 
 feel cheated.
  Ever been mugged in the street? thats how i feel.
  I never played the beta so i had no idea what crap i was in for. this is the most mindless game 
 i have ever played.
  All the game mainly consists of is whacking mobs one after the other and drinking potions to replenish 
 your health/Force (mana) /stamina .
  You get quests to do as you level up, but guess what, thats right the quests are simply kill x 
 amount of y mobs.
  Oh and you can mine too, which is automated, wow what fun... not.
  The only fun part of the game is chip wars, which is the pvp part of the game, the only part of 
 this product that can be called a game. 
  Every 8 hrs a chip war starts and whatever race wins get the mining rights until the next chip 
 war, yawn..
  I've played a few mmos in my time, EQ, EQ2, AO, WoW, AC2, EVE online and i have to say RF online 
 is by far the worst.
  This game isnt worth The 8.99 +Vat a month, your better off buying Guild wars , 10x more content 
 and no monthly charges.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie6785
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  i played this game on RFOph.. it did amuse me for a month or so.. but as you gain levels up to 
 30 plus.. it gets kind of repetetive.. sometimes boring.. i fall asleep while fighting monsters.. 
 the sci-fi theme is a plus.. i personally like the accretians because of their high damage and 
 defence.. but during lower levels.. while training you can easily get abused by high level "raiders" 
 if youre not careful.. it can be frustrating at times.. that you can get killed in 1 shot from 
 a caster.. great concept on mass PVP wars for the mines.. although you have to have a mid - high 
 end machine to participate in the wars effectively.. if you just meet the system requirements youll 
 find yourself standing in the middle of a battle.. "lagging" or freezing.. because during wars 
 there can be hundreds of players in one map.. so your framerate is drastically reduced.. no problem 
 on high end machines... wars are for the control of the mines.. where you can mine for a certain 
 time depending on the outcome of the war.. the difference of mining outside the "core" is that 
 there is a big increase in the rate at you acquire ores which can be processed into talics.. talics 
 can be inserted into various items that give pluses.. hope that gave you an idea about the chipwars.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM-Fan
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  When I left World of Warcraft I felt the need to try something different. I was told about RF Online 
 which promised an intriguing RvRvR experience so I decided to pre-order it and try it out.
  
  The game appeals the gamer with a nice graphic (it resembles Lineage very much) and a clean 
 interface. The quests are given to you each time you level so you don't need to look for NPCs (and 
 this can be good for someone who don't like traveling much) . There are three races: Accretia, Bellato 
 and Cora, respectively: some kind of mechs/big robots, small halflings and the classic elves.
 
  
  While Accreatias and Coras don't add much to the fantasy world, Bellato can become drivers and 
 buy M. A. U. s, which are huge mechanical pets (robots) that can tank and lay waste on the battlefield.
 
  
  I know it may sounds interesting at first, but behind all the fashion I've told you about there 
 are thousand of hours spent grinding.
  
  In RF Online you don't only need to grind for XP (which is the least important thing in the game) , 
 but you also need to grind for each kind of ability you want to raise.
  
  A warrior for example has a range skill, a close range skill, a shield skill and a defense skill 
 (i'm leaving racial unique skills out) . Well, for each of these skills you need to grind using 
 a particular weapon/shield killing mobs of the right level (read mobs who give you enough PT points) .
 
  
  If you don't grind PT points and level up instead, you risk to gimp that particular skill and not 
 being able to recover it anymore (which means you need to reroll) .
  
  If you manage to cap your PTs the time of leveling up comes. This can be quite easy the first 20 
 levels just to become a nightmare from that point on. Basically you need to group with many people 
 to kill "ACE" mobs which are too strong to be killed alone.
  
  Keep in mind you can take the quest for the RvRvR battle (called Chip War) only at level 25 (you 
 can participate without it, but the problem is a low level player don't stand any chance during 
 the fight) .
  
  The PvE part of the game is another absurd aspect of RFO. To obtain enough XP and PTs you need 
 to kill mobs 4 or 5 levels higher than you; this means you take a lot of damage and constantly 
 need to drink health potions (which have a 3 secs cooldown) to stay alive. Mobs don't keep aggro 
 if not attacked so you can't simply hit 4 or 5 of them hoping to grind shield or defence while 
 pressing the key to drink potions, you need to furiously switch targets hoping that other players 
 will leave you alone (you wouldn't have time to tell them to) .
  
  I won't tell you about the equipment you need to change every 3 levels since I've talked too much 
 already, so I will simply tell you this game was made for asian people and should only be played 
 by someone who doesn't really have much to do in his/her life apart from staying in front of a 
 monitor for days and days.
  
  Go play Tetris instead, you would get much more fun out of it, believe me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spynz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I will start off with a minor rant about controls and stuff when they either didnt look at the 
 back of the manual or went thru the (i know its boring) tutorial - this is a must people, dont 
 come on here complaining till you know all the controls, as they pretty are easy to begin with. 
 This rant due to people complaining about controls / cant find quests / random stuff and trivial 
 stuff that either biased people miss on purpose or people just forgot how to read - and yes even 
 the preview on gamespot has this problem as the quest journal (press J) tells you exactly where 
 to go to find your quest mob which all of this can be found on the back page of your manual.
  
  Now for the review:
  
  I have longed for a mmo that rewarded hard work and not luck, and 
 this baby has it in spades, yep Finally a mmo thats kind of like RuneScape (i know your probablly 
 laughing right now, but this is indeed a GOOD thing) as RuneScape rewarded hard work due to its 
 drop rates, simple armor classes, simple weapons and!! multi-threaded grinding.
  
  There is no real quest story line, and while i dont care for it much theres far to many mmo's with 
 quest immersion (iam not saying its good or bad, its prefrence) you can play EQ1, EQ2, WoW and 
 the quest stories from just those will last you 8 years at least but RF Online does it simple you 
 get a quest each time you level, sometimes more then 1, and once you complete it you instantly 
 get the reward (XP, Money, Items) so now no more running for quest npcs. (if you play EQ1 then 
 this is a huge improvement :D) See i am the type of player who doesnt care for the quest story 
 i just want the reward and maybe a thanks and it seems iam not alone on this.
  
  PvE and PVP and RvRvR:
  
  The PvE (Player vs Environment) is not up to par with other mmo's 
 like WoW, EQ2, FFXI - somewhat due to the questing (which keeps you in a single zone for longer 
 due to instant reward) and that the mobs dont aways fit the profile of the land your in (minor 
 gripe that applies to alot of rpgs/mmos but its noticeable here) but its mobs are progressively 
 harder so its easy to understand and having a map helps. AND the bonus to the odd creatures is 
 just seeing some of them.... wait till you see some Brutals or Assassin Builders in Solus or Belphagore 
 in Caldron, as they really make me want to kill them for being awesome looking.
  
  PvP is KING, oh yes, hes back. As i said before that you get credit for hard work, well heres one 
 BIG payoff - i cant explain it more then what has been said before so i will keep it brief but 
 its the reason why i get giddy when i see a Chip War (CW) Starting (which happens every 8 hours) 
 and even if theres not a CW on you can aways go into zones that can have some other races to pound 
 on. The bonus and something i really enjoy is that all HQ zones are pretty much off limits to PvP 
 (yay to no ganking) and in those zones themselves you can get to 25 (the level you need to be to 
 damage a Chip in the CW) and that towns are off limits also. You cannot talk to the other race, 
 only one of the Race Leaders (RL) can talk to other RL's for deplomicy to gang up on another race 
 :D
  
  RvRvR is Race vs Race vs Race and that pretty much explains it, i hate certain people on differant 
 races as all people do but the thing is 1 person can make a difference, 1 person can divine a strat 
 tell it to the whole Race and try and execute it with 70+ troops and 2 other races to deal with. 
 Another person can be, we'll say 'ownage' and turn the tide in the CW for all his/her hard work 
 on making a dps machine. Another person for buffing the group with Speed (faster run) to aid hugely 
 in scouting and breaking lines AND another for getting the last hit on the Chip AND another person 
 for....... so in 1 CW you can have a multitude of Heros come out of it all due to hard work and 
 a little luck.
  
  The Wars are going to get different, as they say in the next giga update the level 50+ people will 
 be fighting CW's for towns and level 75 + space and time conveyer and 100+ for Planets and Systems, 
 so the future is bright.
  
  So thats it, a futuristic mmo that has its PvP roots in the rock, paper, scissor formula with Mechs, 
 Summoned Creatures and Siege Cannons and that actually rewards hard work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiden_14
Rating: 3.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  It's basicly like the others said. It's too much grinding in the picture! It might be fun for a 
 while, but after some time, the only thing you can think of is tossing the CD in the garbage. The 
 game has a total lack of game feeling. You get enough after about 30 minutes. (Might even get tired 
 of it before that) When you start at lvl 1 it's ok. The mobs aren't too strong and everything works 
 fine. but when you get to lvl 4, you get another quest: kill mobs that's like 4 lvls higher than 
 you! So what you gotta do is: grind, grind, grind, grind and then grind some more. It gets so boring 
 you just wanna break your pc! If you are looking for an online game with some great action PvP 
 and a much better game then buy WoW!! I just have 3 letters to describe RF with: BMW: Big Money 
 Waste!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CLO_Miker_basic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  Though some may be put off by the initial levelling, the aim is to create a customized character 
 to your particular liking. Train the skills you want to use and excel in for the later PvP content, 
 and you will be set for some exciting post level 30 action. Teamwork is encouraged and teh massive 
 chip battles in the mines will have you salivating for more Race Vs Race Vs Race action.
  
  With a choice of traditional magic, to futuristic robotic weaponry to huge stomping mechs, you 
 can find the perfect character for your tastes.
  
  With an ever growing community willing to help where possible, and the promise of wxciting content 
 updates from Guild Vs Guild battles and town ownership wars, there's truely more scope for the 
 game.
  
  Keep an eye out for trial sessions in the next few months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rennie2k
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  After playing WoW for a good while and deciding that I can't be bothered with another MC run, I 
 thought I'd give RF a go.
  
  Was it worth it.... no
  
  Ok, I love the Style. The Graphics look tops and the huge weapons are great fun to swing around, 
 but after you've killed the 100th Flem to get to lvl 7 so you can attempt the next quest, it gets 
 dull, really quick.
  
  As you fight, you gain experience for your charaters level and PT combat/defence/range points (depends 
 on who you go with) . These keep going up and the Caps for your PT points go up at certain lvls. 
 
  
  At lvl 1, you get a quest from thin air, to go kill 30ish mobs and gain lvl 3. So, you choose what 
 weapon you want, I went Cora Warrior, so I sword seemed the best option and trot off outside the 
 main base to find the soon to be dead mobs. Once all dead, your still halve the way through lvl 
 2, so you just grind till 3. Ok, not too bad. 
  
  You reach lvl 3 and.... nothing happens. So, you go back to grinding. 
  
  Finally you reach 
 lvl 4 and a new quest appers. Go kill some Lunkers. So you trot off with all your fancy lvl 4 kit 
 which looks the same as everyone elses lvl 4 gear, and find the Lunkers. But wait, they have 7 
 dots above their head, meaning their over 4 lvls above you (really poor way of displaying Mobs/Charaters 
 lvls) so I have no chance. So off you go back to starting area to kill more of the first mobs. 
 
  
  lvl 5, still to high. lvl 6, nope, lvl 7 Woohoo, I cant finally take em on. So i've killed 20 of 
 those and im on my way to lvl 8 and i've got some more quests. Seems to be getter better.....
 
  
  .... but wait, the quests I have are too high for me, so what do I do... answer. Grind.... and Grind.... and 
 Grind. 
  
  To cut a long story short, as some other people have said in their reviews, the game is basically 
 just you, a weapon, LOTS of heath potions, a few different attacks, dumb old mobs and mind numbing 
 bordom. The PVP is a waste of time. The only way to kill someone is either they run out of health 
 potions, you have 4 mates or they give up and let you kill them.
  
  I really wanted to like this game. I've been dying to play something like this for ages, but after 
 playing WoW, even with its basic approach to PvP and crafting, this just doesn't come close.
  
  Im sure some people will love it. But I for one get bored of grinding very quickly, and if 
 it wasn't for the hope of something better later on, I wouldn't have played past lvl 4. 
  
  Waste your money, give it a go. You'll be back in Iron Forge sellings those Bronze Tubes in no 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  The biggest problem with this game is repetiveness at the start. Until you reach lvl 25+ the game 
 can be pretty boring but that only takes about 10-15 hours if your any good. What the majority 
 of the people who are complaining know little about the game. It is a pvp game 1st, then a pve 
 game second, it would be pretty crap if you got lvl 1's running about being killed every 10 secs.
 
  
  Until you get higher up the armour does look pretty similar, since there there are only between 
 2-4 armour types per race, but of course when races are at war they all want to wear multi coloured 
 outfits to look different :|
  
  At level 30 you get to make a carrear choice, so at lvl 0 you get a 1-3 or 4 choice of race, then 
 at lvl 30 you get an extra 3 choices for each of the races then at lvl 40 you get even more choices, 
 so if your any gd and play the game you will be very different from the majority of others. 
  
  The biggest problem is that they dont even tell the story of the game in the game :|.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2bitSmOkEy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  i find it kind of redundant to review mmos because there are many different styles that cater to 
 many different crowds. yet here i am. so how does this differentiate itself from the other milliion 
 billion mmos that have flooded the market in the past few years? let me lay it out quick and simple. 
 this game has been out in korea for a while now and it has had huge success over there so codemasters 
 decided to bring it to the rest of the world. what you get is a a challenging game that requires 
 many hours of attention to get anywhere at all. what does this mean? lots of grinding. Now, people 
 seem to misunderstand grinding in mmos. if you are the type of person that enjoys quick rewards 
 look elsewhere, (try world of warcraft) if you are the type of person that likes a challenge and 
 likes grinding against seemingly insurmountable odds... welcome. so how does this game reward your 
 efforts? with the best pvp in any mmo period. rf pulls this off by giving you a choice between 
 3 different races (all drastically different) and pitting everyone against each other in massive 
 battles for money. iim not going to go into detail about all the character classes and such as 
 if your interested in this game you can just read about them. the last thing i would like to say 
 is the game has a great soundtrack and a hit or miss graphics system. the character models all 
 look very detailed and excellent (the equipment is insane) , however some of the environments look 
 extremely dated.
  
  basically, if you enjoy a challenge and dont mind the grind... this game has ALOT to offer. also 
 if your in the market for a pvp mmo this is hands down the best in that department (ive played 
 nearly every mmo out there) . if you dont fall into either of those catagories, then your probably 
 not going to understand what all the fuss is about.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirfat89
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  Ok ok ok ok READ this review not the others.... Now i bought the game the day it came out and at 
 first it seemed pretty good. Then it just started to repeat it self. The quests are AWFUL. if you 
 are expecting WoW like game play don't even bother. BUT!!! This game has one thing WoW doesn't 
 and its the awsome PvP. Ever seen one of those movies like "Troy"? Ok then imagine that but with 
 big ass swords and laser guns. The amount of people fighting and absolutely no lag is amazing. 
 Now the bad thing is you have to be around level 25+ . So what does that mean? Grinding lots of 
 grinding. I really recommend this game to PVP lovers and people that wanna try somethnig new. To 
 all you WoW fans: WoW is a terrific game... just realize there is slim to none chance that a game 
 will come out that is better than it... so stop comparing games to WoW and judge it by how the 
 game is. This game IS above average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frickinkid
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 2, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  ok people who think its like Lineage 2 well your kind of wrong and kind of right i mean its in 
 the future for one thing and its like gundams and mobile suits its pretty kool but i think you 
 need to look in to it for your self ... its pretty interesting how humans and robots and mystic 
 ppl fight for all one thing... its pretty sweet.. i think you should look at it... and atleast test 
 it.... but in Lineage 2 you didnt have guns and freakin huge robots and killing huge dinosours 
 and huge monsterous things.... when i say huge i mean like humungous ships and huge robots and warsmiths... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mekon
Rating: 2.8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I was annoyed that I foolishly wasted money on this. Despite the screenshots it really doesnt look 
 all that great. The main problem with it though is..... THERE IS NOTHING TO DO!!!! You go out and 
 bash/shoot monsters which improves your skills and puts your levels up and yet requires absolutely 
 no skill to play. You do this repeatedly until level 30 and then you can go and do exactly the 
 same thing against other players. Why?! Whats the point to it all? Answer = There is none. There 
 arent even any decent quests or little bits of plot/story to break up the bordom. If someone is 
 going to release a game as boring as this then they could at least try to disguise it somehow like 
 other boring mmo's do. Character customisation is almost non-existent too so everyone in each class 
 looks almost identical at each level bracket. This is simply an out-of-date grind fest that is 
 falsly packaged as being something new. Avoid this piece of Korean trash at all costs!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainsedge
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 1, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  **This review only covers a weeks worth of the pre release playing time.**
  Well, if you liked the grind in FFXI you might like this. 
  Though the quests aren't as dynamic, 
 nor as clear cut , the constant grind to gain levels was annoying. I found myself wandering around 
 a lot bumping into monsters and grinding for xp. The only reason I felt compelled to continue the 
 grind was to see what cool armor/weapons my character could sport (yes the designs are probably 
 one of the coolest anime inspired in MMORPGs) .
  **This review only covers a weeks worth of the pre release playing time.** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmzz
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  Right.
  
  As good as it looks from screenshots and videos, that has nothing to do with the gameplay. Its 
 not new, it came out in 2004 in Korea.
  
  Character
  
  Everyone looks the same, you have about 5 different options to start with per slot (Face, hair, 
 starting armor) . This is cause of lag issues and I can understand that. Just dont expect to look 
 different. All the armor pieces are level dependant so youll always look more or less the same 
 as other players.
  
  Graphics
  
  Clean yes, but the world is just flat. The ground is there so the mobs can have something to stand 
 on, thats all. Theres even breaks in the map you cant cross cause the hills arent curved, they 
 use straight angles. Chars look nice enough. Certain mobs are sorta nice to look at but very poorly 
 animated with about 3 different frames (attack, attacked-hit, move) .
  
  Weapons
  
  Fun and huge, diverse. One of the few strong points.
  
  PvE
  
  To grind is one thing, I 
 dont mind as long as its meaningful. This is mindless grinding. Mobs have absolutly now AI, your 
 attacks are rigid and stiff and you cant move and strike. Missions are ONLY "kill 10 of these", 
 nothing else. There is no depth at all and no real PvE missions. Its a constant potion spam as 
 well, it feels more like playing the piano cause you have to use a potion (heal) every 2 seconds 
 and Im not kidding. Its "swing, swingm, potion". The only real reason for PvE in this game is to 
 get drops to pay for more potions. So in detail you stand in one spot and swing-potion for about 
 3-4 minutes per mob and thats all you do, ALL THE TIME.
  
  PvP
  
  Supposedly another strongpoint. The setup with chip wars every 8 hours is great and the only thing 
 this game got going for it, its a natural place and time for everyone to join in PvP.
  It has balance I give you that but the counter for that is that its very very rigid, just as PvE. 
 Stand in one spot and attack-potion chain. So either you have 2-3 levels up on your enemy, more 
 potions or more team mates to win. Theres no real skill involved nor tactics.
  
  Another + is that theres basically no lag no matter how many ppl are fighting at once.
  
  Economy
 
  
  Each race has their own currency thats weighed against the global "gold" currency. Depending on 
 who wins the chip wars, the race currency goes up n down in worth towards the gold. Smart thinking 
 but it only reflects on how much your potions are gonna cost. This makes it a grindfest extraordinaire 
 to be able to get as much drops to buy more potions to have 1 extra so you can survive in the next 
 PvP longer than your enemy. Its pretty stupid. Crafting is not the most fun either.
  
  Lore, story
  
  Theres a huge backstory. Problem being its not used anywhere, the game is as 
 flat s the ground you walk on. Dont be fooled, this is an old game, it cam out in 2004 in Korea.
 
  
  Verdict
  
  I played this game for about 3 weeks of beta and now live, though I wont be for much longer.
 
  I so wanted this game to be good. Its not, it just doesnt hold up, it feels old and cluncky. Some 
 game mechanics cant be explained and it feels flat and thin, Id rather go back to SwG or MxO than 
 spend more time with this.
  Take my advice if you like some sort of depth or even exciting, heart pumping PvP: Dont buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axw3rm31
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 27, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  When I first started in the beta, I was totally sceptic to the new style of gameplay that RFO brought 
 to the table. But as I continued to play, I realized how convenient and innovative the gameplay 
 really was. The game itself is vast and the 3 factions are amazingly awesome. The Cora, Bellato, 
 and Accretia factions are all different and each starting zone is graphically amazing. The sound 
 quality is great, and the main theme is really good. I personally love the gameplay and enjoy the 
 not-so hack-and-slash feature. The click-and-move feature is also nice, because you can toggle 
 it on and off. It is easy to level in the game and the weapons are visually awesome. I recommend 
 Rising Force Online to any MMORPG fan looking for a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevilStyle
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  The only thing that is good is the graphics which is so typical about Korean mmorpg's since they 
 all tend to have good graphics, but lacks everything else. RP is non existent. It might be fun 
 at first, but not enough to keep you going. You get to high enough lvl to participate in chip wars, 
 cool. You win and gain control and then what? Mine all day long, what great fun that is. Basically 
 to sum it up, it's Lineage 2 with a sci-fi setting. If you are coming straight from WoW, stay away 
 from this game, but if you have played games like L2 and enjoyed it then this might be the game 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suijin089
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 6, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  This is by far one of the most highly anticipated games to ever hit the net or for that matter 
 any station that is out to point including ps3 which isnt out yet. From what i have seen and what 
 i have heard, the revies that i have read about this game i suspect a high population. Best recommendation 
 i can make is to have a computer with a very fast internet connection and high amounts of memory 
 and very good graphics chip and processor. This site has great pictures and from them i can tell 
 that it will be well worth the money and one of the most revolutionary games to date which might 
 even make other game designers rethink what they are doing and let them incorparate more design 
 and more things into their games and try to be creative instead of always doing the same old bull 
 ****. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickLubrano
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  RF or Rising Force online is a mix of Guild Wars/Lineage with many diablo 2 elements. The audio 
 is poor... meaning... the loud annoying foot steps and the terrible opening music, unlike guild wars 
 and diablo 2 which had great opening music which still remains in my head. When you first create 
 your character, and you enter the world you say, "OMG i just waisted 50 dollars for nothing", DONT 
 STOP THERE!... Play for 15 minutes and do a few quests and grind a bit, you will see that the gameplay 
 is original and addicting. The quests arent hard to understand and now (at level 10) i can see 
 the game will have some great depth and the PVE elements, as previously anticipated as shallow 
 and boring, and suprisingly quite good... whereas the PVP element is living up to what everyone 
 said it would. Great Game... OVER ALL... i give it a 9.4 because it is brilliant so far... and make 
 a few audio changes for the next patch or expansion, to see a better chat system, encorporate some 
 jumping in and fix the audio... the 9.4 will go up to a 9.8-10 in my book because the game can be 
 described in one word... SUPERB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaddix55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  When I first started in the beta, I was totally sceptic to the new style of gameplay that RFO brought 
 to the table. But as I continued to play, I realized how convenient and innovative the gameplay 
 really was. The game itself is vast and the 3 factions are amazingly awesome. The Cora, Bellato, 
 and Accretia factions are all different and each starting zone is graphically amazing. The sound 
 quality is great, and the main theme is really good. I personally love the gameplay and enjoy the 
 not-so hack-and-slash feature. The click-and-move feature is also nice, because you can toggle 
 it on and off. It is easy to level in the game and the weapons are visually awesome. I recommend 
 Rising Force Online to any MMORPG fan looking for a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miasomia
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing!
  It's one of the few mmorpgs that is set in the future with futuristic weapons including Guns from 
 the future!!!
  Most mmo rpgs are set in the past and if you want to be a ranger you are limited to bows and arrows.
 
  Well not in rf online.
  You can use bows arrows, guns, knives, swords staffs, any weapon you can and can't think of!
  This 
 game is like Phantasy star online BB meets Guild wars, and it works!
  In my opinion this is one of the Best MMO rpgs ever!
  And it is well worth the price of admission.
 
  It's got all the Graphics and flare and all the game play you need.
  Did I mention it's like guild wars meets phantasy star online bb?
  I can't say enough good things 
 about this game You just Have to get it!
  My only gripe is there are no remappable controlls or inverting of the mouse or antializing but 
 hopefully the next patch will have all of this.
  Buy this game!
  It is awesome!
  You must own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomRussian
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  lots of mixed feelings for this game. the gameplay is great, a little getting used too, but after 
 an hour is great. The grinding on the other hand is a little boring, go kill this, go kill that...., 
 but in what game has there never been any grinding of such sort? The game otherwise is great. weapons 
 look terrific, so does the armor, sound effects are great. The maps need a little bit of work though, 
 but maybe in a later expansion or game they will fix that. Great community, great people, economy 
 system is easy to follow. And thats where grinding comes in again, thats the only part that really 
 gets repetative. Names for things in the game are a little strange, "Bulky Lunkers", sounds like 
 something you would find in a childrens game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpeternelson
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I must say that when I purchased this game it was to get something different from an MMO then WoW 
 or EQ2. So I picked this up after much searching, and started playing here is what I think. Its 
 a fun game with some nice and fresh concepts for a online role playing game. With that said it 
 has its share of problems including the fact that it is definitely not new-mmorpg friendly. So 
 play at your own risk.
  
  I think that the best point of the game is essiantly the character creation system. You choose 
 between 1 of 3 races that are generic to all MMO's with the addition of robot which is nice. Then 
 you choose a class... with the basics. Finally once thats done you choose what weapon you wish 
 to specialize with.. you can go with sword, dagger + shield, guns, bows, axe, mace, and spears. 
 Then you get new stuff and at level's 30 and 40 you get class upgrades. All of which adding to 
 the amount of content.
  
  This said its still a game that bases its leveling system on grinding and working for the rarer 
 items. Although some may say it just tries to mimic world of warcraft and fails miserably I believe 
 they did a good job of creating a new MMO that has enough new content to be a enjoyable experiance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XsTaTicA
Rating: 5.6
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Yesterday was very frustrating for me. I went and got RFO, but of course, no CC I used was accepted. 
 So I made a PayPal account and it worked - grrr. I finally got onto the game, and went to make 
 a character and wondered what happened to character creation - it was the most limited of any game 
 I have played. Well whatever, WoW didn't have too many toons varying in looks and it's still great... Right 
 from when I entered the world with my Bellato character (who looks like a chick whether or not 
 it was supposed to be) I encountered some nasty lag. It starts you off with a quest telling you 
 that so and so are bad. Go kill them. It fails to tell you WHERE they are. So after about 30 minutes 
 of running around like an idiot, I found THEM. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good, in a realistic way. I'd rather play WoW tho. The controls are ultimately 
 what kills it. They are so abysmal that I couldn't even force myself passed 1 hour of playtime. 
 I am reviewing it soley based on them. I tried so hard to run around and I couldn't do it. The 
 graphics didn't save much either - yes they are nice, but the environments are so bland. Flat and 
 ugly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fox_nin
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I have tried alot (I mean alot) of MMOs and yeah most of them are pretty much the same. There's 
 only been those select few that I have enjoyed greatly; being low lvl WoW, Guild Wars till the 
 story ended, PSO-my fav. What makes RF Online enjoyable for me is that it kinda resembled PSO, 
 there's more to it then just that. The back story for it wonderful, the blend between scifi and 
 fantasy always peeks my interest. The combat system you get a choice between auto and manual, the 
 manual setting gives you interactivity in how you fight, not at the scale of PSO but enough that 
 you flow with it. In this game you can decently make money unlike FFO. There's always a constant 
 supply of missions for you to do and job classes for you to choice from. One reason that made me 
 buy this game was the fact you could drive a mech called a MAU. The enemies unlike some MMOs spawn 
 in groups at a constant rate so you'll always find what you need to kill. The PvP battles or aka 
 Chip Wars you can say is pretty much the same as other games that feature PvP battles but instead 
 of small ha ha battles these are full blown war battles. If win or lose will effect the Race that 
 participated. You can affect the economy of the Race how often you win or lose. Too many losses 
 will increase tax making items expensive. Win more often items will become cheap. Once in awhile 
 it is kinda hard to find your mission objective, but then again the reason that comes up is that 
 few actually look at the manual and actually look at the options. Another thing, you gain fame 
 points for attending chip wars. Which will increase your standing in the race till you get high 
 enough fame points that you can run for race leader. Now playing by yourself after a certain point 
 gets boring, even that the monsters are harder to kill. hmpf, I wouldn't be surprise if the people 
 who are giving this game a low score are the people who keep dying when trying to full fill a mission, 
 or got bored with the game. To really enjoy the game definetly want to party, the game even pushes 
 you to party for the fact how stuff the higher lvl monsters are especially the pit boss, you heard 
 me, there are bosses in this game. Partying you have some options, but one I do enjoy is going 
 Acretian/Cora Hunting. Going hunting for players of the other races just brings so much joy to 
 me (yeah, I'm a Bellato) . I'm always finding something new to do in this game. I know that eventually 
 CCR is coming out with a patch or Expansion pack that will allow players to take over cities of 
 the other races, giving more of a feel of a war. I have enjoyed this game, and I believe that you 
 should try it. I'm always finding something new to do. Once I'm done with my Bellato I'll create 
 another character but of a different race. The graphics could have been better for this day age 
 (they look like they could run on PS2 or Xbox) , but the sounds and music and monster designs compensate 
 for all of it. Don't bother with those people who are giving it a low score cause I'm pretty sure 
 they're just stuck on WoW, it's pretty much they're life, they wont accept any other game. Also 
 I know there might be others that the only reason they're giving this game a low score is because 
 they're expecting Age of Conan to be great. Folks it'll be the same as every other MMO that has 
 come out before it, just with better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xopherc7
Rating: 3.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  It's just another Eastern mmorpg. If you don't enjoy mmo's of this breed ( Lineage 2, RYL, FFXI, 
 etc.) don't bother with it. They are always the same thing in terms of art direction it seems and 
 the gameplay lacks anything of real worthy notion. Graphics and Sound are mediocre in terms of 
 todays games in my opinion as well. On the other hand, if you do enjoy this style of game and direction, 
 then pick it up as it has potential with it's grip on diversity from the traditional races and 
 abilities. I never got to experience the PVP which is usually one of my stronger points and favorite 
 aspects of a game, but I have heard mixed reactions to it as well. Either you love or hate it and 
 you can pretty much apply that to the game as a whole. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrgrimm312
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 23, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I purchased RF Online the day it came out. I have played maybe a total of 9 hours or so. 
  Starting off you will Choose a race from the 3 that you can. I created a Cora/Elve. The other ones 
 are Humans/Accretia and robots/bellato. They all have their own distinct abilities. After creating 
 yoru character you choose a base profession like in any other game. there is 4 choices for Cora 
 and Accretia only 3 for Bellato. Spiritualist (Mages Pretty Much) Bellatos cant be i guess. 
  Leveling up is not to bad so far. But i hear that in the higher lvl's the grind can get long. But 
 i will have to see for myself. Weapon Drops and item drops in the beginner zones are relatively 
 nice. I am currently lvl 12. At lvl 30 you have your first class transfer. At LvL 40 you have your 
 second class transfer. 50 Is the Max LvL right now.
  Your character Customization isnt the greatest Lots of people will look the same. But again looks 
 arent everything. Pluss the lvl 50's look awesome with their armor. Just do a google search on 
 RF online.
  PvP i have not participated in PvP yet but it seems like it will be fun. 
  
  This game is not like WOW or Lineage 2 or anything like that. 
  If you have playes PSO online 
 then you got what this game is like. 
  
  PS If you trust me as a reviewer Please show it. :) I give my honest opinions and sighting on the 
 games i review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aggiebrad
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Thats all it is. Plain and simple. Hell, even the interface is IDENTICAL to Lineage 2. Granted, 
 Lineage 2 was a beautiful game and alot of fun if you could get past the almost unbearable grind.
 
  
  Thankfully, RF takes care of that. The grind is nowhere near as bad as L2. However, I was a little 
 disappointed in the very few skills I received between levels 1-26 or so. I did like the point 
 system for the weapons though (alot like final fantasy)
  
  Overall, I have to say there is nothing new or innovative in this game. Same stuff, different title. 
 And most of these people giving this game a 10 are either 1) have never played an MMO before or 
 2) Japanese Anime Fanbois
  
  My qualifications for writing reviews:
  
  Professional game credits: City of Heroes, City of Villains, Guild Wars, Auto Assault, Lineage 
 and Lineage 2. (former employee of NCSoft)
  
  MMO Gaming Experience: Ultima Online, Everquest, Everquest 2, Asheron's Call, Asheron's Call 2, 
 World of Warcraft, Dark Age of Camelot, Final Fantasy, Eve Online and Shadowbane 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkanoo999
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 22, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I am suprised to see the level of hype surrounding this game, and the user reviews supporting it.
 
  
  As a veteran MMORPG player, I have played just about every MMO out there. Everquest, Everquest 
 2, Anarchy Online, Planetside, Lineage 2, World of Warcraft, Guild Wars (if you choose to classify 
 this as an MMO) , Dungeons and Dragons Online, Star Wars Galaxies, and Dark Age of Camelot.
  
  I played all of these games for a significant period, enough to experience the game as a whole. 
 Of course I didn't have max level characters, but I played for long enough to get a handle on the 
 inner workings of the games.
  
  I can honestly say, RF Online is absolutely nothing special. The game is divided up into three 
 different factions, the Accretians, Bellato, and Cora. In each faction there are 3-4 different 
 classes, Fighter, Ranger, Specialist (Crafter) and Spiritualist. In the game, you can use swords 
 as a Ranger, or ranged weapons as a Fighter, but the different classes get skills to use their 
 specific weapons. Too bad you only get 3 skills as a ranger, until you hit level THIRTY. Only ONE 
 of those skills is active, the other two are buffs! If you like auto-attacking monsters, using 
 one skill for 30 levels, then this game is for you.
  
  "But this game isn't for wussies like World of Warcraft, this game is hardcore!"
  
  This game 
 is one of the easiest MMORPG's I have ever played, let alone games in general. Considering Potions 
 have a cooldown of only 2-3 seconds, you can literally spam them so you never die unless you are 
 1-shotted by a monster or player. They should rename this game "Potion Spamming Online." A tedious 
 grind does NOT make a game hard, or make the players Uber who decide to waste days of their lives 
 spamming potions against monsters MUCH too hard for their intended level. 
  
  Let me repeat this again, a long level grind does NOT make a game hard. RF Online is NOT hard, 
 you do not have to time the use of your abilities just right, or specifically use the right skills 
 against different monsters. 
  
  The group system in the game is flawed, as to get credit for a monster you need to kill for a quest, 
 you have to be the last person to hit the monster. So with 3 people, you have to kill 3x the monsters, 
 making sure that the person who needs to get the kill is the last one to hit the monster.
  
  The character diversity in the game is absolute trash. Everybody looks exactly alike, there 
 is 1 set of good armor for your level, and that's it.
  
  I played in the Beta of this game for quite some time and I had two characters on two of the different 
 Beta Servers, a Cora Fighter and an Accretian Ranger. The PvP in the game was mildly amusing, the 
 chip wars (battles for resources) are a cool idea, but the execution of these things was flawed, 
 much like the rest of the game. The fact that it takes 5+ people to bring down a single opponent 
 is ridiculous (because you have to kill them in the 2 seconds it takes for their potions to cool 
 down) . If you want a similar game (same crappy customer service with the same grind) , with more 
 heart pounding PvP, you might as well check out Lineage 2. 
  
  If you have any questions, feel free to private message me about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: everythingj
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  RFO, is a balanced, tested, and proven mmo thats been running for 1-2 years out in korea, recently 
 in japan, the philipines, and now in the UK, and US.
  The game is spreading for a reason.
  
  The game is incredibly deep in terms of level cap experience, class abilities, and pvp experience. 
 This means of course that there are some consequences in order to achieve the depth of the gameplay. 
 You cannot get there over night, and you cannot get to the very end of the game over 30 nights. 
 This game takes a lot more for you to put into it. The grind is what will - and is - making all 
 the other reviewers and gamers complain, because they can't handle playing for a week or two not 
 being super 'uber.' What they don't understand, is that from levels 1-30, (until your first class 
 change) its best for you to solo to raise your skills and abilities, and from 30-50 (through your 
 second class change) you party, explore, and adventure way more than you do at the start of the 
 game. 
  
  So, for the players who decide to commit to the game for more than all the babies who played for 
 a day and quit early, a reward will come in the form of being more uber, and diving into more fun 
 gameplay than any other mmo out there. The 3 way race war battle that occurs is exciting, the characters 
 and graphics look great, (something about driving a mech around, and bashing an elf equipped great 
 sword, just doesn't get old) and the replay value is good considering theres varied styles of game 
 plays within the 3 races you can try. (granted, you will have to progress through the grind again, 
 but even that is something that if skillfully done will make your character better. Theres a right 
 way and wrong way to grind in this game and ill leave it to you to figure it out when you try it)
 
  
  As far as pvp is concerned, this is a team oriented pvp game. It's rare for you to solo any other 
 player your own level because of the ability to heal your self with potions that only have a 3 
 second delay. That forces players to use team work, and cordinate focus firing, close formations, 
 etc. To win a chip war (the focus of the game, race vs race vs race) Often times your entire race 
 will group up under the guidance of the race leaders (the top 5 pvpers of your race,) And mass 
 charge one of the enemies chips. If you run into the other race head on, thats a usually a 50 v 
 50, depending on how many people are high enough to participate, or on at that time, with no lag. 
 Don't forget the 3rd race could creap in on you from the back, making it 150 total players in action. 
 In what other game can you participate in a pvp battle of what size? Keep in mind 50 players for 
 each race in the war is just an arbitrary number im using, the number could go way up, or way down 
 depending on how big your server is, so your chip wars might be smaller and use more guirella tactics, 
 while the biggest servers would have an immense number of players.
  
  With all that in mind, let's finish and recap with what makes RFO an outstanding game, and why 
 some gamers will never get to see it.
  
  Pros: 
  -3 races to choose from, that all have different play style and class depth.
  -3 race war pvp, 
 neutral zone pvp, or guild pvp,. (it takes only about a weeks worth of play to help out in the 
 first 2. a little longer to get enough friends to set up a guild because of money costs and level 
 requirements)
  -Great graphics, that don't hog your system (the min specs are pretty low for this game) and very 
 little if any lag, even in huge battles with hundreds of charcaters. (just dont use 56k)
  -Deep multiclassing
  
  Cons:
  -The grind. Everyone knows its not easy. So if you just go 
 into it with that mentaility, you'll be fine. Lots of WOW players tried this game out, for half 
 a day, and quit because they couldn't take it. The game will not be spoon fed to anyone, you have 
 to earn what you get. I actually think the grind in FFXI is harder, because in that game you can't 
 do anything without 5 other players to party with. In rfo, you can solo level up, or party level 
 up.
  -The grind x2 if you want to reroll your character.
  -Race leaders (who give the orders for chip wars) can end up being idiots, but that could just 
 be motivation for you to become one yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futs22
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  For people looking for a new, revolutionary and highly innovative MMORPG, this isn't the game you're 
 looking for. However, people looking for an MMORPG with a decent amount of good grahics, varied 
 weapons, equipment and character classes this game's got it. The 3-way race conflict set in a futuristic 
 world where strangely enough guns and mechs mix with spells, shields and swords is a quite a new 
 concept but despite that new concept the standard conventions found in most MMORPGs are present. 
 For example, quests can be found but are very simple even optional. Inventory, buying & selling, 
 loooting, trading, auctioning and chatting is all here. Another thing that is also here is the 
 level-grinding which really grinds so much at around lvl 30 and to some that may really be the 
 one thing that ruins the experience. For the patient ones though, going through the grinding until 
 the highest level of 50, you will be rewarded with really cool and strong equips and skills for 
 obvious reasons.
  
  The one thing that stands out the most here is the in-game dynamic of the 3 races fighting one 
 another during the regularly scheduled Chip War and even outside this event. Winning the said Chip 
 War grants you mining rights to the Core of the Crag Mine where the Chip War is held. Mining at 
 the core is a lot faster and the ore that you mine can be refined to get upgrading materials for 
 weapons and equips. 
  
  To sum it up, the setting of RF Online is quite new, but the way the game was done is nothing we 
 haven't seen before. For a sci-fi MMORPG experience that doesn't deviate from the way MMORPGs are 
 typically done, this is a game worth trying for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sith-Apollyon
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 22, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  Okay let's get one thing straight before I start my explanation. This is not a Bash on the Game 
 nor is it a Praise. I do not love the game but then again I don't despise it either (Zzeno was 
 possibly the best Game Rep. Ever) . After reading all the other consumer posted reviews of the game 
 this one will closely resemble that of HoundDawgs. I had been involved during the Beta Testing 
 of RF-Online since the release of Phase 2 and I must say I went through a series of challenges 
 on whether or not to purchase the game or not. On the upside, the game is absolutely beautiful. 
 The graphics are outstanding to look at, even if you do not have an up-to-date computer with an 
 outstanding graphics card and the sound I could go on for days about. I still listen to the soundtrack 
 in my Car even though I will not be participating in the actual release of the game myself. Naturally, 
 another positive to the game is it's PvP/RvRvR Combat system (Which unfortunately is what the entire 
 game is based around) . The battles are simply mind blowing and being a part of them is like being 
 that single unit in a RTS Game. I also enjoyed the fact that the equipment in the game does not 
 wait until your near end game levels to start looking attractive looking. At level 10-20 (Which 
 would typically take you a weekend of playtime to get to) you would recieve some of the biggest 
 and baddest looking weapons/armor I've ever seen. 
  Now as much flattery as I am going to send Codemasters way I must move on to the Cons of the game, 
 which in my opinion far outweigh the Pro's... As Mentioned before this is solely a GRINDING game. 
 If you are the kind of person that enjoys detailed quest, heart-warming storylines, and forks in 
 the road of choices you have to finishing a mission then this is not the game for you. From start, 
 you are given one choice and only one choice and that is Kill. As Cool as that may sound it gets 
 really boring REALLY fast. My second problem with the game as I stated before is the games obvious 
 reliance on its Player vs. Player system. I like PvP just as much as the next edgy college student 
 but in order for a game to be really good it has to be more than a one trick pony. Seriously, its 
 like taking a Recipe and cramming the main ingredient into the food until people like it. 
  As much as I could go on, I think I've made enough of a point to make my opinions known. So in 
 conclusion, if you like bashing things, looking pretty, and getting spammed by constant questions 
 of "Where can I find So and So?" and "How I Jump?" then this is the game for you. If your more 
 into choice, economy, creativity, and deeper storylines with the occasional PvP then go for something 
 like EVE. Thank you all for your time and for reading my review. Have a Nice day and Enjoy the 
 Game you love no matter others may say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HoundDawgDP
Rating: 2.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  This MMORPG/FPS obviously shows its age. I've been looking forward to playing this MMO for months, 
 especially with all of the screenshots and videos that kept on releasing. Unfortunately, once I 
 was finally able to play it, I was pretty disappointed. 
  
  First, players have a very limited ability to customize the look of their character. Actually, 
 its the most limited character customization MMO that I know of. I believe that the developers 
 had intended the uniqueness to primarily come out of the skill sets you level. 
  
  The skill system works pretty similar to KOTR in that you pick what you want your character to 
 specialize in, and you use those skills. Meaning, if you want to specialize in swords, don't go 
 around using a mace.
  
  Sure, you can pretend to be more unique with the choice of weapon and armor, but chances are, there 
 are many other players at your level with the same gear. 
  
  If you don't like paying the monthly fee to play a game where you feel like another drone, then 
 you don't have to read further or buy the game.
  
  Second, the level grinding method is so last-gen MMO, that I was further disappointed. You know 
 the types, where they fill an area with spawning creatures that are pacing, just waiting for you 
 to come along and agro/fight them. In fact, the quests you do get, basically send you out hunting 
 these packs of frequently spawning creatures.
  
  The items dropped from your kills are available for all players to pick up. So, if you opt for 
 ranged fighting, chances are, someone will be picking up the best loot dropping from your kills. 
 You can call this the first sign of PvP that you get the priviliage of right out of the tutorials.
 
  
  There are 2 areas where the game shows it's fun sides: combat animations and teamplay. They truely 
 spent a lot of time focused on the combat animations, as they are nice. The skill powers you get 
 to use as you level offer varrying combinations of moves, and they do look cool, especially with 
 a glowing weapon. 
  
  The teamplay is pretty good as well. Since you start seeing much larger creatures than your character 
 even during the early levels, they're the most fun to combat, but you'll need a team to help get 
 it done. It seems that the game is calibrated to requiring teams as it doesn't take long to realize 
 that you're going to be doing a lot of spawning and walking going solo.
  
  I didn't find a lot of spectacular graphics in the scenery. It definately was lower grade compared 
 to WoW, EQ2, GW, CoH/CoV, and EVE. The large open areas reminded me more of Planetside. Although, 
 I enjoyed many of the areas in Planetside more.
  
  Overall, I think this MMO will primarily appeal to the KOTR and Mortal Combat type of players. 
 If you're big into combat and don't care about much anything else, you may get enough enjoyment 
 to make the cost worthwhle.
  
  For me, I'm not going to waste any further money or time into this game. Looks like I'll have to 
 wait even longer before a true next-gen MMO becomes available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e5mikey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  This game brings back the days of more hardcore MMO's, and although some may find this game more 
 tedious than fun many will enjoy this. Playing the beta for several months gave me a great overall 
 view as I was able to create characters to substantial levels across all three races.
  First off, THIS GAME IS A GRIND, this has both the obvious negative effect, yet offers a challenge 
 and ultimately rewarding experience. I have been a huge fan of other MMO's such as WOW, yet it 
 does get a little disgusting playing a game that is just too easy. As for now RFO should do pretty 
 well, and the life span of the game will come down to how codemasters supports the game with more 
 updates and balancing certain issues. As for now, the game is fun to play, has nice graphics for 
 an MMO and it brings back the old feelings I so much loved from past Korean style MMOs. If you 
 were a fan of Lineage 2, Ragnarok, or any other similar game you will probably love RFO. If not 
 I would recommend waiting till a demo comes out and then give it a try, but remember it is a grind. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
