-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rhiannon: Curse of the Four Branches
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/rhiannoncurseofthefourbranches/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Superb, chilling tale reminiscent of the best haunted-house stories.
 Clever inventory puzzles based on common-sense solutions.
 Wordy in-game documents add depth to both story and setting and make you care about the characters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Poor graphics and sound take a toll on the creepy atmosphere.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 56 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Got Game Entertainment
Developer: Arberth Studios
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 5, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Welsh spooks, ancient myths, and subtle scares abound in this stylish point-and-click adventure. 
 

  October is certainly the right time of year to release Rhiannon: Curse of the Four Branches. This 
 eerie adventure about a haunted farmstead from Arberth Studios may be well out of date when it 
 comes to game mechanics and visuals, but it packs a real punch when it comes to pure spooky storytelling. 
 A tale steeped in ancient ghouls and a mystery drawn from Welsh mythology draws you in, even as 
 the dated visuals attempt to push you away.  

  The setting is a farmhouse named Ty Pryderi, a rustic pile isolated deep in rural Wales. You play 
 as Chris, a friend called in to house-sit for the Sullivan family after they hit a rough patch 
 while restoring this old place to its long-ago grandeur. No, it's not dry rot that's causing the 
 problems -- their daughter Rhiannon has begun hearing voices and seeing disturbing visions, so mom 
 and dad have hauled her off on a vacation while you keep the home fires burning and feed the cat. 
 Only problem with this scenario is that Rhiannon isn't a lonely goth chick acting out because her 
 parents dragged her off to a farmhouse a couple of hundred miles away from the nearest Hot Topic; 
 she's actually a sane girl being messed with by ghosts, and they've now turned to rattling their 
 chains at you in her absence. Cue the creepy music, disembodied voices, spectral apparitions, and 
 so forth.   

           Would you continue to house-sit if you encountered mysterious voices and spooky indoor 
 mists from the moment you turned the key in the front door?      

  This saga isn't exactly original, but haunted house stories don't have to be innovative to grab 
 you. A gripping yarn develops from the cliched premise, which actually draws a lot of inspiration 
 from the Mabinogion, a collection of Welsh stories that date back to the pre-Christian pagan era. 
 The main parts of this myth cycle are called the Four Branches of the Mabinogi, and one of the 
 leading protagonists in these tales is the treacherous King Pryderi, son of the Welsh goddess Rhiannon. 
 Anyone familiar with the convoluted stories in the Mabinogion will recognize the unsettling goings-on 
 here, although the modern fright factor is ramped up to make you jump in your chair every now and 
 then. A lot of personal touches are added to the farmhouse, including Rhiannon's diaries and e-mails, 
 warm phone messages from mom Jennifer, and random notes all over the house left by dad Malcolm. 
 The end result is that you really care about what happens to the Sullivans and want to save Rhiannon 
 from a terrible curse by the end of the game.  

  The largely inventory-based puzzles in Rhiannon are devious enough to keep you on your toes. These 
 problems are quite sensible and follow a logical progression. Encounter a darkened hallway, for 
 example, and you can pretty quickly deduce that you need to use that light bulb you found downstairs 
 on the nearest lamp. Find a book on trees, and you can bet the farm that you'll eventually need 
 it to determine the difference between an oak and an elm. There are also a handful of logic-based 
 brainteasers here, most of which are engaging, code-breaking jobs like translating an ancient inscription 
 and figuring out various chemical mixtures and other formulas required to cast spells. All in all, 
 this isn't one of the easiest adventures you'll play this year, although it never strays far from 
 common sense and can be solved without resorting to a walk-through.  

  That is, as long as you take the time to explore every nook and cranny of Ty Pryderi, because some 
 of the items youll need are very hard to find. Rooms are kind of like puzzles themselves, nestled 
 with nearly hidden desk drawers, curtains obscuring vital items, and other cubbyholes that can 
 easily be overlooked. You generally need to finish tasks in order, too. Objects typically cannot 
 be picked up until you discover an actual use for them (although they can be handled, which at 
 least lets you know that they will be useable at some point) . This is good in that it prevents 
 grab-bag adventuring and guessing at problem solving, but bad in that it forces a lot of backtracking 
 for quest items. Having to trigger the ability to grab an item through uncovering a clue can also 
 lead to confusion about what you're supposed to be doing at any given moment. You can think that 
 you're on the right track yet be unable to acquire the items needed to move forward, kicking in 
 some serious self-doubt. Before you know it, you're stuck. A lot of clues are scattered throughout 
 the game, at least. And as most are buried in the midst of fairly dense letters, textbooks, and 
 e-mails, reading these documents provides both vital gameplay information along with additional 
 story depth and characterization.   

           Or had to deal with ghostly messages on the bathroom mirror?     

  Cheap production 
 values are a blatant drawback. This game is a good decade behind the times, with graphics and sound 
 so blatantly chintzy that they get in the way of the creepy atmosphere. Most of the scenery is 
 bland and lacking in any sort of realistic texture or extra details. The Sullivans have apparently 
 only recently moved into Ty Pryderi, but the house looks absolutely barren, more like a set for 
 a student indie film than a real, lived-in place. Most of the farmland around the house has a more 
 realistic, rustic appearance, although it can be hard to find your way around the property because 
 the camera angle is fixed to static screens that you can't move. You move forward, back, left, 
 right, up, and down solely by clicking on directional arrows, a clunky method that was annoying 
 over a decade ago; you'll feel more like you're marching than walking. Audio adds little to the 
 overall presentation. Sound effects and music are nearly nonexistent, an absence that actually 
 works because the silence only enhances the eerie ambiance of wandering around alone in a haunted 
 farmhouse. Music is just jarring when it does swell up, as all it does is announce that something 
 ghostly is about to happen. Voice acting is mostly fantastic, however, although Chris never speaks 
 so the dialogue mostly comprises creepy ghost voices and the odd recital of the contents of a letter. 

  Dated production or not, Rhiannon: Curse of the Four Branches sends chills up your spine as effectively 
 as a good old-fashioned story about a haunted house. The measured pace and emphasis on painstaking 
 exploration demands patience, however, so you have to put a fair bit of time into the game and 
 let it get under your skin.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Mysterywriter
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This was a fun point and click. Your memory has to be really good though. I got lost a lot on the 
 main screen and getting around inside the house isn't fun But... I really liked all the back story 
 and the little surprises that showed up worked perfectly with the storyline. Point and click are 
 my favorite games especially for PC so I may be a bit biased, except it really is a great game 
 to while away an afternoon or two with. The nifty puzzles can get annoying especially when you 
 realize you missed something... again! I recommend this game to people like me that enjoy a great 
 story to go with the game, not against it. You have to work with the plot and all the things around 
 you so you do have an immersive experience especially when you turn out the lights and plug in 
 head phones to block out all noise except from the game. I have to admit I jumped a few times playing 
 this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
