-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ripper
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/ripper/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.6
Critic Score: 7.1, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 72 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Feb 29, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The cast of Take 2 Interactive's Ripper is studded with tarnished stars, and this most recent vehicle 
 contributes to the oxidization process. 

 Christopher Walken, Burgess Meredith, Karen Allen, David Patrick Kelly, John Rhys-Davies, and Jimmie 
 (Dyn-O-Mite) Walker. The cast of Take 2 Interactive's Ripper is studded with tarnished stars, and 
 this most recent vehicle contributes to the oxidization process.   

 The game's most famous cast member, Christopher Walken, is inexcusably bad as Detective Vincent 
 Magnottaa cop with a violent past and a personal connection to the Ripper. After Walken's 
 convincing and powerful cinematic performances in movies such as The Deer Hunter and The Dead Zone, 
 this largely amateurish portrayal makes you wonder what could have led to such a debacle. Did he 
 know his lines before he stepped in front of the camera? Was the budget so tight that there was 
 only one take of each scene? Did the director misread the script as much as Walken did? Does Walken 
 consider acting in an interactive project a small-time gig with an unimportant audience? These 
 are only a few of the questions I'd like to ask the creators of this game.  

 The story is a familiar one (see The Company Line) for anyone who's seen a horror film in the last 
 fifteen years, but the script itself is full of predictably awful dialogue that includes new and 
 exciting uses of the F-word in any pivotal scene. The cast could be subject of a documentary entitled 
 Low-budget Movie Stars of the '80s: Where Are They Now? The answer to this question would be, "in 
 possibly the most disappointing game of 1996." Booting the game brings forth another blast from 
 the past in the form of Blue Oyster Cult's aging hit, "Don't Fear The Reaper," which has no relation 
 to the game except for the questionable word association between "ripper" and "reaper." This type 
 of illogical grouping serves as the basis for Ripper's puzzles, where reason is cast aside in favor 
 of weak connections and quasi-logic. Instead of the story-based puzzles of a graphic adventure 
 or Myst-like logic puzzles, Ripper opts for a mix of both with solutions so cryptic that the game 
 offers no sense of continuity or logical story progression.  

 More noticeable still is the sloppy implementation and programming that presumably led to the callous 
 release of this six-disc monstrosity. This casual approach shows through with countless incompatibilities 
 and errors that make playing the game without a crash as much of an adventure as the game itself. 

 With all of this going against it, Ripper should be commended only for what it aimed to achieve, 
 but failed to follow through on. This game is a weak hybrid experiment that combines the graphic 
 adventure genre with a grand scale movie productionand will hopefully send other developers 
 scrambling to one-up Take 2 with better parts to create one playable, enjoyable whole.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 5UPERMARIO
Rating: 3.8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been up there as one of my all time favourite games. Adventure? Check ... 
 Horror / Scares / Blood and Guts? Check ... Puzzles? Check ... Interesting Story? Check ... This 
 game seems to have everything going for it, so where did it go wrong you ask? Ok i'll make a list.
 
  
  - The puzzles are very difficult and make absolutely no sense, very illogical and in random places 
 that have nothing to do with the story
  
  - This game has the most glitches and bugs I have ever played on any game ever. I have installed 
 this game on about 7 computers in the last 10 years, downloaded all the patches, and still the 
 game crashes during every 15 minutes of play. Absolutely Atrocious. I know I'm not the only one 
 because the reviewer on Gamespot said the exact same thing and others have noticed this problem 
 also.
  
  - Story doesn't seem to progess at all, a bunch of random puzzles are solved, random things happen, 
 then the Ripper is discovered....
  
  + On a positive note, the graphics were really well done, the intro music (Blue Oyster Cult - Dont 
 fear the Reaper) and cutscence were both amazing, and alot of movie stars act in this game
  
  In my opinion, if you can get this game to work on your computer somehow, and you happen to 
 have a walkthrough for the games stupid puzzles handy, then you might enjoy RIPPER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 3:54 am PT
Review:  I bought this game after playing Take 2's follow-up cinematic adventure game "Black Dahlia". In 
 terms of how the games work, the two titles are very similar, however Black Dahlia is far superior. 
 That is to be expected though, considering that it was released two years after Ripper.
  
  Ripper is now ten years old, and despite its bugs it is still a fairly enjoyable gaming experience. 
 The puzzles are intuitive and very challenging, thankfully without ever reaching the level of so 
 difficult or so illogical that they become frustrating. The environments are interesting (if a 
 little weird at times) and generally look very good considering when it was made.
  
  At 6 disks Ripper is a long experience (though comfortably shorter than its aforementioned 8 disk 
 stablemate) , and the story is engaging enough to hold your interest throughout. Also the game boasts 
 four possible solutions to the mystery thus enhancing its replay value. However this feature is 
 a double edged sword, seeing as the plot doesn't differ enough during each possible mystery to 
 make the solutions believable. When asked to choose who you think the Ripper is at the end of the 
 game it is more a case of randomly choosing than being able to work it out. For example, I played 
 the game through twice to begin with, had two different killers but failed to see how the plot 
 differed between my two games. In terms of puzzles this is the games only weakness. Sadly it is 
 the games main overarching puzzle meaning that it is a pretty major flaw. I think Take 2 wanted 
 the game to have replay value (something that point and click adventures generally don't have) 
 but just weren't able to achieve it properly.
  
  A big source of frustration is that the game has lots of bugs. Less than half an hour into the 
 game the graphics screwed up and I became stuck unable to get into a room. I needed to download 
 the patch, which considering that at the time I had a very slow internet connection was very annoying. 
 Even the patches failed to correct minor graphical glitches. The fact that the published version 
 has so many bugs leads me to believe that the game was never tested. It has the feel that the people 
 making it lost interest in the project half way through, which is a great shame as it could have 
 been so much better. The story is weird which means the game was never going to be a mainstream 
 hit, but it could have become a classic in its niche market if more time had been spent on it.
 
  
  The game seems to have been almost exclusively marketed using the actors that star in it, and credit 
 to Take 2 for getting some recognised faces. I wouldn't say that any of the performances are bad, 
 but none of the big names really excel themselves. Christopher Walken gives a trademark quirky 
 performance, overacting to the extreme in all of his scenes. If you are comfortable with Walken's 
 style of acting then he is a treat to watch though people who are not used to him may be slightly 
 disconcerted. The usually fantastic John Rhys-Davies seems slightly uncomfortable with his character 
 and the script and thus his perfomance is somewhat disappointing. The blame for this must lie with 
 the script writers rather than Rhys-Davies though. Of the other known acting quantities, Karen 
 Allen, David Patrick Kelly and Burgess Meredith acquit themselves reasonably, though all seem (like 
 Rhys-Davies) to be uncomfortable with the script and the concept of the game. The script itself 
 is pretty weak, seeming wooden, generic and emotionless. It tries to inject emotion by overusing 
 bad language, but this just makes it seem very amateur hour.
  
  On the whole Ripper is a fairly enjoyable experience, and worth playing for fans of the genre. 
 Its successor Black Dahlia is a far more polished and complete game, with Rippers flaws highlighting 
 just how far Take 2 progressed in the two years between the games releases. This is not to say 
 that Ripper is bad though. It has some interesting puzzles and an engaging story, though the feeling 
 you get playing it is that its developpers didn't really care about the project, meaning that it 
 could of, and should of been far better. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
