-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rise & Fall: Civilizations at War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/risefallcivilizationsatwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting take on the traditional real-time strategy formula that combines real-time strategy with third-person action.
 Naval combat is fleshed out in a way never before seen.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The action mode is bound to frustrate strategy fans with some brutally difficult levels.
 The game suffers from lackluster graphics and stuttering frame rates.
 Core strategy isn't really all that special or interesting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 12, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.4, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,079 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Jun 12, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rise & Fall combines real-time strategy with third-person action, and while it's an interesting 
 idea, ultimately this game doesn't quite know what it wants to be. 

  After a decade, the traditional real-time strategy formula is perhaps getting a bit played out, 
 so it's not surprising that developers are looking to mix things up. In Rise &amp; Fall: Civilizations 
 at War, that means inserting action into the strategy. Rise &amp; Fall puts you in charge of one 
 of four factions from history and lets you play it as a real-time strategy game or as a third-person 
 action game. It's an interesting concept, though unfortunately its execution is found wanting in 
 Rise &amp; Fall. Simply put, this is a game that doesn't know what it wants to be. Its real-time 
 strategy gameplay will certainly appeal to traditional fans of the genre, but it's almost frustratingly 
 difficult action gameplay will likely turn those same fans off.  

          Rise &amp; Fall isn't your regular real-time strategy game, as you can drop down to third-person 
 and play it as an action game, as well.     

  Rise &amp; Fall revisits the ancient world of Greece and Rome. In addition to the standard skirmish 
 mode, the game ships with two campaigns, with the Alexander campaign having you leading the Greeks 
 against their ancient nemesis, the Persians, while the Cleopatra campaign has you fighting as the 
 Egyptians against the Roman invaders. Famous characters from history and mythology appear throughout 
 the campaigns as hero characters, such as Mark Antony and Achilles, though the focus is definitely 
 on the two titular characters in the campaigns. You'll get to know them quite well, thanks to a 
 feature called hero command in the game. Hero command basically lets you toggle between the real-time 
 strategy perspective and controlling a hero directly from a third-person perspective, much like 
 an action game. Doing so lets you hack-and-slash to your heart's content, as this provides an over-the-top 
 way to let you get into the action.  

  During some missions, you can switch back and forth between hero command and the traditional real-time 
 strategy viewpoint, though some missions require you to play entirely from one perspective only. 
 These are likely to be the cause of most consternation for you, as the hero-only levels are, by 
 far, some of the most frustrating in the game. In small doses, hero command is a nice feature that 
 lets you vent some steam by hacking and slashing mindlessly. But when it's the basis of an entire 
 level it can be maddening, thanks to the fact that many of the hero-only levels require a vast 
 amount of patience, the reflexes of a teenager, and a good deal of luck.  

  For instance, in one level, you'll be tasked with killing 100 enemy soldiers within a set amount 
 of time -- the only problem is that you have to use a bow and arrow for most of the killing, and 
 they're on one moving vessel while you're on another. Fail and you get to try, try again until 
 you get it right. In another, Cleopatra has to battle her way through an island infested with archers 
 who can hit her even if they're on the other side of a hill, and it's a constant effort to keep 
 moving and dodging and firing. It's bound to turn off strategy fans; if they wanted to play an 
 action game, they'd play an action game. Yet, at the same time, these sequences are a bit too arcade-like 
 to be taken seriously for an action game.  

          Unfortunately, the action sequences in the game require quick reflexes and a fair bit of 
 luck, which can lead to some frustrating battles.     

  As a real-time strategy game, Rise &amp; Fall seems fairly cut-and-dried in terms of gameplay. 
 The conventions of having peasants (or, in this case, slaves) gathering resources and constructing 
 various buildings is a familiar one, as are the long downtimes during missions while you go through 
 the drawn-out build phase. You must harvest wood, gold, and glory, which is an intangible resource 
 that is accumulated by building certain structures and accomplishing great feats. Glory can in 
 turn be used to level up your hero or military units, or to recruit advisors, which are special 
 assistants that grant global bonuses, such as being able to harvest gold faster or being able to 
 boost the troops' morale.  

  The real-time strategy combat still relies on building as many units as you can and rushing the 
 enemy, for the most part. You can build catapults and such to whittle down enemy defenses, but 
 it doesn't seem to matter if you just throw wave upon wave at them, since the artificial intelligence 
 doesn't seem to do anything against you in terms of offense. It's content to sit back and let you 
 come close enough to trigger it, so most of the missions just require you to cautiously explore 
 the map, seize various outposts, and then build up to finish off the enemy. Naval combat does play 
 a larger role in Rise &amp; Fall than it does in other real-time strategy games, because vessels 
 are actually represented as huge craft, rather than abstracted as tiny little ship models as they 
 are in other games. In fact, you can use ships as mobile barracks. Just land them on a beach and 
 they can constantly generate troops in order to make amphibious invasions work. Or you can engage 
 in battle aboard a ship's deck, as you can board enemy vessels in the heat of combat and try and 
 seize them as your own.  

  Aside from the campaign and skirmish modes, there's multiplayer with support for up to eight on 
 a large variety of maps. The factions seem fairly well balanced in multiplayer, and the seesaw 
 battles that can erupt can take a while to resolve. Thankfully, there are speed-up options to start 
 with a large number of resources, or there's an outpost victory setting that lets you win the game 
 even if you don't crush your opponents. They key is to seize a majority of the outposts on the 
 map first. And, if a game does linger for too long, you can save it and carry it on at a later 
 date.  

          The real-time strategy portion of the game doesn't do a lot different, but it's always 
 fun to crush your enemies with elephants.     

  Rise &amp; Fall actually went through two development studios, and it shows. The game has numerous 
 problems, including clipping problems (we've seen whole platoons vanish inside a mountain, or archers 
 fire through solid rock) , short draw distances, and frame rate issues, even at lower detail settings. 
 The entire thing just doesn't seem like it's been optimized well, evidenced by the really long 
 load times as well as jerks in the frame rate. And the overall visual look just seems bland -- definitely 
 colorful, but bland. Buildings and units seem boxy and chunky, suffering from a low number of polygons, 
 while the textures themselves look grainy. This gives the entire game a somewhat dated look unless 
 you have a high-end machine to max out all the graphics settings. The game sounds better, at least, 
 thanks to some appropriately pompous  Gladiator -style music.  

  In the end, Rise &amp; Fall attempts a few innovative things with the real-time strategy genre, 
 though it's hurt by the fact that it wants to be both a hardcore real-time strategy game and a 
 fast-paced action game. Unfortunately, it's hard to have it both ways in this genre, as the action 
 mode is bound to frustrate and disappoint strategy fans.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (61 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AmazingBritney
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Good: I love hero mode! I love being able to just cut down many enemy troops at one time. I also 
 love the campaign modes because it is pretty historically accurate and being a huge ancient history 
 fan, I love to follow them. Even if you don't follow the campaigns, I still think that this is 
 a very entertaining games. Kicking random butt is always fun though. 
  
  Bad: The graphics look rather "old" for lack of a better word. I know it's not the newest game 
 but it still could've done better. I love a good story in a game so I do wish it was a little bit 
 less strategic war and a little bit more story. 
  
  Tips: Sometimes controlling the troops also gets a little confusing. I don't know if it's just 
 me but sometimes I'll be trying to put groups of troops together to do certain jobs and there's 
 always some men left behind. Also, make sure you don't forget to harvest resources whenever you 
 can because once I suddenly found myself not able to make any more troops in the heat of battle 
 just because I had forgot to send out a civilian to collect wood, gold, etc.
  
  Overall it's a good game, especially if you like history like me! =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  the game is a fantastic piece of work mixing RTS and HAS (hack and slash) action is great!!! the 
 ability to move you troops then get in the thick of it while there fighting is one great bit of 
 fun.
  In Rise and Fall: Civilzations at War there are four nations, Egypt, Rome, Greece and Persia. The 
 main thrust of the Rise & Fall experience is the blend between strategy and action. There are two 
 campaigns that ship with Rise and Fall; one about Alexander the Great and one about Cleopatra.
 
  Rise and Fall brings two major innovations to the table: Hero Mode and Naval Combat. The main feature, 
 of course, is hero mode, and there are mixed reactions as to whether it was pulled off well. What 
 hero mode basically is, is where your hero gets enough "stamina" to enter a special mode where 
 you control only your hero, from a third-person perspective, like an action game.
  Naval Combat in Rise and Fall is like nothing else seen before in a RTS game. Ships in Rise and 
 Fall can be use to transport, and train units. In addition ships can also ram and grapple other 
 ships. If you maneuver your ship into the position where you can ram another ship, you can send 
 it to the bottom in one swift action. 
  rts mode is simple, I hate the old-style it is played. Just like age of empire, you "build" bunch 
 of workers and send them to cut down trees and gether gold. 
  The graphics are not bad, everything is colorfull and is in 3-D. But things could be more polished 
 and smoothed out. The enviroments are pretty nice though and esspcally the movement of the water 
 and the ships.
  overall: this game is not superb but good for a weekend.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArgoKiller
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Rise & Fall (RNF) is a very good RTS game. It has ok graphics and its requirements are fine. 90% 
 of the game is the hero mode and the realistic actions of the soldiers. I've been waiting for ages 
 to find an RTS game with such a lovely hero mode. The game is good but it's very "simple". I mean 
 it doesn't have a lot of stuff, like a lot of campaigns, maps etc. (Although you can create your 
 own) . There are a few units and upgrades. The only good upgrades are those you get by gaining Glory 
 points which surely help the players. Since normal units like Spearmen, Swordsmen, Archers and 
 Cavalary don't count in population you can train thousands of units which is very good. Multiplayer 
 mode, even if it is hard to set up, is good. I've spent ages playing the game with friends over 
 the web and I realy enjoyed it. The game is pretty addictive but you will surely find something 
 better to play. I give it an 8 since it's a pretty good game and I highly recommend buying it.
 
  
  PS. The game is pretty violent ( Too bad you can't cut enemy heads = ( ) so if you don't want your 
 children to see all this violence don't let them play it. (But who doesn't like a bit of violence 
 and bloody battles) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loser003
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a serious RTS game, look somewhere else. This game tries to please as many 
 audiences as possible and fails miserably. The heroes are overly rigged, the strategy interface 
 is horrible, not the greatest graphics and the units are overly simple. But if you enjoy RTS games 
 and FPS games, this game might sadly entertain you as it did me. Running through waves upon waves 
 of troops as Achilles, maiming everything in your path was never so much fun. Unfortunately, the 
 RTS phase of it is quite dull. It consists of a simple rock-paper-scissors technique. Sounds like 
 a balanced game, but then again, with 6-7 unit types per team, its not hard to keep it balanced. 
 Not that balance matters when you have Alexander the Great on your side cutting a swath through 
 the enemies' lines. The campaigns are also interesting. Theres those typical missions where you 
 sit around, build a base, then an army and defeat the computer. Then there are those missions where 
 they force you to play purely in hero mode. Sometimes it can be fun, like when you're on a trireme 
 and have to kill 100 Persians with a bow and can board other ships then other times, its an adventure 
 into a wonderful hell. You're stuck in the middle of a coliseum and have to fight your way through 
 war elephants, gladiators and spearmen. Oh, and did I mention the 50 archers spread around various 
 guard towers?
  
  All in all, if you enjoy playing RTS games as well as FPS, you can pick this game up for some mindless 
 fun, and I mean mindless. You won't probably won't ever get addicted to this game, or play it competitively, 
 but you'll be entertained for a good while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangell99
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Rise and Fall has its detractors, but I think it is a very good game regardless.
  The main feature, of course, is hero mode, and there are mixed reactions as to whether it was pulled 
 off well. I think so; although basic, it works well and adds a really interesting dimension to 
 the game. Plus, it's just great fun to wade through a tide of enemies, swinging your weapon and 
 slaughtering hundreds. 
  What hero mode basically is, is where your hero gets enough "stamina" to enter a special mode where 
 you control only your hero, from a third-person perspective, like an action game. You can use your 
 hand weapon, like a sword or scythe, to either deliver quick attacks, or wide, powerful blows. 
 You can also block incoming enemy attacks. Or you can revert to your bow, sniping enemies from 
 afar. Aiming is really fun; as it's arrows, you need to aim just infront of moving enemies, ect. 
 
  The RTS part is good, too - it has the typical resource-gathering method; you can mine gold or 
 chop wood. But there are also outposts; how many of these you hold depends how many troops are 
 made at a time; whoever has the most produces the biggest armies; dominates the opponent.
  The graphics, apart from the fact that all units look the same, are brilliant, particularly the 
 landscapes. I have a great screenshot of my hero leading an army into battle, the two tides clashing, 
 with a picturesque volcano in the background.
  Another fantastic addition is the best naval combat I have seen to date. You can board enemy ships, 
 ram them and burn them under a hail of arrows and catapult fire. It looks great and works great, 
 too.
  It's a game I would definately recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apekiller
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 13, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  After installing the game I found that the game freezes after in about 10 seconds or so once the 
 main menu shows up. I don't even have time to change the resolution because it freezes. I tried 
 installing the latest patch and also different drivers to make it work but still nothing: still 
 cannot play the game.
  
  My system is:
  Athlon64 3000+
  2GB Ram
  7900GT
  Win XP.
  
  I haven't had any problems on other games like Bioshock or FEAR so it must be something wrong 
 with this game. Either they overlooked this issue or decided to look the other way since it doesn't 
 happen on all systems. Disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In Rise and Fall: Civilzations at War there are four nations, Egypt, Rome, Greece and 
 Persia. The main thrust of the Rise &amp; Fall experience is the blend between strategy and action. 
 Much of the game plays as a traditional real-time strategy experience with the harvesting or resources, 
 construction of bases, and research of technology but it's also possible to zoom down into the 
 action by taking control of the hero to do some serious damage. The heroes all come from the ancient 
 world from different moments in history. For instance, Greece has Alexander while Caesar is represented 
 for the Romans. It's fun using the hero and hack away at infanty, but there is a time limit (Stamina) 
 so you can't just stay controling the hero the entire time a battle is going on. There is also 
 a multiplayer part of the game which can hold up to eight players. One of the most inovative part 
 of the game is the navy battles. You can accully create troops onboad the ships and contol indiviual 
 ships. which is neat. far better then the ship battles of Rome: Total War. Graphics: The graphics 
 are not bad, everything is colorfull and is in 3-D. But things could be more polished and smoothed 
 out. The enviroments are pretty nice though and esspcally the movement of the water and the ships.
 
  
  Sound: The soundtrack of the game is quite good, it really suits the them of the game well. Also 
 the Voice covers and the sound of clash of steel sound really good.
  
  Value: All in all this is a good game. I don't know why it got such a low rating from gamespot. 
 The ship battles are great and very entertaining. I would say the replay value is quite good with 
 the skirmish maps and the multiplayer part. I give this game 8.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 7
Date: May 17, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Hero Mode is fun, Some nice visuals, nice sound effects, and some nice combat, especially 
 naval battles. There is definitely some great strategy in this game.
  
  The Bad: Some aspects of the combat system don't work well, some controls are confusing, awkward, 
 and are a nuisance, some noticeable glitches, some of the visuals and sound ugly, a rather unimpressive 
 single-player campaign that can become very boring, and frame rate issues. Rise and Fall: Civilization 
 at War had potential, but it was unfortunately messed up. In Rise and Fall. It is a rather limited 
 game -- there are only 4 factions to choose from (include Romans and Greeks) , though each faction 
 has 2 of their own special heroes. Well, actually, I'm not gonna talk about this anymore -- I'll 
 talk about the battles. The battles/combat in R&amp; F is impressive to some extent, but it could've 
 been more improved and polished up. Sometimes, the combat is glitchy and unrealistic at the same 
 time, courtesy of some mediocre sound, and some bad animation. I must say that Hero Mode, a mode 
 in which you become one of your faction's heroes in 1st person is really the only truly fun part 
 of the combat. The rest of it is just a rather big mish-mash and troops repeatedly slashing their 
 swords on their enemies. Rise and Fall was a good try, but It'll need to be a bit better in order 
 to be a satisfying game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodeeman
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 2, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  The good: ---Ship combat is really cool! The idea is soo much better the the usual rts way
  
  ---Hero combat is interesting... not in anyway well done, but i could be
  
  ---The game 
 was short.... yes for me that was a good thing
  
  ---graphics aren't too bad, a little Abrasive and oldish, but still not too bad
  
  ---Formations 
 are well done, the idea of grouping them up is very good
  
  ---Pumping out units from the barracks and stables is alot faster, usually pushing out more then 
 1 unit in a row, depending on Map settings
  
  Ok now the bad:
  
  ---The AI makes the game as boring as watching Reality T. V
  
  ---The game doesn't have the 
 right FEEL to it
  
  ---Very clunky Frame rates, which makes the game annoying to play
  
  ---Clipping problems... i dont like my men falling threw cracks in the earth.
  
  ---The 
 never-ending need to rush to win adds to the boringness of the game
  
  ---A fair few micro-management problems, i mean i like micro-management... to an extent
  
  
 All in all, it could very well be a good game, even a great game, but due to the annoying problems 
 it makes the game near on unplayable. If your looking for a strategy game to play, go out and buy 
 Medieval or AoE 3... or if your in need go out and buy EE2.
  Only buy the game if you want to try out the awesome Naval combat, or like a lot of micro-management. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vandread5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Love the game very fun and addicting. The naval battles are extremely fun and the hero mode is 
 awesome. You get to fight with your units, you are able to kill hundreds of enemy, and change the 
 tide of the battle. A must play for those who like a little 1st person action in an real time strategy 
 game. There are some things in the game that could be better, like more moves for your hero, more 
 civilizations, more buildings, and able to have thousands of units. But over all it is a really 
 great game and it is worth playing, but you should play the demo first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPumbliQ
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  The Good: 4 nations to choose from, good graphics, the game allows you to built thousands of men 
 and control these armies as a commander in the field as you can enter hero mode that makes you 
 a man on the battlefield, you can hack down 1 to 15 men in a single blow and Map editor is a plus.
 
  
  The Bad: Only 2 heroes for each nation, huge bugs and glitches, you need a really beefed PC if 
 you want to train thousands of men and there is no sense in blocking cause you loose stamina if 
 you block so you can just be hit rather then defend yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xboy323
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  Rise and Fall is a fun game that not only lets yu hold the reigns of a civilization, but also on 
 the main hero that you have chosen to lead your army.
  
  Rise and Fall allows you to create civilizations on a battle map from scratch and better than most 
 games, you get to watch it actually happen. Another good point from the game is the hero mode. 
 It was really fun playing in a war game from the view of one man and it was so fun, I felt as if 
 I was actually there! Although the game's graphics are not so good, I can put it the way my brothers 
 said about it, Who gives a crap? What's even better, Midway allows you to create your own campaigns 
 and scenarios from scratch so that you can experience it yourself. I personally enjoyed this game 
 alot and to the people put there, play this game, it's the BEST!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespoo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Rise and fall: CaW is a brilliant game.
  
  The hero comand mode is great, but should have a more varied array of weapons and units, and attacks.
 
  
  The enemy A. I sucks, butb that doesnt matter because so do your troops : (.
  
  you can pound through many enemies in HeroCommandMode single handed.
  
  The 2 campagins are 
 easy at first but get progressivaly harder, shame theres no persia or roman campaign though.
  
  the music and sound affects are okay but the graphics PC still lagg quite a bit, so i have 
 to turn fauna and flora off, but i leave blood on.
  
  the game has a few bugs bu with patch 1.5beta sorts most of em out.
  If you like stratergy games, 
 RTS and action games buy this, if you like 2 of em, buy this unless you like RTS games, dont buy 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfunkmaster
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 23, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is so bad that when i played it it was funny. at the beging alexander brushes of his 
 pants when his dad dies (Brilant!) . and you just dont put a 3rd person hack and slash into a RTS 
 (thats becuse the developers know that the game blows hard core) . This is like the movie plane 
 9 from outer space (if u havent seen it then u need to just shut up plz) , that movie was so bad that 
 it is the funnyest movie ever made and thats what the back of the case sais. so save your self 
 the trubal and just steal this game becuse the store wont even giva a F%#$ ok kids! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samagorny
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  If u have a great pc and everything is smooooooth in the game, then u have one amazing game, an 
 alright stratagey game plus a violent hack n slash, but the problem isnt how the 2 join, cos thats 
 gd, its just the fact that they cant join, as ni ine in there right mind would want to be clicking 
 men to attack some huge army when they could of already murdered them all in seconds first hand. 
 Multi play would be better if it was just heros and thats why there is better games out there. 
 The graphics thou r just beutiful, exspecially in the new map i made, darkness all around with 
 a ray of light bursting on u as u cross the bridge, through the dragons mouth (cliff face) into 
 the swarm of persian, as the moon light reflects off u and gives u a amazing glow. i would give 
 this game a gd try, but really i would like a sequal but other games have done action better, like 
 mount &amp; blade, and u dont get a better stratigy than Medieval 2, sooooooo go and buy what u 
 want, but just remember its fun...... for a long time..... but not forever.... honestly i cant be 
 bothered to compleat a match now... i just kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: role-player07
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 7, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  This game isn't worth thinking about buying with all the great game available right now. Rise &amp;&amp; 
 Falling is arite when you get to the action, but it is slow paced and very boring by the start. 
 The graphics are miserable and the gameplay is mediocre with low choice of buildings and the first-person 
 mode is a stupid selection for the game. If you want a game like this I would prefer Age Of Empires 
 3 or Medieval 2 Total War way over this game. The comparisons are really different and Rise And 
 Falling loses in every stat besides ammount of troops. Rise And Falling is for patient people who 
 don't like fast paced strategic games. You have to want to take your time and not have much selection 
 what your strategy is going to be. You will basically do the same thing everytime, and I just think 
 it is a waist of an hour or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turkey24
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Pros: 3rd person view is really fun, naval combat is unique. Nice battle sounds.
  
  Cons: Very laggy game play, no matter what system you have. Campaign is near impossible to beat.
 
  
  Overall, the game has potential to be great, maybe with a few patches they can fix it. The laggy 
 game play is what gets the whole game off whack. In the beginning it's just a few twitches here 
 and there, but after about 20 minutes your getting 20 or less frames. I believe this is due to 
 the fact that the game was in two development studios, after the fist one went out of business. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wirbelwind1038
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Usually I couldn't agree more when it comes to Gamespot's reviews for games, but in the case of 
 Rise and Fall: Civilizations at War, I blatantly disagree. They said the graphics were "lackluster", 
 but thats only on the lower settings. They said that the framerate was "horrible"; only if your 
 computer sucks. I mean, as many other people before me have said in Rise and Fall's defense: "it's 
 like the reviewer just sat down for an hour or two and played skirmish". This game is greatly underappreciated. 
 The graphics are next gen, when it comes to an RTS, the new naval combat and hero command mode 
 are very fun and unique new gameplay mechanics, and I especially like the fun and easy to use level 
 editor. If there is one complaint that I have about this game it is definately the voice acting, 
 which is like listening to a high school recital of "Julius Caesar". Also, the fact that Midway 
 Entertainment had to literally pick up the pieces of the game's designer, Stainless Steel Studios, 
 in order to get the game back on track shows in a few respects, none more prominant then the totally 
 unrefined AIs. Despite these few flaws, in my opinion, Midway lived up to it's promise to deliver 
 an RTS game unlike any other, and did so in the form of Rise and Fall: Civilizations at War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panken
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I was excited to buy this game. I thought it would be really fun to be able to switch back and 
 forth between Heros. Thats what makes the game unique is switching back, and that is one my favorite 
 parts of the game. On singleplalyer you can pretty much take out an entire army with you hero, 
 but its just hard enough that you still need a large army to win each level. If anyone of you have 
 ever played the game "Empire Earth." It was very similar to that. In fact they have some of the 
 exact same sounds. But the feel was very EE like. The only problem that disappointed me where the 
 realtively short singleplayer campaigns. There is only a Greek and Egyptian one and they each have 
 about 10 levels each. I like stragdey games that have lots of long levels, Like Age of Empires, 
 Warzone, and Empire Earth. It was just to short for me.
  
  The Internet is a diffrent story. Its really fun to play online. Everyone is really friendly and 
 helpful. Its laggy alot though, but you can sometimes find a server that is crisp. The only problem 
 with the internet is: Hero's aren't effective agaisnt larger arms and the Internet set up is on 
 crack. There are usally about 70-80 people online at time, but maybe one or two games will actually 
 be being played. The automatch is pretty much worthless and it wont alawys give you points if you 
 win a match, or even record that match ever happening. But, I what is your rank really? There is 
 also alot "out-of-sync" errors. Which pretty much ruins a game. But when you do get it to finally 
 work, its a blast.
  
  Conclusion: A fun gaming experience and internet game play, but a crappy system for the game's 
 community and short singleplayer levels. I would have gladly bought this game for 30 dollars and 
 felt like I made a resonable purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kavehmj
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 1, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  
  
  
  :  
 - ( )
   :
  :
 
   : Jul 3, 2006
  
     
 :
  Game Spot: 6.6
  IGN: 6
  Game Rankings: 65
   : 
 6.4
  
      
    
 (   Real Time)   
    .  
      
     
     
     
   .
       
     
     
     
     
     
  .  
     
       
      
       
    
   .
    Game Play    
    
     
     
    
     
  .   
      
     
    . 
     
      
     
     
      
     
     
 .    
     
        
      
      
     
  
  4     
     
    
      
 ( ) 
    ( 
   ) 
   ( 
 ) .  ( 
 )  .
       
  Camping   
  .   
      
     
     
      
     
     
      
   
 .  Camping  
        
      
   .
       
     
     
    
      
   Camping   
      
       
     
  .
     
     
     
     
 .    
      
     
 .   
     
      
      
    
     
     
      
  .
      
    
   .  
    
     
    . 
    
      
     
 .    
    
     
     
   . 
     
     
     
      
  .
      
     
  .   
     
     
      
    . 
    
      
      
     
     
    .  
     
      
     
     . 
      
     
        
   (  
      
 ...)  .
  
      
       
     
  .    
     
     
      
     
     
     
   .   
    
     
     
     
     
    . 
    
     
     
     
 .    
     
     
     
     
     
    . 
     
      
    .
 
  
      
    . 
    
     
     ( 
  )   
      
     
     
     
    
     
      
      
      
     
     
    . 
     
     
      
      
  .   
      
   .  
     
      
  .
  
     
     
 .   
 (   
    ...)   
     
     
  (   
       
   ...)   
     
     
       
       
  .
  
      
     
 .     
   . 
     
      
      
     
       
      
      
 .    
      
 Rome Total War  .
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
     
     
     
    
  .   
      
     
    
    
   .  
     
     
     
      
      
     
   . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plonker19
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  the RTS genre has been around ages with some good and some not so good franchises, and it gotten 
 very rusty some companies in the past have tried to juice it up but failed misserable but here 
 is one that does it and does it well.
  
  for the most part its your bog standared RTS you've got gather resourses build buildings and units 
 while trying to fend of invaders. the three resourses you collect are gold, wood, and glory whats 
 glory i hear you say well its what you use to upgrade your hero reaserch and buy advisors and that 
 brings me on the next part when you level up your hero to level 2 it sarts gathering staminia which 
 intern allows you to litterly step in to the heros shoes and until the stamnia runs out you can 
 run just like you would in an action game witch is abreath of fresh air and with 80 different types 
 of units spread over 4 faction which include Rome, Greece, Egypt and Persia thats the good part.
 
  
  and now he bad part the game riddled with bugs while playing the toturial if your in hero mode 
 when a message comes up you can't get rid of and things such some units walk staright through mountains 
 but it happens very rarly and the patch fixes most of the big bugs but at the end of the day you 
 have here a very good RTS with an even better twist and if you like your games fun and interestng 
 then buy this NOW!!! if not then well... LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nopenoway0
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  -Game play  Not so great. not balanced, and very well bland, just like the graphics. Reason for 
 5 is because computers spawn units like fudgin crazy. You launch an attack and they start spawning 
 spawning spawning spawning etc. The reason I didn't give this game a 2 is because I have to admit 
 that Naval combat is pretty cool, although not as cool as you'd think it was.
  
  -Graphics  Graphics are well.. 2nd rate especially how easily it can chug. While being able to 
 run many games this year BF2 for example, this just chugged as low as 1-5 frames. Now I don't care 
 what system you have, if you can run BF2 mid settings 1024x800 or whatever you should be able to 
 run this on all low settings right? Wrong.
  
  -Sounds  Sounds are okay but reused and very, like I said game play was, bland.
  
  -Overall 
  Please make the mistake I did, and don't buy it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles-at-War
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Pro: 
  -Graphic is super great, never seen like this!!! 
  This RTS game is Age of Empire a like, not Rome Total War. 
  Classical RTS aspect like having 
 peasant mining gold & cutting wood is still crucial essence in this game. 
  It is also possible for player to have naval combat.. But above all, what I love the most from 
 this game is it's ability to enterHero Mode" to combat the enemy among our troops. It's Fantastic!!! 
 A nice combination between RTS and Action!!! 
  
  -Single player campaign guiding the player advancing the game step by step. 
  
  - Sound is 
 great 
  
  Cons: 
  - Loading take years (P4 2.8 Ghz, 768 RAM, Ati Radeon 9000 GP) . This game uses a lot of Memory, 
 so you better have a good PC! 
  - Lack of Hero Action. (Only 2 weapons, and Basic movements) 
  - It should have more type of 
 troops and siege units! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 20, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  As i said. Gamespot really dont like newcomers to Pc games development.
  
  I was first on internet to see if this game is worth buying. As They told rewiewers, it's not worth 
 at all LMAO! Anyway.. I went to shop to buy another game for my friends birthday. Then i saw R&F 
 box with:
  
  PCgamer:
  *****
  worth playing 91%
  
  
  Then i understand the whole point, I immediately bought R&F and played and I was so enjoyed like 
 a baby. Then i played it whole day. Next day i promise myself to judge the game only by PCgamer 
 and Gamespy. 
  
  The game is revolutionary. 
  The hero command is first-class.
  THE WHOLE POINT OF GAME WAS UNDERSTOOD BY ME!!
  
  
  thanks Gamespot to lead me astray. Sorry. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  Rise and Fall didnt deserve a 6.6 rating, instead it should have gotten a much better rating. This 
 game could be one of the most underrated game this year. If you are looking for challange, fun 
 gameplay, awesome naval combat and build a huge army, then this game could be for you.
  
  Rise and Fall have a very impressive naval combat system. Instead of your troops disappear inside 
 a ship, you could see them move on top of the deck. If you had archers on your ship, those archers 
 could still shoot enemy ships, buildings, and troops on shore from the deck. You are also capable 
 of taking over an enemy's ship and use it for yourself. 
  
  The AI in the game is very challanging for those who are looking for challange. There are ten challanging 
 setting for the AI in Rise and Fall. You could make it very easy and kill them within 20 minutes, 
 or you could make it harder taking you two hours or more to finish off the AI. The AI can be nearly 
 impossible on even higher settings. Depending on your level of challange, this game would be great 
 for you.
  
  Rise and Fall also have a small mix of RPG within this RTS. You are allowed one hero in this game. 
 By pushing one button you could zoom into third person view and start slashing or shooing away 
 at enemy troops. You are only allowed to kill so many and you will zoom back out into RTS mode.
 
  
  The biggest fault for this game is the subpar graphics. First looking at Rise and Fall, you could 
 assume this game was made four years ago. It was actually released two months. Stainless Steel 
 seem to have recycled the same graphic engine from Empire Earth and used it for Rise and Fall. 
 This might have been ok two years ago, but with games like Age of Empires III using superior graphics, 
 it was a misstep for Stainless Steel to use older graphics.
  
  The game does experience lag in some really large battles. It would be recommanded for a player 
 who is wanting to see a battle up to 400 without any lag to upgrade more ram. Otherwise expect 
 to see the FPS drop in the larger battle that can happen if you are wanting to have a big population.
 
  
  Conclusion, I would recommand this game to someone who is looking for a challange. If you dont 
 care about the graphics and only care about the enjoyment of what the game have to offer, then 
 you could really have hours of fun with Rise and Fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_locky_-
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 31, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Rise and Fall is a good game that had great potential but was not presented right.
  
  First off the numerous bugs in the game means that any computer that is not fully compatible with 
 the software will crash - thats a fact. Even if your computer can handle much more graphic intesive 
 games eg: Age of Empires III it wont neccessarily be able to support this game. I had to download 
 many patches before i could even start up the game succesfully then there were the regular crashes. 
 But luckily or not the company made a auto-save which saves every half hour or something so if 
 your really into it and loose track of time and BANG you've got a crash you'll be able to reload 
 back to a not too distance place in your game. All the bugs are probably from the switch of makers 
 that the game went through and as it seems it never recovered. The end result a great idea trapped 
 inside a poorly presented and buggy body.
  
  The gameplay itself is quite good once you get over the crashes. The idea of hero mode is awesome 
 but poorly produced but the good news is hopefully other game makers will pick up this idea and 
 add it to a better game. Naval combat is another really great thing offering revoloutionary way 
 of battling it out on the seas. Men onboard are actually shown onboard and they interact while 
 on the ships like archers will fire and swordsmen will attack others when the ships get close enough. 
 You can even see men rowing and the other fantastic thing about naval combat is the ability to 
 ram into another ship destroying it and sending it's troops into the air then once the hit the 
 water they can even swim to safety or you can pick em off with your archers. But yes this is a 
 great part of the game that should definately be built up on by other companies. The land combat 
 is really the same old stuff where you have a bunch of men who look the same hacking at a group 
 of other men who are dressed different with a minor strength difference. The combat is still rock-paper-scissors 
 kind of stuff where cavarly beat archers, archer beat melee troops and melee troops beat cavarly. 
 So really the battles can get tiresome until you zoom in there yourself and slash the enemy to 
 bits.
  
  The civilizations are; Persia, Rome, Greece and Egypt which is really the usual for the ancient 
 style of RTS. I think they should've mixed it up a bit possibly by adding more civilizations from 
 the east like the Yamato and stuff. But they decided not and this leaves you with 4 civilizations 
 that are pretty much the same both in combat and in inferstructure. 
  
  The AI is hard when you want it to be but generally doesn't act right. Like on level 8 hardness 
 for example the AI wont build a massive city and fork out an impossible amount of troops they will 
 have a small settlement then capture all the outposts at which they build a few military buildings 
 then as almost by accident they come into you and just have their primal instinct to capture all 
 outposts rather then defend and destroy. So if you had a small town you could hide and never be 
 found by their explorers set on random or something.
  
  The campaigns are truly amazing works of art that the game creators surely made just to show off 
 the full power of the hero mode. With fantastic land and sea battles and worlds packed with heaps 
 of enemies it truly lets you use the hero mode to its full potential. It also comes with detailed 
 cinematics explaining the story way better then any historical teacher could. but with all this 
 excitement the two 20 or so scenario long campaigns can be over quite quick and leave you wanting 
 more. The random map game type is fairly the smae old stuff and doesnt let you use your hero as 
 much as you'd like to sometimes and after a while the crashes get to you and you go "why bother?!"
 
  
  The graphics are not all that better from Stainless Steel's previous works which shows their inability 
 to advance with the rest of the market which leaves the game feeling 2-4 years older then it is. 
 Although it does have the ability to let you zoom right up to things which lets you see the sky 
 and hills in the distance which are clearly just screens set around the world's boarders. The water 
 is i think the only thing they must've advanced because is almost worthy of Age of Empires 3. 
 
  
  The sound is normal to any other RTS with the clanging of swords and screams as you approach enemies 
 as a hero. The music is basic with a few memorable ones but nothing really worth paying extra attention 
 to.
  
  So basically this game is a shot in the foot for the developers who have released fantastic ideas 
 but because of poor quality they lost money and now their rivals will be richer.
  
  Now add the hero mode, naval combat from this game with perhaps the realism and family tree of 
 ROME: total war then with the graphics of Age of Empires 3 with the multiple ages of Rise of Nations 
 and perhaps make every unit unique and be able to interact better aka: block attack and dodge. 
 And that will be the best game ever! Now how come i ain't a game developer?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hayhayninjas
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This game IS awesome A Must Buy for all RTS And RP Fans Alike,
  
  You Are Allowed 4 Civilisations Rome, Greece, Egypt and Persia
  Each With its own Great two Heroes
 
  heres My Opinion
  
  Rome For Brutall Force with the army not so good with the heroes As Julius Only has the catapult 
 special move which is usless if you don't have a catapult and Germanicus Caesar is slow and fat 
 xD and Germanicus and Julius are both crap with the bow :P.
  
  Egypt For The Numbers But Really There Quiet Weak They Have Good Heros Like Cleopatra Is AWESOME 
 with a bow and she is in my eyes quiet overpowering with her, Join me move" Which in other words 
 makes the enemies Join your side, Also she is the only hero that Can Use the Bow In RTS mode, Also 
 This Is Topped of With The Second Hero for the egyptians His Name IS Ramses he is the stongest 
 hero in melle combat and can wipe out huge armies with his staff also he has a special ability 
 which can heal his huge army.
  
  Persia and Greece Are A Mix of Both these and They are Amazing with the heroes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 27, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  I haven't seen a truly comprehensive, balanced review of this game by the "professionals" on any 
 of the gaming sites. That must be because the "professionals" have a quota to meet, since they 
 clearly haven't played this game enough to know much about it. This is obvious from the many omissions 
 in their reviews, and from their (obviously) shallow knowledge of the game's key concepts.
  
  I've had the good fortune to have played this game for over a year, first as a volunteer playtester 
 at SSSI, and now as the owner of a copy of the retail release of the game ( for which I gladly 
 paid $50 ) . I can tell you that Rise & Fall is much better than most of the reviewers have rated 
 it, especially if you truly like RTS games but are looking for something fresh. I am a seasoned 
 RTS player, and that is exactly what I was looking for and found with Rise & Fall.
  
  This game isn't a rehash of Rome: Total War. It is a true, epic, RTS game. You'll have large land 
 battles, you'll have complex, gripping naval warfare, and you'll be able to get down and dirty 
 on the battlefield in 3rd person combat. You've got all the basic RTS elements of economy, unit 
 micromanagement and strategic decision-making with regard to map control. But the mix of all these 
 elements is what makes it much more fun than any RTS I've played in years. The economy is slightly 
 streamlined, giving you more time to manage and enjoy the visuals provided by the huge battles 
 in the game, and to use your hero effectively.
  
  The bottom line is, while not everyone can or will like this (or any other) game, if you're the 
 right type of player, you will absolutely love Rise & Fall. It is FUN to play, and it is very interesting 
 in multi-player. Try the demo, and realize it's just a teaser, not a true representation of the 
 game or the Campaigns. If you play it 4 times and don't like it, don't buy it. But if you like 
 it after the first play, you're going to love it in the full version.
  
  The game has only one drawback, and that is with respect to system requirements. You absolutely 
 must have a good 3D video card with at least 128 MB of RAM. The faster/better your system, the 
 more you'll enjoy the game. The graphics are stunning, but you can't enjoy them at their best without 
 a high-end system. Evidently, they didn't tell the reviewers this important piece of information, 
 since most of them complained about "slow frame-rates". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelboylove
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo of the game and i think i would buy the full version. I liked taking part of 
 the mission by switching from the third person to first person and being one of the great heroes 
 that this game came with.
  
  I did not find the game to be very hard as other reviews describe it. I had some graphics complains 
 but i think that even with the frames problems this game will gain more and more fans.
  
  The only thing that i did not liked was the urn business. I think that the creators of the game 
 should find another solution for giving the heroes some of the immortality generated but the collected 
 urns.
  
  A short review but a good impression about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curufinwe8
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  My System Specifications:
  Intel Pentium D 805 dual core 2.66 Ghz
  Nvidia Geforce 7600 GS 256 mb video card
  1 gig ram
  
  Graphics: Make sure you have an excellent 
 128 card or better yet a 256 mb card like I do. The game has rather good, well defined textures 
 if you zoom in close. For reference, the textures, models, and animations blow Battle for Middle 
 Earth 2 away. Any reviewer saying the graphics are terrible need to upgrade their Commodore 64's. 
 
  
  Sound: It fits, but nothing to write home about.
  
  Value: More of a 40 dollar (USD) than a $50 game.
  
  Gameplay: Hero mode is new and intriguing. 
 It adds a certain depth, as you can take control of Caesar or Ramses, and using either Follow; 
 Charge; or Stop, lead your men into battle as if you were in regular RTS mode. Making short work 
 of enemies is quite fun. However, this is a FEATURE of a larger game. Don't expect hero mode to 
 be akin to Dark Messiah fo Might and Magic. Unfortunately, each civilization has 1 good hero, while 
 the other is lackluster. The good ones are: Sargon of Persia, Julius Caesar of Rome, Ramses II 
 of Egypt, and Alexander the Great of Greece. The bad ones are Nebuchadnezzar of Persia, Germanicus 
 of Rome, Cleopatra of Egypt, and Achilles of Greece. Trust me on this and you'll be pretty good 
 online or singleplayer.
  
  Naval Combat is where R&F truly shines. Hearing your ship shout "ramming speed" or "get into Ramming 
 position" reminds me of Charlton Heston in Ben Hur: A Tale of the Christ. Ships also can train 
 a civilization's infantry, so invasions by sea are quite interesting.
  
  Land combat could devolve into a simple infantry spam, however, such key features as super units, 
 elephants, unique siege weapons, and the ability to designate a squadron as "Immortals" (Persia) 
 make it all interesting. Groups of the same type of unit form themselves into easily managed battalions. 
 If it suits the situation, you may halve these battalions.
  
  R&F though shows the fact that its first developer, Stainless Steel Studios, quit and midway picked 
 it up in its lack of polish. WHile the factions are excellently balanced (without being bland) , 
 certain parts of the interface are clunky. However, if you played the EMpire Earth series or Empires: 
 Dawn of the Modern World, then you will be very well acquainted with the interface.
  
  I have played RTS games since Age of Empires I and many strategy games after. If you go in expecting 
 a formulaic RTS, you'll be disappointed. Play with an open mind! 
  
  Note: If you are predominantly an online player, subtract a point from my score. The reason? The 
 online community is woefully small. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  Rise and fall civilizations at war is a game where you can Rise and immediatly fall (Like the title!) ! This 
 game provides you an intense feeling of reality during the combat when swapping from your troops 
 to your hero...
  This is a quality that only this game can provide you...
  The graphics are wonderfull even if you build anything the game won't lag!
  Amazing! The only 
 thing who disgusted me in this game is that there ain't any combo at all, you must chop your way 
 throw the ennemy lines with only tow manors: Single hit or Multiple hit!
  This is not really embarassing and the game is still cool and fun to play!
  
  Rise and Fall 
 is a game who's worth to be tried but those who are suspicious can download the free demo and try 
 a little bit of the game before buying it (recommended) !
  
  A good game for historic RTS fans who's worth to be bought...
  
  No4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrerep
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 3, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  It is difficult to describe the game play. You have a mix of realtime strategy blended with the 
 ability to take control of your hero for a first-person beat'em up. The first-person beat'em up 
 is where this game falls apart. First of all the AI is really dump and you can have your way with 
 them. Second, the first-person abilitiy turns the difficult of a real-time strategy really down 
 as you can take out swarms of troops with what appears to be an unkillable hero. Finally, the graphics 
 are though impressive, do not come close to other first-person beat'em up game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galaxy_Monkey
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 30, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  I personally thought this game was excellent, and I'm quite disappointed to find that Gamespot 
 didnt think the same. Sure... this game may have its drawbacks, but I for one cant think of an RTS 
 game that hasnt. Every RTS game I've played has always lacked in at least one area, but has it 
 stopped me from enjoying them? Hardly. 
  
  Hero mode is a very innovative feature to an RTS, and I was extremely happy with it once I finally 
 experienced it. As mentioned before, it does lack slightly, as it is not exactly varied in what 
 you can do while you're there, but its still fun none the less. 
  Secondly, naval combat in this game really suprised me. I've never been a naval fan, ever since 
 the old Command and Conquer days, personally I've never felt the need to use it (that and its never 
 really been that interesting) . However, this game has really opened my eyes. Naval combat is an 
 essential factor for victory here, and although the movement programming may be a little buggy, 
 its still the best kind I've ever tried.
  
  I think Gamespot should really stop focusing so much on the bad and should actually play the game 
 in more depth, maybe they'd enjoy it more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerebay12
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  It is utterly ridiculous that gamespot and other reviewers gave this game such low marks. This 
 game tries, it really does, and succeeds on many levels. Of course it's rough, but what game isn't? 
 Rome Total War, one of the best strategy games of all time, shipped without a functioning multiplayer 
 system. Look over these rough edges and you've got a solid RTS boosted by an incredible 3rd person 
 system that is simply unmatched by any game out to date. Don't confuse simplicity with being juvenile. 
 This RTS is simple but by no means easy to win nor unsatisfying. Age of Kings was arguably one 
 of the best RTSs ever, even though the distinction between civilizations, tech tree, graphics, 
 and sound were below par.
  
  Basically, gameplay is what It comes down to. And this game delivers. Add an easy-to-use RTS system, 
 an insanely fun 3rd-person hack-and-slash mode, and a truley revolutionary naval-combat setup, 
 and you've got on helluva good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fletch_Hen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  In the single player experience there are only Campaigns for Egypt and Greece and not Rome and 
 Persia as well which is a shame but there is an option to create a custom campaign with the campaign 
 and scenario editor. The Campaigns cut scenes are not really directed well because of the poor 
 movements but that is made up by the mission game play afterwards. There are also skirmishes to 
 play with all the civilizations in the game. The use of heroes in the Game can really turn the 
 tide of battle when it seems like you have lost. 
  
  In Multiplayer You have the choice of Playing On LAN Network or Internet Connection Once you Are 
 On you can have up to Eight players in multiple game types including team-based Mode Where One 
 player manages the resources while the other Destroys the enemy with Hero Mode.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rurouni6988
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 25, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  The idea behind this game is simple and great on paper, make a good RTS game but also include the 
 option to drop down to 3rd person so the player can actually fight the battles not just point, 
 click and watch. The problem is finding a way to execute it in a way thats fun and will make the 
 player keep coming back. Unfortunetly for Rise & Fall it makes a good effort but in the end comes 
 up short. 
  Graphics-
  From the overhead RTS view everything looks great, the enviroments look pretty good and the units 
 look and move realistically. The water especially, i thought, looks amazing. However from the 3rd 
 person hero command mode, it loses some of its beauty. You can deffinetly tell that your playing 
 a unit in a RTS game. The effects all look great, especially the catapults, but again they suffer 
 a bit when u drop down to 3rd person. Comparing it to other 3rd person action games, the graphics 
 are kinda bland. However taking into consideration the ammount of units you can have on screen 
 at once and the fact its a RTS game the graphics are pretty good.
  Sound-
  I have mixed feelings about the sound in this game. The music feels about right for this game, 
 its mostly fast paced and goes along with the ferocity of the battles. However some of the effects 
 and voices could've been done better. For example the sounds in the campaigns for whenever a tip 
 window appears was defaultly a bit too loud and just kind of annoying in my opinion. Another problem 
 I have is with the units voices. While I do like how when u select a unit it'll usually say what 
 it is such as "Hoplites ready for battle." What I dont like is the repetition of the same 3 commands 
 over and over. Voice acting for the campaigns are done about as well as any other RTS out there, 
 which usually isn't that great but it could be much worse. Sound effects such as explosions, screams, 
 workers working, etc all sound great and are very well done. Overall the music, effects and ambience 
 are great but the voices and some of the interface sounds will soon get annoying for the player.
 
  Gameplay-
  This is where I think a game quality is defined, if gorgeous looking or great sounding game has 
 lackluster gameplay then its wasting the effort but into visual and audio aspects. Rise & Fall 
 is one of those games. The RTS part of the game is done decently enough. Although theres nothing 
 really new or different it does the average well. A couple problems I had were the utter lack of 
 tactics and the weak formation tools. All you really need to do is mass produce a bunch of units, 
 making sure you have a decent variation of units, then select them all and attack move behind the 
 enemy army. You can if you chose do things like flank with a large force or cavalry or something 
 but just attacking as one big army works just as well. As for the formations, usually the smart 
 formation button does a decent job of keeping your troops in order, howver sometimes it'll do wierd 
 things. For example it decided to put my army of 300+ units into a long 2 row wavy line across 
 the width of the battlefield. 
  Hands down the best part of this game is the naval combat. Theres a real sense of scale when two 
 ships do battle against each other. You can chose to have archers attack from your ship or try 
 to ram the enemy in half or use grapple hooks to pull the enemy ship next to yours so you can board 
 it and capture it. You can also use your ships as mobile barracks. Land one on the shore and keep 
 pumping out fresh troops to overwhelm your opponent.
  While the RTS elements are stable, the 3rd person ones aren't so much. By hitting the Q button 
 when your hero has enough stamina you'll drop down to the 3rd person hero command mode. While this 
 is a very cool idea and fun at first, you'll quickly see the many flaws the system has. Your hero 
 is easy to control, you attack with the left mouse button, block with the spacebar, and switch 
 weapons with the number keys. You can also give simple commands like follow and charge. Again sounds 
 good on paper but when u get into it you notice the weakpoints. In this case the weakpoints are 
 just about everything. The combat is extremely simplistic, you basically just run around mashing 
 the mouse button untill everything is dead. The weapons seem like they weigh nothing, you dont 
 feel any sort of connection between you and your opponent you just swing at him and he falls over. 
 You also have ranged attacks but theyre also poorly done. If you enjoy repetative and simple combat 
 then you'll probobly be more forgiving, but if your like me youll get bored of it really quick.
 
  
  Overall I had some fun with this game and I still come back to it for some mindless action and 
 strategy. So if you like dumbed down RTS' s and action games then you might like this one. Otherwise 
 wait untill the price goes down a bit before trying it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c4h9ris
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Really good. I can t beleive they gave it like 6.6. 
  
  The third person element to it is fantastic and brings out a whole new style to an rts. Ive played 
 rts games for about 7 years and most of them have been only ok for a while with very little that 
 is 100% new. But having a 3rd person shooter element to it makes this game a must buy to anyone 
 who has ever bought or enjoyed an rts!
  
  You can play as: the greeks, persians, egyptians, romans
  
  Each civilisation has its own heroes 
 (2 each) and each with its own style of destruction. For example Rameses of Egypt can swing a giant 
 halberd (huge axe) around him in a Sauron style (lord of the rings) wacking motion, knocking everyone 
 near him flying, lol. But thts just a taster of what this game is like... but you'll just have 
 to go buy it to find that out lol... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptor11293
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is THE first game to be RTS and TPS (third peson shooter) at the same time. That one 
 innovative idea gave it the #1 spot on my wishlist.
  It has good graphics, nice music and sounnd effects, and best of all, HERO COMMAND MODE. Now you 
 can lead from the front lines! This gives it excellent replay value. Its very fun to wade into 
 combat and take out hundreds with a giant sword. Or you can hang back and shoot them with a bow. 
 Each hero also has a special ability. Ex. Alexander can shoot naptha coated exploding arrows to 
 destroy large formations! BUY RISE AND FALL!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olgert56
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 21, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  Rise & Fall is a Historic RTS game. When it was developing i was very excited from the pictures 
 and videos. But when it came out the game got 6.6 from Gamespot. I still bought the game and tried 
 it. I think the game deserves mor than a 6.6 because the game went through 2 game designers.
  
  Let's talk about Rise & Fall. First the graphics are really good even if you don't have a high 
 graphics card. I like that you can zoom in a lot and see the soldiers from very near. Gameplay 
 not so good. It will get boring after hours of playing. I like the campaign because it features 
 a nice story and it's very challenging in some parts. The only thing that I think it's excellent 
 is the hero command mode. I think it's great that they finally made a game that you can be a hero 
 and kill everyone you see. You can choose 2 heroes for each civilization. Each civilization has 
 a different technology as well as the heroes. The value of the game is not good. You will only 
 enjoy the game for a short time. The sound is ok. The game is easy except for some parts of the 
 campaign. 
  
  In conclusion, if you have a high PC and you can spare $50 you should buy it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brealeygp
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  For those of you looking for an RTS on par with the greats like Age of Empires or Rise of Nations, 
 look away now. Rise & Fall: Civilizations at war is an RTS on the surface, but one that truely 
 lacks in any real depth. There are only two resurces in the game; Gold & Wood; & with about 20-30 
 villagers (out of a population of up to 1000) you will have soon built all there is to build & 
 have a decent supply of resources coming in. All thats left after about 15mins of building & training 
 villagers is to build up your army & navy, & since combat -rather then economics- is at the heart 
 of this game, this is where it starts to pick up.
  
  The armies of the Four civilisations are quite limited in variation. Each has a select number of 
 melee soldiers, archers & horsemen as well as some siege & other units. This may not seem great, 
 & when playing in RTS mode it really isnt that special. However, this rather simplistic system 
 comes into its own when you take your hero character & go into Action mode. Suddenly things become 
 alot more intersting as you hack, slash & shoot your way through the hordes of enemy units; blood 
 & dead bodies falling all over the place. Its horridly simplistic but it works, & there can be 
 occasions where your actions as the hero can change the course of a battle. Of course you can command 
 your hero from RTS mode, but that defeats the while point of the character & is missing out on 
 one of the saving graces of the game.
  
  Land battles are the mainstay of this game, be it fighting battles on vast plains, desperately 
 defending your city from atop the walls, or breaking through the enemies defences & sacking their 
 cities. But Rise & Fall isnt limited to the Land. Navel conflict is something many traditional 
 RTS' treat rather sparingly, merely adding a few ships that shoot at eachother until one sinks. 
 Rise & Fall takes this one step further. There are less ships, but they do so much more. Ships 
 can be used as floating barracks, & once seaborn can be loaded up with men who take their place 
 on the deck ready to fight. Its these men, & not the ships themselves, that do the fighting on 
 the high seas. Train a drummer & your ship can become an awsome battering ram, catching enemy ships 
 in the flanks & ploughing into them, sending them to the bottom of the sea. Train some seamen, 
 & your ship will be able to repair itself & also to grapple with enemy ships, allowing your footsoldiers 
 to charge across the gangplanks & board the enemy vessel. Its horridly simplistic, but its so much 
 fun to watch as numerous enemy mariners try to swim for shore.
  
  As i warned at the beginning, this isnt a great RTS, & to be honest its not a great action game 
 either. However, I personally dont think its meant to be. The RTS side of the game really lasts 
 long enough for you to build up your army & move it into position & thats all its there to do. 
 The Action side is for when your on top of your enemy, allowing you to join your men in hacking 
 & slashing through the hordes of enemy. Its not pretty, its not clever, its not deep, but its not 
 bad. Dont knock it till youve tried it. Simple it may be, but its beauty lies in its simplicity. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BnryZombie
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 20, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  This is your basic RTS game that everyone loves to play. With one big improvemnet. You can now 
 control your hero from a direct 3rd person prospective, using the wasd butons and the mouse. There 
 are 2 campains you can run thru. Plus the ability to make your own maps and campains as well. And 
 the Map creator is a breeze to use very easy to use and get use to.
  All of these things put to gether plus multiplayer gameplay. 
  
  The only downfall of this 
 game is the simple fact that they use starforce disk protection. yes i know alot of people hate 
 the fact that people **** about it. But it really eratates me when i have to uninstall other software 
 just to play a game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marek990
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing it revolutionizes RTS everywhere. Hero command is a new addition to the RTS 
 genre and perhaps there will be other games like this too :P. Graphics arent bad but they could 
 be better tough the water and some enviroments look gorgeous on my comp lol :D. At first i tought 
 this game was gonna be like rtw (bah) but im glad they sticked to the RTS. The RTS portion of the 
 game is good ( i just love building a huge base lol) its great for 20 minutes building a huge base 
 and walls. And finally the hero mode-The hero mode is a very great opportunity for players to be 
 the hero in the front lines hacking through hundreds of legions .Thats why this game is highly 
 addictive. Tough SSSi was shut down i knew that some company would pick this game up and create 
 the greatest game ever created! Two words star force thats why half of this games fans never bought 
 it because it messes up their computers. So i believe that this game will last very long like aoe 
 II and age of kings. So believe me this game has revolutionized the RTS genre. For all you RTS junkies 
 out there who havent bought this game I strongly suggest that you buy it youre in for a thrill 
 of a lifetime! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mGard
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  The expectations for Rise & Fall: Civilizations at War was high. In this game, you will encounter 
 huge naval battles, heroes of ancient times, such as: Julius Caesar, Cleopatra, Alexander and Achilles 
 and intense moments of fighting.
  
  The game takes place in ancient Greece and Rome. There are two campaigns available. Alexander Campaign 
 and Cleopatra Campaign. In each campaign you will follow either Alexander or Cleopatra through 
 their mission to save the day. The missions are very well made, with lots of different and fun 
 variations. Such as 3rd person naval battles, gladiator fights, sneaking through a whole in the 
 enemy defenses and destroying vital buildings and fighting against other important characters.
 
  
  Another great and innovative feature is Hero Command Mode. This lets you zoom in on your hero to 
 fight in 3rd person mode. Each hero has one or two special abilities, such as artillery barrage 
 which rains down a deadly barrage on the enemy. During some mission you will have to control your 
 hero through the entire map. This CAN be frustrating, but only if you play on hard difficulty. 
 Hero mode lets you block attacks with a shield, but this is quite useless, since you seem to take 
 almost the same amount of damage, and using 5 seconds of blocking could have killed ten enemy soldiers, 
 so basicly you just go into hero mode to "hack n' slash".
  
  Other than this, the game is a fairly normal RTS game. Building, gathering recourses, recruiting 
 armies, but one thing is quite new, or at least not that used. Naval battles. You can recruit a 
 drummer on your ship, and get the ability to ram other ships which is a cool feature. Also boarding 
 is another feature, which lets you take control of the enemy ship if you eliminate all who are 
 occupying the ship. A ship also works as a naval barracks, and it doesn't seem to have any limitations 
 to how many troops you can recruit. An excellent way to take the enemy by surprise. Well in which 
 case you don't, since the enemy AI is pretty simple.
  
  The graphics are not fantastic. In fact they are quite bad. Also arrows fly right through a lot 
 of solid objects. Also this game's first developer quit the project and was taken over by another 
 developer, which seems to have come at a price, with graphics and physics in mind.
  
  Rise & Fall has great variated gameplay, and gives you at least 15 hours of intense game play. 
 Graphics are bad and weighs down on the gameplay, but overall this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Rise and Fall: Civilizations at war takes place during the time of heroes. The time in which one 
 man truly could influence the tide of battle. The game play truly shows the dominace heroes had 
 on the battlefield. The game difficulty is unique. The generals do not flat at attack you, but 
 they will always launch counter attacks after they have wiped out your attacking forces. This aspect 
 makes you truly have to think long term. 
  The game play is like any normal RTS, but with an aspect of hack and slash. This is truly unique 
 and will keep most gamers entertained. The sound is decent and the music is unique. There are a 
 variety of maps to choose from and a variety of units each with their own strengths and weaknesses. 
 This game truly is a step forward for RTS blending. I would recommend this game to anyone who likes 
 strategy games and has the urge to mindless kill large groups of people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sprintguy1376
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  Rise and Fall seems like the traditional run of the mill RTS, that is, until you inspect its gameplay 
 further. Rise and Fall is not just an RTS, it is also a third person action game. It blends these 
 two concepts into a quite pleasurable experience, if you are able to overlook a few flaws and glitches.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  I thought the gameplay was very respectable. The RTS mode is simpler than most other RTS's since 
 the only two resources that need to be gathered are wood and gold, but there is also glory which 
 you gain by expanding your empire, capturing outposts, and killing enemy units. Glory should be 
 treated as a resource because it's what you use to upgrade your soldiers and your Hero. Hero mode 
 is quite simply amazing. Its fast paced and relentless. Its a little mindless, just clicking and 
 you swing your sword, but you're always going to hit something. There's also a few hotkeys while 
 in hero mode so you don't lose your control over your whole army like Run, Charge, and Follow. 
 Also, each hero has their own special power that can turn the tide of war at the players consent. 
 What hurt the gameplay was the glitches. In the campaign, one level my citizens were stuck outside 
 of the town center in some invisible wall. Along with the archers being able to shoot through walls 
 and cliffs brings down the gameplay score. It just felt a little rough around the edges, but enjoyable 
 nonetheless.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in Rise and Fall are not astounding by any means. The units are sometimes blocky and 
 some buildings are a little boring and almost lifeless. But, the reason I gave the graphics a good 
 score was because of its potential. You have the potential to go into Hero Mode, zoomed in to all 
 the action, with over 5200 units on screen at once. There is a bit of slowdown when this happens 
 but it's nothing that can't be bared. I don't think any computer today would fully render 5200 
 units close up and still run it more than 15 FPS. Alas, the terrain is bland and uninspired. I 
 still believe its an amazing feat that SSSI has accomplished.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in this game is quite good. The moment this game hit the CD tray I felt like I was part 
 f something epic. The music is done too well to be imagined. I love the orchestral feel of the 
 gameplay and it's real time sound. You don't just loop the same songs, you get different musical 
 scores for when you attack, for when you're being attacked, and when you're hero levels up. The 
 campaign has some pretty well done voice acting too. I think the theme song is overused a bit, 
 but not to an abysmal point.
  
  Value:
  I honestly think I will be playing this game for years. I love the skirmish mode and its way variable 
 difficulty. It's not just easy, medium, hard, the difficulty ranges from 1-10. Its great for gradual 
 increases in difficulty instead of a sudden one. You can fine tune the population and choose your 
 own unique civilization to play as. The multi-player is great as well. There are still some problems 
 on the server which need to be fixed but once that is updated I believe I'll be playing a lot more 
 multi-player. There are some lagging problems on the server as well which are kind of annoying, 
 but a patch is probably in the making. Patience is a virtue.
  
  Reviewers Tilt:
  I do honestly think this game is superb. There are some glitches and flaws that you may have to 
 overlook, but once you do, you'll see the game for what it is. Just don't over analyze every aspect 
 of the game and don't compare it to any other game because there is none. This game kind of reminds 
 me of Deus Ex. It doesn't do just one thing great. Though they are almost nothing alike, they do 
 share the concept of genre blends. Very few genre blends actually work, but Rise and Fall did. 
 If this game was just an RTS, I wouldn't have liked it. If this game was just a 3rd person action, 
 I wouldn't have liked it. But its the blend of the two that make this game worth playing.
  
  Thank You Stainless Steel Studios
  
  Final Score: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrbje
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 17, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  For the first time in ages RTS type games get some new elements, personally i have been feed up 
 with RTS since AOII, gamespot claims there is lack of tactic and strategy in this game,, as if 
 any RTS really has these elements anyway,, i havnt seen one to date.
  
  Based on the demo this seems like a far above avarage entertaining RTS with new elements, and despite 
 what gamespot says i would say there is definatly more tactics and strategy in the combat here, 
 terrain seems to be taken into account for archer and so on. The possibility to get involved with 
 the combat in FPS seems to be done very nice.
  
  Il admitt to this game might being a little rough around the edges, but nothing critical and i 
 would claim you get new experience in this game,, and that counts alot these days when noone seems 
 to be able to develop a single original gameplay idea 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ele975
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 17, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game now and it rocks, i did Alexander's campaign and completted in Medium difficulty 
 but i noticed some slight errors in the game. when you move around in the game in RTS mode you 
 can see the mpa kinda skips heck of alot of times making it impossible to guide your army trough 
 mountains (here is a trick, go to game settings, the enter the last option of the game. then you 
 look at the Map Scrolling then turn it down to you can't any more) I kept playing the game any 
 way but i noticed something is NOT right. it lagged which it shouldn't becuse 512mb graphic card, 
 1.5gig RAM and AMD Athlon (tm) 64 X2 Dual Core Processor 4200+ and can run The Elder Scrolls Oblivion 
 at Ultra High. Then this means there are serious Framerate problems at the game.
  
  But the good stuff is there is alot of action is in this game and hard tactict thinking. This game 
 is a great game to have and rec buying this game. But please there are few noticable errors in 
 the game.
  
  If you are new to RTS games then you should practise at Play Against Computer in Singel Player 
 mode to learn about the game and do the toturial as well.
  
  This game isn't easy as you all might think it is a little hard and challenging at some levels. 
 And here is a rec: Level up your hero at Alexander's Campaign [MAJOR SPOILER!] Later in the game 
 at Alexander's Campaign you get captured by the enemy and you are going to fight in their Arena 
 (which is why you should level up your hero as many times as you can and your soldiers.) or else 
 you'll have a hard time completing the Arena. if you haven't played any RTS or RPG games before.
 
  
  The military units in the game are basicly same as the 4 other's have yet a little different. Maybe 
 some mod's will come in the later future.
  
  When a Patch is out and i have tried it out, i'll come back and edit this review for more accurate 
 review of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KENICUS
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  I love strategy game especially historical based ones but this one left me feeling alittle disappointed 
 and wanting. I like the hero mode but I feel that the strategy aspect of the game was sacrificied 
 for real action. Good idea though, nonetheless! More strategy less hero mode will equate to better 
 game. The naval battles are pretty good. The maps are way too small especially if more than two 
 are playing. Since, strategy is not the major point of the game, I guess that's why the maps are 
 small. The resources are depleted way too fast and the resources (gold) is extremely scarce. I 
 would have enjoyed empire building with conquest being a necessary aspect of the game instead of 
 a palette designed solely for hero mode action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kristian56
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 16, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  When i started playing I thought awesome. With its nice graphics massive battles and the 3rd person 
 hero control. Also the editor that comes with it means for endless different experiences with the 
 ability to put yours on line so other people can downlod it and play.
  
  Then after a while of playing i noticed the lack of different types of units all you have r  
 and catapults and thats the same for all 4 civilizations, then later on i noticed the 3rd person 
 hero control got boring fast with only weak attack strong attack and bow and arrow.
  
  Overall: if u want a game that u will be playing for months after buying go els wear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dingbat91
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  the game is a fantastic piece of work mixing RTS and HAS (hack and slash) action is great!!! the 
 ability to move you troops then get in the thick of it while there fighting is one great bit of 
 fun.
  
  The sea battles are a thing to behold you have not played this game till you have had a big naval 
 battle
  
  this is NOT for hardcore RTS fans this is for people who like abit of extra features in there RTS 
 game's
  
  and just to finish off I'm not a fan boy i have got AOE3, ROL, RON and extra's but the review gamespot 
 gave this really is nothing compared to what the game is... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleavertrash
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  game has numerous problems
  mainly because it was not optimized well for min spec users.
  campaign AI is very dull and dumb like most RTS games on market today.
  graphics are not bad 
 for high end systems but feel they could of done way better.
  
  i think the biggest factor in this game is hero mode that everyone who has played the game Demo 
 or retail will agree hero mode was rushed feels like 
  old FPS shooter like dukenukem snes days!!!!
  
  path finding problems and the glitches the 
 game seemed to shipped seem to be my only main drawbacks to the game beside the FPs problem witch 
 hopefully will be fix in a upcoming patch.
  
  another point is game is star-force protected meaning all the extra background apps running mainly 
 svchost. dll files it installs when checking to see if you have cd thats causes a heating problem 
 for people who don't have more then 1 fan in there pc you would think with all the lawsuits that 
 have been going on with starforce,
  
  i give game a 8.4 rateing becuase was rushed when they could of did it right on first run.
  Graphics 
 are great with high end system and ok with a ok system.
  
  music and sound for game i think of good no real problem here.
  the multi-player aspect of the 
 game is its high point i think besides the other bugs amazed gamespot did not even talk about it 
 at all,
  
  beside some of the problems game shipped with i think its still well worth buying just wish it 
 was done right before it shiped.
  
  p. s sorry for my spelling its late and wish game spot would of played the game more then 5 hrs 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bracket_man
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Outdated graphics engine, simplistic controls and strategy concept, horrible scripting, and more! 
 Don't know what the average age of people reviewing this game are, but have they never played any 
 of the total war series? This game is supposed to be a strategy game with a 3rd person hero twist, 
 but it ended up as a arcade shootem up - although be it not a bad concept, if that was its intended 
 purpose.
  
  The game itself is boring, because its so simple. I've heard everyone of these great reviews talk 
 about how difficult the game is - did all of you just move up from a Winnie the Pooh and his lost 
 treasure game to this one? Lets put it this way, its harder writing this review to make it sound 
 like this game isnt a complete waste of money.
  
  Sound is alright at best, but isnt getting me into the game any more than if I had no sound at 
 all.
  
  All in all its a good game for $19.99, but not for the openning price. Let it hit the bargain bin 
 in another month or two, since the game isnt exactly flying off the shelves.
  
  The gamespot review was pretty good, although the "fast reactions" that the editor talks about 
 arent really all that "fast" to me (maybe its just me) . PC Gamer UK must to have either just fired 
 the editor that reviewed the game or the publisher spent alot of money to get a good review, because 
 that review was a outright lie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iNtRePiD8p
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Rise and Fall is an interesting spin on the RTS genre that is well worth checking out. While Rise 
 and Fall may not appeal to everyone it certainly does have its qualities that help to set it apart 
 from other RTS titles.
  
  Rise and Fall sports fairly impressive graphics considering the fact that this game is played both 
 from a zoomed in perspective and from the standard RTS perspective. The game has the occasional 
 graphical hiccup, but these are few and far between and do little to distract from the quality 
 of the game. Particularly noteworthy are the water effects, which are possibly the best to date, 
 and sheer number of units that the Rise and Fall engine can support.
  
  The game suffers from the occasionally graphical slowdown, often brought on by the AI or the construction 
 of numerous buildings at once. The guys at Midway could have done a lot more to optimize this game, 
 as the game feels somewhat unoptimized in its final iteration. One of the great strengths of the 
 Titian Engine (the engine that Rise and Fall runs on) has always been its ability to work on wide 
 range of computers. It is somewhat sad that Rise and Fall was rushed out the door before the game 
 could be fully optimized, considering how well Empire Earth and Empires: Dawn of the Modern World 
 were optimized. (Empire Earth and Empires: Dawn of the Modern were both RTS titles that were developed 
 by SSSI) 
  
  The failure to fully optimize the game is likely the result of studio switch that occurred partway 
 through Rise and Falls development. SSSI the development studio that developed the bulk of Rise 
 and Fall went out of business at the end of 2005. The game was then picked up by one of Midways 
 internal studios, and subsequently completed.
  
  There are two campaigns that ship with Rise and Fall; one about Alexander the Great and one about 
 Cleopatra. It is somewhat disappointing that Midway chose to go the ahistorical route with these 
 campaigns, campaigns based on actual historical events would have been much more interesting than 
 the ones that were developed. That said the campaigns themselves are still rather fun. The objectives 
 throughout the campaigns are fairly diversified. Though you will base build occasionally, the campaigns 
 are not defined by base building like in so many other RTS titles (Age of Empires III, Rise of 
 Nations, Age of Mythology) . 
  
  The campaigns are not without their problems however. One of the problems that severely cripples 
 both campaigns is the terrible cut scenes that ship with the game. For some baffling reason the 
 developers decided to create ugly Bik videos using the in game camera. The Rise and Fall engine 
 is beautiful, these cinematics should have been done in game. Turning them into low quality Bik 
 videos essentially robbed them of all their charm, and transformed what could have been the most 
 impressive RTS cut scenes to date into some of the worst.
  
  Rise and Fall offers 24 pre designed skirmish maps that can be enjoyed online and against the AI. 
 The Rise and Fall AI, like every other RTS AI to date, is incredibly stupid. Some of the AIs decisions 
 are absolutely mind-boggling. That said, even though the AI is stupid, at its hardest it still 
 is quite a challenge to beat due to the resource bonuses that it receives.
  
  The meat of Rise and Fall really lies in the multiplayer experience. The four civilizations, the 
 Romans, Persians, Greeks and Egyptians are fairly well balanced. The game has only been out for 
 a few days now, but we have still yet to see any of the game destroying strategies that have plagued 
 other RTS titles on launch. 
  
  The four civilizations are highly diversified. Each civilization has its own compliment of unique 
 units and buildings. Experienced players will most likely gravitate towards the Persians and Egyptians 
 while RTS novices may find themselves more at home playing as the Romans and Greeks.
  
  Rise and Fall brings two major innovations to the table: Hero Mode and Naval Combat. Hero Mode, 
 despite what other reviews have been professing, does not dominate the game. Less than 5% of the 
 time you spend playing this game is in Hero Mode. Hero Mode is really just a useful tool to deal 
 with certain strategic dilemmas. Each player will probably find his or her own unique way to strategically 
 utilize Hero Mode. Personally, I like to use Hero to mode to take out the archers in towers and 
 to deal with siege engines
  
  The second innovation, Naval Combat, is absolutely phenomenal. Naval Combat in Rise and Fall is 
 like nothing else seen before in a RTS game. After this game it will be totally unacceptable for 
 RTS developers to pawn off the mediocre naval combat models that they have been feeding us for 
 such a long period of time.
  
  Ships in Rise and Fall can be use to transport, and train units. In addition ships can also ram 
 and grapple other ships. If you maneuver your ship into the position where you can ram another 
 ship, you can send it to the bottom in one swift action. Personally, I never ram. Not because it 
 isnt fun, simply because when I see an enemy ship on the high seas, I want to add it to my fleet. 
 Thus I always go the grapple route.
  
  The units in Rise and Fall are the standard fare that you would expect from a game based in antiquity. 
 You have spearmen, archers, cavalry, catapults, swordsmen, civilians as well as a slew of other 
 units. Though it isnt a long list of units, it works to help keep the game simple. No one wants 
 to play a game where you have 30 kinds of swordsmen that all have different relations to each other.
 
  
  Perhaps the best feature of Rise and Fall is the editor that ships with the game. Simply put: This 
 is the best RTS editor to date. With the editor you can construct your own scenarios, campaigns 
 and multiplayer scenarios. The editor is so powerful that youre only really limited by your imagination. 
 I can guarantee that you are going to see better stuff than the standard half-baked RPG scenarios 
 that usually dominate the download section of a typical RTS game.
  
  Rise and Fall isnt a game for everyone, but it is certainly worth checking out if you are an RTS 
 fan who is looking to play a solid RTS title that mixes things up a little bit. Rise and Fall is 
 not revolutionary, but it does put an interesting spin on what has become a stale, stale genre.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chonaman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  I haven't seen a truly comprehensive, balanced review of this game by the "professionals" on any 
 of the gaming sites. That must be because the "professionals" have a quota to meet, since they 
 clearly haven't played this game enough to know much about it. This is obvious from the many omissions 
 in their reviews, and from their (obviously) shallow knowledge of the game's key concepts.
  
  I've had the good fortune to have played this game for over a year, first as a volunteer playtester 
 at SSSI, and now as the owner of a copy of the retail release of the game ( for which I gladly 
 paid $50 ) . I can tell you that Rise & Fall is much better than most of the reviewers have rated 
 it, especially if you truly like RTS games but are looking for something fresh. I am a seasoned 
 RTS player, and that is exactly what I was looking for and found with Rise & Fall.
  
  This game isn't a rehash of Rome: Total War. It is a true, epic, RTS game. You'll have large land 
 battles, you'll have complex, gripping naval warfare, and you'll be able to get down and dirty 
 on the battlefield in 3rd person combat. You've got all the basic RTS elements of economy, unit 
 micromanagement and strategic decision-making with regard to map control. But the mix of all these 
 elements is what makes it much more fun than any RTS I've played in years. The economy is slightly 
 streamlined, giving you more time to manage and enjoy the visuals provided by the huge battles 
 in the game, and to use your hero effectively.
  
  The bottom line is, while not everyone can or will like this (or any other) game, if you're the 
 right type of player, you will absolutely love Rise & Fall. It is FUN to play, and it is very interesting 
 in multi-player. Try the demo, and realize it's just a teaser, not a true representation of the 
 game or the Campaigns. If you play it 4 times and don't like it, don't buy it. But if you like 
 it after the first play, you're going to love it in the full version.
  
  The game has only one drawback, and that is with respect to system requirements. You absolutely 
 must have a good 3D video card with at least 128 MB of RAM. The faster/better your system, the 
 more you'll enjoy the game. The graphics are stunning, but you can't enjoy them at their best without 
 a high-end system. Evidently, they didn't tell the reviewers this important piece of information, 
 since most of them complained about "slow frame-rates". LoL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanoko
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  In my opinion this game holds true to both gameplay and combining an RTS with a third person action 
 game. Has never been created as good as this game. Therefore I enjoyed controlling four different 
 civilizations battling in multiplayer, campaign and skirmish modes. This diversity allows for a 
 longer and more fun gameplay experience. It offers a vast majority of ways to battle, city build 
 and again in my opinion doesn't have many flaws to the game. Even though it was hard for Midway 
 to continue the creation process since Stainless Steel Studios broke apart from it. I rate this 
 a majority of 10 out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 14, 2006 3:22 am PT
Review:  think this is one of the best RTS games of all time! I dont no why gamespot rated it so low, i 
 have lost all respect for Gamespot they just dont seem to like RTS games. It sounds like the reviewer 
 has been playing it for 2 hours then just posted the review. How can he rate the Graphics 6? even 
 the water engine on its own deserves a 8 or 9... he must have been playing it on a crap PC because 
 thats what it sounds like. All the other reviews Ive seen for RAF have been above 9 / 90%. And 
 all the users after 100 votes have rated it 8.5. it seems all Gamespot cares about is FPS and other 
 console games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fekd_up
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  Dont let the bad reviews scare you, you will get your moneys worth out of this game. Its relatively 
 simple compared to some other rts' when it comes to resources (just wood and gold) , but the land 
 and sea battles are some of the best. Plus with the 1st/3rd person style of the game (which it 
 does a very good job of) and its large dedicated fanbase (defending it to the death) multiplayer 
 should be active and fun for quite awhile.
  
  This is my first review of a game, im only reviewing it because i believe the mainstream reviews 
 are way off. There have been few games like this one and they all recieve poor reviews, some deserved 
 it but this one doesn't. At least play the demo before deciding whether or not to buy it. If you 
 like the demo than you will like the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markdzebissov
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 13, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I got this game just yesterday, and I honestly must say I am disappointed. I stopped playing this 
 game already and went back to Battlefield 2, Rome: Total War, World of Warcraft, and some others. 
 This game tries to have good graphics, yet they come out completely bad. The only reason I bought 
 this game in the first place is because of hero mode, but then that is limited due to stamina dropping 
 every time you attack, swim, or get hit. I also bought it because there was nothing else in stores 
 at this moment. I have been playing some games for a year and not gotten bored of them, but I got 
 bored of this one the first day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 13, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games which immidiatly strikes you as a good idea that has been explored by 
 bigger and better games. It also tries to be many things for many people, but not in the way that 
 most people want. I think most people love a game that does so many things like Elder Scrolls: 
 Oblivion, but the makers of Rise & Fall: Civilizations at War need to understand that it's the 
 gameplay, not the change in perspective that makes it different and fun. R&F focuses too much on 
 a gimmecky and sometimes forced perspective change to make you feel that it's a "big" game, when 
 it's really just a pure strategy game mated with an RTS like Warhammer 40k. I am singularly unimpressed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huangzhihao
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I don't know how to describe it. I have waited for this game to come out for a long time, though 
 good, it is not as great as I expected.
  
  The graphic is good, if you have a good PC. Try turn the water detail to max and you will see the 
 difference. The best part of the game is that you can control the heros yourself and lead your 
 men personally onto battle field. God, i just like that feeling. The sea battle is also something 
 new and it is extremely fun, especially ramming enemy boat and see the crew sink with it. Generally, 
 this game introduces some really good and interesting concepts.
  
  Now, the bad part. Like some one else there already said, I hate the old-style it is played. Just 
 like age of empire, you "build" bunch of workers and send them to cut down trees and gether gold. 
 I really prefer a more complicated tech tree that you need buildings to process the raw materials 
 and food, which is not even one of the resources in the game!! You have all those troops popping 
 out of barrack fully equiped, but where did all the weapons and armor come from?? I thought this 
 game would be different. Because of all that, you build better troops according to your hero's 
 level. In the end, you and your enemy both build the best soldiers who are equally strong, and 
 the war takes on and on. Some AI in the game really piss you off. For example, the archers, they 
 don't even bother to look at you when you cut them down one by one with your hero. 
  
  Still a lot of work need to be done to make it a master piece. Hope some mods will come out soon 
 to solve some problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obi-2-kenobi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This is undoubtedly the most eye catching game of the 2006 game season so far. This, my gaming 
 fellows, is nothing short of giving Midway a great reputation in the gaming community. Easily, 
 the most recognizable acheivement of Rise and Fall: Civilizations at War, is the unparalelled naval 
 combat, and third person/first person hero command. Definetly worth the $74.47 (Canadian with Ontario 
 Tax) or $50.99 American (i dont know the tax rate) you will ever spend. Midway has told gamers 
 to expect YEARS of replayability, and from preliminary playing, that is sure as hell right. This 
 game is definately worth the wait. At first, i thought this game would blow because of SSSI and 
 their unexpected and abrupt bankrupcy, but Midway really picked up the pieces good and pulled through.
 
  
  Obi-2-Kenobi 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
