-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rise of Nations: Thrones & Patriots
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/riseofnationsthrone/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 27, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.8, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 2,699 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Big Huge Games
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Apr 27, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Thrones and Patriots is an expansion pack that offers more than just new content; it also makes 
 a superb real-time strategy game even better. 

  To say that the new expansion pack to Rise of Nations has a lot to live up to would be a huge understatement. 
 After all, Rise of Nations was the best real-time strategy game of last year, not to mention GameSpot's 
 2003 PC Game of the Year. Yet the designers at Big Huge Games apparently recognized that there 
 was some room for improvement in their masterpiece, so they went back to the drawing board to shore 
 up the game's scarce weaknesses. The result is that Thrones and Patriots is an expansion pack that 
 offers more than just new content; it also makes a superb game even better.  

          Alexander the Great marches on Thebes. You can raze the city if you take it.     

  
 Thrones and Patriots includes the obligatory amount of new content that you'd expect from an expansion 
 pack; there are six new nations, including the oft-requested Americans, Indians, Persians, Iroquois, 
 Lakota, and Dutch, as well as 20 new units and three new wonders of the world. There's also a new 
 government system that lets you choose from six different government types, including republic, 
 despotism, communism, and democracy, each of which bestows unique advantages and bonuses. This 
 is an attempt to instill some of the government choices and effects from Civilization, and the 
 system is nicely integrated so it doesn't feel "tacked on," and it doesn't interrupt the flow of 
 the game.  

  The six new nations are each a pleasure to play, and their strengths and weaknesses complement 
 those of the existing 18 nations. The Indians get cheaper building costs, allowing them to expand 
 quickly; the Lakota specialize in cavalry; the Iroquois flourish in forests and are tough to root 
 out; the Americans get better science and airpower bonuses; the Dutch flourish in terms of trade 
 and commerce; and the Persians are masters of civilization. Each nation also features its own unique 
 units, such as the powerful elephants of the Persians and Indians and the hardy US Marines.  

 
  However, at the heart of the expansion are four new "conquer the world" campaigns, based on Alexander 
 the Great, Napoleon, the conquest of the New World, and the Cold War. The original game shipped 
 with just the single conquer the world campaign, and while the campaign provided a turn-based, 
 Risk-like strategic element to the game, it felt too large and unwieldy and it took too long to 
 play. In contrast, these new campaigns are smaller and much more focused, and they're terrific. 

  In Alexander the Great's campaign, you have a limited amount of time in which you must wrest control 
 of the ancient world, including Europe, the Middle East, and India. The Napoleon campaign tasks 
 you with taking over Europe in only a certain number of turns, meaning you have to balance diplomacy 
 and conquest in order to achieve your goal before time runs out. You can wheel and deal with nations, 
 offering them bribes in terms of territories (the battles in the territories can be especially 
 hairy) and colonies in order to ally with you. The New World campaign lets you play as the Americans, 
 the Native American tribes, or the European powers in an attempt to dominate the Americas. If you're 
 playing as the Americans, you can contend against the French and Iroquois at the same time; victory 
 is a difficult objective when both sides hit you at once. The battlefields will also shift to represent 
 the territory you're fighting for. For instance, in the Pacific Northwest, the map is literally 
 a maze of narrow passages and clearings in a giant forest -- which makes maneuvering difficult and 
 offers plenty of choke points -- while the Louisiana Bayou is a dense swamp crisscrossed with rivers. 

  Perhaps the best campaign is the Cold War, which lets you play as either the Soviets or the Americans. 
 In addition to the diplomatic arm-twisting to sign up client states and the battles that re-create 
 the flashpoints of the Cold War, you can also engage in a nuclear arms buildup and espionage missions, 
 which challenge you to accomplish various mission objectives using nothing but spies. Meanwhile, 
 certain events -- such as blatant US intervention in Cuba -- might trigger an escalation in the tension 
 between superpowers, raising the DEFCON, or tension, level. If the DEFCON level reaches critical 
 mass, nuclear war is automatically unleashed, and you can experience mutually assured destruction 
 in action.  

  The other interesting thing about the campaigns is that the missions vary, and you'll have to engage 
 in tasks other than just the standard base-building and tank-rushing, or swarming of the enemy. 
 For example, if your territory is invaded, you may have to conduct guerrilla warfare with a limited 
 number of units. Or you may start a level having to rush to an ally's defense. Missions are also 
 dynamic in that they can unfold in different ways. For example, as Napoleon conquering Egypt, if 
 you can conquer your first city in dramatic fashion other cities may switch allegiance to you without 
 a fight. You'll also be given a choice as to whether you wish to aid the Egyptians in overthrowing 
 their oppressors or whether you wish to simply become their new overlord. Your decision will have 
 ramifications in that battle as well as in the campaign.  

          Belgium, Germany, or Switzerland. Where do you want to go today, Napoleon?     

  Thrones 
 and Patriots retains the same highly customizable multiplayer component featured in the original 
 game. You can play with up to eight players in a variety of modes and pad out empty slots with 
 computer nations. Our only concern is that the game still incorporates a bit of lag, even when 
 playing over a network. For example, there are slight pauses when you give build orders to a citizen 
 or when you order military units to a certain spot on the map.  

  The expansion offers up some tweaks to the user interface and color palette -- there are now autumn 
 colors and foliage -- but otherwise, it retains the same look and feel of the original game, which 
 has held up well in the intervening months. In the end, Thrones and Patriots is a definite must-have 
 for fans of Rise of Nations; the new nations offer up interesting variety and gameplay styles, 
 while the new campaigns introduce the narrative drive and focus that the original campaign lacked. 
 Thrones and Patriots is a highly enjoyable experience and an excellent expansion to an already 
 outstanding game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (46 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Comandante2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Rise of nations thrones and patriots has a great campaign. Unfortunately, the graphics, in my opinion, 
 are still about a 7 out of 10. No improvement. But the game has new nations and units. Thrones 
 and Patriots does what the previous game didnt. It actually has real campaigns, such as the cold 
 war and the new world. Its better than aoe 3, considering aoe has only the new world. online play 
 is all right, but dont go in if youre a rookie. The Native American addition is nice, but not necessary. 
 The adding of the Persians brings in elephant units, which is also nice. You can also play in skirmish 
 mode with the computer, and put in your own rules. So if you are a fan of RTS, you will likely 
 enjoy this game, even with the same graphics. Its a great expansion. The original Rise of Nations 
 and this game cost only 20 bucks, and well worth it. I give the game a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kerry12424
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot to it. Now, I bought Rise of Nations with this expansion pack so I don't know 
 how much better it made the game, but it appears very fun.
  
  The first thing I really liked was the appearance of so many countries/cultures. That really allows 
 for many options. I also liked how the appearance of each nation really was the true appearance. 
 Many games would attempt, but once the modern eras were hit, everything became one. Here, the air 
 force had each nation's symbol to a degree. Japan had their symbol giving you the appearance of 
 the zero-fighters. Each unit for each nation looks different as well, including the aircraft. The 
 fact that the carrier has its own planes that they build is also a nice thing. Other games, you 
 would have to create a plane at an airfield and send it to a carrier.
  
  The specialized units are a cool feature as well. Many games have them, but it's always nice to 
 see, although i feel that there could have been more than what was seen.
  
  That's some of the only good parts I could find. There's a bit more, but not worth putting. You 
 really can't control that much about the game before you start. You cannot pick any other team's 
 colors, you cannot pick placement on maps (not all games do) , and what really annoyed me about 
 controlling, you cannot make world domination your own. sure, u can have a total world domination, 
 but you can't say who's in it or what time stretch it is or what's allowed or what rules apply. 
 I'm one of those people that like to control the action that's about to occur.
  
  The last little piece of criticism that I have lies with the modern eras. I really do enjoy the 
 earlier eras. There's stuff to do, land to conquer, strategies to play.... but with the modern 
 era, it's air defense. That's the name of the game. And you cannot shoot down the planes easily 
 by any means, nor can you shoot down the missiles. And buildings must be repaired and they just 
 keep attacking. When you destroy their cities, they're rebuilt in seconds. Before planes, you'd 
 have to invade cities and take 'em that way, but it's really hard to do that once the industrial 
 era is hit. You're being bombed and shot at in every which way and when you attack back, their 
 cities are not destroyed, just the buildings around them so they come back in and rebuild the city.
 
  
  This game is exciting and fun for the earlier ages, but that's where I would like to keep it half 
 the time.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juliusanime
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted to reenact a certain war in a game? Ever wanted to know what if the Japanese actually 
 conquered the world? Ever wondered why I'm not shutting the hole (mouth) up? Well Rise of Nations: 
 Thorns & Patriots is the game for you! :D
  
  Rise of Nations: Thorns & Patriots is a version of Rise of Nations that people might enjoy if you 
 are into RTS games. 
  
  Rise of Nations basically has each country to pick from. Heck, they even have the Aztecs and the 
 Mayans to pick from! You can pick countries like the USA, England, Germany, Italy, Mongolia, India, 
 China, Korea, Japan, etc. Each has it's own uniqueness like Spain has he power of wealth, Japan 
 has the power of military (I think?) , Brazil has the power of heart (Note: Brazil isn't a selected 
 country to pick from) , together... I AM cAPtAiN PLAneTz!!! Ok... sorry for that bad joke....
  
  The gameplay is cool, the graphics (well, at the time it was released) is cool, it was a type 
 of game that would be considred a classical RTS game years from now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greg25kk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  WARNING!!!!!: BEFORE YOU DO ANY OFF THIS CREATE A BACKUP FOLDER IN CASE IT GOES WORNG
  
  ok how you do this is you need to go into computer local disk C program files and find: Microsoft 
 Games then go to rise of nations and click on: Thrones and Patriots ok now find tribes choose a 
 contury that you want to turn into your native one and right click on it select edit NOTE: YOU 
 DO NOT NEED TO DOWNLOAD ANDYTHING TO EDIT IT and you will come up with now you will come up with 
 something that looks like this 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  John A Macdonald
  Wilfrid Laurier
  Isaac Brock
  Lloyd Chadburn
  
  
  Ottawa
  Toronto
  London
  Vernon
 
  Montreal
  Vancouver
  Victoria
  Edmonton
  Calgary
  Winnipeg
  Iquaulit
  Quebec City
  Yellowknife
  Whitehorse
  Windsor
  Sudbury
  Niagra Falls
  Port Hope
  
 Red Deer
  Leamington
  Finger Eleven
  Sum 41
  Three Days Grace
  Billy Talent
  Marianas Trench
  Coca Cola
  Halifax
  St Johns
  Fredrickton
  Charlottetown
  Annapolis
 
  Dallas
  Jefferson City
  Salt Lake City
  I AM CANADIAN
  
  
  0 Europe
  7 Colonial
  7 Colonial
  
  
  
  
  
  
  that is my edit to turn USA into Canada you 
 will notice the things you put the city name between those things the leader things i dont get 
 yet but i changed em to canadian people DO NOT RENAME THE TRIBE FILE FROM WHATEVER IT USED TO BE 
 i. e. i moded this off of usa the title will still be Americans you can change the trible name IN 
 THE DOCUMENT BUT NOT OUT OF IT!!! so now you can go into the game and play as the contury that 
 you made 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nbajam23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 2:06 am PT
Review:  RoN came to us by combining Sid Meier's extraordinary territory organization tactics with AoE 2's 
 legendary empire building and military tactics experience, as well as its own innovations, to make 
 the ultimate Real Time Strategy game. The conquer the world campaign gives you so much freedom, 
 and the military engagements are also unmatchable. The only let down I can dig out of this nearly 
 perfect RTS game is its comparably poor graphics... But this is almost impeccable due to the amount 
 of fun this game is. I give it a 9.6; only its graphics cut it short.
  
  The expansion is great, the new campaigns are amazing, and the new civilizations prove to be great, 
 making this expansion worth buying. This game's value is great, so go ahead and buy the gold edition. 
 $20 for such game will take your life away.
  
  
  thanks for the ultimate inspiration:
  
  Sid Meier
  Microsoft
  FTW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoseWeed619
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Pros Cons 
  Excellent new nations; great campaigns; governments; launching nuclear missiles. The Dutch are 
 underpowered in aggressive games; even more "clicky" than before; strategic A. I. in campaign is 
 a bit weak. 
  
  
  
  Expansion packs are often built around themes. Sometimes it's a series of campaigns on a particular 
 subject or a bunch of new units or perhaps an entire new race. Thrones & Patriots, on the other 
 hand, doesn't bother with any of that nonsense. It appears the team at Big Huge Games looked at 
 the original Rise of Nations and decided that if it ain't broke, don't fix it. They just threw 
 a whole bunch of new stuff into the game, including new civilizations, new campaigns, and some 
 new gameplay mechanics. In lesser hands, that could have turned into a random mishmash of unbalanced 
 "features" that messed up a perfectly wonderful game. Thrones & Patriots, though, is a wonderful, 
 well-integrated collection of additions that makes an incredible game even better. 
  
  Refight Vietnam. Let's start with the six new races that have been added to the game. Like the eighteen 
 available in the original game, each of the six new nations has their own special abilities, powers, 
 weaknesses, and quirks that diehard players are even now arguing about on Internet message boards. 
 Each nation seems well-designed to fill in some strategic weakness in the original game. The Americans 
 and the Dutch will appeal to (respectively) research junkies/late game players and micromanagers 
 who love squeezing out other players using money. The Persians and the Indians are for "turtlers" 
 and builders, plus they add in the incredibly fun elephant units that didn't make it into the original 
 game. The last two empires are the Lakota and Iroquois, whose stealth abilities will initially 
 foul up a number of the more common multiplayer strategies. 
  
  The beauty of each of these empires is that they all display the incredible balance (both internally 
 and with respect to the original eighteen) that were the hallmark of Rise of Nations. I don't envy 
 the developers the task of making sure that now 24 different sides available in the game are all 
 fun to play, strong enough to be viable in any game situation, yet don't have any huge disadvantages 
 against any other nation. Somehow, though, they pulled it off. 
  
  Granted, I'm quite sure that even now, dedicated players are busily looking for killer strategies 
 and exploits, but after playing each of the new nations against players across the 'Net, I certainly 
 couldn't find any major weaknesses. In fact, any elements I disliked about a particular nation 
 could easily be attributed to that nation being incompatible with my own play style. As a defensive 
 research person who races to the endgame, for example, I loved the Americans and hated the Dutch. 
 Whenever I played them, the Dutch's advantage in commerce and comparatively slow knowledge acquisition 
 inevitably found me with more money and fewer resources than I really needed and being overrun 
 by players two technological ages ahead of me. 
  
  The American sack of ... Havana? The rest of the game's new on-the-battlefield additions include 
 three new "Wonders" and an old Civilization standby -- governments. Governments are created when 
 the brand-new senate gets built. As players advance technologically, they get to choose three of 
 six mutually exclusive upgrades along with a new "Patriot" ber-unit similar to the "General." 
 Each of these decisions offers a possible domestic or military benefit. In practice, that means 
 that you can steer the development of your civilization at various points to take advantage of 
 the strategic situation. A mostly peaceful player can get a few military bonuses to help defend 
 him, and a more aggressive player can get help making sure the economy runs smoothly. 
  
  The beauty of all these additions is how utterly natural they feel in the context of the game. 
 Indeed, it's easy to imagine a scenario where someone who hasn't played the game in a couple of 
 months might be shocked to realize that something like governments hadn't been part of the game 
 the whole time. That's because no one particular element of the game stands out by dramatically 
 altering the way the game is played. Rather, each of the new features merely opens up new strategic 
 options. They make an already rich game even richer without fundamentally changing what made it 
 so good in the first place.
  
  The new units, races, and Wonders are reason enough to buy Thrones & Patriots -- especially if 
 you enjoy multiplayer. What really puts this expansion pack over the top, though, are the additions 
 to the sadly underrated single-player campaign. 
  
  
  
  It's cold in here. There must be some war in the atmosphere.
  Thrones & Patriots adds four new 
 single-player scenarios to the game. Three of them focus on a smaller slice of the world. Gamers 
 can try to follow the footsteps of Alexander the Great, conquer Europe as Napoleon, or re-live 
 the European colonization North America. The only one that gives a truly global challenge is "The 
 Cold War," which lets players re-create the infamous game of nuclear brinksmanship from either 
 the Soviet or American point of view. These campaigns are uniformly excellent, and all of them 
 offer fascinating and endlessly repeatable challenges. 
  
  Unlike the original campaign, the maps that players fight on during individual skirmishes are not 
 only better in design, but also more accurately reflect the regions they're supposed to represent. 
 Fight a battle in the Northwestern territory during the American colonization campaign and you'll 
 be facing a landscape filled with dense forests and narrow clearings that play to the strengths 
 of the two new Native American civilizations. Re-fight the Korean War during the Cold War scenario 
 and you'll get an excellent sense of the awesome strategic challenge that faced American and South 
 Korean war planners when it came to pushing past the 38th parallel -- along with the potential 
 political costs of doing so. 
  
  Even better, new "meta-game" gameplay mechanics have been added to the scenario that make each 
 of them more tightly focused and do an excellent job of getting you into the mindset of the game. 
 The Cold War scenario, for example, adds the ability to build and place nuclear missiles on the 
 map along with a "Defcon" meter that reflects the mood of your opponent. Make too many bold moves 
 and nukes are flying like there's no tomorrow. The Alexander and Napoleon scenarios offer players 
 various choices relating to how conquered peoples are treated that have profound effects on how 
 the game plays out. The game's diplomacy and negotiation system has also been beefed up, which 
 allows much more of the game to be played out on the strategic map instead of the battlefield. 
 
  
  
  
  History repeats.
  Probably the worst thing that could be said about Thrones & Patriots is that the developers missed 
 an opportunity to clear some of the extremely minor issues that were identified when the original 
 game was released. The A. I., for all its virtues when it comes to managing the individual movements 
 of units and citizens, can be a little too strategically brain dead. This is especially noticeable 
 in the Cold War scenario where it's fairly easy to beat the Soviet Union with an industrial output 
 victory. The game is still very "clicky," and the new senate building makes this worse. There are 
 so many upgrades, units, and pieces of technology to research in different buildings that the use 
 of hotkeys and micromanagement is a necessity, not an option, especially in online games. 
  
  Still, those are quibbles put in more for the sake of completeness than anything else. Thrones 
 & Patriots proves once again why Big Huge Games is in the process of building an almost flawless 
 reputation previously held by RTS stalwarts Blizzard and Ensemble. It's an extraordinary addition 
 to an already extraordinary game -- one that fits so seamlessly into the original title that once 
 you've played it's almost impossible to imagine a complete Rise of Nations experience without it. 
 
  
  Reviewer System Specifications
  Pentium 4 2.53 GHz, 1 GB RAM, Windows XP, DirectX 8.0, 128 MB GeForce4 Ti 4600 video card, SoundMax 
 sound card, 16x DVD-ROM drive, 120 GB hard-disk space, Mouse, Keyboard.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: onefiredude
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  Gameplay-10.5
  The gameplay in Rise of Nations is very innovative and creative. This game resembles Age of Empires 
 2, only better. The gameplay helps you control your nation more efficiently and precisely. Gathering 
 resources is simple, but genius. To gather resources, you set up a camp which you send citizen 
 to so you can keep a constant flow of a specific resource, eliminating micromanagement. In Rise 
 of Nations, citizens work as a group at each camp at a mountain or forest (oil wells and farms 
 are exceptions) . The interface shows you how much resources are coming in each 30 seconds, which 
 depends on the amount of citizens at your camps. There are also rare resources, such 
 as copper and furs, which are special resources that give you extra production of resources and 
 a unique ability. From your resources, you can build cities. Cities build citizens, which gather 
 resources and can turn into temporary fighters in case of emergency. You can build caravans between 
 cities to generate wealth. Cities expand your national borders and allows you to build structures. 
 National Borders determine the size of your nation; it is just like territory. This offers an opportunity 
 to employ more tactics and strategy, since it also offers benefits, such as attrition damage when 
 enemies enter your territory. Also, the more territory you have, the more tax you receive, and 
 the more land you have for extra structures. Cities allow you to build structures, where you can 
 research technologies, such as advancing an age. There are eight ages to advance to; Rise of Nations 
 covers the time periods of ancient civilizations to the near future. Buildings can help you increase 
 your resource production, build a military, and defend your nation. You can capture enemy cities 
 with your military, expanding your borders. Very similar to the real world, there are three branches 
 of military- the infantry, the navy, an the air force. You can build a variety of each, which gets 
 more technologically advanced as the ages progress. There is also a great variety of each- you 
 can acquire special forces that snipe and aircraft carriers that can hold seven planes. To cross 
 seas, your units automatically board transport ships on their own, eliminating the need to build 
 transport ships. You can also have Generals to give bonuses to troops. There are also Wonders, 
 which provide special benefits to your nation. You build real-life wonders, each with its own age. 
 You can watch your citizens build the pyramids, and later, a space station. Lastly, you can use 
 the ultimate weapon- nuclear weapons. Even though it may be rewarding to watch it launch and cause 
 terrible destruction to your enemy; it bringing down a armageddon meter (There is a limit to how 
 much atom bombs every player can launch before the world is destroyed) . The campaigns are extensive, 
 and the Cold War and Napoleon campaigns are amazing. In campaigns, you can utilize additional tactics 
 that are not accessible in a regular game, such as bonus cards and special generals. You can also 
 play a campaign, Conquer the World, where your ultimate goal is to conquer the world. Along with 
 a tutorial, this game can set you up to become a great player in a great game. Overall, Rise of 
 Nations has a great deal of traits that other RTS games do not have, allowing you to employ great 
 strategic tactics to develop and conquer nations.
  
  Graphics- 9.5
  The 2d graphics are good for a 2d game. The visuals and animations are great. An atomic bomb explosion 
 simply looks amazing, complete with a great flash and a large mushroom cloud. You can see bullets 
 whizzing and artillery shells flying in an arc. However, there are a few flaws. A Special Forces 
 unit uses demolition, and when the bomb explodes, you see nothing. Same thing applies 
 with conventional missiles. Otherwise, Rise of Nations has very good graphics for a 2d game.
  
  Sound- 9.5
  The music and the sound effects are good. The music even changes with the game 
 (when you start a battle, the music changes) .
  
  Value- 10
  There are 5 campaigns which are pretty long, and you can create endless games between computers 
 and other players alike. Games are fully customizable. There are many nations, each of them with 
 its own unique traits and abilities, along with special units for each nation. You can also create 
 your own maps. You can play this game for a long time. 
  
  Tilt-10
  This game is very creative and fun. It is worth your money buying this outstanding edition to the 
 RTS games. I highly recommend this game to anyone. I guarantee you will have a new, enjoyable experience 
 playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhaskarchatta
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  This is a great and best expansion to the strategy game of the releasing year. I couldn't step 
 away from the computer and it was my first high end game i ever brought and it ran smoothly. Graphics 
 are cool and the national border lines are pretty realistic and sometimes not. Learning curve is 
 not so long just nearly an hour and you can conquer a moderate computer openent. difficulty is 
 Easy to Hard sometimes. most of the time the AI is easy to beat or un-predictable. Put this game 
 on your wish list if you dont have it yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  As an expansion it has faithfuly preserved the original as well as introducing some new elements.
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The graphics hasn't changed at all - same as the original. You can't expect the graphic to be upgraded 
 for an expansion. It is decent a'right and of course, no expecting the reality graphics.
  
  SOUND:
  
  Same condition here as it was for the graphics. No change. Hardly noticable.
  
 
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  As with the original this is the best part of the game. It isn't only the execution of the concept 
 that is so good, even the thought of combining elemebts in a way that Rise Of Nations had is great. 
 As a turn-base strategy and RTS mix it is really good.
  The cities concepts is rendered well and controlling a nation as a whole is something more pleasurable 
 than just heading a battle camp.
  Some new additions here - six new nations have been addd namely the Americans, Dutch, Indians, 
 Iroquois, Lakota and Persians. Even better are the addition of four new campaigns in the Conquer 
 The World Campaign mode. These cut off the long campaigns of the original having to conquer the 
 whole world and make the gameplay more directed and interesting.
  Naturally it inherits its originals drawback of the pop cap.
  
  FINAL VERDICT:
  
  Cool 
 gameplay made better with more options. Though the formula is inherired from the original it stays 
 a cut above the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik1116
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  You have to get Thrones And Patriots If you get rise of nations.
  I dont care.
  
  It was easily the greatest rts i have ever played besides starcraft.
  But of course starcraft 
 II is coming. And that's a whole other story.
  
  Rise of Nations is simply everything you ask for.
  Awsome build up of cities. Awsome units and 
 armies. Great graphics i must add. Just awsome, flawless in my opinion. It's all about the history 
 of the world. and the RISE of NATIONS. Perfect. I LOVED IT. Maybe a few more units would be cool. 
 But not much else. MUST BUY GAME SIMPLY
  the KING
  of all RTS GAMES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  As RTS games go they are a dime a dozen these days. Which is why a good RTS game is sometimes hard 
 to find. This is one of the few good ones. Although released a few years ago it still offers great 
 play value and awesome gameplay both multiplayer and single. You can immediately see the AoE2 similarity 
 of the game, however it does NOT play like the AoE series.. in fact it plays a heck of a lot better. 
 With the option to stay in an age you like or go up to the information era.. there is a taste for 
 everyone here. In fact the maps are huge in skirmish and in campaign modes. offering some lasting 
 gameplay. Graphics: Improved over AoE2 and still pretty decent today.. I say graphics take a back 
 seat to great gameplay. :)
  
  Sound: Excellent.. musical as well as sound effects.
  
  Value: tons of playability is available here and most RTS games don't really have a strong single 
 player portion that lasts quite a while.. and this one really does!
  
  My personal preference, I give the game a perfect 10 for it is one of the few RTSs I very much 
 enjoy and still play on occation.
  
  The expansion gives more campaign options and more races with unique abilities.. this enhances 
 the core game.. which was great.. just needed that extra umph to make it exceptional.. and thus 
 the T&amp; P pack does this perfectly.. I highly recommend both the core game and the expansion 
 as worthy of any hard core RTS player! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebubbleprince
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a great expansion to the strategy game of the year. I couldn't step away from the computer 
 and it was my first high end game i ever brought and it ran smoothly. Graphics are nice and the 
 national border lines are pretty realistic and sometimes not. Learning curve is actually not so 
 long just an hour and you can conquer a moderate computer openent. (Unless you need more practice) 
 difficulty is Easy to Hard sometimes. most of the time the AI is easy to beat or un-predictable. 
 Put this game on your wish list if you dont have it yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Grave
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 21, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This expansion finally gives Rise of Nations, the most complex RTS ever, some badly needed interesting 
 gameplay. My reactions are mixed, depending on the campaign.
  
  Alexander the Great campaign start in a great way and shows a lot of promise in the beginning. 
 All battles to unite Greece and expand westwards are unique and quite interesting. Once you focus 
 on the great Persian empire in the east, the game mostly reverts to repetitive Conquest scenarios 
 which are made even more frequent by constant Persian counter-attacks. The monotony is broken from 
 time to time by historic battles between Alexander and Darius. Once Persia has fallen and you reach 
 India, the game becomes more interesting again. All in all, this is a nice campaign that falls 
 just short of being perfect.
  
  Napoleon's campaign hits the bullseye. There are almost no generic provinces that will start a 
 boring Conquest scenario when attacked. Enemy counter-attacks are now fought as quick and easy 
 Guerilla scenarios so the campaign is much more immersive and faster-paced.
  
  The New World is an alternative no-story campaign. You can play European power, native American 
 nation or the independent British colonies called Americans. Those three types of civilizations 
 have different objectives, but it all comes down to conquering most of the New World. This campaign 
 is also plagued by Conquest scenarios, but those can be easily avoided by using overruns on generic 
 provinces and attacking capitals which start unique scenarios. Not bad, but nothing special.
  
  Cold War is the best campaign in the expansion. It introduces almost totally new rules for 
 the turn-based part of the game. In addition to normal battles, you can also play espionage scenarios 
 which give special bonuses. Central to the game is competition between Soviets and Americans in 
 the number of nuclear missiles they have. Every minor nation has a single territory so all battles 
 are unique. The scenarios are just great and some of them might even require you to make political 
 decisions during the scenario itself. This campaign makes use of everything Rise of Nations has 
 to offer and even adds some unique features. Too bad it is just that single campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 18, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Well theres not much to say about this expansion besides that its a crucial addon to the already 
 magnificient Rise of Nations. This expack adds new countries to play as and i think new maps, not 
 exactly sure. For that info check their main site.
  This is an easy recommendation for RON players; if your missing it, your missing part of the whole 
 RON experience. Pick it up today (its probably bargain bin now!) .
  Hmmm, 100 words or more.... well its really all about the multiplayer, the single player campaings 
 are fun, but it really comes down to LAN's. Thats where weve had the most fun. 4 humans versus 
 1 or 2 hardest bots and losing is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnerG31
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  First of all i would like to say this game is great!!!!!!!
  Multiplayer is awesome and fun!!!!
  you will never get bored of the game!
  graffics are awesome!!
 
  Many nations you can pick and the 5 new nations they added
  americans, dutch, persians, indians, lakota, and iroquoi
  
  the campians in these game well 
 ........ im gonna say thats wat bring this game down because first of all it takes to long to conqour 
 a small spot of terriotory let alone the entire earth if you are doin that campian 
  i would say the best campain is probley the NEW WOrld campian the sound/ audio is that great eather 
 the builders or warriors dont talk to you like the ones in warcraft or starcraft there is just 
 some crappy music but once u get by that it is alrite ...... but every game has its pros and cons.
 
  
  overall this game is great if you like RTS games if u like warcraft starcraft age of empires HEY 
 then get this game Probley the best RTS game out there in the market 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alphawolf_0
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Rise of nations: Thrones and Patriots is the expansion pack to the PC game of the year (Gamespot) . 
 This expansion pack features brand new cultures, new wonders, a new government system and satisfying 
 campaign options. 
  
  The government system in this game is actually well designed and youll feel that the original could 
 have included this. The Government you choose can help ou out by giing you different bonuses depending 
 on what it is. For example, if you choose Depotism (Tyranny) then youll get the despot Patriot as 
 your countries leader as well as bonuses toward your military production.
  
  The new nations included here are the Americans, the Dutch, the Persians, the Iroquios, and the 
 Lakota. Each have their own attributes and units, like in the first game. The best part of the 
 game arguably is the capaign modes which were suspiciously absent in the first game. 
  
  The different campaigns include Alexander the great, Napoleon, the new world, and the best campaign, 
 the Cold war. In each of these you assume the identity of a nation and lead them out to war in 
 a board game like approach. (Think Risk) In the cold war campaign however, instaed of trying to 
 aquire territory, yu try to aquire a nations support in dempcracy or communism. Then theres the 
 nuclear arms buildup and the red button (which triggers all out nuclear war) . You almost exclusivly 
 use spies to create small revolutions in countries and have there citizens take up arms and topple 
 the current regime. Very fun action in other words.
  
  Besides from this, no new music or graphic updates have been added although this is expected in 
 an expansion. A good expansion all in all. A definate buy for RON Fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miketheroman142
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I've been looking in the store at ths game for a while, thiking it was just a pretty good rts game 
 to keep my summer occupied. Hmm.. well.. thats a HUGE NO-NO. this game is utterly amazing. There re 
 good games, great games, and rise of nations just goes into a catergory far beyond those. 
  
  First, look at a good rts game, Age of Empires Conquers. This game has a collection of different 
 civilatin each with one or two specia unit per civilization. then, take this game. it has 24, yes, 
 you heard me, 24 different civialtions each with 5 speical units. 
  
  Now, lets look at the span of the game. The biggest span i know of is empire earth, which equals 
 rise of nations. The spa is 6000 years, fwi. So if you look at empie earth 2, it is very similar 
 to rise of nations and a very good game, but one of its few best qualities meets rise of nations. 
 Now, Empire Earth 2 is truly an excellent game, second to rsie of nations in my rts collection. 
 but rise of nations improves upon it on a huge scale. 
  
  now, the campaignS ( S IS CAPITLAIZED) . rise of nations has: alexander the Great, Napolean, the 
 new world, the cold war, and conquer the world. as if the real time gameplay isnt enough, it uses 
 a gameboard feel to it to mov acorss the map. you have usually a few armies, territories, and you 
 can attack or defend depending on what your situation is. When playing the real time part of the 
 game, you have an abundance of different game types like guerilla warfare, conquest, and way too 
 many others ot count. 
  
  This is a little in depth segement of the game: 
  
  I have decided to start a campaign on te new world. i choose the americans out fo the many indian 
 nations and european nations. I started in 2 territorries and my advisor told me i had to: Break 
 away from the british, declare independence, and take north america. I took the lakotas territoary 
 after some exciting battles. then, my master, the king of england, told me it was time for the 
 french and indian war, an actual event. so i had to repel a french attack, kill off the iriqous, 
 and defeat the french. in a few well won turns, i came out of this war succesful. then, after conquering 
 a large amountof indians, i declared war on the british. when i was victorious, i was AMERICA! 
 yay! so im still in the campagin fighting the aztecs and trying to get the north american continent. 
 There you have it rise of nations wanters, a full segement. 
  
  This area of my reveiew might get a bit hard to follow without playing the game, so try to imagine. 
 
  
  So you choose one of the 24 civs, each with special units and bonuses reflecting their historical 
 facrs. then, continue on with the map. start with just 5 villagers, then, soon, become a huge power 
 with armies uncountable and see your quick easy miitary campaign.. or be repelled and start another 
 attack.. a bigger one!!! 
  
  So this segement reflects population and rescouce gathering. First, population look horrible..200! 
 i was immdiatley disapptioneted by it.. then, i saw a revelation.. each popluation slot counts for 
 three guys! Twice the size of age of empires! You get a bigger population by researching miliatry 
 at the library. so, population in this game is.. well.. quite amazing 
  
  now, resocures. you create citizens, assign them to different resoucres like food, timber, metal, 
 and oil. the other resoucres, knowledge and weatlh, are a littte more complicated. Knowledge is 
 unbeleiveably inmportant since your commerce level, which is how many resocures you can gather 
 in 30 seconds, military (population) , and civics which lets you build more cities. you mujst build 
 universities and train 7 shcolars to get the full knowlege cap out of the university. to fullfi 
 my knowlege levels, since you can only have one university per city radius i have to fill 3 cities 
 each iwht one university and having the unversity full. Wealth is best gathered by markets and 
 caravans, which have routes fomr city to city. 
  
  There is alot to list still, but this review reviews, and isnt an insturciton guide. 
  
  Overall 
 i love this game. i have never owned a better game, in any category, that fuliflls my gaming wants 
 and needs. I say 10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unarmedmaster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Rise of nations has many good good fetures, but some bad things that drag it down a point or two. 
 I love how you can choose any time period of the earth, and work your way up to our "information 
 age" it is very realistic in some ways but in a few ways it is not. I dont like how in the information 
 age you can build a MISSLE SHEILD?? what is that?? i didnt know they had those.. 
  One good point about the game is how you can get your men into a battle formation and have them 
 fight just like it.. The way that the planes fly is a joke.
  
  there is hardly anything wronge with this game and i say.. BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT it is so freaking 
 awsome i stayed up tilll about 5 am two days in a row conquring the world it is so much fun. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 20, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations: Thrones and Patriots, the expansion pack to the critically acclaimed, best-selling, 
 real-time strategy game Rise of Nations, adds a barrage of new features to the original game. 
 
  
  Thrones and Patriots introduces six new nations, four unique single-player campaigns, more than 
 20 original units, new wonders, and new government types. Unlike other historical RTS games, the 
 Rise of Nations franchise allows gamers to quickly play through eight historical epochs of time 
 from the Ancient Age to the Information Age.
  
  Gameplay: It's really fun to use your soldiers to destroy your enemies through strategic and important 
 raids and built-up charges.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are still the awesome ones I saw in the original game.
  
  Sound: The 
 sound is great enough to lift the game to new levels but still could be improved.
  
  Value: This game is meant to be kept for a long time (and played a long time too!) There's skirmish 
 mode, a brilliant multiplayer and a replayable conquer the world campaigns too!
  
  Tilt: Buy this game! It's brilliant in all aspects! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keatonf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Want to bomb America back into the Dark Ages? Pillage a city of there innocent little civillians? 
 This is the game!!
  
  Where do I start? If you have played any other RTS you will know the feeling of domination and 
 crave it every time you put the game on. In this game you can totally own another nation or simply 
 just reduce them to dust with nukes.
  With a choice of many nations you can use different strategies (as each country requires one) . 
 This game is now bargin bin price- if you do not buy it you have missed out on a key point of Video 
 game history (seriously this s*** is up with Mario!!) .
  
  The game includes:
  5 Campaigns
  Scenario Editor
  Tutorial (a bit shallow)
  Script Editor
  Single player (customizable 
 to F***)
  Multiplayer
  
  Keaton 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampiro_HuntT3R
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 5, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Rise Of Nations The Thrones and Patriots is a very good game, But lack of Storyline reduces its 
 success points, If it had a storyline the game would get 9.5 or above, Only if. But it doesnt have 
 any storyline, I mean no video at all. I think Microsoft should have added some videos to it.
 
  The game is popular only because of its amazing gameplay, I like its gameplay very much. The basic 
 concept of the game is very good, I appreciate it. I am the big fan of Age of Empire gamez thats 
 why I bought this game and found it very good as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrInK2008
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  This game is super addictive game that you could get addicted to faster than you can count your 
 ABC's! I started playing this and I found out that I couldn't sop I just wanted to keep conquering 
 more and more nations until I wanted to beat them all. I highly recommend that you go out and buy 
 one and start playing it, this is the best game to go and spend your money on, it is one of a kind. 
 When you think about Rise of Nations you think of another Age of the Empires but it is so much 
 more than that, with great graphics and sounds. It is superb for all ages. Even parents can get 
 addicted to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franklinzhang
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  RON: TP was an excellent expansion to the already super Rise of Nations. The new campaigns were 
 just as awesome and fun like the original, especially the Cold War one. But the new nations weren't 
 as cool as I thought they would be. The Native nations are like a class below the world nations. 
 Also, they seem too old. The Americans were awesome. The new middle-eastern nations were really 
 cool with their war elephants. I liked the six kinds of government, although I do suggest the non-dictatorship 
 ones. One downside of this expansion is that they made a lot of units weaker. They made the commando 
 be available one age later. Also, they made the artillery bad against normal units. But even with 
 its downsides, it is still a great expansion to the already great Rise of Nations! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LM101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations: Thrones and Patriots is an amzing expansion pack which adds even more options 
 to the game including more teams to play as. There is more campaigns aswell as there was already 
 conquer the world but now there is the cold war where you get to play as russia and get nuclear 
 weapons before other teams and there is more campaigns to go on. You can now build a senate and 
 pick if you want a king or vote for a president. This game adds more soldiers and military vehicles 
 to choose from and makes the game even more addictive. If you own or getting Rise of Nations you 
 must get this expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  Despite all the good things I heard about this game, I decided to put it off and play another game, 
 and then again, and again. It took me a long time to get to this game and now I wish I had not 
 waited so long. Factoring in all the great RTS games I have played, this one felt like a sum of 
 many other RTS games, but it was a sum of the good parts mostly. It is no civilization, but then 
 what is? What Rise of Nations is though, is a well thought out and in depth RTS that allows you 
 play many different ways. All that most RTS fans want is a game that stays true to the genre and 
 doesn't make a lot of drastic changes that make the game both unique in a bad way and unfamiliar 
 to the point where you just wish it was a little more like some of the other great games. Despite 
 the fact this sounds like a detractor, I assure you it isn't.
  
  Sometimes it is not the individual aspects of a game, but the sum of its parts. Thrones and Patriots 
 is a must have addition to the original game, adding even more depth to an already terrific experience. 
 If you are looking for something completely different, this is not it, but it does offer up a genuinely 
 good RTS adventure that will leave you satisfied for your army building and city developing hunger.
 
  
  The difficulty in the game is variable, extremely variable. The easiest settings are far too easy 
 and the hardest settings will leave you overwhelmed, but there is a perfect balance found with 
 the medium settings that offer a challenge for novice gamers and veterans alike. If you have yet 
 to play this game because you waited, as I did, it is not too late; this is still a game worth 
 playing today.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: excaliburblade
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is a fusion of the real time Age of Empires with some concepts from Civilization. 
 The idea of this game is like any other strategically based game - try and take over the known 
 world! Everyone loves that plot (secretly everyone wants to do it) . 
  
  The world map is broken up into countries with borders and instead of town centers there are Cities. 
 Each City has its own city borders and there is the option to build more cities and hence expand 
 your borders. Military are broken up into groups - infantry, mounted, seige, naval, air. Each group 
 is civilization based in the sense it comes in groups of units rather than by indivdual unit (though 
 some are produced alone) .
  
  The Eras of technology in the game vary from Ancient Greece all the way to the Information Age 
 (that would be modern times) . The game play is fun, but some of the ages are not historically accurate 
 (for example in the tutorial, during WWII (1940) the British have access to Nuclear Missles) . The 
 inaccuracy historically does not impair game play at all. 
  
  The game's campaigns offer a unique progression through the Ages and a new way of playing a campaign. 
 It kind of grows on you. I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoyed Civilization and Age 
 of Empires. In my opinion this is probably the best Age progession into the modern world that I 
 have seen on the market without hampering game play. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller17
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This expansion is quite good, but not that good in a way. It does add more civilizations with different 
 special units, and more conquer the qorld campaigns, but the gameplay is still the same. Usually 
 expansions are suppose to change the way you play the game, adding more depth to the game, but 
 this expansion doesn't add much depth. Although it is still a good game, and will keep you playing 
 the orignial for a few more days, or weeks. The graphics are still good, and so is the sound. If 
 you ask me, buy the rise of nations gold edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donut349
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  While being an expansion pack to the original "Rise of Nation" this game had a lot to look up for. 
 It makes you more than satisfied. The new features you will see in this game will be 6 New Nations 
 including Americans, Dutch, Indians, Iroquois, Lak-ota, and The Persians.
  
  There are 4 New Single-Player Campaign such as Alexander the Great, The New World, Napoleon, and 
 The Cold War. While playing this Expansion you will play an additional 20 or more Units and Weapons.
 
  
  You can also select your Government and it will change as you move through ages. Depending on the 
 goal you have in mind you have choices of Government that will give you a better boost.
  
  You may have found yourself chanting "There should have been Wonders" in the original, well youre 
 in luck. In this Expansion you will get an additional 3. 
  
  There are also a number of bug fixes and balance changes as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hilsden9
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  When you hear the term RTS you can't help but think of C&amp; C, AoE, and the like. Rise of Nations 
 is not only brilliant in delivering a more than immersive RTS, but adds features that we've always 
 wanted to have in an RTS.
  
  RoN is a very compelling and player driven game, you choices influence the way your empire expands, 
 for example, you can choose to keep monarchy to push your nation through early on, or you can become 
 the democratic leader George Bush never was!
  
  Getting into the game is very easy, although hard to start off with, the emphasis is to expand 
 quick, and get up and running as soon as you can, however I advise new players to go through the 
 tutorial mode before trying to take over the world, as you do need to get a hang of every little 
 feature, and belive me, there are more than you can shake a sock at.
  
  For me, multiplayer is the way to go if you want a real challenge, either one on one with a friend, 
 or take on several CPU players as a team, and aid each others progression to Enlightenment.
  
  Things that worked for me:
  1. The amount of technologies there are to research.
  2. Original 
 resources, with bonus resources that add to collection etc.
  3. Units, there are loads, each with strenghts and weakness's, and some that are just pure muscle.
 
  4. Taking on the entire globe, as well as increasing defense of cities already owned, playing specila 
 bonus cards to gain more resources, or bonus units.
  5. Computer AI, is better than the Bog standard RTS's.
  6. Gameplay, you seriously can not put 
 this game down within the space of 4 hours at a time (make sure you do though!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjtac
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:43 pm PT
Review:  If Civilization is the standard for epic turn based strategy, then Rise of Nations is the new standard 
 for epic real time strategy. 'Thrones and Patriots' adds to this standard with more units and better 
 game play. 
  
  The unit options are vast, ranging from pre historic stone throwers to futuristic weapons of mass 
 destruction. The city as the center format is excellent, giving focus to specific objectives and 
 targets. The political structure with the leader unit gives the game a unique hero type fell during 
 military operations where their abilities help the forces during the fight. Rise of Nations has 
 the most interactive espionage model Ive ever seen in a strategy game of this scale. You dont 
 just give money to some spy network and play the odds for some intelligence, you can actually deploy 
 and use the spys as real units doing what they do to effect the situation in the game. One well 
 place spy can truly save the lives of hundreds of soldiers. 
  
  The graphics in the game are good, nothing to flashy or demanding on the graphics card that in 
 my opinion is excellent for the strategy genre as a whole since game play and depth are the most 
 important aspects of it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: truittwilson
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2005 11:31 am PT
Review:  wow wowo owowowowow wwowowowowowowsowowowow wo owo wo ow w w ow wow wow wo wo wo ow w w wow ow 
 wow woww w w w w ww w w wwowowowowowwowowowowow woww wow! wowo! wow! wow! w w w w w w w w w w w w 
 w w w ww w ww w w w w w w w ww w w w w ww w w w w ww ww ww w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w 
 w w ww w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w ww w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w 
 w 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nahorner9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 8:00 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is a great game and Thrones and Patriots just made it better. The added campaigns 
 added many additional hours of game play and the new nations add a lot of variety to this already 
 great game. I recommend this game for anyone who enjoys Rise of Nations and other real time strategy 
 games. The graphics in the game are great, allowing you to zoom in and zoom out at will. Some of 
 the greatest use of graphics is when you launch a nuke at your enemy and watch the bomb explodes 
 and wipes out everything in a large radius. The only downside is of course the same with all RTS 
 games: they only have limited replayability. Rise of Nations: Thrones and Patriots, however, has 
 a lot more replayability than other RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allehelgens
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 14, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Thrones & Patriots is the expansion pack to the original Rise Of Nations, but while it is an expansion 
 pack it dosen't really give you enough to be full satisfied with the expansion. The pack although 
 not great has some key features, New nations (Americans, and Persians to name the best two) , the 
 ability to choose your own government, new units (only 20) , and four new single-player campaigns. 
 With this narrow bit of expansion its enough to question if its even worth it, Big Huge Games could've 
 at least added more campaigns, nations and units (there are enough mods out there to keep you entertained 
 though) . Overall this expansion isn't really worth the money you pay for it, but if you love to 
 play this game online you will want this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcxnickxcx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 2, 2005 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Last week or so I posted a forum topic about good strategy games that dealt with Civil War times. 
 In less than 5 minutes I had at least 6 posts on this topic, and i was very interested in seeing 
 what other people thought on good strategy games for the computer. There were many game titles 
 that came up but one of them caught my eye, Rise of Nations. I had heard from a friend a while 
 ago that this was a good game but i had never thought to buy it. I downloaded the free demo of 
 the game and I thought it had great gameplay. I liked the idea that you started off with bow and 
 arrows and worked your way up to machine guns and tanks. It gave a different feeling than some 
 other good strategy games like Age of Empires had. After I played the demo for a little, I went 
 out the next day to buy it. It was only $30 for the original game with its expansion pack. I thought 
 this was quite a good deal. When i played the real game, it had much more than i thought it would 
 have. it had over 15 different sides to choose from and each had their own leaders such as Napoleon 
 for the French. Even though there are other games that are good like command & conquer, i especially 
 liked this game because for one the guys actually line up by rank and in formation. Overall, i 
 thought that this game was one of the best strategy games period. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhatter_412
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 8, 2005 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Big Huge Games' release "Rise of Nations" is quite possibly the greatest RTS game to date. Thrones 
 and Patriots, the expansion pack for this game, is just the icing on the proverbial cake (and I 
 love cake) . This game introduces new concepts and items to gameplay, as well as all-new gameplay 
 styles, namely the conquer the world campaigns.
  
  One of the biggest additions is the Senate building. You may build only one senate and it is built 
 at your capitol (if you build it elsewhere, this new location becomes your capitol) . Here you can 
 research government types. These different governments give you different bonuses to unit production, 
 economy, etc. Also when you do a government upgrade you receive that governments patriot, a unique 
 general with specific bonuses to units within his radius. These government upgrades, when used 
 strategically, can give you great advantage.
  
  Another fun feature for the Rise of Nations expansion are the campaigns in conquere the world mode. 
 Formerly, only a risk-style campaign could be played with the whole world as your battle ground. 
 This expansion added campaigns for Alexander the Great, Napolean, the New World conquest, and the 
 Cold War. In the New World campaign you can play as any of the European powers trying to control 
 the New World, any of five indian tribes trying to fight them off, or as the American colonists 
 trying to gain their indepenence. In the Cold War you can play as either the US or the USSR. This 
 new, choose-your-own-path approach to RTS campaigns is a fun and challenging change of pace.
  
  There were the typical RTS expansion additions. Six new, unique civilizations were added to 
 the original 18, broadening the scope of gameplay. Three new wonders were added. These serve their 
 purpose in making the game just that much better. This is one expansion you shouldn't play the 
 original game without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iltopop
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 12, 2004 1:46 am PT
Review:  This is a truly incredible RTS. You will not be able to stop playing for hours. The new campains 
 is were this game shines though. The old conquer the world was just an excuse to string a bunch 
 of senarios together. The new ones offer a lot more senario veriety and a lot more to do with specific 
 goals and unique things to do on the strategic map than move armies. The new nations are a cool 
 addition, and the Americans are in the expansion witch is somthing I kinda though would be in the 
 first. If you have the first game but not this expansion, get this the original is just not complete 
 without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfidsmarc
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 26, 2004 10:45 am PT
Review:  Deep but accessible strategy/simulation game that is truly unique and rewarding to play real-time 
 or virtual turn-based.
  RoN does stand the test of time. It keeps getting better even after 15 months of play and has become 
 an utterly superb strategy/simulation game with the T&P Expansion. Designer Brian Reynolds has 
 cleverly melded and fine tuned familiar concepts (combining the best of the AOE and CIV/AC series) 
 to create a truly unique, addictive, and rewarding strategy game experience. My favorite features 
 include: the national borders with attrition damage (no game better simulates Russia!) , the numerous 
 historical civilizations (expanded from 18 to 24 by T&P) with appropriate distinguishing attributes 
 and units, the resources with commerce caps (raised through research) that do not deplete, the 
 really cool units (with logical "countering" capabilities) from bowmen to elephants to tanks to 
 aircraft carriers to cruise missiles to nuclear ICBMs, the simple (linear) but deep technology 
 trees, the wonders that impact play without overwhelming it, the rare resources some of which are 
 worth fighting for, the straight-forward game interface with plenty of on-screen help, the enormity 
 of options (including victory conditions, difficulty, and maps) to vary and balance game play and/or 
 challenge the player (s) , the smooth transitions through a vast historical timeline, the "Risk"-like 
 (but far superior) conquer the world campaigns (greatly enhanced in the T&P Expansion) , and the 
 ability to play real-time or virtual turn-based (given the multiple speed controls and ability 
 to make and implement decisions while paused) . If the sound and graphics were just slightly more 
 engaging, RoN: T&P would be a solid 10. RoN: T&P is the perfect example of an accessible and fascinating 
 strategy/simulation game that one can play at almost any level and it demonstrates why computer 
 strategy gaming will always be superior to console strategy gaming.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gryphon_GB
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 25, 2004 9:33 pm PT
Review:  This is a great addition to an already great game! This expansion is well worth it. The new civilizations 
 broaden already expansive game and the new "Conquer the World" campaigns are a LOT of fun. I really 
 enjoyed the fact that so much thought went into it that I felt like I learned some great history 
 lessons as I had a blast playing. Thrones and Patriots easily makes Rise of Nations my favorite 
 strategy game ever. While the it may not be as snazzy as some other games with fully 3-D graphics, 
 the graphics are quite crisp and well done. But, it is the well-balanced gameplay that really makes 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuParNovA
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 24, 2004 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This expansion makes -the E3's best real-time strategy game of 2003- Rise of nations an even better 
 game. First of all, you can lead now one of the 6 new nations -American, Dutch, Indian, Iroquois, 
 Lakota and Persian- Each nation has -like normally- its own distinctive national powers and special 
 units, such as the Lakota who have no national boundaries, or the Americans whose marines can hide 
 anywhere without the need of a General nearby.
  
  The developers also added rich new campaigns and scenarios: Four new non-linear, single-player 
 campaigns based on historical epochs will keep players busy as they plan their moves on the strategic 
 outer map and play out the battles in over 130 new scenarios. The new campaigns include Alexander 
 the Great, Napoleon, the New World, and the Cold War.
  
  Now you also can choose a government type: As a nation advances through the ages, players can decide 
 between six different government types. From socialism to capitalism, despotism to republic, each 
 government type has a different power that allows players to customize their nations and open up 
 new tactics and strategic possibilities. A unique Patriot unit is available with each government 
 type, bringing a variety of powers to the battlefield.
  
  And ... of course more than 20 new units, which are graphically unique to each new nation, are 
 available for players to command including the massive Persian War Elephants, armed Dutch merchants, 
 unique ships and supply wagons.
  
  And the last big chance are the wonders:
  Forbidden City - Walled city built in 1407 within Beijing for the Imperial Court of the Chinese 
 emperor. Entry was forbidden to ordinary citizens until 1912.
  Red Fort - Massive fortification built of red sandstone in 1618, it served as the palace of India's 
 Mughal Emperors. The outer defense wall was 1.5 miles long and 110 feet tall. Hanging Gardens - 
 One of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, these gardens were built by Nebuchadnezzar II for 
 his queen in ancient Babylon, c. 600 BC.
  
  If you liked Rise of Nations, you'll like it even more with this expansion ...
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuruptt
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2004 8:48 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations : Thrones AND Patriots has something that the first Rise of Nations like four nations 
 some other tools. The gameplay its not very good i played this game just 4 times i can say it was 
 3 Hours so i dont like to play it anymore expect the Counquer the world i like this because you 
 have 5 campaings of Conquer the world the graphics in this game its same as RON 1 so it dont have 
 a lot of differences the sea the water its better some other objects are much better than in the 
 first Rise of nations so they have dit something in this second of Rise of nations the sound its 
 good its nomrally better than in the first rise of nations the game of RON thrones and patriots 
 has a good things in the menu where you can choose a lot of new things thats thee good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whosjohnny
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 21, 2004 2:01 pm PT
Review:  The expansion Thrones and Patriots add even more strategy to the acclaimed Gamespot Game of Year! 
 As gamers and movie watchers have known for years, a sequel have much to live up for and Thrones 
 and Patriots exceeds my expectations. Although Rise of Nations cannot compare with Total Annihilation 
 (1997) the Best Strategy of the 20th century and still is, up to this point. See http://archive. gamespy. com/top10/february04/rts/index11. shtml 
 , RON + T&P ranks in the top 5 strategy games EVER!
  
  With the original concept of national border, government, Civilization type upgrades through the 
 ages, unique arrays of nations to choose from, is a highly enjoyable and replayable game for years 
 to come. This game is highly recommended for any serious RTS players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 17, 2004 7:35 am PT
Review:  The Rise of Nations debut was a winning one, mostly for the part that anybody who liked the kind 
 of challenge the Civilization game brought saw that same challenge in this game. The expansion 
 pack for RON was a very well made one it had every patch, fix, additive you would ever need for 
 that game. I haven't really had a very good opinion of these type of games for the simple fact 
 that my butt tends to get numb around the 2nd hour of playing any game. But that doesn't cut down 
 on the review of this game. This game is well made and well built, it gives anybody who likes to 
 sit at home all day and play something challenging the opportunity to do so. The graphics are still 
 beautifully made though i still think they could have done more work with the 3D aspect of it. 
 Another problem i tend to see with this game is the movement of the units. Mainly aircraft and 
 naval ships. When they turn it's like they are pointing one direction first and then the other 
 direction within a split second. Command & Conquer: Generals has been the only game that has (in 
 my opinion) prevented the units from doing this. Other then those two flaws i think the game does 
 very well for itself. Again, i dont have the patients needed for this type of game but many do 
 and i'm sure will love it. So, for now, keep playing and kill an army for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asdfpoiu
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2004 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is everything I was anticipating, and then some. Rise of Nations was already an innovative 
 and interesting blend of turn-based and real-time strategy, and Thrones and Patriots keeps everything 
 that is good and adds items that are even better. The biggest change involved is the addition of 
 6 new nations and additional units. These add even more complexity to the strategic level, and 
 provide more options in the single-battle games. These nations range from the Americans with the 
 Marines to the Persians with redundant capitals and war elephants. The programmers were even able 
 toport in something of the Civ series with different government types that provide leader usits 
 that have different benefits. All of this still does not compromise the awesome graphics of the 
 basic game. If you liked RoN before, get this expansion. If you don't have RoN, what are you waiting 
 for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taha
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2004 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations: Thrones & Patriots is a superb expansion to the original game. Big Huge Games 
 has made some great additions to the game which have resulted in making Rise of Nations an even 
 bigger blast to play.
  
  Well you can read GameSpot's review to know about all the additions in the game so I will just 
 talk about my experience with the campaigns and multiplayer. 
  
  The most popular addition are the new nations. These are the Americans, Persians, Dutch, Iroquis, 
 Lakota's and the Indians. The most requested was of course the Americans, and now we get them. 
 For me, the Indians were the most wanted, since I am from India. The new nations have recieved 
 some great bonuses.
  
  The Americans seem to have recieved some very good bonuses. The first wonder they build is instantly 
 built (unless someone else is also building it or if its the Space Program or the Supercollider) . 
 They also get a free scholar at every University and a free bomber at every airport. Research at 
 the Senate is also free for the Americans. One feature that to me feels like it overpowers the 
 Americans is that you recieve +3 for all the resources for every infantry that is not garrisoned. 
 This allows the Americans to be offensive and economic at the same time. The Americans' unique 
 units are the Marines. They entrench themselves automatically after being idle for 5 seconds, pretty 
 cool feature. 
  
  The Dutch get armed Merchants and Caravans, which don't allow "merchant hunting" where opponents 
 send a few troops to take out merchants or caravans to destroy your economy. But these armed versions 
 can take out any random troop they meet which is very nice bonus. One more thing is that the these 
 armed merchants can take out any other regular merchant at the same resource. Selfish little buggers, 
 aren't they? The Dutch get unique Ships and then the Armed Merchants and Caravans.
  
  Then there are the Indians and the Persians who both get Elephants. Now they say they are unique, 
 yet both nations get the same exact type of elephants. Then the Persians also get Immortals, a 
 type of infantry. Indians get no other unique units, but they do get cheaper Elephants and free 
 upgrades. The big bonus Indians have is that their building costs do not ramp up except for cities, 
 towers, forts and wonders, which ramp up in cost by half of the usual rate. The Persians main bonus 
 is that they get to have two capitals. So as a opponent you need to take out both, which can be 
 a hard task, especially with their elephants ripping your army apart.
  
  Then there are the Native American tribes. The Lakota's have a crazy rushing advantage with the 
 ability to build anywhere that is enemy territory. So right in the beginning of the game they can 
 come and build a city outside your border. An experienced player can be devastating using them. 
 The Lakota's get unique cavalry units. Then there are the Iroquis to can't build any farms! That 
 sounds like a huge disadvantage, but their woodcutters gather wood and food. Pretty cool feature. 
 The Iroquis armies are also invisible if they are not attacking. Talk about a sneak up attack. 
 Their unique units are scouts who can walk through forests instead of having to go around them 
 and also unique infantry.
  
  The real unique addition is the addition of the Governments. You need to build a senate first (allowed 
 after you reach Classical age) , then you can pick between two types of government after every other 
 age. I haven't really played around with the senate much yet, but the patriots that come out give 
 some really neat bonuses, I especially like the faster build times the President gives. 
  
  The single player aspect of the game recieved some big addition. Four campaigns in the conquer 
 the world mode were added: Alexander the Great, Napoleon, The New World & the Cold War. The original 
 Conquer the World campaign was changed as in to add in the new nations and more territories.
  
  To go in chronological order, the first new campaign is Alexander the Great. This campaign 
 allows you, as Alexander the Great, to campaign the known world. One nice addition in the campaigns 
 is that you get tips from an "adviser". So your adviser can well... advice you to get some of the 
 smaller nations before attacking the Persian empire. There is one mission where you can control 
 another nation along with your own. The first time I played this, I did not know that and won the 
 battle with my own nation. As Homer Simpson would say, D'oh!
  
  Next is the Napoleon campaign. I haven't had a chance to play this yet so I can't say much about 
 it.
  
  Then there's The New World. Here you can either be America, the European, Native American and South 
 American nations to try and conquer all of the Americas. I decided to be the Americans and this 
 was a great campaign. Here to there are special battles where you have to kill various bands of 
 mercenaries instead of actual nations. 
  
  Finally is the Cold War. Which in my opinion is the best campaign in the game. And it seems like 
 Big Huge Games spent the most time on it as well. Here you can either be America or the Soviet 
 Union and again, try to Conquer the World! One thing of notice is that both nations recieve an 
 extra unique unit which can only be used in this campaign. For the Americans it is the Humvee. 
 It has a machine gun on top and I found it quite a useful weapon. For the Soviets it is a nuclear 
 submarine I believe. Haven't had a chance to play through the Soviets side yet. Here you get even 
 more new types of battles. There are the Korean and Vietnam wars, also the Afghanistan war. Another 
 new addition is the spy missions. Here you use spies and scouts to sabotage Soviet buildings. Whether 
 it is using scouts and helicopters to destroy oil wells and refineries or using spies to infiltrate 
 buildings and get partisans and humvees to attack the capital. There is even one mission where 
 you have to free hostages from Soviet buildings. I ended my campaign by building a nice nuclear 
 arsenal and nuking all of Soviet territory leading to my victory.
  
  Finally, the Multiplayer. Here is where the game loses some points. The game feels a little rushed 
 because every once in a while you get "out of sync/scenario" errors which end a the game. 
  
  Other than that its still great. The new nations are being used a lot right now since people 
 are still trying it out and of course the Americans are being picked the most. People are already 
 coming out with great strategies for the new nations. For the Indians, people are using the no 
 cost ramping bonus to build "barrack walls" where they build a string of barracks which remain 
 at a cost of 120 wood to stop invading armies and take their time in destroying those. 
  
  All in all, Thrones & Patriots is a great expansion to an already great game. The addition of new 
 nations, campaigns and the government feature have a game which seemed like it needed no more additions, 
 even better. And the minor tweaks made to nations already there and the game as a whole have made 
 it even more balanced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravenlord
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 30, 2004 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I received this game add-on courtesy of Gamespot, so I want to thank you guys, first and foremost. 
 As far as the game goes, it does a great job of developing the original rise of nations experience. 
 Everything that made the original game great gets enhanced. There are better nations, better game 
 options, better units, better wonders, a better conquer the world scenario, and some very interesting 
 mini campaings that feature all the new content of the game in splendid fashion. If you enjoyed 
 the first game, you will love this add-on.
  Unfortunately, my original beef with the first game has not been addressed, and I guess it will 
 never be, as long as rts games continue to be dependent on their inherent format. What do I mean? 
 I have never been a big fan on the whole "build units, get supply, build more units, go to war, 
 repeat" format. This is the only rts game I have, and gamespot's evaluation was a major factor 
 in my original purchase, along with the fact that the game had a historical element to it I found 
 irresistible. This game does a great job of emphasizing tactics within its format, but the format 
 remains, and I never escape the feeling that the cycle is more important than my tactical decisions.
 
  Nevertheless, I wholeheartedly recommend this game. It is a great addition to an already excellent 
 RTS achievement, and the standard for the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macenthe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2004 8:23 am PT
Review:  Thrones & Patriots injects a lot of energy into the Rise of Nations franchise; enough to keep it 
 going for many years to come (possibly till Rise of Nations 2?) . The additional nations spices 
 up the mix and should provide enough depth to keep each game fresh and original. The new campaign 
 missions are a joy to play. With a touch of real world history they are amazingly fun and challenging.
 
  
  On a technical note RoN: T&P either updates or tweaks the graphics engine enough that I saw significant 
 performance improvements from the first RoN. The graphics where smooth and motions fluid. Anyone 
 who remotely liked the frist RoN must pick up this expansion. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
