-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rise of Nations: Rise of Legends
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/riseofnationsriseoflegends/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Very similar to Rise of Nations.
 Interesting, offbeat races and units.
 Great art design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Maybe too similar to Rise of Nations.
 Campaign storyline isn't well presented and is hard to get into.
 Seems to be missing some battle sound effects.
 A few predictable artificial intelligence issues with skirmish play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 16, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 8.2, 54 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 2,833 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Big Huge Games
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     May 9, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rise of Legends is a bit flat in comparison to Rise of Nations, but quirky races and units provide 
 a lot of off-the-wall appeal. 

  High expectations are a curse. While everybody envies developers who make games as great as Rise 
 of Nations, nobody envies them when sequel time comes around. And you can really see why with Rise 
 of Legends. Big Huge Games' follow-up to its instant classic from 2003 is a pretty good RTS, but 
 it is also an awfully familiar one that doesn't bring anything new to the table aside from some 
 snazzy new graphics, a few rule tweaks, and a quirky storyline with three oddball races. After 
 a dozen hours or so of the campaign and noodling around online, the novelty vanishes... along with 
 a fair number of the compelling reasons to keep playing the game.  

          RTS unit design doesn't get any quirkier than in Rise of Legends, which features lots of 
 hardware even odder than this gyrocopter-like pirata flyer.     

  Story is one of the big reasons why Rise of Legends feels a bit flat. Although the title of the 
 game leads you to expect some kind of Ray Harryhausen-style extravaganza with Greek gods and gorgons, 
 this is not the second coming of Age of Mythology. Instead of rehashing well-worn folklore, Big 
 Huge Games decided to try something new and craft an original setting complete with three unique 
 races and loads of zany units that rework just about every fantasy and science fiction convention 
 out there.  

  Big Huge Games was obviously trying to manufacture one of those "you got peanut butter in my chocolate!" 
 moments where an off-the-wall combination works out perfectly. The only problem here is that the 
 fantasy and sci-fi doesn't so much blend together as it does clash, at least in the campaign, when 
 a story interferes with taking the races and units on their own not inconsiderable merits. The 
 three races, each fanciful recreations of cultures from disparate eras and far-flung corners of 
 the globe, seem to have been pulled from different RTS games. You've got the steampunk-flavored, 
 quasi Venetian Vinci, who utilize tech derived from the sketches of Leonardo da Vinci, like wobbly 
 gyrocopters and clockwork robots. Then there are the Alin, a civilization of sinister Arabian wizards 
 who battle with magic and fiery efreeti footsoldiers. And finally there are the Cuotl, Mayan-like 
 aliens with E. T. technology such as energy shields and flying saucers.  

  This wacky mish-mash of real history, Dungeons &amp; Dragons, and  Chariots of the Gods  is damn 
 hard to warm up to. Each of the civilizations is so offbeat that there are no reference points, 
 no similarities to RTS conventions that you can latch onto and use to dip a toe into the weirdness. 
 The story in the campaign is decidedly convoluted, as well. You're just tossed into the 20-hour, 
 three-part campaign with no preamble aside from a brief conversation about a mysterious artifact 
 that seems to be making people sick. Moments later, you're leading conquistadors and clockwork 
 robots into battle against mechanical spiders and glass monsters. Events pile one on top of the 
 other. There's an evil doge wreaking havoc, some weird unknown force supporting rebels, a hot pirate 
 babe, and, well, it's even harder to make sense of all this stuff on paper as it is when you're 
 experiencing it in person. Oh, and the ending pretty much screams "expansion pack coming in Q1 
 2007."  

          Attack of the clockwork men.     

  Campaigns themselves blend the conquer the world mode of the original Rise of Nations with stereotypical 
 RTS scenarios. As before, you move your forces on a map to accomplish objectives and conquer provinces. 
 This affords some freedom of movement, in that you can generally choose between two or three regions 
 to attack at any given moment in the game. Repetition is a bit of an issue, though. In most provinces, 
 you arrive with your stock troops. Then you build a base complete with barracks, factories, and 
 the like. Then you develop wealth through creating caravans (reactors in the case of the Cuotl) 
 and collect the glowing blue rock resource called timonium. Finally, you crank out an army and 
 sally forth to assault enemy armies and strongholds. Way too many maps force you to rebuild the 
 same base and deal with nothing but "conquer all these cities" objectives.  

  There isn't anything here that you haven't seen before, especially if you've played Rise of Nations. 
 Play is almost identical in character to the earlier game. The streamlined interface and unit selection 
 and innovative border system where you can assimilate land by developing cities are carried over 
 into the new game intact. Ages have been dropped, as has a lot of the tech research, to befit the 
 nonhistorical fantasy setting, and heroes have been added, but this doesn't alter the feel of the 
 game much.     

  With that said, Rise of Legends is more than just an unusual retread. Without the encumbrance of 
 the off-putting story, which forces you to constantly question what the deal is with these steampunk 
 Venetians, magic Arabs, and Mayan aliens, you can appreciate the races for their eccentricity and 
 the way in which they complement one another. In single-player or multiplayer skirmish play, all 
 three are fascinating. Buildings and units are very different than those in the typical RTS, and 
 the races balance just about perfectly. The Vinci start strong, and are probably the best overall 
 race for newbies thanks to the strength of their early clockwork men and steam cannons. But both 
 the Alin and the Cuotl get much more potent as time goes on. Work on long-term plans to build powerhouse 
 units like the Alin glass dragons and the Cuotl sun idols and you've got a good shot at eventually 
 smashing those clockwork creations like they were toys.  

          Even during cataclysmic battles like this one, you can barely hear the sounds of explosions 
 and gunfire.     

  It doesn't appear as though the artificial intelligence quite knows how to handle the specific, 
 unique strategies necessary to get the most out of each race, however. In solo skirmish games against 
 the computer, the AI didn't seem to advance promptly or attack sensibly. While it always did a 
 great job of setting up defenses around its capital city, which meant titanic battles to end games, 
 it tended to crank out a lot of easily destroyed, low-level shock troops and throw them at well-defended 
 points again and again. Set up some turret defenses, like the Cuotl's obelisk lightning towers, 
 near key locations like timonium deposits, and AI units could be guaranteed to flock to them like 
 insects to backyard bug zappers.  

  Going online doesn't seem to be an answer to these skirmish problems, either -- at least not yet. 
 The third-party application-based matching system left a lot to be desired in the week after Rise 
 of Legends hit stores. Few people seemed to be online playing, and it was difficult to get into 
 matches even when you could find willing opponents, as odd drops and disconnects were common. The 
 first week is always the roughest when it comes to taking an RTS online, though, so don't write 
 off the multiplayer here just yet.  

  Great art design almost makes you forget about some of these issues. You can just sit and gawk 
 at the Vinci's buildings and units in action, as they look like steam-powered constructs made out 
 of Tinkertoys, with turning wheels and pistons everywhere. Alin cities float, and have those curvy 
 towers that look like something out of the  1,001 Arabian Nights . Their fiery afreeti are something 
 to behold when they attack en masse, too. The Cuotl are a bizarre blend of old and new, with industrial 
 structures that give off a deep red glow and units that blend Mayan mythology with futuristic technology. 
 There is nothing quite like springing a pack of hissing, robotic death snakes backed by a phalanx 
 of Mayan warriors with lasers on an unsuspecting foe.  

  All of this detail does cause a few technical issues, though. Slowdown is a factor in large-scale 
 battles, especially during the climax of city sieges when big fortresses catch fire and start to 
 smoke. The game runs reasonably well on a midgrade system, but the game's all-new graphics engine 
 definitely has some performance kinks that need working out.  

          While the storyline might not make a great deal of sense, it's still easy to mark out potential 
 femmes fatales.     

  Audio is another problem. It either wasn't finished before the code was finalized, or Big Huge 
 Games has developed an appreciation for the sounds of silence. Battle effects are barely there. 
 Barrages of gunfire and explosions in the midst of a city siege are almost inaudible, even with 
 the volume cranked. This takes a lot of the excitement out of battles, and actually makes things 
 a bit eerie, particularly when a building explodes into flaming rubble with barely a peep aside 
 from the orchestral drone of the musical soundtrack.  

  Since Rise of Nations was so fantastic and innovative, it's only natural to anticipate that Rise 
 of Legends would be similarly ground-breaking. That it isn't is disappointing. But those looking 
 for a quirky RTS with great races and well-balanced units -- that also somehow manages to pack all 
 of that into a more-of-the-same design -- will find a lot here to like, as long as they're not too 
 hung-up on great storytelling.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (160 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GameRuler1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations: Thrones & Patriots. A Classic Game! Fun to play and was very addicting. Than comes 
 the Sequel. Rise of Nations: Rise of Legends. This game changes the WHOLE game play style of the 
 Rise of Nations series. No Age evolution, Placed in a futuristic and other-worldly time, and COMPLETELY 
 stupid structures. 
  
  
  
  This game although offers some cool units, some fun-to-play races and sometimes an enjoyable experience 
 of overpowering your enemies. The AI sometimes is dull and stupid but at other times is smart and 
 vast. Multiplayer mode remains good and is the only thing keeping this game a 7.5. The Campaign 
 mode is a series of Campaigns that they decided to split up. You play through the campaigns with 
 the same MAIN hero branching off with more heroes and than changing Race during each of the three 
 campaigns. In the end, you usually have the same goal. Defeating/Conquering 2 Campaign Goals. Not 
 much side story. But they usually save the best campaign for last. Which is true in this game! 
 
  
  
  ***Overall this game is enjoyable but after some time with it, it's just not that great.*** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Big Huge games return with Rise of Legends, a game which is very similar to their previous release, 
 which was the award-winning Rise of Nations.
  
  The game is reasonably deep, and the nations introduced and the armies or building they use are 
 really imaginative. The editor is also a great feature of the game.
  
  Another advantage of the game is the great graphics provided, which makes the battle to seem more 
 realistic. Nevertheless, the sounds of the battle almost don't exist.
  
  There are three campaign to play, where the one follows the other in a big chain of events. However, 
 the campaign is not introduced well and it is a bit difficult to get your self into the meaning 
 of the game.
  
  Another con is that in the skirmish mode, the enemies are very predictable, making the same moves 
 all time. It just seems like AI is completely missing.
  
  I think that Rise of Legends is not the game that it could be and I recommend you to take a look 
 at the demo first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  In 2002 rise of nations hit the shelves and then the next year the expansion pack, throne of the 
 patriots was released. then 2006 rise of legends was created, the gameplay feels similar to that 
 of nations but with the factions and unit you get to choose from you will think it is along the 
 lines of dark messiah. The three factions, the vinci, the suigin and the quotle are each uniqe 
 and have different pros and cons, for example, the Vinci have ranged units as a msin basis but 
 have weaker heroescompared to that of the Quotle.
  the story is in no need short, there are 3 nations broken up into different missions, the game 
 features a territory controls scheme, basically, you select a mission play through and if you win 
 it turns your color. this can take a while because there are 25+ regions in each nation.
  the skirmishes are pretty decent with the basics there but lacks a little something that rise of 
 nations had
  
  all in all its a great game if you enjoyed Rise of nations 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheYokai
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing, from a design standpoint especially. The setting is hugely original and 
 quite fun to play in, and the three factions are unlike anything ever seen in an RTS. The graphics 
 are beautiful and the units are interesting. Visually, the only thing the game was lacking was 
 the complete absence of water, excepting a few green, swampy jungle pools. This is quite easily 
 overlooked though.
  The gameplay, admittedly, is nothing an experienced RTS player hasn't seen before. The interface 
 and elements of play are very similar to Command and Conquer or Battle for Middle Earth, with the 
 inclusion of powers and unit battalions. However, this is balanced by the creativity of the three 
 races, which not only look awesome, but play in a way different from all other strategy games. 
 The Vinci, Alin and Cuotl races force players to come up with new ways of winning, and it's near 
 impossible to use the same strategy from one race to the next. This makes the strategic element 
 challenging and fun, while the game itself isn't overly difficult. 
  The campaign is lacking slightly. It's open-ended, which is quite nice, allowing you to build up 
 your forces and capture as many territories as possible so you can have powerful units and heroes 
 before taking on the final missions. The story, however, lacks continuity and there are some rather 
 odd slip-ups. For example, the high-quality cinematics that permeated the Vinci campaign are all 
 but absent in the Alin and Cuotl campaigns, and as these were mainly what advanced the story, it 
 becomes hard to follow what's going on. The ending also feels rather rushed, when the protagonist 
 Giacomo finally defeats his enemy Czin, and after a series of rather inexplicable images and events, 
 destroys the mysterious machine whose purpose is never explained. The final scene also leaves room 
 for an expansion, although this seems unlikely. 
  All in all, it definitely breaks away from the traditional RTS mold, has incredible visuals and 
 epic battles, and is simply fun to play. You like real-time strategy; you should give this a try.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thoraxe1992
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Rise of Legends may present itself as a typical RTS at first, until you actually play it. You start 
 as a young inventor set out to save his country from a vicious tyrant using all kinds of wacky 
 machines (and the basic servant cannon-fodder of course) . You navigate the region based map one 
 square at a time (which makes it difficult to progress too far without one of your regions being 
 taken control if you don't kill off the intimidating enemy leaders right away) and you kill off 
 a bunch of mercenary groups and small enemy regiments. 
  
  The battles are all well presented and well animated. Once larger units are introduced, they stomp 
 and flail and bodies go flying. The sound can sometimes fall behind or go missing as bullets ricochet 
 a half of a second too late or a laser hits without the deafening roar you would expect. This doesn't 
 really kill the moment though, especially if you CAN take down that Juggernaut or disintegrate 
 half of an army. 
  
  Starcraft players (like me) will feel right at home. The Vinci resemble the human Terran forces, 
 using technology and pure mechanical might to kill the enemies. The Alin resemble the Zerg forces 
 in the way that they swarm and can hide in their environments. And of course, the mighty Cuotl 
 show off the might of the Protoss in the way that they use energy shields and have the might of 
 the Gods about them. 
  
  All in all, Rise of Legends presents a good game, with pretty nice graphics that run fairly smoothly. 
 I haven't played online yet, but I'm sure it works well (if you can find a group of players) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  First of this game seemed like just any RTS game, and well it is pretty much that, except the Quirky 
 and odd units you can command.
  Rise of Legends is significantly different from Rise of Nations, and really can't be compared the 
 same way. Aside from updating the graphics engine and using the strategic map, Rise of Legends 
 and Rise of Nations are really not the same game. Rise of Nations had about 18 similar races, differing 
 by a unit or so, Rise of Legends has three completely unique races that play completely differently.
 
  Rise of Legends is not a sequel to Rise of Nations. From the ground up, it cut or changed many 
 of that game's conventions to create a completely different style of tactical real-time strategy 
 game.
  STORY: The main point of the story is about trying to take your lands back from the evil Doge that 
 starts taking your lands. The Doge is a Mechanical like guy who is surprisingly strong. Although 
 the story mode offers a Ton of different levels, they disappointingly seem to linear and are a 
 lot alike. The main story follows you through the three lands of the different races. The Vinci 
 (mechanical type of units) , Alin (magical units) and the Cuotl (Mystical and God worshiping type 
 units) .
  This idea of science vs magic vs alien is original! The WWII games and the magic elf stuff is getting 
 a little old. I liked the character designs which are fairly imaginitave. It could have used better 
 maps with environments you could destroy and more open space.
  graphics and sounds is ok (not superb) . game speed is good, gameplay is fun but after a week it 
 will bee boring. overall i think this game better than original rise of nations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vortex_gw
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  I got this game for my birthday and considering that I am a RPG junkie the first thing I said to 
 my friends was : 
  - "What the ****?!"
  But I decided to give it a try and I was surprised by this game. It was nothing like the other 
 RTS. There weren't elves, orcs and all the other stuff that I was sick of.
  The storyline was nothing much but it was ok. First going for revenge, then helping out the alin 
 to save their kingdom from a dark "wizard" and finally saving the world from the aliens. The opening 
 scene was awesome. In general I liked all cut-scenes in the game. The final scene was pretty cool 
 and left a chance for a sequel but
  With some exceptions I love all units in the game. Cool looking with interesting weapons. They 
 were so different from the other RTS that I was fun playing. I don't know whether the districts 
 were good or bad idea because the enemy had to focus on one building only. But on the hand the 
 city was cool looking and so huge. 
  Even at high settings the game was not looking different compared to lower settings. I liked the 
 animation though. For example the Cuotl reactors, the main city and so much other things which 
 I can't remember now, because I played it a year ago. The weather effects were cool. I think in 
 all RTS there should be weather effects like lightnings, rain, wind etc.
  In my opinion this RTS has one of the coolest end-game units ever. It's so much fun playing with 
 them. The heroes had interesting and useful abilities. 
  The biggest flaw in the is the SOUND. OMG! I think the developers forgot that one of the important 
 things in a game is the sound. Maybe that is the reason why this game was abandoned.
  I hope for a sequel in which all the mistakes will be corrected. I know there is a little chance 
 that there will be a sequel but hope dies last.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpnelson82
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  RoN is based on my experiences so far either impossible or incredibly easy. The big trick seems 
 to be just have overwhelming numbers. I get somewhat annoyed with the attrition damage that Microsoft 
 usually includes, it's unrealistic. In real war one soldiers don't take damage just by being in 
 enemy territory unless they have transport blimps with them. The Vinci seem underpowered compared 
 to everyone else since one Heartstealer is able to wipe out quite a few Vinci grenadiers with no 
 trouble, enough of them together would be able to overrun any Vinci city. I have to give the game 
 props for its imagery which is astounding. I don't think all the units are available in the demo 
 or I just haven't researched enough to get them, not a clue. I haven't figured out yet whether 
 making a land-grab early on is better than turtling, but I think it is. The Alin unlike the Vinci 
 seem overpowered, they can spawn units like Zerglings. Their dragons can smash through Vinci units, 
 the Heartstealer is a tank equaled only by the Juggernaut. So, naturally the game is difficult, 
 if it's set on default or higher, but easy is too easy. It's worth playing, but if you play as 
 the Vinci just start pumping out grenadiers and blimps and don't stop. I tried to play it like 
 I played RA2 and got stomped. It's more like Starcraft. Spawn more overlords 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhaskarchatta
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  It is a big game... With many options to play with... the campaigns are great to play with... The 
 Resolution, Screens, Sounds, every thing is just great... The Rise Of Legends is basically a mixture 
 of Rise Of Nations, Age of Mythology and Age of Empires... If any one wants to have a great game 
 with fun and fantasy they can go for this one... It is really a worth playing game with many features... 
 During playing the game just be ready for good attacks from the computer player with good tactics 
 and huge army... Don't just hurry to attack them other wise you will be just mashed... Do not just 
 go blind by the reviews from the Critics .... Just go and download and try the Demo from this site 
 and after that I can bet that you are going to buy the game for your self... Actually this happens 
 with me .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeno123456
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Hello. If your tired of Orcs Elves and Dwarfs, then u will like this game a lot!
  Rise of Legends has 3 TOTALLY different factions. The Vinci specialize in mechanics and clockwork. 
 The alin are all about magic of fire, sand and glass. The Cuolt posses technology that seems like 
 magic. So Rise of Legends gives u a single player campaign. My rating for the campaign is 8/10. 
 The cutseens are kid of sexy 10/10. Rise of legends in its full graphic ability is a beautiful 
 masterpiece although suffers a number of bugs. The battles look great and lots of magic. You will 
 see when magic and technology fight, the land it self is terrorized. Each of the factions play 
 different and have lots of units to choose from. U can also have heroes with devastating powers. 
 This game allows u to control massive armies. If u have a high graphics card u will enjoy the combat 
 eye candy very much. Everything form the units to buildings looks cool and fantastic. This game 
 is very different form other RTSs that you might seen. SO if ure up for some steel vs magic, Then 
 u ought to get this game. Its only 9.99 in stores. No questions its easy to get and fun to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Missile129
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely loved Rise of Nations. I would play it hour after hour and never get bored. With the 
 expansion pack thrown on the top, it was a game that never failed to excite. So when i heard the 
 announcement of Rise of Legends i had high hopes. 
  
  I think i set them too high. 
  
  This game, in comparison to its predecessor, is a let down. For me, one of the main reasons why 
 it is so disappointing is the fact that there are only 3 nations. 
  
  Although the nations are very balanced (And i have to congratulate the makers on how balanced they 
 are!) , they are focused into one strategy. I don't just mean excel in one strategy; i mean completely 
 focused in to it. Take the Alin for example, they are the military people. They are brilliant at 
 rushing. Booming not so good, turtle, in my opinion, even worse. 
  
  This make online play tedious as the moment you find out who your opponent is playing, you can 
 pretty much guess their strategy. Of course the element of surprise is there (And it's a big surprise) 
 but the strategy you are therefore trying to perform isn't designed to suit that nation so your 
 opponent has plenty of time to adapt accordingly. 
  
  The only way to win, unless on specific maps, is by conquest. This obviously makes the nation that 
 focuses on army very appealing. I think they should have brought back the classic wonder victory 
 and territory victory from Rise of Nations; it provided you with more options and more diversity. 
 
  
  Take Rise of Nations out and you have a solid game. It is a great game and it will keep you entertained 
 for a long while. The 3 nations are quirky and fun to play with maps ranging from straight forward 
 land to challenging cliffs that require you to make transport units. The attrition returns and 
 the research trees although now there is less research to do done. There is also little research 
 to do at buildings that is not related to upgrading troops. Each nation is also incredibly different 
 with their own units. Not just a select few unique units; all the units are unique to each nation. 
 
  
  The problem is, you can never forget that Rise of Nations is there. Rise of Legends feels like 
 a downgrade from the awesome Rise of Nations. Little diversity in gameplay, few nations that specialise 
 in specific strategies far too intensely and many features that we all loved from Rise of Nations 
 are removed. 
  
  If you're thinking of buying this, get Rise of Nations first. I admit this game had a lot to live 
 up to but it would be far better if they hadn't removed so many features. It doesn't look like 
 they're planning to release an expansion for this any time soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: songtri
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Rise of Legends is a sequel to Rise of Nations. It inherited many aspects from RON, but added a 
 new, most astonishing element, the concept of 3 races. Different races with unique units, heroes, 
 researches, powers is not a new concept in other RTSs, but combined with the creative systems of 
 RON and its modification has made another creative game play.
  ROL now has a good campaign mode. The story is a simple one, and the first appearance is similar 
 with 'conquer the world' in RON. But it offers a different experiences with RON and skirmish and 
 multiplay mode of ROL, because you can upgrade your units and heroes only in strategic map phase 
 and you can use more, different heroes which are only enabled in campaign mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mke112
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  It is a crying shame that more time was not put into this game. It just seems as though somewhere 
 along the line they just gave up and quit. Stop believing in it or something. Not even a patch 
 as of yet! This is a good game and could have been,, maybe still be great if a patch came out! 
 The concept is just fantastic and the Vinci side is so cool! This idea of science vs magic vs alien 
 is original! The world is waiting for something creative and original and this was it,, but i guess 
 that took too much courage and they just gave up. The WWII games and the magic elf stuff is getting 
 a little old. This is still a fun game and worth the few dollars. It could have used better maps 
 with environments you could destroy and more open space. I think it would have worked better to 
 be able to build cities as apposed to these things you build and expand. They may make sense in 
 alien land, but not in Vinci land. The 'Clockworkman is science fiction at it beautiful best! I 
 am telling you, that Clockworkman is movie material! Truly a masterpiece!! Both beautiful and fearful 
 to look at! Whoever created him knows good science fiction!! there are a few games that would make 
 fantastic movies! Honestly,, the ones made have been so stupid!! Doom the movie???? Tomb raider????? 
 Really??? ISometimes honestly some people make movies just so they can be patted on the back at 
 parties and feel good about themselves,, Mech Warrior, if done well, would be a fantastic movie! 
 This is also,, if done well, by people that actually believed in it, would be a great movie concept! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Prototypical sequel and almost expansion pack like feeling to this one.
  
  Not much to say here... if you liked Rise of Nations, you will like the sequel because not much 
 has changed. If you are an RTS fan, this is about as standard as you can get.
  
  Graphics: Upgraded graphics a little, added some new details here and there but nothing earth shattering.
 
  
  Gameplay: For me at least, it seemed way to easy. Turtle for 10 minutes, build up and charge. I 
 never really felt challenged and eventually found I could defeat any campaign by simply choosing 
 a couple of specific groups for my army (wont give away for spoiler)
  
  Unless you are desperate for an RTS, I would skip over this one and wait until you have $20 to 
 blow, or are really bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unrealdj813
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Online mode is kinda dead but I think we have reviewers like gamespot to thank for that... This 
 is a great game. In build order wise its not like Age of mythology but in unit wise it is, with 
 extra abilities for alot of the units. I've stopped playing AOM finally cause of this game, great 
 gameplay. AOE3 Fails at gameplay, sadly AOE3 is geared for graphics but not fun. This is for both, 
 You do however need a physics chip and great system to enjoy the extra graphics. Otherwise it looks 
 kinda normal, still the gameplay doesnt change because of graphics....... Gamespot Sometimes reviews 
 games well, sometimes completly wrong. AOE3 in the top spots? I dont see how, the actual gameplay 
 and units avaliable are a joke, there is ONE fun kind of unit and they're the cannons. So if I 
 wanna have fun I have to use cannon types? Thats not cool.... No abilities, All of the other units 
 kind of have the same actions for attacking. ROL Covers everything! All the units perform differently 
 with great abilities , you got your heroes and you got you hero powers and kinda like god powers 
 (more like earned powers threw what your doing during the game you can get repeatedly) definetly 
 cool. AOM players will LOVE this game. And online mode needs a boost cause this game hasn't gotten 
 enough credit. I placed a REAL learning curve for how to play well and understand it. I hate how 
 gamespot judges their learning curves....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohammed888
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Legends, what can I say about this game that is really disapointing. Lets start with the 
 basics, shall we?
  
  Gamplay: Similar to the gamplay in Rise of Nations but lacks in depth and is more a task to go 
 through than being fun to play.
  
  Graphics: Improved graphics are the only advancments in this sequal.
  
  Sound: The songs and 
 sound effects are good but not as good as Rise of Nations.
  
  Value: You should not play it if you played the first game.
  
  Tilt: The story is not intresting 
 and you would feel lesser urge to finish through the campain as you play on.
  
  Ok, after being done with the basics now to the experience: Rise of Nations had a good tutorial 
 that prepared you for the game and which you dont have to play the through the campaign but you 
 would have the same amount of fun playing the skrimish, but after you try the campaign you get 
 hooked on it and I went through the campaign three times. In Rise of Legends, the turtorial dosen't 
 do you any good becouse its in the campaign, you cant really enjoy the skrimish because alot of 
 the game aspects had to be learned through the campaign which made me loose intrest and not finish 
 the game. In the end, Rise of Legends is a letdown for any one who experienced the first game and 
 what a letdown it is. If Big Huge Games would have takken Thrones and Patriots (the expansion pack 
 to Rise of Nations) and slammed the number 2 on it and shipped it, it would have been much better 
 than the steeming pile which was Rise of Legends. Seriosly, make a true sequal BIG HUGE GAMES because 
 I am still waiting for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archanid
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. Supplied with a good story and some buttwoopin' races to play with, 
 this really is a keeper. My personal favorite still remains the Vinci, because they're standing 
 closer to reality, and that is what I (most of the time) seek in a game. Second best was the Alin, 
 because they have a wide variety of troops, and they have not one, but three major classes: The 
 Sand class, the Glass class and the Fire class. Personally, I think they should scrap the Cuotl 
 (How do I pronounce this?!) , because they weren't as cool as the Vinci and the Alin and they didn't 
 gave me the feeling I was controlling an entire civilization here. I haven't discovered the Cuotl's 
 (Cue.. hotel?) speciality yet, but the Vinci's ultimate showdown is the Leviathian, a massive spider-like 
 tank that can 'eat' entire city's all by its own. The Alin's showdown was, at least I thought, 
 that enormous glass-like bird. Oh yeah, it was strong, but it didn't feel like an ultimate showdown, 
 more like something strong and expensive.
  
  For the storymode, I thought it was very solid. Especially because the game is more of an online 
 fragfest, I like the developers gave the story some attention too. So, if you're not looking for 
 some man-to-man action, you shouldn't worry with this game. Because the Vinci is my favorite race, 
 I also enjoyed their storymode the most.
  
  The multiplayer kicked some  as well. When you're 
 having a massive war, with 8 players in a map, it really keeps you on the edge of your seat. I 
 hope Big Huge Games will produce another game, with even more species. At least 7! That would be 
 really cool. Or an (MMO) RPG, with the Vinci, Cuotl (?!) and the Alin.
  
  All with all, R. O. L. makes a solid game with good stories, a nice multiplayer and species that 
 are the straight opposite of each other, which makes you want to play them all! Only the game cannot 
 compete by far with a game like Lord of the Rings, The Battle for MiddleEarth II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik1116
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Excellent Graphics. I was blown awasy by them. But it was a dissapointing storyline and i thought 
 that the way of collecting resources was pretty weird. Pretty Cool units. You'll just love how 
 everything looks. But i didn't like the campaign. The three nations wasn't as cool as having so 
 many in the thrones and patriots.
  
  overall i'd give it a n eight out of ten which ill put down there but, there is one thing. If you've 
 played thrones and patriots you have to get legends to see it. Just because.. you do! Hopefully 
 a new one will come out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparten1012
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  the best game Rise of Nations ever ever ever came up with. More then you will expect from a game. 
 The Campain is long but alwas fun it ceeps it new with the fact that you get to play as each nation 
 so now one is left out of the campain. the story thow contaning each nation not only makes senice 
 but it also is an ncredible. the negitive is it dose not have meney diffrent nations but it mackes 
 each one is vary diffrent so it is alwas fun. the units are uniqic to each race and the all have 
 intrasting heroses all with back stories. [Spioler ahead]
  
  The intrasting thing is after Gacaomo dies it leaves you an opean ending that you can play out 
 throw skermish mod 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wacko342
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 14, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  1. Cool Tecnology
  Definitely good game. Vast research and technology for you to attain and it takes quite long time 
 to reach that goal unless you cheat. Somewhat easy to play if you have experience with other real-time 
 strategy game. The technology is sometimes disproportionatly unfair. However, if you have wits 
 and able to use the some other advanced units by following a good resource management, you can 
 still beat the other opponents somewhat god-like unit. You can say, it is a War Craft 3 clone in 
 style except with the differences with races and technology. 2. Story
  I am pretty sure expansion is somewhere on the horizon. I am hoping they enhance the story a lot 
 better. Story is what make me playing the game. 3. Sound
  One thing I have complain with is the sound. The character didn't seem to make some funny confirmation 
 statement when they are being selected. To me it is like wing-ding wave sound from old Windows 
 3.11 OS. It worth the wait and I love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jethrob3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 30, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Rise of legends is one of my favorite games. i hate games with limited recources on a map, limiting 
 how long you can play. Rise of legends did this well by puting sizable gathering areas to control 
 instead of gather from. i also like how you can have A LOT of units on a single map. there are 
 some things i need to complain about. the units tend to look a little robotic and no realistic. 
 the developers also seemed to put alot of time into the Vinci race and tried to finish the other 
 2 races within a month. the heros in multiplayer would have been cooler if they leveled up by how 
 much enemies were slain rather than how much money youve got. other than these set backs, rise 
 of legends is a good game with huge battles and good campaign 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terry_Foxman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 25, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations was a critically acclaimed new age RTS that brought history and strategy together, 
 now they did the same thing but threw sci-fi into the mix. To be honest you have to have a love 
 for sci fi to see the appeal of this game but if you do this is really a wonderful game for you. 
 It has a great combination of races and powers to really make you feal the action and the story 
 line is quite compelling. Overall this is a great RTS for any collection given you have an interest 
 in sci-fi, if you are just a history nut then sorry this game's probably not for you but you could 
 give a shot.
  
  The low down:
  The gameplay is fun and enticing with a captivating story three playable races and a whole lot 
 of goodies to keep you entertained
  
  The graphics are great for this genre of game and really bring the action to life
  
  The sound 
 is a bit trite but really not to bad
  
  Overall this is great distraction and provides some great gameplay so i would recommend it if your 
 bored and want something to do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmyComrade
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  There are literally hundreds of great RTS games out there. Many have presented original units and 
 story lines, but not like this. Rise of legends presents the most unusual yet interesting units 
 ever. Besides the quirky units, the graphics are absolutely beautiful as well as gameplay and sounds. 
 It's crazy how technology and fantasy come together and blend in some good to make a game as good 
 as it's classic prequel.
  
  There are three factions to this game. Vinci, who is the human faction that uses only technology, 
 Alin, that uses only magic, and the Cuotl, that is the advanced race with god-like technology and 
 advanced laser technology. The Vinci tends to use machines (such as robots, mechs, and tanks) , 
 the Alin uses creatures (like dragons, spiders, and spirits) , and the Cuotl use odd units (like 
 animal like machines) .
  
  This game is definitely worth your time and money. I recommend this game to anyone who is a serious 
 RTS gamer. Play it ! VINCI KICKS ASS !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiredDreemz
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations was one of the most addictive games I've ever played, so I had exceptionally high 
 hopes for Rise of Legends. What could be better than Rise of Nations with a fantasy twist? Nothing! 
 Guess I was wrong! My hopes were completely shot down. Rise of Legends is okay, but definitely 
 not on a par with Rise of Nations. It's fun, but I liked that whole idea of a Risk-like game, which 
 Rise of Nations was. Rise of Legends just doesn't have that addictive feel to it. There are also 
 little things like units getting stuck behind terrain, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  I've played Rise of Nations and that was an excellent RTS! World Domination was the best feature 
 because it combined TBS with RTS making the game very appealling!
  
  Rise of Legends however... Yeah...
  
  When it comes down to game advertising, generally you'd 
 think the demo is a gamer's first impression of the game. It ROL's demo was anything to go on... 
 For a first impression, it wasn't all that crash hot. :- (
  
  The full version isn't a great better either...
  
  The first thing I want to know... How do 
 I play this game? 
  
  Rise of Nations had an excellent tutorial, Rise of Legends... Did some idiot assume after RON fans 
 having played RON to death would THINK they'd automatically know how to play ROL?!?!?!?
  
  I got news for 'em... I FOUND IT IMMENSELY CONFUSING!!!!
  
  The other thing... Rise of Legends 
 is hyped up to be a STUPENDOUSLY EPIC REAL-TIME STRATEGY GAME!!!! *cough*YEAH RIGHT!*cough*
  After playing the demo (which I felt like I'd been tossed into the deep end) I though was interesting 
 game besides to lack of details (how-to's and the game's story) ... Glad EB Games had it mark as 
 a 2-For-$50 (AUD) , because I probably wouldn't have been curious enough to touch it with a Ten-Foot-Barge-Poll 
 !
  C&amp; C Games, WarCraft, RON, Empire Earth, Dawn of War... You were able to establish the story 
 / background details on the game universe. Whereas Rise of Legends... No developer on the project 
 though to clue the players in on the factions, units, facilities let alone the story?!?!? This 
 game is supposed (or appears) to be a Story-Driven RTS, when there is hardly any backstory mentioned 
 and the story that is explained is told in the POOREST of detail...
  
  Seriously if you can jump those pair of massive hurdles, it's okay game to play...
  
  Rise 
 of Legends is not all it's quacked up to be... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Well after playing through the campaigns, I have to say the storyline kinda sucked.. first revenge 
 for your brother.. then revenge for your friend. Umm okay.. I was expecting something a bit more 
 noble . Sure you save the world.. and I guess the end does say something about revenge.. in a Moby 
 Dick sort of way. At least the women were smart enough to realize that the country needs to be 
 united and not just conquered .. Does this say something about males? Hmm sexist in a degree.. 
 but I digress.. The maps on the campaign are okay.. some repeats and some standard conquer all the 
 cities missions.. with very few start with a squad of guys and defeat the enemy maps.. I prefer 
 those since they actually require a bit of strat . Not just the whole build up massive quantities 
 of sand dragons and storm the map... In fact most of my wins were through just rushing the enemy.. 
 using my hero powers etc. Only towards the end does rushing become a real pain.. namely the last 
 campaign. So you make a decision if you want to have Alin heroes or Vinci ones.. of course this 
 doesn't have a real effect on the gameplay or storyline at all. A shame.. The skirmish maps are 
 decent.. but I've seen these maps reproduced in other RTS games.. and though the units are pretty 
 cool and all.. if you zoom in they look great. I think it contends with Act of War pretty nicely.. 
 though the explosions in AoW were way better as were the maps and scenarios. Multiplayer is multiplayer.. 
 standard RTS fair.. no more different than skirmish.. Rise of Legends uses quite a bit of RoN in 
 the game without the ICBM explosions, which actually made RoN fun... IMO. But the added bonus of 
 heroes makes it pretty much a nice trade off.. RoN vets will see a lot of similarities in the game.. 
 and the AI is a bit smarter now than it was in RoN.. though not by much. The music is VERY similar 
 to RON.. in fact it was just enhanced a bit and thrown in.. and there isn't much variation. The 
 value of the game is with 3 difficulties of play in the campaign and 6 in the skirmish.. with that 
 decision in the 3rd campaign as being a bit more for value.. Altogether I give this game a solid 
 8 for being a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 6, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Their are tons of units to choose from in Legends and lots of levels to explore but each level 
 you go through, seems almost identical to the last. Using a mighty army or strategically using 
 a small force to destroy your enemy, its your choice. STORY: The main point of the story is about 
 trying to take your lands back from the evil Doge that starts taking your lands. The Doge is a 
 Mechanical like guy who is surprisingly strong. Although the story mode offers a Ton of different 
 levels, they disappointingly seem to linear and are a lot alike. The main story follows you through 
 the three lands of the different races. The Vinci (mechanical type of units) , Alin (magical units) 
 and the Cuotl (Mystical and God worshiping type units) .
  
  PROS: Great graphics with colorful characters, a lot of replay value, great elements from all RTS 
 games are implemented superbly.
  
  CONS: Levels are too alike and linear, not a very good story and dialogue is fairly stale, not 
 the greatest sound.
  
  OVERALL: This is one of most well put together RTS games in awhile. Rise of Legends has some of 
 the best elements of all RTS games into a brand new very quirky group of races. Many adventures 
 will greatly sap any RTS fans day, enjoying this great game. Its hard to recommend however for 
 the non-RTS fan though, because for me the similar levels really took the fun out of the missions 
 not long after playing. It quickly becomes apparent, that this is going to be fairly linear game. 
 Lastly, it is a great game if youre a regular RTS fan but otherwise it will be just another RTS 
 game. Perhaps find a better one, such as Company of Heroes but if youre looking for another great 
 RTS other then the best, this is one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel8888
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  You won&acute; t see me doing reviews many times. Most of the games doesn&acute; t deserve it ( or 
 someone already have said what I was thinking) , but, seeing the gamespot review rate and the other 
 reviews, i think that one thing or too was missed here.
  
  As you could see for yourself in this game summary the you say rate is better than the other two, and 
 that&acute; s why:
  
  1) About the sound that&acute; s the target of some of the bad aspects: It&acute; s already corrected 
 with the patches of the game, so, what you heard about the sound when the game was realeased, forget 
 alll about it. Despite it&acute; s anything astonhisihing that hit you in the core by involving, now, 
 it is there where it belongs.
  
  2) I never heard about anyone ho bought an RTS game mainly because of it&acute; s history. Of course 
 it helps, but a game is made for being played not watched. It&acute; s not a movie, for god sake! 
 Aside that, the mechanics of the campaing are godd enouth to hook you, and the chance make different 
 strategic chocies, built districts to earn bonusses and points to improve your forces it&acute; s 
 a very good news for tohse (like me) who often give the campaing a secondary attention. 3) Forget 
 about the critics about the AI. That&acute; s important to mention that the six different difficulties 
 are excellent weel executed. As you play trought then and improve your skills along you see that 
 they were made for being the step for the next one, keeping you want to see how far you can go. 
 The first too is for those who want to learn about the RTS mechanics without that frustation of 
 constant losses until the time feel the pleasure of a victory has come. The next two is made for 
 casual veterans RTS player like me, who don&acute; t spend a bunch of hours playing over and over 
 again in the same day. The last two is for all that are excellent and heavy users of RTS style. 
 From the newbies to RTS to the veterans, you will find plenty challenge here to keep you playing 
 for a long time. And, after that, as you can see in other gamer reviews, the multiplayer is awsome.
 
  
  After picking the demo, and then buying this one, I can tell you that for me this game is lasting 
 a lot more than I expected when i first read the gamespot&acute; s and oyher game sites reviews. 
 Actually I think that it will last as the Crafts of blizzard that I ( and the most of you who read 
 this) also have. So, if you don&acute; t care much about history, and it&acute; s more interested 
 on skirmish, multiplayer, and kind of an innovative gameplay with astonishing graphics, go ahead. 
 It&acute; s not the best game ever made on the genre, but it&acute; s a one that you won&acute; t regret 
 to buy. That&acute; s for shure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  I can't get it. Rise of Nations was trully the best RTS of it's time &amp; Thrones &amp; Patriots 
 did a good job too. So I can't get it why they screwed up with Rise of Legends. The only superb 
 thing in RONROL are the graphics, which are really very good,&amp; it has some of the best effects 
 in a strategy game. But the sound is abysmal, almost no sound effect, just some nice music from time 
 to time. The gameplay is good, but boring &amp; there are just 3 factions in the game. Bugs affect 
 the gameplay too. The story is nicely realised, but the main theme of it is not original at all. 
 What they call the sequel to a superb game, I call it **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pemobian
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 13, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  When Rise of Legends first came out last year (in May 2006) , I did something I normally don't do 
 and allowed a consensus of the major review sites to turn me off to a perfectly good game. Shameful, 
 I know. I picked up a cheap copy of RoL the other day, and to my belated surprise, it is an excellent 
 gaming experience.
  
  The story revolves around Giacomo, the leader of a human faction known as the Vinci (as in Leonardo 
 da Vinci) . He begins seeking revenge against The Doge for his brother's murder, but the span of 
 three campaigns leads him to uncover increasingly sinister goings-on. While the plot keeps you 
 interested, it is revealed in cutscenes before and after missions and doesn't really explain a 
 whole lot. You're just thrown into these situations, and your only option is to tackle them as 
 though you know what you're doing, even though you sometimes won't understand the point until later.
 
  
  Basically, the idea is similar to the old campaign model in Rise of Nations. You have an overview 
 map, from which you move Giacomo's army into territories you wish to attack. From there, the real-time 
 battle launches, or a cutscene followed by a battle.
  
  While playing, the graphics stand out first. The artwork is just outstanding, which only enhances 
 the enjoyment of dealing with the bizarre units and buildings you will encounter. Smoke, dust, 
 explosions, other effects -- everything looks better than Rise of Nations. Terrain is detailed 
 and sharp. All of the units look good from the standard playing distance and retain most of their 
 clarity even when the camera zooms in.
  
  The sound is good, though it certainly could have been better. Giacomo and the other heroes are 
 voiced very well. Some chatter during the course of battle would have been a nice touch, but the 
 audio in general is suitable even if not stellar like the visuals.
  
  By far, the sweetest thing in the game is the sheer off-beat nature of the three factions. The 
 aforementioned Vinci utilize absurd mechanical contraptions based largely on the work of Leonardo 
 da Vinci (primitive flying machines and such) . The Alin are a magical desert-dwelling people, using 
 sand, fire and glass to construct a variety of creepy units. The Cuotl are aliens, based loosely 
 upon Mayan civilization but with a highly-advanced level of technology. They are easily the most 
 quirky faction, which is really saying something.
  
  It's quite unfortunate that some mind-boggling bad press hurt sales of this terrific game. Rise 
 of Legends is an excellent example of how to follow up a ground-breaking release like Rise of Nations. 
 It keeps the formula intact, but it avoids coming across as a clone. I hope to see an expansion 
 in the near future, hopefully one with better sales numbers. At any rate, every RTS fan should 
 give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kael17
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 1, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  So yeah its similar to Rise of Nations, but its features a new game.
  The first thing: The intro is awesome.
  Second: This game is the proof of the power of creativity, it 
 gives you a new Earth, and strange units. Its a mix of old era tech and electrical technology for 
 that its very fun (especially when you play over a LAN network) .
  Third: the campaign is long enough to keep you busy.
  There are some minor problems with it like: if 
 you wanna cancel the spell casting need to pres esc (would be better right click) .
  
  SO SUM: The game is fun, if someone played RON then play this too, if not then thats why you need 
 to play RON: ROL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MafiaMizo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  When I first read the reviews and got glimpse of what Rise of legends is. It has reminded me of 
 Arcanum: Of Steamworks and Magick Obscura (if you've played the game) . The setting is very similar, 
 Magic and technology against each other.
  
  Game play: Rise of Nations, other settings however like units and Buildings are unique, for Starters 
 you've got 3 races. The Vinci which are Industrial like old machine prototype Human Faction. Which 
 is fun and nicely implemented. The Alin: Mages and Dragons with Varied units and Upgrades. Finally 
 the Cuotl, The Aztec like Advanced people who use Reactors and Shields. The Campaign and Story 
 could have used much more storytelling and uniqueness. There's a Multitude of heroes with different 
 and unique abilities, but I mostly end the game before I have the chance to summon them. Expanding 
 is good as there are a lot of 'Neutral' buildings to take. Graphics:
  The artistic design of Units and Building deserve an Applause, its good looking and unique design 
 makes a sight and can actually glue you to it
  And the game runs reasonably well. Sound:
  I thought it's time to implement 'Voices' this time, but they didn't, same problem with rise of 
 Nations. One of the things that make a Gamer get into the game is the Voices they hear, sadly though 
 this doesn't happen in Rise of legends; they speak only in Cut scenes which isn't enough.
  
  Performance:
  The game works well after the patches, I have a 2.4 with 512 Ram and it runs 
 perfectly.
  
  Value:
  Its Unique setting needs unique players, Find them and play with or against them, Maximum fun!
 
  
  Bottom line:
  Well if you're into rise of nations and would like to try something new, or if you're into Strategy 
 games and need a Break, go for Rise of legends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Legends is the sequel to the excellent rts rise of nations. Although i have never played 
 rise of nations, i can definetley say that rise of legends is a great game compared to all the 
 other rts's i have played. Gameplay 8- There are three races in rise of legends: Vinci, Alin, and 
 Cutoul. As the Vinci race, your army will mostly consist of clockwork men, spiders, airplanes, 
 and just in general machines. The alin are glass building people who rely on magic, while the cutoul 
 are like an alien race. These races play very differently, as the vinci are very strong in the 
 beginning, while alin and cutoul get stronger units later on. The campaign mode is quite interesting, 
 as it has you play on a type of RISK map, and is quite interesting in all, but the battles are 
 really hard and can be repetitive, as the AI constantly throws really weak units at you and it's 
 really annoying having to kill this mass amount of crap. Graphics 10- The graphics in rise of nations 
 are superb. The landscapes are beautiful, and all the explosiosn and such things look very cool 
 and there are no flaws in the graphics.
  
  sound 9- Sound is pretty good, although you need to download the patches in order to get it working 
 right (there were problems on not being able to hear anything such as explosions, gun firing, etc) . 
 However, once you do that, the sound mixes very well with the combat. Value 10- This is definetly 
 worth the 50$, as once your done with the campaign mode or done playing with the computers you 
 can play online which'll keep you playing the game.
  
  Tilt 10- Overall, game looks excellent and i always have a very great experience playing this game. 
 Although i have not played many rts's, this is obviously the best one i've played so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coryperemsky
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I had a pretty good time playing this game and i didnt take all that long to get the hang of... 
 most people who have ever played an rts will be able to play decently within a few games. The gameplay 
 is pretty straight forward you get resources build an army, upgrade, expand etc... There are three 
 races to choose one being the Vinci (The more human race relying on steam powered robots and technology) , The 
 Cuatl (Kind of like an ancient aztec jungle race, using spells etc...) and finally the other race 
 which i cant remember there name anyways they are liek desert sand people that deal with summoned 
 armies genies and they can also wield the earths elements like fire and ice etc... The races are 
 all fairly balanced although I found the Vinci the easiest and best to play with. BUt this will 
 likeley differ from person to person. Graphics are decent and pretty basic 3d stuff, nothing real 
 impressive here.... If you liekd the previous Rise of legends games or just like rts you would enjoy 
 this game, but if your looking for an outstanding rts to knock your socks off... I wouldnt bother. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stripeknight
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations was one of the best RTS's I ever played, everything was spot on, the ability to 
 expand your land based on obtaining enemy landmarks was extremely satisfying and as you progressed 
 through the game the nation development was implemented flawlessly, it's the type of game that 
 get's you hooked on RTS's
  
  Enter Rise of Legends, the biggest sequel letdown since Devil May Cry 2, I'm sorry but this game 
 has the worst looking battles I've witnessed in a Real Time Strategy, the guns sound like pop guns 
 and are barely audible and the characters look very pixely and lack detail. The story feels very 
 disjointed and leaves you with alot of questions and is mediocre at best. The overall flow of strategy 
 is different from it's predecessor in that instead of building large complicated cities that interlock 
 with roads you form a single structure that is branched off of and simply grows larger and larger, 
 it doesnt feel as realistic or practical as the older system.
  
  I think the biggest problem with this title is that it just feels a few year's old, if it would 
 have been released in say 2003 it probably would have been more well received, as it stands it 
 just can't compare with strategy games like Company of Heroes or the Dawn Of War series.
  
  The game is not without it's redeeming features however, the overall flow of the game feels like 
 Rise of Nations wich is a good thing, I also liked the character designs which are fairly imaginitave, 
 I especially liked the Da Vinicis with their steam driven tanks and flying airships.
  
  In the future I hope for the sake of this series the developer learns from his mistakes and aspires 
 to what the Warhammer series is accomplishing right now. I think that with a revamped graphics 
 engine and more attention to detail the Rise Of Nations series will be back on top in it's next 
 entry. Here's Hoping! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is not brilliant, although it brings interesting stuuf compared to other games. 
 It has a nice story, maby a little to plain but it tries to give every location an the map a background 
 and an importance. There are a lot of heroes thet join you but i used only two of them (except where 
 the quest needed others) . It is very dinamic and colour full. Building system is very nice and 
 easy to use, and the upgrades are very intersting. Animations between important parts of the game 
 are decent.
  I played the game all day and i could not find anythign that would make me staop palying ... is 
 very good. The missions are not that long so it does not take a lot of time on the same map, heroes 
 are unique at both apearence and skills, the units are very well picked, buildings are interesing 
 and they gice a variaty of bonuses...
  That about covers it... it's a keeper... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 13, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I never played the original but I quickly got into this game. Its an rts Good battle scenes, I 
 dont think the graphics are up to par, but there is good building effects and when damage is done 
 to them. You do your battles then return to a map that kinda has a risk game feel, after every 
 battle you gain points to upgrade your previous conquered cities, upgrade your army &amp; building 
 aswell as your hero's that fight with you. From other reviews it seems very close to the original 
 so if you liked the original Im sure ull really enjoy the 2nd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddemios
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  ------------------------------------
  Overall Gameplay: 9/10
  ------------------------------------
  The game supports three races, which is some what standard 
 within todays lines around real time strategies. The three fractions, or rather races are very 
 different some one another. There are heroes for each race, and you are able to play as bad heroes 
 in skirmish maps. The Cuotl are like an alien space race their heroes use power to level up, while 
 another race has magic to level and the last race just levels up by buying the skills. The campaign 
 mode was somewhat of a take over the world type of scenarios. Within this mode you move your forces 
 around the map to take out enemy forces. The storyline itself is rather ok if you can get into 
 it and which how the main character is scared over the course of the game and changes. Within skirmish 
 you must capture other territories and cities to advance, some races have upgrades while other 
 does not. The human race deals with high production and later in the game if they followed the 
 correct path and did the right things they can be nearly unstoppable with how fast they can produce 
 things. They are also super related units which are able to hold off sources of units at once. 
 Finding friends to play this online with you is your best bet.
  
  Do note that there is also a map toolkit provided with the game, which allows you to make your 
 own maps. This is time consuming and after some time spent in it you may be able to make some maps 
 for the game. Also there are more maps then just the conquest type of modes.
  
  Over all most of the units are balanced and the game which even tell you in tool tips how to counter 
 some units.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Overall Graphics: 9/10
  ------------------------------------
  The graphics are relativity good if you have the capabilities 
 to support it. Older computers will tend to lag somewhat when playing, however I had zero issues 
 with it on high unless it was online play. The game looks relatively splendid in high resolutions. 
 Being able to zoom in and look at some of the detail is nice also. Camera angles can be some what 
 of a problem at times.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Overall Sound: 5/10
  ------------------------------------
  The sound over all, as in the terms of music was horrible. 
 You are better off turning the music off and launching a music application on your computer and 
 listening to your own music. The sounds were ok, however in some places which there should have 
 been sound lacked sounds. Like when buildings are exploding, this may have been fixed in an update 
 however.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Overall Value: 9/10
  ------------------------------------
  Like I stated before, after playing the single player even 
 if you decided to play it, finding friends to play this online with you is your best bet. That 
 or finding friends online to play on their net feature is another idea. Over this game this game 
 was rather innovate and it has its quirks. Thus I feel it should have some more attention then 
 it does. ------------------------------------
  Reviewer's Tilt: 8/10
  ------------------------------------
  This game will only get better with each update it receives, 
 however some things such as in game music tracks will not chance during the updates.
  
  ------------------------------------
  Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonpz
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  When I first saw that they were coming out with a new Rise of Nation title I thought it was going 
 to be awesome. The game happened to be a big let down. The first game with expansion pack rise 
 of nations gold was an awesome game. The graphics were good to great. The game play was close 
 to great also.
  
  The new game came in and required better graphics, so I thought that it would be better. The game 
 may have more shades but the overall graphics are a let down. There are also too many corners when 
 you zoom in. It seemed with the other game there was more rounded edges. Also with this game, you 
 get a little movie of what is going to be happening in the game. This is nice compared to the written 
 story on the first version. I believe most of there graphic and development went into the stories. 
 I wish they had made spent a little more time on the game. I also felt the game was going to be 
 more futuristic but it wasn't. The humans in had no advance weapons or machines. The alien race 
 was probably the best.
  
  If you want to play a better game then this I recommend to play the original or a Warcraft game. Warcraft 
 3 has the same principles as this game. There are also the Age of Empire games also; the new ones 
 have great graphical detail 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinchia
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 19, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  1. Cool Tecnology
  Definitely good game. Vast research and technology for you to attain and it takes quite long time 
 to reach that goal unless you cheat. Somewhat easy to play if you have experience with other real-time 
 strategy game. The technology is sometimes disproportionatly unfair. However, if you have wits 
 and able to use the some other advanced units by following a good resource management, you can 
 still beat the other opponents somewhat god-like unit. You can say, it is a War Craft 3 clone in 
 style except with the differences with races and technology. 2. Story
  I am pretty sure expansion is somewhere on the horizon. I am hoping they enhance the story a lot 
 better. Story is what make me playing the game. 3. Sound
  One thing I have complain with is the sound. The character didn't seem to make some funny confirmation 
 statement when they are being selected. To me it is like wing-ding wave sound from old Windows 
 3.11 OS. It worth the wait and I love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorlin
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 7, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  While it's not as encompassing as Rise of Nations was, this game provides a very good array of 
 differing races from the glass/sand/fire Alin to the pew-pew-pew Cuotl and not to forget the techno 
 Vinci. Multiplayer is probably the biggest redeeming factor as it got my interest up in single 
 player since you could play other races in MP which you can't in SP.
  
  No real bugs to speak of and only a few times have I had some networking issues in MP but outside 
 of that, it's a very fun game to play!
  
  Lastly, it's a different kind of RTS than those comparing it to Company of Heroes. I'd say it's 
 a completely different classed RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobLikesRA2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 6, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I like all of the rise of nations series, this one is a good one it has great gameplay options.
 
  Although i have only tried a demon dosnt stop me trying to buy it ey, they should try make some 
 rise of nations online that wuold be fun competing agaisnt other players, fighting your vicous 
 armys or becomnig allies whatever you wish really.
  
  Simply a classic, the legend must go on!
  Although some of the cheats are a bit crappy (Sorry 
 for my language) Im not saying im a big head on cheater there jsut not as good as they could be.
 
  
  Overall i give it a 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Network777
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  The game is not similar to the old one . It`s like the frozen thorn . here you have a Hero .. He 
 has a powerful skills to fight .. Here you only have three teams to choose .. unlike the old one 
 you can choose a lot of nations..
  
  there is a new feature .. there is a peace time where you can do what ever you like only you can`t 
 fight you enemy .. also here you can`t build cites .. you can conquer or buy cites thats near to 
 your Capital city
  
  the Graphic is great .. it`s dosen`t matter which graphic card you .. install and play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doodlefish
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  compared to the game before this, rise of nations, this game is complete **** the only thing that's 
 even mildly interesting in this indescribably horrible game is the units. the only thing you'd 
 actually play this game for are the creative units and buildings, otherwise it's absolute trash. 
 i didn't even bother burning this game. the gameplay is incredebly boring and repetitive. there 
 is no real growth of nations or players throughout the whole game. the maximum amount of times 
 you should play this game is two, once to learn how to play, twice to check out the units, actually 
 make that a third time as well, just so that you can check out all the races' units 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnugegoda
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  ROL is a good game when it begins but when the game goes on it gets boring. You can control one 
 army that is your HERO and enemy has around 2 Heros it the chapter 3heros in the second and I 
 didnt ply after that. I got fed up.
  
  This is nothing like Rise Of Nation, it has too much future in it, and the land look so boring 
 and the sounds taunts and audio tracks ( Dune 2 has more quality sound tracks than this) Graphics 
 are ok and the cinematic are I dont know what to say.
  
  If you really want to play it first rent it dont buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDeArnise
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 17, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Anyone familiar with Rise of Nations will find this more fantasy-like spinoff in RoN: Rise of Legends 
 very familiar in gameplay, but will find the story to be very good; something that Microsoft Game 
 Studios have taken up as their current approach to publishing good RTS games since Age of Mythology 
 ( see Age of Empires III ) .
  
  For RoN: Rise of Legends, you follow the path of a Vinci inventor named Giacomo. When one of his 
 friends is killed by a Vinci Doge, he rallies up his people to go after the Doge. On the way, he 
 meets other allies that joins him. As the game progresses, Giacomo finds that his path goes well 
 beyond vengeance.
  
  As it is with Rise of Nations, there is a RTS mode of building your capital, grabbing resources, 
 exploring, building/buying/capturing defensive structures and other structures, expanding your 
 borders, then building a large army to take enemy cities and their capital; and a turn-based mode 
 where you can fortify frontal districts and decide where to take your single army. Unlike RoN, 
 there are hero experience points to spend to improve your heroes' special skills, and army points 
 to add units to your starting army. This starting army, from time to time, become your starting 
 set pieces in some scenarios. There are timed scenarios, and side missions you can take to help 
 an ally so that they become available to you in future scenarios. As with RoN, your ultimate task 
 is to capture all districts.
  
  The graphics are an improvement from RoN, as you'll see smoke from the firing of Vinci weapons, 
 the area going dark and misty as a Dark Alin force unleashes the Dark Terror power, Alin forces 
 suddenly appear from nowhere, and Cuotl forces unleashing futuristic weaponry with powers of light. 
 Cities and capitals crumble as armies and siege units attack, basic units storming in when city 
 defenses are weakened, and reinforcements and mercenaries coming in depending on the conditions.
 
  
  The audio is nice, right on pair with any Microsoft Game Studio game that comes out today. The 
 BGM is very solid, that changes when a battle heats up or the downtime to allow for building structures 
 and fortifying current borders. Basic units get hit and scream out in death, building materials 
 shatter, and the sounds of aerial units attacking can be heard as well.
  
  Technically, there are a few minor issues, although most of them are neglible based on the latest 
 patch. Sometimes, though, the game bogs down when a very large army storms in on a capital city, 
 and opposing forces swoop in to try to hold them off. This can be fairly acceptable for players 
 playing on lower-end systems, as you can see hundreds of units on a single screen, battling for 
 a spot of land.
  
  Otherwise, the game is very solid, albeit very similar to RoN. RoN fans will find this spinoff 
 to be very solid, and others may find this a good game to play. If not for the familiar RoN controls, 
 then the fine story that comes with the SP campaigns, and the solid MP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaVILiOn_010
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 15, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I'll answer that myself: a loss on Big Huge's part. Don't get me wrong, it's a great game. But 
 when you play it, it just feels like something is missing. The first thing to jump out at me is 
 the lack of choice for nations, and they are all pretty much the same. Also, the graphics aren't 
 as good as the first game. There could have been more variety in the armies, and the same goes 
 for the air ships. Also, the research now uses points, and it is annoying to get them. Now for 
 the good things (I know, I didn't think I'd ever get to them.) . First, the armies. In this game, 
 the armies are clustered in groups of 9. They also move whenever a unit comes towards them, making 
 clustered armies a thing of the past. Also, if you're lazy and hate walking, just take an airship. 
 The other thing is the storyline. It has a great focus, and maintains it throughout the game. The 
 last thing is the choice of maps in the game. There are over 60+ maps in this game, and they all 
 look different. Well, this has been my review, and I hoped you liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacquesjoubert
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 11, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  A Brand New Race
  We're already familiar with the Renaissance meets steampunk Vinci and the Arabian Nights-themed 
 Alim so we were anxious to find out more about the mysterious third and final race of the game. 
 The Cuotl are aliens whose ships have crashed on the planet where the Alim and the Vinci are warring. 
 The few survivors of the crash use their advanced technology to set themselves up as powerful gods 
 at the head of a Mayan-themed religious theocracy. Sensing the need for more manpower, the survivors 
 begin using their powerful technology to subjugate some of the local inhabitants.
  
  While the steampunk-inspired Vinci and the magical, Arabian Alim have some profound differences 
 in terms of style, the at least have a similar structure in terms of units and buildings. The Cuotl 
 are altogether different. Instead of relying on a variety of low and mid-level units, the Cuotl 
 have to hold off on launching massive attacks until they gain access to their powerful units later 
 in the game. This emphasis on quality of units rather than quantity means that the Cuotl player 
 will have to plan a little more carefully in the early stages of the game. If they're allowed to 
 develop properly, they can exercise much more power than the other races.
  
  The Cuotl also have no use for the wealth resource used by the other two races. Instead, they rely 
 on energy to create units and buildings. Energy also serves as the power behind the Cuotl units' 
 special abilities. Rather than letting each unit use its own supply of mana, the Cuotl hero units 
 will spend energy out of a common resource pool. There's a cool down period for each power, so 
 you won't be able to spam your favorite power again and again if you've stockpiled the energy.
 
  
  As with the other races, the Cuotl can summon special heroes who can take part in the battles. 
 In keeping with the Mayan theme of the race, they take the form of giant stone statues, each with 
 a distinct design. The storm goddess Shok, for instance, looks like a giant winged bird, while 
 the god of death, Czin, is a multi-legged sort of lump with a giant whip arm. As the gods level 
 up, they gain access to four different powers -- the sun god Xil has a variety of powerful rays 
 that he can launch; Shok can bring forth a powerful hurricane (complete with darkening sky and 
 rain) that can disrupt enemies over a wide area; Czin can paralyze enemies and steal their health. 
 These massive stone figures are so large, they can even trample enemy infantry like the tanks in 
 C&C.
  
  Though those are the most powerful units available to the Cuotl, there are plenty of other units 
 you can play with. At the lowest levels, they'll make use of the enslaved indigenes and ground 
 troops. A variety of bombers and fighters give the Cuotl decent air power. From their powerful 
 fortress, they can launch their most inventive units. The Death Sphere is a glowing energy ball 
 that sucks in enemy infantry and crushes them. My favorite though is the City of Vengeance. This 
 huge floating rock formation dwarves everything else on the map and can absorb a ton of punishment 
 as it carves its way through enemy formations.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kavehmj
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  
  
  
  :  
 )
   : Big Huge : 
 Microsoft Game Studio
   : May 9, 2006  
   :
  Game Spot: 7.6
  IGN: 8.3
  Game Rankings: 83.2
   
 : 8.1
  
       
     
 Rise of Nation     
  .   
      
    Rise of Nation   
     
  .  
    
      
    . 
      
      
     
      
  ...   
      
 .    
      
     
     
   2004   
    
  Call Of Duty    
    
      
 .
      
      
    2005   Rise 
 of Nation: Thrones & Patriots     
      
 .    
      
     
     
      
     
  ....    
     
     
      
     
   
    
  .
  
      
      
     
     
  
  
      
      
  .   
     
    
      
   .  
     
     
     
     
     
    . 
      
      
  :  
     
     
     
  
      
     : 
     
      
     
     
     
     
 .     
     
     
      
     
  .    
  Vinci  Alin  Cuotl  . 
     
      
   . 
      
     
     
     
      
     
  (  
   )  
     
  .
  
      
      
     Hero  
    .  
    
     
    
 )    
     
     Generals 
     
     
    Hero   
      
     
      
    .
 
  Hero     
     
      
     
     
    
     
    ( 
    
       
 ) .   Hero    
    
    
  .   
    Age 
 Of Empire 3 (  
 3) Hero     
 .   
      
     
     
      
   .
 
  
      
    
      
      
 .     
    
      
      
       
    .  
     
 Camping      
      
     Camping  
 .
  
  
      
      
     
      
    
      
   .  
     
     
     
        
 ....)    
     
   .  
     
     
     
      
    
  .    
     
     
     
     
     
     
 .    
     
     
     
      
     
      
  .   
     
     
   
       
      
     
      
    .
  
      
     
      
    
     
      
      
      
     
 ) .     
      
     
    . 
     
       
     .
 
      
     
     
      
      
    ... 
     
     .... 
     
 ROL     . 
      
      
    (   
     
 )   
      
     
     
 .    
   ) 
      
      
      
      
     
      
      
   .  
      
     
     
      
     
  .   
 (    
     
  )   
      
      
  .
  
     
     
   .  
      
      
     
      
      
     
  (  
     
      
  )   
   Hero   
     ROL   
   . 
     
    . 
     
     
     
      
     
 .    
       
      
      
   .
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
     
   Rise Of Legends   
     
       
 .    
     
    
     
   .  
     
    
     
      
     
    . 
      
     
      
     
    
 :
   Rise Of Legends    
     
    . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apocmessiah
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 17, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Having played around ten hours of this game i can safely say it was fun time spent.
  
  The game is a run of the mill RTS with a novel selection of units, if somewhat influenced by other 
 titles. The game offers a reasonable challenge on moderate, playing the scenarios on easy just 
 isn, t worth it, and I've not yet tested my skills on the higher level as yet (as I'll probably 
 get pwned :p) . As with the majority of RTS games path finding is still not brilliant, but tolerable, 
 plenty of action takes place not to let you get bored, and mistakes on the whole can be recovered 
 from making this game good fun for the drawn out battle. There is a map where you can pick scenarios 
 with a moderate amount of variety, and an upgrade system that works outside of battle as well as 
 within giving you flexibility of how to play it. As for the strategy, it does not offer much for 
 the more adept RTS player, it all comes down to the numbers as with many rts games, if you build 
 more than the opponent, you're going to win. I found the best strategy was to go straight for the 
 jugular and attack lots while building up my cities slowly. I've tried other strategies but generally 
 they don't work. It offers nothing in the way of defence, apart from some weak towers which a really 
 of little use as they can be dispatched quite easily even with the most basic of units and don't 
 deliver enough damage to warrant their use. There are no walls which is a shame so all tactics 
 rely on offensive. Resources are limited to 2 types, which i personally find to be a good thing 
 for this type of game, as it allows you to focus more on the combat and adds a bit of pace to the 
 game. The story line is hard to get into at first, it definitely needed a prologue to fill in the 
 gaps of the history of these novel races, but when you get into the meat and bones of the game 
 it really doesn't become an issue. In fact the cut scenes add some nice visuals which i found very 
 pleasant to watch, it's a pity the in game graphics were not as good, as this would have made it 
 pretty awesome. In essence it's a fun game, ticks all the boxes and will definitely give you a 
 fair amount of hours of fun. I would recommend this game especially to the casual RTS player, (like 
 me) as it's one you can play straight out of the box.
  
  Unfortunately, the game has been spoilt by the third campaign. This campaign introduces a new race 
 to the game and it leaves a lot to be desired. The balancing issues have certainly not been considered 
 in the final third of the game, not only is your main hero reduced significantly in power, but 
 gathering resources seems much slower and all units seem to offer little in the way of tactics 
 due to their weakness, for instance you air combat units can be despatched quite easily by one 
 unit of enemy infantry, their most basic of unit. It means that the moderate setting is impossible 
 to play without frequent saving and replaying to achieve objectives unless it's a basic domination 
 map, and really ruins the atmosphere the first to campaigns had built up. For this I've changes 
 my mark to account for the depreciation in gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: champhf
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  ok first of all this game is great, i do think it suffers from glitchs and could have used a few 
 more months of work but the only way to understand this game is if you played part 1 and are use 
 to the controls layout. i think they should have made more races but the creatures you encounter 
 and understanding there power is esential to surviving. the novice to rise of legends needs to 
 understand that heros take the place of generals and this is not the same game as rise of nations 
 but a different interpretation all together. i think they should have added humans to the mix and 
 hel why not some alians. the lack of races is what this game lacks and i am still holding out for 
 a update or an expantion but i do not see any suport for rise of ledgends at all and this is getting 
 me pissed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sevenwarlocks
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 30, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Legends (RoL) succeeds in advancing the RTS genre, if for no other reason than it has, 
 at last, done away with the obligatory 10 minutes or so of economic management prior to first contact 
 with the enemy. In part, this is because of the new city district system, which makes it comparatively 
 simple, even for a novice, to develop a strong core economy very quickly.
  
  From the first second, the player has choices: build military districts and strike immediately, 
 or build economic districts to create future wealth? Set up defenses around key areas, or grab 
 territory as quickly as possible? Go with a rapid military expansion (interesting and varied units 
 are available almost immediately) and you can control 2 cities within 3 minutes, and 3 within 5. 
 Still, there are countless strategies, many of which can be viable. The trick is to use the strategy 
 that best counters your opponents. The upshot is that when you play RoL, you are actually playing 
 your opponent, not merely the game itself.
  
  I prefer the simple research in RoL to the exhausting research in Rise of Nations (RoN) . In RoN, 
 there is so much to research that no individual advance makes much difference, and the need to 
 keep up merely drains the resources and attention of both players while always coming out a wash 
 in the end. Thats still true of RoL to some extent, but much less so, in part because there are 
 fewer things to research, and in part because research costs are not paid directly out of the resource 
 pool, but tied to the development of buildings and districts.
  
  There are a few negatives with RoL, including the strange lack of weapon-effect sounds in skirmish 
 mode. The campaigns are also a bit kooky. It is hard to imagine anyone playing the campaigns more 
 than once, as they seem designed primarily to teach new players the basic abilities and oeuvre 
 of each of the three races. The three races have development paths that are very different, and 
 yet, in an odd way, the same. A simplified example: the Vinci receive research points from non-city 
 buildings and unit-upgrades from city-districts, while the Alin receive research points from city 
 districts and unit upgrades from non-city buildings, but in the end, they both build both, and 
 they both get both, so whats the real difference? Of course, the races do have different units, 
 strengths, weaknesses, etc. Races differ more than they did in RoN, but certainly not more than 
 they did in, say, Starcraft. Nine years having elapsed since the release of that game, I would 
 prefer to see races that differ from each-other more fundamentally.
  
  I dislike the emphasis on heroes, since the power disparity between heroes and normal units disrupts 
 the rock-paper-scissors nature of combat that a good RTS game needs. I would rather see normal 
 units get more attention from designers (including abilities, experience, and upgrades) than see 
 the effort used to create a small number of super-units. But, that said, the heroes in RoL are 
 an interesting bunch, and their development feels more natural than in, say, Warcraft III, in which 
 players raced to develop devastating high-level heroes.
  
  Minor annoyances aside, RoL is a great game. Graphics are absolutely astonishing  a huge advance 
 over RoN  and thats refreshing given the somewhat disappointing look-feel of another recent RTS 
 game (ahem, AOE III) . Furthermore, while you can easily rotate the camera to view the action from 
 any conceivable angle, it is never necessary to do so. I really cant emphasize this enough. The 
 game looks so smooth and complete from an isometric perspective that, given appropriate anti-aliasing, 
 you would swear at times that you are looking at very detailed hand-drawn graphics. That all this 
 is rendered on the fly is incredible, and that it doesnt interfere with gameplay is something 
 akin to a breakthrough.
  
  In fact, everything about RoLs user interface works superbly. Management of groups, abilities, 
 and units borrows conventions from Warcraft III, yet a few subtle refinements make the whole system 
 work much better. It wont take users long before they are doing virtually everything with hotkeys. 
 RTS fans should buy RoL without hesitation. It is the finest RTS game available as of the writing 
 of this review, and it will likely be another year before we get to play Supreme Commander.
  
  I leave you with a strategy tip: of the two necessary resources in the game, wealth/energy 
 can be raised very quickly, and it not only allows for the production of some good early units, 
 but can be used by 2 of the 3 races to purchase neutral cities and other sites of interest. By 
 contrast, the harvesting of Timonium is laborious, and as a result, it is tempting for beginners 
 to build too few Timonium mines, or to build them too late. This will result in constant resource 
 constraint in the mid and late games, which, in turn, will lead to your getting pwned in online 
 play, possibly by me. Dont say I didnt warn you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plalm
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 25, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  As other reviews have shown, Rise of Nations: Rise of Legends is a pretty well made game. If you 
 ever played Rise of Nations and enjoyed it, chances are you'll like this even more. But don't expect 
 it to be just some expansion, it's a wonderful standalone game with its own unique style. Although 
 the story mode has substance and some new mechanics not before seen in previous RTS's, it is a 
 little shortwinded, repetitive, and in a few ways cliche. The single player mode takes you through 
 3 campaigns covering the three races of the game, the Vinci, Alin, and Cuotl. Rise of Legends uses 
 a Technology vs Magic vs Gods theme to its three races, which plays out pretty well. All three 
 types have their own style of talent tree and individual strengths and weaknesses. You're even 
 somewhat given the option on how to play the story mode missions. By this I mean that before each 
 battle, you are given options on where you would like to take your army/s by click your next desired 
 battleground on what looks similar to a 3D RISK board game map. This game uses the innovative "Heroes" 
 mechanic made popular by Warcraft III. Your heroes will gain experience and power and stronger 
 abilities as they destroy, defend or even heal other units on the map. The first few maps of the 
 Story Mode are there to kind of teach the player how to play the game and even gives pointers and 
 tips for doing it. This comes in handy if you're new to the RTS genre but can be a bit annoying 
 if you have been in the loop at least the past few years. Either way, these tips may still help 
 when going against others in multiplayer free-for-alls. Onto the best part. Like the title of this 
 review suggests, one of the big highlights of the game is its multiplayer feature. But it goes 
 even farther than just saying the multiplayer aspect is fun. The built in server for it makes it 
 that much more enjoyable and easy to play. You'll start out by creating an account which as you 
 progress and stomp your opponents more, will probably gain more notability. Microsoft has implanted 
 its own ranking and leveling system. This is great because it can be really frustrating as a n00b 
 to play some RTS genious and get stomped. Custom matches can be setup and you can even invite your 
 friends via a friends list. That's right a friends list. This list will assuredly grow the more 
 you play. On this list you can keep track of other gamer's profiles, statistics, and even invite 
 them for some in game chatting or a duel of skills on a custom made game. All in all, Rise of Legends 
 will definitely intrigue you. IF you're looking for this year's RTS, look no further. Go get it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: telroan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 23, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  The story itself is rather weak, but it doesn't really matter, because this game is so much fun 
 to play. The three factions are so different from each other that they make it essentially three 
 different games in one. The races are extremely well balanced each with a particular area of excellence 
 without leaving any of them feeling one-dimensional. The campaign is particularly adept at giving 
 you a story and helping you in the early stages while allowing you to decide which areas you want 
 to expand your gameplay in through its external research and upgrade system, and persistent armies, 
 which you can purchase and have in every level, thus avoiding having to completely rebuild for 
 every scenarion. The sound is minimal but the graphics are good enouh you usually don't notice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Naw, I ain't a big rts fan, but i gotta admit this game is wonderful, its way too under appriciated
 
  
  Game Play:10/10 Very unique style, a little confusing but it only takes about an hour to master
 
  
  Graphics: 10/10 BEAUTIFUL!!!!
  
  Sound: 10/10, I don't see why everyone is hatin on the sound, i though it was very very good, and 
 had interesting SFX
  
  The three Factions you can be are all WAY different, one is techno based, another magic, and another 
 strength. rise of legends spawned a awesome child. deffly worth the 50 buckers Non rts fans should 
 enjoy, among all the classic rts players! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 6, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  
  First of this game seemed like just any RTS game, and well it is pretty much that, except the Quirky 
 and odd units you can command.
  
  The story line isn't impressive and hard to get into, myself i enjoy well made cut scenes with 
 good acting and all of that, ofcourse its not necessary but it adds so much more value to the game 
 and makes it that much more interesting.
  
  Now the Good and the Bad about it
  
  Good : 
  
  - The units and heroes you command are much fun with loads of abilities.
  - The 
 Campaign is filled with heroes you can upgrade and land you can take over.
  - Good Strategic map in solo play
  - Well balanced Gameplay in fights
  - Nice Visual animations 
 
  
  Bad :
  
  - The Story is faded and flat, hard to get into
  - The "Quick battle" or Skirmish could have more content.
  - Not much new to make this a unique 
 game
  - Some flaws
  
  Overall not a bad game, Keeps you occupied for a while.
  could be much better.
  
  7.7 Good score
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pipper
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 5, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot's reviewer is unreasonably harsh on Rise of Legends. This is one of the cases where I 
 have disagreed most strongly with Gamespot's reviewer.
  
  Rise of Legends introduces a creative, fun sc-fi/fantasy world.
  
  The graphics are generally 
 very creative and nice to look at, plus they don't require an expensive high end graphics card 
 to run.
  
  The variety of play available from the three different races and the many different maps keeps 
 it interesting.
  
  For me, I have enjoyed the skirmish play quite a bit. I find the Tough AI opponent to be just right 
 to provide a challenging and interesting game. In many RTS games the AI is either too easy or too 
 hard.
  
  Multiplayer on our home LAN has been great. The games don't end up as static fronts where you develop 
 large armies that stare at each other until one side makes the big attack to try to break through. 
 Rise of Legends RTS multiplayer has been more multi-faceted. I watch and enjoy my games, both skirmish 
 and multiplayer, on the replay feature, which works nicely.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnerG31
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  its alrite but i dont think its as good as rise of the nations thrones and patriots
  because its not realistic and gets boring after a while but if your lookin for a rts game then 
 i think u should buy this game but wait till the price goes down because this game sucks....
  
  
  
  
  
  its alrite but i dont think its as good as rise of the nations thrones and 
 patriots
  because its not realistic and gets boring after a while but if your lookin for a rts game then 
 i think u should buy this game but wait till the price goes down because this game sucks.... its 
 alrite but i dont think its as good as rise of the nations thrones and patriots
  because its not realistic and gets boring after a while but if your lookin for a rts game then 
 i think u should buy this game but wait till the price goes down because this game sucks.... its 
 alrite but i dont think its as good as rise of the nations thrones and patriots
  because its not realistic and gets boring after a while but if your lookin for a rts game then 
 i think u should buy this game but wait till the price goes down because this game sucks.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cank_les
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations: Rise of Legends is the second installment of the Rise of Nations series, a real-time 
 strategy game which was released back in 2003. With any sequel there comes the inevitable comparison 
 to the first game, and luckily, with this release the developers have installed enough new features 
 to entice old fans and new.
  
  The latest version of Rise of Nations puts gamers at the helm of fantasy armies with the purpose 
 of building cities or bases to produce an army large enough to defeat all opponents. While it sounds 
 like the same formula as many other strategy games that have come before, there are subtle differences 
 in Rise of Nations: Rise of Nations that keep gamers hooked.
  
  For those unfamiliar with the Rise of Legends series, the game blends aspects of other strategy 
 games like Command and Conquer, Warcraft, and Age of Empires to bring a mashed up world of technologies. 
 There are three races you will use as you follow the three campaigns to victory, each one with 
 their own unique buildings, characters and technologies.
  
  The Vinci are the first race you will encounter who look to be inspired by technology Leonardo 
 DaVinci had sketched and are powered by steam and metal. The second campaign puts you behind the 
 reigns of a middle eastern inspired race who use magic through the use of fire, wind and glass 
 to produce mystical creatures like dragons and genies. The last race users will get a hold of is 
 the Cuotl, who seem to be a inspired by a lost Inca civilisation with armies of jaguars, sun idols 
 and stone snakes.
  
  The variety of these races kept us interested in the game until the very end, with users having 
 to earn new technologies by completing quests. The game's variety of environments to compliment 
 the different races, which include forests, deserts and cites based on cliffs, is also well executed.
 
  
  If following a campaign from beginning to end is not your style, Rise of Nations: Rise of Legends 
 also includes a quick game mode as found in other strategy games, and also features multiplayer 
 gaming over both the Internet or LAN. We found online gaming battles to be over much sooner than 
 expected, with gamers throwing everything at opposition forces as soon as possible.
  
  While we found the graphics to be rich and animations to be visually appealing, the sound and music 
 in the game is really sub-standard. The voice-overs we found to be quite annoying, but luckily 
 the game sound, music and voices can be turned off.
  
  Controls for the game were quite intuitive for anyone who has played a real-time strategy game. 
 Some of the more expert moves by armies will take some time to get used to and will be best executed 
 via the keyboard shortcuts. For those who haven't played a strategy game before, the basics can 
 be picked up easily.
  
  Overall Rise of Nations: Rise of Legends brings a new mix of technologies, races and change in 
 storyline to keep the game interesting, which we found differentiates it from many other strategy 
 games on the market. The various modes and fun multiplayer gaming feature will make sure this game 
 is on high rotation for a long time. This is a must have game for real-time strategy gamers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linux_Donut
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  How can this game be so overlooked? I saw an add for this game in PC Gamer and wanted it instantly, 
 no questions asked. When I bought it I knew that I had made a good decision. It combines a nice 
 physics engine with innovative unit design, a good story, and nice visuals to make a very fun game. 
 It is worth buying, and if you disagree, you're only hurting yourself! There are only three races, 
 but that is quickly made up for with drastically different unit designs and plenty of them by the 
 way. Each race has its own unique feel to it, and it almost seems that they are in different timeframes. 
 There are 3 heroes per race as well, and their abilities are very cool on their own, not to mention 
 the fast and furious battle that wil inevitably happen as you use them. I also like the "national 
 powers." they are very useful and add a new level of depth to the game. They can be used to change 
 the entire course of a battle! BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriggerHappy723
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Many have awaited the launch of the newest addition to the Rise of Nations franchise. After the 
 huge success of Rise of Nations, there has been a huge amount of speculation about the new Rise 
 of Legends. In my point of veiw, it was a great game.
  
  In this game, there are 3 different races that play very differently. Alin (magic) , Vinci (steel) , 
 and the Cuotl (mayan gods) . They are very different and if you try the same strategy with different 
 nations, then you're gonna lose.
  
  The units in the game are very unique and add a fun twist with the gameplay. Each nation has its 
 own units that even out the playing feild. No unit (ex. infantry vs infantry) is better than each 
 other, which is why you have to build stronger units. The Cuotl have smaller, but stronger armies. 
 The Alin have weak, but large and overwhelming armies. The Vinci has a medium amount of units in 
 its army. 
  
  The Heroes in the game are strong, but don't pose and overwhelming threat if its a hero vs an army. 
 If the hero has an army to back him/her up, then you better hope your hero is stronger than the 
 other hero. Each hero has his/her own powers that you buy and use against the other units. These 
 powers can change the way a battle is fought (ex. a power can knock down units and your units rush 
 them) .
  
  In this game there are master units that can be achieved by building a Great City. Once this unit 
 is unleashed, alone or with an army, it can destroy a nation. The City of Vengence (Cuotl's master 
 unit) can unleash havic on an unprepared enemy. The Glass Dragon (Alin's master unit) is a great 
 unit with an army beside it. If there is no army then there really isn't any need to buy it. The 
 Land Leviathen (Vinci's master unit) can hold its own, but really should have an army beside it.
 
  
  This game was a great game. It had great units, nations, heroes, abilities, and just a great gameplay 
 aspect overall. The only thing it lacks in is the campaign, but nobody plays that anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  After seeing that this was a continuation of my favorite series, and at the same time cringing 
 at the thought that it was changed from the original formula. I picked up with some optimistically.
 
  
  I was quite suprised with the new setup graphically the game looks great, the weapons, buildings, 
 and units all have a lush, and visual flare. Each nation offers something visually different with 
 not only units, but buildings as well. 
  
  The Vinci look like industrialized, clockwork people's that basically came out of Leonardo DaVinci 
 's mind. Everything here is mechanical, and belch smoke, and fire. You can also expect some reminsicent 
 queues from the movie, Wild, Wild West", ( *note the giant mechanical spider) .
  
  The Alin are magic users, with a middle eastern flare. everything with this nation offers a mystical 
 flavor, giant scorpions, jinns, and giant glass dragons round out some of the units. This unti 
 is all about the magic, the mythological and nothing about technology .
  
  The Cuotl are alot like anchient middle American Indian counterparts like the Aztecs, Mayan, ect... 
 Thething with this nation is they look alot like it, but all of their powers, are almost reminiscent 
 of alien power. Compared to the other nations the upgrades are more expensive, and the number of 
 units are less, but their power per unit is something to give awe. Same way as the Alin, the Cuotl 
 have some mythos based characters, but their creme dujoir is the City of Vengence, and mobile floating 
 platform of death.
  
  The only drawbacks is the singleplayer is not really improved upon the previous Rise of Nations, 
 and there isn't the number of options available like the original game. I really like having the 
 option of numerous nations to choose from, but I guess that is the drawback of having greatly increased 
 graphics.
  
  Overall the game runs great for me, no major bugs or glitches. Each nation has thier own uniqueness. 
 Multiplayer is pretty stable as well. In my opinion this game will go well in any person's RTS 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBlargh
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  WOW, i mean WOW, if the game was like the intro then it would best FEAR, but THIS WAS THE BIGGEST 
 WASTE OF MONEY EVER!!!!
  
  The gameplay sucks, with no real builder unit, constant micromanaging masses of crappy foottroops 
 that dont know how to get around a freaking boulder, not enough types of soldiers, only 2 kind 
 of minerals only one of which you mine, the rest you leave to retarded bugs and underscaled transports 
 to get automatically, C&C generals: zero hour ripoff style powers and OH! dont forget each race 
 gets a SUPER UNIT omglolbbq!!!!!111!!! The super units are so freaking huge that they cant go anywhere 
 by walking, the game designers had to give the ground one BURROW  
 Added on to that there are 3 races!!. GASP! GAsp! gasp1. One them are high tech aztecs wearing 
 loincloths and wealding laser shooting sticks and worshipping robots that have plans for world 
 annihilation. Another race is the first and last 2 letters of Alladin, along with the same theme 
 as the disney movie, (magic carpets, sultans and genies) . And the only half original thing in the 
 entire game is the Race of Vinci, although any one that has seen Wild Wild West will know that 
 the unit concept was taken from that. And last and most least, every race gets 3 heroes!!!! Warcraft 
 3 ripoff anyone? The camPAIN i beat in a day and that was only because i was a tad bit interested 
 in the storyline.
  
  Take my advice, if your computer can run it (if it can run R. O. L. then its a sure bet) instead 
 of having your hand stray to a copy of R. O. L. snatch up FEAR or something else. OK? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordsardonic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  This GAME IS MINT but its a shame that the units dont talk when you click on them, but its still 
 a great game, I have played it allot online and well I love it, because if you get a long game 
 you get some cool big units on the battlefield, and the teams all play very differently, but I 
 advice you to get it if you are an RTS fan because well its the best I seen in a long time. This 
 game takes over 20 hours of play just to past the missions so it is worth its price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agefreak
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 3:07 am PT
Review:  Big Huge Games stormed into the limelight with probably the best PC game of 2003, Rise of Nations. 
 Success is not always the sweetest, though, when it comes to following up! Right from when the 
 sequel to this smash hit was announced, Rise of Legends crept into the limelight and weighed down 
 on the developers as a title which was expected to do what RoN did, and much more. It attempts 
 to enervate the RTS genre by throwing in a fantasy themed storyline, three quirky races which would 
 put LOTR to shame, and a massive graphical overhaul (we all need that, dont we!!!) . And the good 
 news is, barring some issues, the game does turn out to be a fair success. 
  
  Rise of Legends throws together three out-of-this-world (literally) races, each differing from 
 the other on unit types, strengths, weaknesses, strategies and powers, but created so as to balance 
 each other perfectly. In fact, there was supposed to be a fourth race in the game, which was scrapped 
 later on due to the imbalance it created. The current crop consists of the Vinci, which very obviously 
 derive their building and unit design style from Leonardo da Vincis designs, with clockwork men, 
 crooked copters and unstable prototypes. The Alin are a rather sinister looking Arabian-themed 
 race, with powerful infantry and skilled wizards. The Cuotl are, again, a class apart, with their 
 alien origins and super advanced technology and units like flying saucers. Quite obviously, such 
 an quirky mix required a quirky storyline to go with. Sadly enough though, thats one of the areas 
 where Rise of legends falls a wee bit short. It was okay when the developers had history to refer 
 to, but when it came to making up a fitting storyline to suit this fantasy setting, the outcome 
 was jaded at best. The game throws you into the campaign with the talk of an artifact, and how 
 two vinci segments go to war with each other (supposedly regarding the artifact, and the death 
 of a sibling) . The plot unfolds as the campaign progresses, but once you get to the point of realization, 
 you simply forget what you were pondering about! The story does have some pretty twists here and 
 there, but in the end it begs for an explanation.
  
  The campaign follows the same pattern as the Conquer the World campaign of RoN, only this time, 
 youre presented with some more options and tweaks, which make the whole thing better while it 
 lasts. The Real Time gameplay does tend to get a bit repetitive though. Most of the times you begin 
 with a city, some miners (and a mining station) , which are responsible for mining Timonium, the 
 prime resource. You generate wealth through trading between cities, allied camps and mining stations. 
 Knowledge points can be acquired by building research labs, which may later be converted on to 
 other buildings, generating more knowledge. Similarly, the Vinci can obtain Invention points to 
 fuel further researches. Each race has its own corresponding structure and method for the same. 
 As you play more, you do get to notice some other new elements in gameplay, like the introduction 
 of mercenary camps, the option of bribing or rushing a city/camp, the increased number of troops 
 in a battalion and the national powers which each race possesses.
  
  The skirmish mode offers plenty of maps, just like RoN. The basic gameplay remains pretty much 
 the same, revolving around capturing cities and capitals, taking over mining stations and acquiring 
 friendly mercenaries. The developers have nicely implemented a new base building style a la Command 
 and Conquer. A build menu is available, which allows players to build any building and then place 
 it. The game retains the same national boundaries and bonus resources from its previous installments, 
 but it functions much more smoothly in this case, with the player bonuses having a lot of impact 
 on the individual game. Another major improvement in the sequel is the dropping of the age concept, 
 and introduction of the city expansion concept instead. You advance through the game by building 
 cities, adding districts to them and expanding them. A lot of research has also been scrapped in 
 favour of the knowledge improvements, which make much more sense anyway. Those who were baffled 
 by the sheer amount of stuff to research and build in RoN shall be very happy with this! 
  
  The unit and terrain design has been creatively handled, as it should be. The designers have 
 gone to the limits to polish off great looking units (which sometimes show more than they can do) , 
 and to develop terrains which challenge those seen in LOTR: Battle for Middle Earth. Buildings 
 and units are very much different for each of the three races, but its nice to see that a perfect 
 balance has been maintained. Each race handles differently too. For instance, those looking for 
 a boom attack may tend to prefer the Cuotl, and early rushers will definitely have a go with the 
 Vinci. The AIs pretty decent, and throws everything it has at harder difficulties. And when you 
 do get enough of the singleplayer, the game offers plenty of multiplayer action through its integrated 
 GameSpy client. 
  
  One of the major shortfalls of the game comes in the form of sound. The sound department left a 
 lot to be desired. The game does have plenty of options to tweak everything you can hear, but you 
 cant do much when you cant hear, can you!! The background music and the sound effects tend to 
 freeze every now and then during gameplay, especially during battles, which makes the whole thing 
 sound (excuse the pun!) weird! Imagine blowing off the enemy city with a dozen steam tanks. Now 
 imagine no sound doesnt blend, does it! The cutscenes during the campaign are pretty decent, 
 but the narratives are too childish at times, which spoils the entire theme of play. Clearly, not 
 enough stress was laid on this area during development. It might be just another bug whichll get 
 fixed later on, but it does tarnish the impression which a game of this caliber looks to create. 
 
  
  To sum up, Rise of Legends comes out as a good standalone RTS which is fun to play, owing mainly 
 to the odd mix of units, and which showcases good looking graphics, although a bit too bright at 
 times. The sound and storyline are probably the biggest shortcomings of this potential gem of a 
 game, and it looks like the weight of the gaming communitys expectation played a major role in 
 bringing down the game to just good, while it couldve matched the standards set by its predecessor.
 
  
  Highs
   Good mix of odd units and buildings.
   Great balance between the races.
   Good looking graphics.
   Gameplay formula carried over from RoN and tweaked for the better.
 
  
  Lows
   Quirky storyline, which doesnt really do justice to the races.
   Plenty of glitches in the sound department.
   Poor narratives.
   A bit repetitive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -the_mole-
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 9, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  Big Huge Games set an amazing standard with Rise of Nations. It allowed the player to go through 
 the sum of all human history and play right through to the Information Age. Launching nuclear missiles 
 and send wave after wave of tanks and modern infantry against equally advanced opponents in hopes 
 of capturing their capitol or crippling their military.
  
  Rise of Legends is a huge departure from its predecessor. Unlike Rise of Nations it is based in 
 the world of three fictional races, the Vinci, Alin, and Cuotl. Each based on a different aspect 
 of the real world. The Vinci, as the name might suggest, is based on the inventions of Leonardo 
 da Vinci. The Alin are a magical race who summon mythical creatures to their side. The Cuotl are 
 oddly reminiscent of the ancient Aztecs and Mayans, possessing gods and
  idols as warriors. Each race has its own advantages and disadvantages and are also fairly balanced. 
 The game has many characteristics similar to of Rise of Nations. It uses national
  borders to dictate where buildings can be built, an attrition system which damages units within 
 hostile borders, and a similar resource gathering system. Rise of Nations: Rise of Legends breaks 
 away from your typical RTS in numerous ways once again giving it one of the special qualities that 
 only Rise of Nations could give.
  
  One of the largest and more notable downfalls is the utter lack of certain buildings, such as those 
 typically used research. Instead you select an icon directly above the selection box in the lower 
 left hand corner of the screen. Next to that is the build icon which is used to build the very
 
  few structures in Rise of Legends. It has the same basic feel of the original, but with fewer 
 units and less building freedom it seems highly restrictive. Yet like its prequel, battles are 
 much more fast paced.
  
  Campaign mode seems awkward and lacks the flow of its predecessor. Many of the cinematics have 
 a low frame rate and seem forced. The voice acting is, at times, painful and the storyline cheesy. 
 In Campaign you follow Giacomo through his quest to save his people from the Doge, and avenge the 
 untimely death of his brother. Single player has solid gameplay
  and does its job by preparing you for multiplayer. This mode also does an excellent job of demonstrating 
 the effectiveness of what is probably the largest addition- hero units. Occasionally you will pick 
 up extra heroes to follow you on your journey. Many of these units,
  like Giacomo, have special abilities and are extremely overpowered in comparison to most units. 
 There are three primary sections, one for each of the races. In each of those there are two modes. 
 First is the Strategic Map, from which you select where to move your character
  (quite similar to Rise of Nations' Conquer the World Map) .
  
  At each space is a playable mission, 
 and you move through these to advance the larger objective (e. g. capturing a city) . You then have 
 the missions themselves. This is where a majority of your time in Campaign mode will be spent. 
 Here you typically play through a normal skirmish type game (often with restrictions/bonuses on 
 unit/city building) . On most missions you have several submissions which are referred to as quests. 
 As you complete submissions you gain upgrades which may be used to enhance your character or select 
 extra units. Once a mission is complete you return to the main map and either select upgrades or 
 continue on to the next mission.
  
  At the end of each of the three campaign sections there is a massive battle which, depending on 
 the difficulty could last for three hours. These battles are best described as tests which gauge 
 how much you have learned so far as well as pushing your newfound abilities in tactics and resource 
 management to their limit. Overall the campaign is relatively long and offers little more than 
 a mediocre storyline and preparation for human vs. human matches.
  
  Quick Battle is precisely what the name implies, a quick battle between you and computer opponents. 
 Here you can select many different options for many different types of play. The maps vary immensely 
 in both size and layout, and your map selection will have a massive
  impact on your game because unlike the original, you can only capture cities, never build. These 
 cities are captured from indigenous peoples and contribute to your national borders. At each city 
 you can add on districts to increase population limit and resource limit (how many
  resources you can gather in a set amount of time) . These districts take the place of most buildings. 
 Several different match types are available for Quick Battle-Teams (1 Vs.1 to 4 vs.4) , Free for 
 All, Team Free for All, and Diplomacy. Sadly the AI becomes easily predicted
  after just a few matches at each difficulty level. Quick Battle then becomes a match of numbers, 
 who can come up with the most units and most heroes.
  
  Online play with intelligent, human opponents redeems most of these shortcomings however. Here 
 the only real problem is the sense that instead of adding numerous sound effects, Big Huge continually 
 refined the soundtrack for the entire length of development. Besides that
  online play is highly satisfying and fairly competitive. There are three ways to play here. The 
 first of which randomly matches you up with one, three, five, or seven others to play a set team 
 match. Then there are custom games. Custom Game Mode allows you to select from a
  list of available custom games set up by fellow players. Lastly you can play with a friend, which 
 is fairly straightforward. The online system uses a level system which is more-or-less a general 
 gauge of your number of wins and losses with each race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alzikar
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 8, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  I loved Rise of Nations and the expansion pack. This is just like that, even the Risk style world 
 map where you move your army from one area to the next to conquer.
  
  One of the most interesting features of this game is the ability to custom design your own army 
 and units. Many RTS games advance players through different tech levels automatically, so by the 
 end of the game, you have access to every high level unit. Rise of Legends is completely different 
 from this. You decide exactly what to research and how much. 
  
  Players earn research points mainly by building palace districts in the territories they conquer. 
 I've found it best to start buiding merchant districts in every land you take over. Build 3 merchant 
 districts and then a palace to maximize your research potential as early as possible. The more 
 merchant districts you have, the more income you make between missions, so your able to upgrade 
 more territories that way. Even still, I don't believe it's possible to maximize every unit in 
 your army. You have to be very selective about which units you want to research. This means that 
 every game has the potential to be different, depending on your strategy.
  
  The factions were interesting and very well done, IMO. They're extremely diversified and really 
 like nothing I've every played before. It was refreshing, actually.
  
  I played the game on normal difficulty and it was just about right as far as reward to work. Missions 
 which are campaign goals are significantly harder than normal missions but with a little forethought 
 they're very do-able. Actually, for the first campaign, I just went straight for the Dogue and 
 left one of his lackey's armies milling around in my back yard. In the final battle, I had to fight 
 both the Dogue and his lackey and my army completely stunk. I hadn't upgraded anything really, 
 mainly because I hadn't figured out how the game worked yet. I did manage to beat the map though, 
 even with junky units, albiet after a number of restarts.
  
  That's the mark of a very good game -- allowing you to play it however you see fit and still be 
 able to win it.
  
  Another thing I really liked about this game is the way you're coached on what you need to do to 
 get your armies up and running whenever you start into a new faction. Each faction plays completely 
 different from the last. Even their research is different and the game gives you a generous grace 
 period (about the first 3 missions) in a new campaign to get used to the changes. That's one of 
 things that really irritated me about Age of Mythology, Age of Titans, whenever you changed factions, 
 there was not really any grace period. You were excpected to play each faction like a pro even 
 when starting out.
  
  So, all in all, I'd highly reccommend this game for an very good and very different RTS experience. 
 People complain about the story. I thought it was decent, at least on par or better than the original 
 C&C. There's a arch villian and when you finally defeat him you discover something even more sinister 
 that was behind him.
  
  Good game.
  
  Alz
  ---
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomFury_
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  Hm not much to say actually..
  
  Stopped playing it now because I played enough of it. Finished the campaign, which was well made.
 
  I really like it to see that there are other Game Companies (NOT EA) who put a lot of effort in 
 their games.
  This means not just making the textures and the script but also making MOVIES !
  I LOVE MOVIES
 
  And with movies I dont mean those EA cinematics like in Generals and Battlefield 2 where they 
 just make a script for an in-game-cine in which units walk a round and shoot a bit and then die 
 with some voices on the background BUT real rendered video's like the ones in which Giacomo fights 
 with The Doge or with the God of Death.
  Great stuff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Answer_1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 3, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing rise of the nations since the first one and ive always loved strategy games. Rise 
 of the legends is a nice start to something new , yes there are other games that offer magic and 
 allot of other stuff but rise of the nations gives you a nice mix of everything. The campaign was 
 okay I dont think it was that bad like they said on the review once I started and got into it 
 I found myself battling to stay alive , and dying for some revenge. The gameplay is similar to 
 other rise of nations title so you shouldnt feel like you have to learn over much apart from 
 using the different tribes or regions. I recommend doing the campaign first if youre a newbie 
 it teaches you allot about the game the tutorial is great and the story leading up explains everything 
 about the game and why each side dislikes the other. The campaign could have been a little longer 
 but hopefully soon they will come out with an expansion pack but for the time being its a nice 
 little game to have. The graphics is well done the sound needs improvement but overall its a good 
 game to have.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyokozam
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 2, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  What can I say ? Its purely a great games . Great graphic ! Great Play !
  Everything been cut out so nicely . The character detail , gameplay , storyline
  is well written 
 . Sure, it will keep one busy for the whole day .
  Hope, it will release an expansion pack that could add more units and
  more campaign and more 
 improvement on it multiplayer engine .
  The only complain its that they should improve on its sound issue . 
  Perharp , it should add 
 voice and sound play on the games and its character . That's will be perfect !!!!!!!!! Don't miss 
 this game........ huh !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthijstol
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 30, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  The makers from Rise of Nations really know what people want from a RTS game, they already showed 
 that to us with Rise of Nations but they show it again in the form of Rise of Legends, it's a nice 
 change that they changed from real stuff to the fantasy setting. 
  
  Another nice thing is that you don't build all kind of loose buildings but that you add "sections" 
 to your capital city so that the city gets larger and larger the more you build. The game now has 
 3 playable races instead of the list from Rise of Nations. The races are all very different but 
 they are all equally strong.
  
  The other nice addition to the game is the adding of godlike units that function as a sort of hero, 
 they are really strong and have special abilities. Every race also has a sort of super unit that 
 can only be build once and cost a fortune but they are even stronger than the heroes.
  
  The graphics in the game are really good and are a nice improvement on those in Rise of Nations. 
 The units are all very detailed and nice looking especially if you zoom in really close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agpugh
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  This is the first time I've ever written a review so her goes. I wasn't sure how much I'd like 
 this at first. But considering I ended up staying up all night the first time I played, I say I 
 like it alot. Once I got started I couldn't stop. The only reason I did stop, was because my system 
 decided to freeze up. This is definatly one of the best RTS games I've played. As far as the Rise 
 of Nations series goes, I couldn't say, this is really the first one I have played. The graphics 
 and the amount of detail were excellent. It has a decent storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcrypto
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  I found this game to be quite impressive to say the least. I love the uniqueness of the game and 
 the many special units. My favorite race to play is Da Vinci because it has lots of these neat 
 wheels and cogs spinning on their buildings. Plus, their scout helicopters are cool too. The games 
 can be quite fast (under an hour) so you don't have to dedicate a whole evening or anything. I 
 found the graphics to be great and the gameplay to be solid. I used the 'wait 30 minutes for battle' 
 feature so that I could amass a huge army and crush the enemy. Some may prefer to disable this 
 feature. The main screen and the options screens are really set up well. Just get out and play 
 this game, it is a lot of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chuman231
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I really liked rise of nations, i feel it is one of the the best RTS ever made. Rise of legends 
 takes many aspects fro m Rise of nations. However these 2 games are not alike. Rise of Legends 
 plays alot like Warcraft III. it adds in the idea of heroes (u also have 3 to choose from) It includes 
 only three races. 
  This game is much easier to learn and simpler to play. there are only 2 reasources and around 10 
 buildings for each race. This allows you to concetrate more on building units and attacking. Rise 
 of nations cannot be compared to this game because they are too different. 
  This game has very nice graphics and sounds which all add to the overall enjoyment of this game. 
 one of the only few downsides is that it lags unless you have a very good computer and very few 
 people actually play online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emperor_simon
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  i onestly can't believe how anyone who has played this game could give it less than 9...
  i mean. this reviewer must have been drunk!
  if you haven't bought this game, get it now, 'cos 
 if yo like RTSes you're probaly gonna have to wait a Loooooong time before there omes a game that's 
 even half as good as this one :p
  so? what you still reading for? go buy it!
  all this game needs is someone else playing it... and that someone could be you! so come online, 
 where the game really gets great, it's simpy te most competitive RTS since starcraft, so come on 
 an go multyplayer....
  
  if you come online make sure to join my clan :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnubisPrime
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 19, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  I waited for this game to be released with wild expectations hoping that it would follow in the 
 footsteps of RoN or surpass it. The game played well, once the patches were release, but was still 
 plagued with sound problems, repetitive game play and amateurish narratives and dialog. I had hope 
 for much better out of BHG and can only hope that the expansion hinted at in the ending dialog 
 will be what I expected this game to be. I doubt that I will go back and play the campaigns again, 
 but I am looking forward to playing this game in skirmish mode and maybe even going on line to 
 play against some other fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceFire549
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 19, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  While trying to compare Rise of Legends to other RTS titles, I found it difficult to come to terms 
 with a single title. For the most part, I think of Starcraft, but with a classic Rise of Nations 
 element thrown in. The races in RoL are so uniquely crafted that my style of RTS gameplay was completely 
 changed. Unlike Starcraft, where massing Carriers or using meat shields for your Siege Tanks is 
 an effective strategy, RoL forces you to think about each unit and the pros and cons they bring 
 to the battlefield.
  
  The campaign for any RTS is always a learning tool for new players. Whether or not the story behind 
 it is enticing or entertaining, at least for me, is secondary. RoL's campaign is a great way to 
 learn about the different races and their style of gameplay, but the Risk style scenarios gets 
 old. But the repetitive nature of the campaign is pushed aside when you play a quick battle against 
 three AIs.
  
  Multiplayer is very close to the traditional Rise of Nations style. RoL is slightly less complicated 
 during the initial phases of construction, but the amount of resources needed to build a large 
 majestic army is hard to come by until later in the scenario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stabby
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Although not for everyone, Rise of Legends is a quality RTS game that is great fun and reconmendable 
 to players of the previous Rise of Nations and any of those who enjoy a good fantasy experience.
 
  
  Sound
  Ok, I'll admit that there is a sound flaw, that you will hear little of real battle cries, explosions 
 and treking, and you'll mostly hear the music that does add to the experience still with its chanty 
 battle theme music the changes depending on the current status of gameplay and battle. Yet despite 
 what others may tell you, you can hear the sound better than thought and if you REALLY want more 
 out of it, just change the music options to hear the effects better.
  
  Graphics
  Of course if you zoom in plenty you can see the pixels and bad real life textures but if you zoom 
 out to view the entire force you've created, then you can enjoy the colourful units you are given. 
 Although sometimes you will notice that units may walk through eachother now and then, when it 
 comes to combat and ranged fire, the effects like fireworks can dazzle and cause bloodshead...
 
  
  Gameplay
  If you've played the previous Rise of Nations game, then you'll mostly likely appreciate this game 
 to however in comparison to the previous in the series, its not the best RTS ever, but don't get 
 me wrong, many will still enoy the experience. It lays ALOT like the original and has masses of 
 units as one like Dawn of War and Battle for Middle-Earth, which is always great play and a change 
 to traditional RTS. The unit options you are givin are quite a selection as the 3 races, although 
 a little option, can make each skirmish different from the last with their major differences in 
 attack, apperence and how they mange their economy, like Age of Mythology. The campign is a treat 
 to since there are many special unique units and heroes that only appear in the story but are very 
 colossus n' cool... and if you want to play with them some more you can always include them in 
 your custom made maps like Age of Empires. The campign map is simular to Total War but is linear 
 in option of where you want to go, and the story is all over the place and predicable... but its 
 the insane battles that make up for this flaw.
  
  Value
  With the range of maps, online play, custom selections and long story maps, Rise of Legends is 
 a multiple package for most RTS players to enjoy. The mythical beasts, magical aliens and twisted 
 automatons also make this one of the most random games out there, but that is what make this a 
 different experience to the others, even though gameplay may be basic in comparison to others great 
 games out there. If in doubt play the demo first but if like me you have a hunch you'll enjoy this, 
 then you'll mostly likely be right, like I was haha! And if you've never played the previous Rise 
 of Nations... don't worry, the difference in units and story make this a whole seperate experience 
 to some extent, if you are a fantasy gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comptrex
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Legends is a typical, linear, try to tell a story that hardly anyone listens too, RTS. 
 You go here, you conquer this, you build this and you gather resources using... oh no, miners. The 
 AI leaves a lot to be deserved as you can usually get off quite a few shots before they realize 
 you are around. The clockwork men look like broken or drunk robosapiens, but they do quite a bit 
 of damage. As one progesses through, the scenery looks good, but you just get the feeling it is 
 all filler as you continue to look for the next engagement on a map with units you had to build 
 in progression to get to point X.
  
  Now with all of that said, I have been enjoying watch the differing units unfold and develop. This 
 could possibly be a prelude to Command & Conquer 3. This genres needs to evolve and make things 
 interesting. Have your actions mean something in the end and have changing results. If you don't 
 complete yada yada, then you'll have to watch your back at every turn. Anything to upgrade the 
 old stoaic go here do that bland work of the past decade.
  
  Rise of Nations was fun, had interesting AI at times, and had the ability to keep you interested 
 past the first set of missions. Legends on the other hand is closer to Starcraft with it's different 
 races with the only thing missing being the Zerg. If you enjoy this type of gaming, then this may 
 be all you need. But for more challenging quests and better scenery, stick with Age of Empires 
 III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kollons
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  There is no more to say that saying it's perfect and it's the best RTS fantasy game. Willing that 
 the expansion set (I think there will be another unique race) will come early. I will repeat this 
 because this game deserves it, and it's the best way to describe it (yes, this game fully-amazed 
 me) . The best, masterpiece, perfect, revolutionary, a must-have game, future classic game, etcetera, 
 etceter. , etcete., etcet., etce., etc., et. (my home, phone) , e. By the way, sorry about my english 
 since I'm not from England or U. S. A. And, by the way too, i don't comment the game aspects because 
 there is no need, the game will catch you and won't leave you anymore, believe me. The only trouble 
 you maybe rarely have is the performance settings, that it could annoy you when playing the game 
 (it doesn't have happened to me) because I have red one review explaining it, but don't worry, 
 he had a rare system configuration in his computer. That's all, just enjoy it. Good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargez117
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  After playing the orginal RoN, I was addicted to Real Time strategey. The first was amazing and 
 I couldn't stop playing. With wonderful building graphics and okay unit graphics, it was great. 
 With a smooth interface and great controls. This Rise of nations is wonderful, just as wonderful. 
 With most of the same stuff. 
  
  Most of my complaints have to do with how the is NO SOUND. Also, the designers seemed to favor 
 the Cuotl in units. If you ever play destroy your Cuotl enemies first, before they create a city 
 of Vengance. 
  
  Its wonderful otherwise, with a better game interface than RoN, better unit graphics (at the expense 
 of building graphics) , and a 3-D interface. I'd recomend this to anyone who enjoys RTS games. Its 
 wonderful and the variety of units and the real storyline (which is somewhat linear) complete what 
 was a great game in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandro909
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Now, I'm a huge Rise of Nations fan, so when I heard about this game, I had my doubts. The first 
 time I played the demo, I was horrified. It was complete garbage. I forgot about it for a while 
 until it came out, and it was then that I realized that it had shaped up a lot.
  
  Gameplay is what makes a game. And luckily for Rise of Legends, it's innovative gameplay makes 
 it a blast to play. The concept of building districts onto cities actually gives you a sense of 
 them growing over the course of the game. By the end of a match, your capital city will almost 
 fill the screen. 
  
  Speaking of cities, in RoL, you don't build cities, but rather capture neutral ones scattered around 
 the map. Buying out a city will grant you all military units surrounding it, but declaring war 
 on a neutral city means that you can get it for free, but at the cost of all military units around 
 it. 
  
  A welcome addition to the series are the new epic units and hero units. You can summon one of three 
 heroes, as well as eventually an epic unit, which is absolutely massive compared to the typical 
 infantry unit, and can tear through armies like a hot knife through butter. 
  
  The idea of getting out early and capturing cities before your opponent does is a welcome change 
 to the RTS genre.
  
  The graphics in RoL are initially fantastic, but even my ber-leet gaming rig couldn't play it 
 at the max resolution, so I was forced to play it at medium settings. At this level, they still 
 look fair enough, but not what a 2006 game should look like. Since it will be a few years before 
 anyone can actually run this at the absolute max with no lag, I'll have to score it's graphics 
 a little lower than the rest.
  
  That aside, the various animations of battle, as well as the effects are very well done. From the 
 firing of a squad's muskets to a load of hellfire missiles being fired from a King Leviathan (A 
 huge mechanical spider-like creature that is the Vinci side's epic unit.) . When attacking buildings, 
 they actually fall apart in peices, which is a welcome change to watching them just explode all 
 of a sudden after pounding it with artillery for five minutes.
  
  The sound is extremely satisfying in RoL. This is arguably the best sound I've ever heard in an 
 RTS game. Everything sounds like it really is destructive. Attacking structures and sities grants 
 you with the sounds of shattering glass and massive buildings collapsing. Having said that, it 
 does seem that the melee units have very quiet, or no sound at all sometimes. This drags the overall 
 sound down and prevents it from being perfect.
  
  As far as value goes, there is a lot here to keep you playing for a long time. There are dozens 
 and dozens and dozens of maps to play on. The three sides (The Vinci, the Alin, and the Cuotl) 
 are completely different and it will take you a good while to figure out how to play each side 
 effectively. Battles will always play out differently, depending on which cities you capture, and 
 where you expand during a match. The numerous AI settings are superb. They allow you to set the 
 game to almost exactly match your skill and speed, which is a great element to have.
  
  Overall, Rise of Legends is a great game. It is a welcome change to the Rise of Nations formula, 
 and although risky, Big Huge Games has managed to create another gem that will keep me busy for 
 a good while to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhammer5678
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  I got this game only yesterday, i was walking through best buy and decided to pick this one up 
 along with Half-Life Episode 1. First let me say that this is the best RTS i have played in some 
 time and i STRONGLY dissagree with Gamespots opinion on this one.
  
  Graphics: Best i have ever seen for a game like this. Not much more to say.
  
  Sound: Great 
 as well, i have not seen any missing battle sounds.
  
  Gameplay: I found this pretty much perfect. The combination of magic and technology is perfect. 
 All of the armies are well balanced and have great units. The districts also work great too.
  
  Well thats all i have to say, you could listen to me or GS on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonnercyn
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 9, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing the campaign in Rise of Legends. At this point, I am only a few battles into 
 the second campaign. I have heard that the story is pretty hard to get into, but I have to say 
 that at this point I am not having a hard time following it. Yes, the main character - Giacomo 
 - is the one I feel most attached to, simply because he is the one that you play in each scenario. 
 The other heroes are pretty distinct, though, and I am interested to see what happens as the rest 
 of the campaign unfolds.
  
  Having only three playable "nations" seems a bit... minimal, and that is probably the main reason 
 my rating for the game is as low as it is. At this point, I have really only experienced playing 
 two of those nations. While there are supposed to be different strategies for winning, I find that 
 it just boils down to creating the biggest cities, amassing the most resources, and building the 
 larger army. While the goal of each scenario is slightly different - and some are quite fun - it 
 seems that the means to get to that goal have been pretty much the same. I have been playing on 
 Easy, so maybe that has something to do with it.
  
  Graphically, this is a very beautiful game. The units do mostly have distinct appearances, and 
 especially when zoomed in, look very good. There is only a little stuttering at times, but usually 
 only when there are a lot of units on screen doing various types of attacks and causing all sorts 
 of damage.
  
  I have read that some feel this game stays perhaps too close to the Rise of Nations model. It's 
 been a while since I played RoN - though I remember it fondly - so I can't say for sure. I do understand 
 on some level the difficulty connecting to characters/units/nations that are completely fictional, 
 but it is to the game's credit that I still want to play and learn more about them. I'll fill in 
 more detail after I have completed more of the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishRage
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Rise of nations, is, in my opinion the greatest RTS game created to date. It had strategy, diplomacy, 
 unit counters. It was a fantastic game. The greatest thing about it that gave it that realistic 
 fealing was the borders in the game. Nothing was more fun than having a non-violent border strugle 
 with an enimy nation while beating another nation into submission through militaristic acts.
  
  In comes Rise of Legends. Rise of legends is not a bad game, but it is definetly a let down 
 compared to the original style of Rise of Nations.
  
  The graphics are sharp, the sound is solid, and the campaign mode is fantastic. However the game 
 falls short when it comes to great RTS gameplay.
  
  The basics of the game are, you start with a main city which you can upgrade via adding "Districts" 
 which make the city bigger (Like the library researching in RoN) and eventually make it possible 
 to upgrade your city. After your enlarge your city you may create differnt units, upgrade current 
 ones, and many other things. If you feel you need to do some conquering then you need to look around 
 the map for Neutural citys to go take, like in Age of Mythology. This is where the game falls short, 
 fighting over cities is an aweful, tedious experience.
  
  This game was a nice attempt at seeing how bad they can screw up a fantastic game. This game feels 
 more like a poorly created mod to RoN than a whole new gaming experience. If you are a hardcore 
 RTS fan look past this game and pick up Civilization, or start playing RoN again, because this 
 game is nothing special, and is a letdown.
  
  -IR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangguard
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  Rise of Legends is a wonderful game, whether a sequel to Rise of Nations or not. People saying 
 it is too alike Rise of Nations or too different that it's bad didn't look at it in a different 
 perspective. Look at it as a casual game off the shelf and you'll realise what wonders you'll find. 
 Fun isn't by what you're playing, but how you play. So I think this is a wonderful game.
  
  Talking about comparison with Rise of Nations, i think Rise of Nations was more "technical" in 
 terms of political words or phrases. Rise of Nations was more about making a Nation, while Rise 
 of legends is about killing other teams. It is two different games even in the same genre in my 
 opinion. 
  
  The creativity in this game is a marvel, the Vinci, steampunk, renaissance style technology, steam, 
 clockwork etc are just gorgeous. The Alin, arabic, alternate magic (as in not just plain fire balls) , 
 genies etc are just Amazing. The Cuotl, Aztec, alien technology (fancy lights) and walking statues 
 is very fun to play with. The creativity is basically the 7 in my score.
  
  Graphics are wonderful, not much lag at highest settings, and I just love the opening cinematics, 
 although the drama of it was what caught me. Sound is okay, nothing to special, but sound isn't 
 that big deal to a casual gamer like me, especially my headphones are normally on my neck rather 
 than ears.
  
  Overall, Big Huge Games took a chunk out of Rise of Nations, the technical side, and replaced it 
 with fictional alternate-fantasy charm. This game is recommend to all gamers, although hard core 
 gamers might find it too easy to be good at.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerOZ
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This is just an AMAZING GAME!! Grafics are good. Nice creativity, good grafics, nice siege weapons, 
 NICE CITIES, You name it!! This is the best game in series... in my opinion. If you want, try the 
 demo and decide! I tell you, its great! Go on it, and never get off. lol... Try it. There is like 
 90% chance you might like it, accourding to the reviews. Anyway, its a GREAT game and you will 
 really like it. Other great games in the series, are Rise of Nations: Thrones and Patiots. I wonder 
 what the expansion would be like. Might be 9.0 to 10.0. I guess we just have to wait and see. For 
 those who really love fantasy and stategy games, i think you will really like this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenermac
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 3, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I haven't even played Rise of Nations. I've grabbed it several times in the stores, just to sit 
 it back down and get something else. When RON Rise of Legends came out, I did the same thing... for 
 about a week after it came out, then I had to get it. It seemed more interesting. So this review 
 is written before I have experienced Rise of Nations. A lot of people are hating on Rise of Legends 
 because it turned out a lot like RON. Well, if Rise of Nations is anything like Legends, I'm picking 
 it up within the next few days.
  I will start with the sound. The soundtrack is good. I just wish they had more tracks. The interactive 
 sounds, such as when you select a unit, is overall good, except many units of a specific army sound 
 the same. Explosions and god powers sound awesome.
  As with any other RTS game, it's easy to learn about the different controls, however, it seems 
 like every time I play, I learn something new. (I usually only play quick battle) . Quick Battle mode 
 is more fun than the Campaign in my opinion, but the Campaign mode is okay as well. It's almost 
 like playing Risk. The graphics are great. You can zoom in to eyeball an individual unit, and can 
 actually see him breathing. 
  I had gotten away from the boredom of RTS games for a while and started playing FPS games. This 
 game is a refreshing bit of RTS gaming!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Not that bad like 7.6 from this site. Very look a like Rise of nations and they could change the 
 music little bit more for this game cuz it isnt WW1 and WW2 game .This is fantasy game RTS with 
 many nice heroes to lead (maybe they are to powerfull ) . There are 3 armies to lead first in campaign 
 (i dont like they force you to play with davinci) da vinci armies look like clockwork parallel 
 unvirse industry progress . I like other armies like Alin armies who have sumonners and elemental 
 creature +dragons . And there is 3 party like Egyptan Sirius Sf army with nice robots and laser 
 technology.
  It's good for MP mode cuz all 3 armies can a lot of different pace of expand and heroes are very 
 different buy skills , can be very interesting to play with other peoples .
  Still good for Single player mode but i dont like da vinci's clockworks .
  My best choose Alin 
 very nice for fast play.
  Maybe it's graphicly demandin but not like Spellforce 2 . still lokks nice with lower details but 
 with full is very nice for eyes. still it is full 3d camera.
  Maybe will be nicer if they can pus some patch for dezoom of camera cuz heroes are when they strong 
 about 1/4 of monitor size :P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tirasus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  [edit]
  Where the review title says best I've played to date , bear in mind that this review was first 
 posted on the 2nd June 2006 and I'm editing it just to say that :) ... ok here is the original review:
 
  [end edit]
  
  I love this game, it has everything that makes it a fantastic RTS.
  
  It's bigger than most RTS's, it's innovative, the graphics are top notch for this type of game, 
 it has technology, it has magic, what's not to like?
  
  Reminds me of a mix of the old C&amp; C's and LOTR: BattleForMiddleEarth2:
  
  It has just the 
 right complexity
  It has great multiplayer potential like most other RTS's
  IT HAS DRAGONS!!!
  It gives you the ability to have many bases and many different armies
  I 
 could go on and on...
  
  And please, people who can't run the game properly, don't bother rating it!
  If you can't play 
 the game then why are you rating it?! You bring down the overall rating of this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phat39
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 2, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  Bought it and now I'm hoping to get my money back from EB (which I feel is unlikely, thus making 
 me very upset) .
  
  I got 2.0GHz, but when I tried to change video settings the game detects 1.0GHz. I got this weird 
 stepping technology where my computer got 1.0GHz when I'm not running games to save power or something. 
 So most games will detect my system as 1.0Ghz even though I got 2.0GHz and their "autodetect" will 
 usually set the video settings to really low. Which is fine, because I can manually adjust it to 
 high.
  
  However, Rise of Legends is a nazi infested game that DOESN'T let you customize your settings. 
 It believes what it detects is "teh bestest evar" and therefore will LOCK advanced settings if 
 it thinks you computer can't handle it.
  
  I used frustrating 2 hours on google trying to search for solution and didn't find any. The game 
 doesn't even have an official website... LOL?
  So your technical problems have to be solved by other gamers instead. Really cheap. But spot on 
 with what Micro$$$$oft is known for.
  
  So I can't find the a solution to solve the video settings problem. I decide to test the game on 
 the low settings. And boy, did I get surprised!
  The game looked aweful, ran awefully and sounded awefully. Well actually, it didn't really sounded 
 like anything, cause the game misses alot of sounds. Like shooting sounds, marching sounds etc
 
  So when your soldiers are shooting, you can't hear it. When you are marching towards a waypoint, 
 you can't hear it. NO ATMOSPHERIC felling AT ALL. Nice bug man.
  
  I played about 10 minutes. The animation details on fighting SUCKS. This might be mainly because 
 the models looks like 2D sprites. VERY BAD 2D sprites. Even Might and Magic 6, 7 and 8 had better 
 sprites.
  
  Yes, I am very subjective and my score and review is badly based upon my experience with the game 
 and the fact that I just lost 40 $ on this carappy game with very little oppurtunity to get my 
 money back. But non other games I have played in my life has made me this frustrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMTP_Blade
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 1, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  The game play of this game its very entertaining, every game you play its a lot of fun. The graphics 
 of this game are almost perfect. I say almost because they could have done a bit better. 
  The music of the game is kind of boring but the sound effects are totally something from the other 
 world, they make the battles very excited.
  I use to play RON before and this game is as good as RON, the game play is totally different, the 
 battles on ROL are a lot more entertaining.
  I you are a fanatic of the RTS games you better run to the nearest game store and get it , you 
 are not going to be disappointed.
  
  Also I completely disagree with Game Spot review, this game its as good as RON was, Is even better 
 than AOE3, BFME2, EE2, and those games 
  have a better rating score than ROL unbelievable, game spot needs to have someone else review the 
 future RTS games, because this reviewer, obviously didn't know about RTS game .
  
  ps. sorry for my writing, my first language is Spanish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nguman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 1, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is different, no elfs, no dumb hitler reign, and definetally no Zerg-like beings.. Big 
 Huge games gets my two thumbs up, the gameplay is different, its fun watching little guys beat 
 up a dragon, or one of those floating castles in the desert, you don't see that in every game now, 
 all RTS games are getting linear, and bleak with their so called Elfs, and Mages, and Orcs
  This game, CnC: Zero Hour, WC 3, SC, and DoW are the prime of RTSs. If only Blizzard can make StarCraft 
 2.... then the RTS genre will be back into its prime 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight-Blade
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I didn't play much of this game but Ive seen enough and played enough to know whats good about 
 it and whats bad about it. For the most part its good. You have awesome units, and designs of your 
 faction on both sides.
  
  Unfortunately though its not too fun long term, its still worth a shot, especially if you play 
 RTS's and if RTS's are your favorite then this game is for you.
  
  Enough said basically.
  
  I give this game a 9 out of 10, if you like RTS's its worth playing, 
 you can come back and play it after you beat the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dularaki
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  I SEVERLY DISAGREE WITH GAMESPOTS REVIEW. I usually take Gamespot's review as law but this time 
 I believe that they are being over critical. 
  Gameplay is fantastic. The idea of magic vs technology is very original and does not clash (gamespot 
 thinks it clashes *spit*) . Big Huge add their ideas from RoN into RoL: borders, resources gathering, 
 etc. The race add to gamplay becuz you are not building the same unit to counter the same units; 
 every race is different with its own strength and weaknesses. 
  Graphics are excellent but not the best. The magics blast of death and lasers of destruction look 
 very good, but graphic are not state of the art perfect. The reason I am still giving graphic a 
 high score is becuz its not about being perfect but being efficient and not overloading a PC with 
 added effects and graphics. 
  Sound is not quite the best either, but i am forgiving becuz Big Huge was not the best with sound 
 and music. But again if they had a sound and crazy music for every laser, fire ball, and animation 
 the PC could be bogged down with all thats going on and lower the standard of the gaming experience. 
 
  Overall the game is made to not look or sound the best but to be the best. Over critical reviews 
 (gamespot) that do not look at the game instead of thinking about their idea of a perfect game 
 maybe RoL wouldn't have received a 7.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrianysm
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  What a amazing game I ever had!!!!!! The gameplay are smooth and graphics are almost perfect!!!!!!! 
 I really concerned how difficult to learn the gameplay system of the game as I quited PC game for 
 a very long time, the shopkeeper said that I should give it I try. The installation was smooth 
 and easy. The learning process was surprisingly easy than what I think too!!!!! I suggest that 
 they can add a first person view and let people to control the character within gameplay will be 
 great. (Remember the all time classic game Dungeon Keeper?) Will it be true for the coming expansion 
 pack or RON III?! 10 is perfect then I give it a 9!!!!!! I recommend it to all players!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sashak87
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 31, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This is it, the best RTS of all time. The graphics are superb, even in low detail they beat most 
 games, and when a building is being destroyed, you see bits collapse and see inside! 
  The game play is a bit boring at first but when you get to know your units its perfect, especially 
 when your tanks are bombarding infantry.
  The sound is ok but for me the speech repeated sometimes so the sound was acceptable but a let 
 down.
  The value is great, I would have paid 50 if i had to to get this!
  This is the start of a new age of RTS games, with amazing graphics, beautiful destruction this game 
 is the best RTS of all time.
  I love the way you create scenarios too, with the ability to create your own cinematic!
  It starts 
 off difficult and boring but when you get into the game, you will see true perfection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desertrat2k3
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  My first impressions of this game were mixed, I instantly enjoyed the well animated units and high 
 detail on the buildings and scenery.
  What stuck me most was the attention to detail, all previous comments about the 'wrong fusion' 
 of 3 distinct races went out the window it's an anstonishing game.
  The choice in units is good, more than i've seen in any rts lately and the depth of tactical options 
 at your disposal is what kept me up all night playing this game getting used to the 3 races (there 
 may be only 3, but they are 3 or 4 times more detailed and complex than any other race in a rts 
 that I know) .
  The multiplayer is worth mentioning too, every game I played online each person had a different 
 stratagy to the next due to the large amount of tactical options there are available to you ..
 
  
  All in all, very impressed. So i'm giving it a 9.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orkstorm
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is great, the single player campaign is fun and interesting with loadsa unique missions 
 (though maybe 3 or 4 are just skirmish maps in total there, each campaign - there are 3 - has about 
 10-20 territories on it to conquer) the races are as diverse as you can get, in backgrounds, army 
 themes, building styles, playing styles, visual looks and units. The map editor is very very complex, 
 but once mastered i'm sure this thing'll be able to make masterpieces with the options on offer. 
 the musical score is also amazing, it isn't heavy rock, or electronic or anything, if anything 
 it's classical/orchestral, but it fits in perfectly with the style of the game and is well varied.
 
  
  the only gripe would be gamespy, as people have been having problems with it, i personally havnt 
 had any apart from a bit of lag in games, and BHG are working on it so i only took off 1 point 
 from gameplay for this
  
  others have also been complaining about high graphics requirements and how their comp which can 
 run other high-end games fine is having trouble with this, but if you can run it on highest settings 
 with anti-alaising on max then it looks a beaut
  
  if you havn't already then try out the 2nd demo to see how well it will run on your comp and how 
 good it is. if you like the gameplay then the campaign should keep you busy for a while (not to 
 mention that if you play the campaign on tough it'll really give you a good fight) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joramHH
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 27, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  The good: Enjoyed the campaign (at least the first 2) . Some unique units. Rich variety of heroes. 
 Cut scenes (except for very last one) well done. Enjoy the unit research and ability upgrades. 
 Quickbattle easy to understand and dive into (that is at least if you've tried the campaigns first) . 
 Can change difficulty of each individual battle.
  
  The bad: The factions are basically complete and total rip-offs of other ideas. Very little originality. 
 Graphics seem outdated, especially the "glass" monsters which look downright like bad cartoons. 
 Quick battle only allows you three heroes.
  
  The fair: Sound is fair though not exceptional. AI is fair on medium though stronger RTS players 
 I would imagine would probably think medium is easy.
  
  Untried: Multiplayer
  
  I'll be the first to admit I'm not a big RTS player. But that doesn't mean I'm ignorant of them 
 either having played with Warcaft, Starcraft, AoE I and 2, RoN, and a few lesser known ones. Unfortunately, 
 with the exception of Starcraft and RoN, none have held my interest for long.
  
  So, being a fan of RoN, I decided I would try RoL. I read some of the reviews and liked the idea 
 that went into the Vinci even if it didn't sound very original. I'll try to avoid any major spoilers 
 for anyone who hasn't played it or read it elsewhere but no promises I won't reveal something you 
 would have rather discovered yourself.
  
  I started the first campaign with anticipation and really enjoyed the cutscenes and the setup. 
 It eases you in to the campaign with a couple quick and varied scenarios. For those who haven't 
 read much else, the Vinci are humans based on renaissance Italian history (superficially at least) 
 complete with a Doge and mercenary condottieri (that might be redundant!) . Even accepting that 
 basis for the people, I was still quickly disappointed in the originality when the first new hero 
 you run across is from the "Pirata". And guess what, they are described in what you would call 
 as pirates. That's not important at all to be frank but it just doesn't seem very original.
  
  Anyway, you select your moves on the strategic map going after two of the Doge's allies, meanwhile 
 building up your cities that you have captured. The strategic AI seems passable (was set on medium) 
 though not particularly challenging. I did enjoy the fact you can research new and/or improved 
 troop types. All of course centered around the clockwork inventive nature of the Vinci (your avatar, 
 Giacomo is a regular renaissance man!) .
  
  After beating the Doge's allies (though I've read, you don't technically have to if you don't want 
 to) , and capturing the Doge's capital, you complete the first campaign. Then you have to start 
 the second one going into the desert, and meeting the Alin. I will give props to the first campaign 
 in that it doesn't seem repetitious and there are several different types of scenarios as well.
 
  
  The main antagonist here is the Dark Alin, which of course are corrupted versions of the Alin that 
 fight alongside you. If anyone has read any book or watched any movies or frankly, woke up and 
 used the bathroom in the morning, you'd know the Alin seem like some rip straight out of Arabian 
 Nights, Aladdin (name seem familiar? -Alin/Aladdin, get it? huh? huh?) , or other arabian fantasy. 
 
  
  Again, that's ok since if you can accept the Vinci, you shouldn't have much trouble accepting the 
 Alin. The second campaign is almost as engaging as the first though it does start to get a little 
 repetitious fighting the same creatures over and over (the Dark Alin rely on glass soldiers and 
 spiders for the most part) . I was disappointed with some of the graphics with the Alin but the 
 good news is that they really are a different type of faction to play with.
  
  It's not a carbon copy of the Vinci and you will have to adjust your playstyle. There also does 
 seem to be more unit variety for the Alin. Again, the first couple scenarios ease you into that 
 but it will take a little longer to adjust since you had just finished mastering (well, some people 
 anyway, not me) the Vinci and you have to unlearn some of those habits. Some of the scenarios could 
 be long however, with the AI on medium, I was able to figure out how to bumrush the enemy and cut 
 the scenario pretty short. Especially near the end of the map where you have a large army that 
 starts with you. 
  
  After beating the possessed Alin at the end (I won't give away why or what happens, just that you 
 do!) , you move on to the third campaign.
  
  Now here, is where I really started to get annoyed with the game. And no, annoyance is not a condition 
 any game designer should strive to convey. First, the Cuotl, the third faction are basically aliens 
 that use their advanced technology to set themselves up as gods. Oddly they seem to have chosen 
 Aztec (or perhaps Mayan - I'm not a historian!) sounding gods exclusively though some of the avatars 
 they chose for themselves look more Egyptian. You even fight through jungle terrain like you are 
 battling them in Central America. I'll admit that perhaps I'm colored by the fact that it all sounds 
 like they lifted the story out of Stargate (the movie or the series) and made a faction out of it. 
 If you've never heard of the show, it might seem original but for anyone who has.... c'mon people, 
 it's certainly hard to be truly original, I will give you that, but this is nearly downright plagiarism! 
 
  
  Even getting over my annoyance at that, I would say that the whole third campaign was a disappointment. 
 It seemed added as an afterthought and it maybe took me 4 hours to go through every single territory. 
 The enemy heroes while looking cool (perhaps the neatest looking units in the game) were distressingly 
 easy to kill. Most of the scenarios were simply city building scenarios (by which I mean you both 
 start with a city and have to defeat the enemy) and there was little variation. At least compared 
 to the first two campaigns. The very final mission was also more annoying than difficult. Maybe 
 if I set the AI on the hardest it would have been better.
  
  While in general, the cutscenes were done well and the acting was decent (a bit over the top in 
 a couple places but hey, it's a video game) , I though the final cutscene deserves being called 
 out for being disappointing. In it, one of the ladies (Lenora I think) had her eyeballs rolled 
 back in her head most of the time and I wasn't sure if I was watching a revisionist version of 
 the exorcist or the final scene of the campaign. Truly, it was creepy! I do like that they at least 
 wrapped up the story and I think some people will enjoy the ending but by this time I was a bit 
 disenchanted because of the unoriginality of the third campaign.
  
  In summary, this game has it's good points but dated graphics, lack of originality in the factions 
 and perhaps spotty AI, I'd say I couldn't recommend this game. In fact, now that I've completed 
 the campaign game, I doubt if I ever will pick it up again.
  
  I am not a multiplayer RTS guy because I detest the whole idea that he who mines the most, wins 
 the most - as a definition of "strategy" so I can't comment on that aspect. Each faction is different, 
 though, and I could see that when going up against a human opponent, that there may be fun and 
 interesting challenges to some people. I'll throw that bone out there for those who are thinking 
 of trying it just for that. Just don't expect it to be revolutionary in that regards though since 
 Starcraft perfected that aspect over a decade ago.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AutisticAngel
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 26, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  One of the most important things to note prior to jumping into Rise of Legends is that despite 
 a conscious attempt by the developers at Big Huge Games to invoke a kinship with their previous 
 hit Rise of Nations, these two entries into the real-time strategy arena are so different in theme 
 and execution that these titles share more letters in common than game play elements. Even the 
 similarities that exist, such as national borders and attrition damage to units cut off from their 
 supply sources, have been significantly modified to accommodate a fresh new focus on creating three 
 entirely unique factions. Anyone expecting that this game would be little more than a pale retread 
 of one of 2003s best games with a thin fantasy veneer slapped over it should know, for better 
 or for worse, Rise of Legends is a totally new product.
  
  Eschewing the real world historical backdrop of its predecessor and even the standard trappings 
 of a Tolkien-esque world of elves and orcs, Rise of Legends setting seems equally influenced by 
 elements of steampunk fiction, Arabian mythology, and curiously enough, the 1994 movie Stargate. 
 Each of these inspirations provides the template for one of the games three playable factions. 
 Though Leonardo da Vinci is never cited directly, the Vinci faction specifically implies both his 
 name and his prescience with its alternate Renaissance-style army of canvas fliers, steam powered 
 leviathans, and giant clockwork automatons. The Alin rely on the mystic arts to conjure forth great 
 dragons and golems of living sand, fire, rock, and glass to overrun their opponents while they 
 remain safely in cities floating above the barren deserts of their homeland. Finally, the Cuotl 
 command an army of religious zealots equipped with staves that fire piercing shards of energy, 
 swift hovering aircraft armed with rapid-firing siege lasers, and ambulatory creatures constructed 
 of stone and light that appear to have leapt directly out of ancient Mayan or Incan artwork.
  
  A person could spend pages trying to detail all the differences between these three playable 
 races. Aesthetic diversity is common in games like this, but the factions in Rise of Legends are 
 so wildly dissimilar in their build trees, research options, and tactical options that switching 
 from one to the next requires a change of gears typically associated with playing an altogether 
 different game. While the Cuotl slowly and naturally gain library points by adding any new district 
 to an existing city, the Alin can quickly advance by building specific Magus Districts and the 
 Vinci use research labs which can be constructed anywhere in their territory and then upgraded 
 into a wide variety of specialized facilities. The Alin can establish a summoning circle for creating 
 new units anywhere in their line of sight, including inside enemy territory, but Cuotl barracks 
 act as a shielded transport which can fly garrisoned units over impassable terrain that the Vinci 
 would need a supply blimp to cross. Even their economies are different: instead of creating caravans 
 to generate wealth along potentially vulnerable trade routes like the Vinci and Alin, the Cuotl 
 use reactors to produce energy and fuel their units special abilities.
  
  Effective use of special powers to create a tactical advantage is a major focus in Rise of Legends 
 which its predecessor lacked. Where Rise of Nations was a game about long-term strategic planning 
 and technological supremacy in the vein of Age of Empires or Empire Earth, a closer analogy for 
 Rise of Legends would be WarCraft III for the way it emphasizes the value of powerful hero characters 
 and researchable talents specific to a particular class of unit. For example, at their most advanced 
 the Vinci musketeers can switch between their normal stance, a stationary firing formation that 
 greatly enhances their damage output but leaves them vulnerable to trampling by larger enemies, 
 or a melee stance where they drop their normal ranged attack in favor of down and dirty hand-to-hand 
 combat. Many units belonging to each faction have their own unique abilities and knowing when to 
 unleash them can make a dramatic difference in the outcome of a pitched battle. Though hero characters 
 are less specialized than average units and have much more powerful skills to draw upon, even they 
 tend to fit best into roles which emphasize their combat, siege, or support abilities. However, 
 unlike WarCraft III which tried to limit the number of units you could have at your disposal by 
 handicapping your economy, armies in Rise of Legends are typically free to grow to the point where 
 simply overwhelming the enemy with legions of troops is often the best strategy available.
  
  Rise of Legends does not handicap your economy based on your troop levels, but it does limit 
 your maximum income according to the number of economic districts in your cities. This is one of 
 the few game play facets which unite all three races: they all need to mine a crystalline ore called 
 Timonium to fund the war effort, and theyre each limited in their ability to process it by the 
 number of relevant city districts they own. Other types of city districts place a cap on your maximum 
 number of units, or produce library points which allow you research powerful new enhancements for 
 your entire faction. The inability to found any new cities makes the rapid expansion and acquisition 
 of nearby neutral sites vitally important in the early game, and the strategic seizure of your 
 opponents cities while defending your own a cornerstone of any winning strategy. This is another 
 major change from Rise of Nations which could reward players who knew when to sue for peace with 
 their AI neighbors and focus on research and economic development. In Rise of Legends, constant 
 aggressive expansion is the only path to victory. There are still some tactical choices in deciding 
 how to go about it  neutral sites can be purchased outright to give you ownership of the building 
 and all of its defenders  but the vestigial diplomacy system seems pointless in a game where nonstop 
 conquest is required to win.
  
  The importance of equally accessible neutral sites for all players has also lead to a major omission 
 from the game: there is no random map generator in Rise of Legends. There are a fair number of 
 pre-created levels included in the game, each with a suggested number of players, but after learning 
 to adapt to an unlimited variety of fresh and unexpected random maps in Rise of Nations, this seems 
 like a significant blow to the games replayability. A large selection of available combat terrain 
 is still one limited by your ability to learn the most valuable strategic hot spots on each one, 
 and that puts a lot more emphasis on the strength of the single player campaign to extend the games 
 value.
  
  Rise of Legends includes a different campaign series and storyline arc for the Vinci, the Alin, 
 and the Cuotl which must be played in that order. This may sound familiar to fans of games like 
 StarCraft or WarCraft III, but the structure of these missions is much less linear and plot driven 
 than almost any other real-time strategy in recent memory. Aside from a mission or two which introduces 
 or concludes each of the three arcs, the campaigns present you with a RISK-like map of neutral 
 and enemy territories to be conquered. Every one is a military operation to be undertaken. Some 
 include goals reminiscent of other strategy games, tasking you with collecting a certain number 
 of resources within the time limit, surviving an enemy onslaught until a timer runs out, or demolishing 
 an enemy stronghold. Others play out like skirmish games in the Quick Battle mode which pit you 
 against your opponents in an all-out fight to seize each others capital and claim the province. 
 You can upgrade campaign areas under your control to send reinforcements into adjacent scenarios, 
 research new abilities for your heroes and troops, or let you customize your standing army with 
 different units. Unfortunately, since youll rarely have any advance idea what youre up against, 
 knowing what sort of army or heroes youd like to take with you into a scenario is an exercise 
 in guesswork. The ultimate goal is to seize specific key territories from the enemy, but aside 
 from any response you may need to make against the invasion of an opposing army, youre free to 
 tackle the challenges in any order you see fit. The missions are individually fun to play and can 
 be especially challenging at harder difficulty settings, even if the narrative thats supposed 
 to bind them together seems largely absent.
  
  The central protagonist of the storyline is Giacomo, a brilliant Vinci inventor out for revenge 
 against the political rival who murdered his brother. This plot progresses through each of the 
 three campaign arcs, and though the cut scenes that bookend each one are well produced and demonstrate 
 an engaging dramatic flair, the narrative progression within the campaign missions themselves leaves 
 virtually everything to the imagination. Character development is nonexistent as hints of a romantic 
 entanglement go entirely unfulfilled throughout the campaigns. One plot point which is handled 
 especially poorly occurs when one characters home city is annihilated by an enemy: not only does 
 this development seem nonsensical based on everything that occurred up to that point, but the whole 
 thing happens off-screen and is only ever vaguely described at all. It seems odd that a fictional 
 world so conceptually and thematically original could suffer from storytelling this inept, but 
 either wide swaths of Rise of Legends plot were never produced, or they were cut out of the game 
 because the developers couldnt figure out a way to integrate them into the campaigns nonlinear 
 structure. Frankly, pivotal and climactic story developments deserve more than a passing mention 
 and a line or two or text between missions.
  
  Rise of Legends may not have the boisterous, over-the-top animation that bring the visceral combat 
 of a game like Dawn of War to life, but what the basic units lack in distinct personality, the 
 more advanced ones try to make up in scale and panache. Units conjured from the Alin fire circle 
 look exceptionally good, such as the winged fire elementals which smolder so intensely at their 
 core that they constantly emanate shimmering waves of heat that subtly distort nearby units. Others, 
 like the Vinci Leviathan or Alin Elder Glass Dragon are so massive that they appear as large as 
 some of the most heavily developed cities in the game and unleash appropriately spectacular displays 
 of raw destructive power against their enemies. Its true that many units like the Cuotl sentinels 
 and Vinci musketeers have only the most basic of animations to bring them to life, but when theyre 
 fighting it out against a dozen other enemy types in a large scale battle, the scene is more about 
 the scope and diversity of simultaneous attacks than about any single unit. One of the nicest touches 
 is the physics engine that allows buildings to collapse in unscripted ways: siege cannon fire will 
 dynamically shatter pillars and supports to bring hails of rubble tumbling realistically against 
 hillsides and down steep valleys. Even though it doesnt affect the game play, it sure looks good.
 
  
  Unfortunately the sound design doesnt fare nearly as well. While the graphics all received a hefty 
 upgrade from those in Rise of Nations, many of the musical tracks seem to have been lifted from 
 that game almost, if not entirely unchanged. Rise of Legends also follows in its predecessors 
 footsteps with its lack of any oral unit acknowledgements. Where other real-time strategy games 
 use verbal cues to instill units with some individuality as you order them around, virtually all 
 of the units here remain stoically silent save only for a faint cry as theyre killed off. There 
 are a few notable exceptions such as the way some of the Alin dragon units will shriek out against 
 the dunes as they wait for your commands, but those are rare exceptions to the rule. Even the hero 
 characters, several of whom are competently voiced during the handful of story cut scenes in the 
 campaign, have nothing to say to indicate their arrival or demise under your command and only speak 
 up to make a scripted recommendation during specific single player missions, even if theyre not 
 actually present in the scenario at the time. For a game that seems intent on courting the fans 
 of strategy mainstays like WarCraft and StarCraft, the audio designers at Big Huge Games have a 
 great deal to learn about creating an immersive soundscape.
  
  Rise of Legends is not a sequel to Rise of Nations. From the ground up, it cut or changed many 
 of that games conventions to create a completely different style of tactical real-time strategy 
 game. And, while its absentee narrative and poor audio values prevent it from reaching anywhere 
 near the level of polish attained by some of Blizzard Entertainments most popular franchises, 
 the nonlinear RISK-like campaign maps make it a fun and clever single player experience anyhow. 
 The presence of three such incredibly diverse playable races is sure to give this game a long and 
 enjoyable life in the multiplayer arena as gamers explore the legion of differences and discover 
 all the nuances to help them adapt to their opponents. If only the single player skirmishes had 
 included the random map generator and some of the game play variations from Rise of Nations, its 
 staying power as a solo experience could have extended far beyond its three campaign arcs. Overall, 
 the part-steampunk, part-magic, part-alien world of Aio is one well worth checking out, and provided 
 youre willing to fill in the storytelling blanks yourself, Rise of Legends is a good recommendation 
 for people interested in a fun, deep, and original title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowDemons
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 25, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  The only modern strat game that manages to be in the same class as W40k. Needs more races, great 
 gameplay & graphics. Multiplayer looks to be promising if the servers aren't laggy. Though 1 or 
 2 more races would greatly add to gameplay, this games high graphics with low system requirements 
 should make it a popular buy. Thank god this game brought back long lost air units and devastating 
 cannons/missile strikes, just like the good old starcraft days. Glade to finally see a company 
 that is able to take a game with mythical races and not make it gay. Finally, DOW players have 
 something to play until the new expansion comes out. Hope to see you online, U COLD AS ICE. ouuut. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arfurboy
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 25, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game is very good for people who don't care much about the story or campaign mode. 
 All three races are totally different! And finally a fantasy RTS without stupid orcs goblins and 
 elves! The tech tree isn't one of those really complexed or confusing ones either and is really 
 easy to learn. The music can sometimes be repetative and played at the wrong times (like happy 
 or calm music in the middle of an enormous vicious boody battle!!!) . The graphics are really good 
 altought it makes my comp a lil laggy.
  I advise anyone who wants a very fun and uniques multiplayer RTS to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dk4ofjoshuayhyu
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 25, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  After updating the game, (Actually I forgot is it the last update or the second last) , the sound 
 effect comes out. Just for the sound, I will score it at least 8. The orchestration is a superb 
 one when the sound effect are just fairly good. I would like to say a new review should be issued 
 after the update.
  
  About the gameplay, thanks to the great distinct of the three races, it is excellent. The balancing 
 is just right that none of them would be overpowered or too weak. The three races, Alin, Coutl, 
 Vinci have their own characteristics. Just work on the game and you will find it. The three races 
 both have some sort of classic style wth really high technology or magic power.
  
  For my advice, the game is worth to play. Of course, with the updates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  Good game, with cool creatures and 3 different races, battles are awesome and the conquer the world 
 mode ruleZZZZz.
  The game looks great at first sight.
  
  Gameplay:
  Good, lots of creatures, buildings, maps and CTW.
  Online also rockZ.
  
  Graphics:
  Good 
 graphics, looks a bit the same as RON but there are some new graphics. Good cutscenes
  
  Sounds:
  Nice sounds, nice introducing movie.
  Music is nice and very addicting.
  
  Online:
 
  Nice and smooth, with tournaments.
  
  Value:
  Great thanks too the CTW and Skirmish.
  Online too.
  
  Variety:
  Look at the gameplay, its great.
  
  That was my review for RON2: 
 ROL.
  Great game and really addicting (especially CTW) .
  Cya all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sepheronX
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 23, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  I cant believe how fun this game is. Had played the whole weekend on it. The gameplay is fun, problem 
 with it, is the story is kind of lacking. And what is also dumb, is that you dont have a say if 
 you want to stay with the vinci army. I wanted to stay as the vinci army after I beat the first 
 area and I chased the Doge to the sand area. But now im stuck as teh stupid sand guys, when the 
 vinci army is better because they got guns.
  
  This games graphics are ok. Game kind of lags for me in some areas, even though the detail isnt 
 too great, shows that part of the game is lacking proper coding.
  
  Last and not least, is that I tried to play online, but never found anyone online to play with 
 : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -challenger-
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  The game provides another fantasy setting that is new and unique to Rise of Legends and avoids 
 the recurring elves versus orcs world that most players have already grown tired of. The three 
 races (Vinci, Alin and Coutl) in the game are all surprisingly different and beautifully distinctive 
 in their nature each specializing in their own facet of the gameplay (technology, magic, godlike) . 
 The city system from Rise of Nations still remains and the units are all very well designed making 
 the game look wonderful overall. However the building system in Rise of Legends has been trimmed 
 down and simplified to the point that a city no longer looks like a city, but rather a bunch of 
 odd looking structures bunched together, and one would be quick to discover that in the end all 
 the cities would look similar in this gawky fashion. Even though the game comprises of three different 
 distinct races, the winning strategy in the end still remains the same, that is collect as much 
 resources possible, build a huge army and wipe out the opponent before he/she can do the same to 
 you. Playing the campaign quickly becomes tedious, although the map differs, the gameplay quickly 
 become generic and dreary. The music is a clear reminiscent of the Rise of Nations music with slight 
 alterations. Overall, Rise of Legends was a disappointment as a long anticipated game and is severely 
 lacking in foundation and gameplay unworthy of the Rise of Nations title. Under-whelmed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbi00b
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 22, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  If you are pro RTS gamers, you would surely love this... "An RTS of all RTS"! It is born at last!
 
  
  It would be a great game for the first few hours of gameplay - tons of stunning graphics, waves 
 of armies clashing each other, and titans of war casting rains of fire into the towns and cities... 
 these are very well made, actually.
  
  But soon after a numerous "serious" games, you would find yourself pondering - a design issue or 
 simply a bug? Do they ever beta tested their games? The controls of the game are surely hard to 
 manage (when I say this, it means that it misses out the well-planned controls like in WC3 and 
 AOE) , while the AI seems going back to the old ages - plenty of unplanned rushes of waves. The 
 music... a bit boring, but ok. How come I could not hear the gunshots and blasts when there is 
 fighting??
  
  Anyway, this game is hopefully fixed by one or two patches, and it's still fun to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabi098
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 22, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  It's definitely not Rise of Nations at least not in content or storyline.
  
  In RoN you played a Country and with its technology conquered the world,
  Here you are taken 
 to fantasy world were there are 3 civilisations fighting for domination.
  
  The campaign Will first take you throw the eyes of the Vinci people who seem to be "the good guys" 
 in this game.
  
  The game is in some way similar to the original RoM from a few points of view. Like in RoN you 
 will control a certain amount of terrain in which you can build and expand your vast empire, you 
 will see recource piles, each pile iinfinite amount of crystals ,also you will find bonuses by 
 exploring the map.
  
  However unlike in RoN only 2 recource to each race 1. crystals and the second depend on the race 
 you play. Also unlike RoN you will not advance throw time but you will gain access to new technologies 
 and new units.
  
  The game also resembles Age of Mythology and Warcraft 2.
  
  The graphics are very nice but the unit design do leave some things to be desired. The sound is 
 nice, and the units are original, Building new Building is also interesting while some buildings 
 can be built only near your city other can be built anywhere in your territory.
  
  A very good game its is definitely worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maprice
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 21, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I loved the original Rise of Nations game, and was intrigued by the theme and idea of this sequel. 
 I thought the original RoN had some interesting ideas (the campaign map being set up like a board 
 game was lots of fun for me and I liked the idea of owning territory before you are able to build 
 in the battles, relatively new at the time of RoN, to prevent your human opponents from plopping 
 down a castle right next to you - as was problematic in multiplayer AoK for example) . I was very 
 eager to see these ideas improved and expanded in this one.
  
  By and large, they werent. The game is very similar to RoN on the surface; as the Gamespot review 
 states, almost too similar. Thematically its very different, obviously, but many (most?) of the 
 other mechanics are very much the same. The strategic / campaign game (the board game that guides 
 you through the campaign) is quite a let down. Given an hour, I could have come up with something 
 twice as interesting, and Im really not that clever. There is no conquer the world option: you 
 must follow their campaign. Once I've played it, yawn. Ill never go back.
  
  The battles are also not very exciting. Build a big army, smash the enemy - simple as that. No 
 need for tactics. The AI on medium is not that challenging. Still, I am finding the single player 
 campaign pretty fun, if not overly challenging or requiring much brain-power. One note: the story 
 line is ridiculous, and the voice acting sometimes so bad it borders on offensive. Rarely has a 
 game's story been so asinine as to turn me off like this. Not *quite* a game killer, but man, a 
 child could have come up with something more interesting than this!
  
  I havent tried multiplayer, but it looks like it may be very easy to take advantage of the fact 
 that your opponent must go out and conquer other towns to expand: when he does this, you go in 
 and smack his weakened army, and you get a town right next to his base in the deal (I think this 
 is called creepjacking or something like that) . I prefer an RTS that favors booming (no rush, 
 allow time to get economy going before beating the piss out of each other) , and Im not sure this 
 game will play to that well online.
  
  All in all, not a bad game, but a bit of a disappointment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shep61
Rating: 1.3
Date: May 20, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations was one of my top 3 favorite games of all time. Maybe that set my expectations 
 for RoL too high, but it really doesn't matter. RoL is a pathetic excuse for a RTS game. Moreover, 
 it's flagrant misrepresentation to have the Rise of Nations name on this game.
  
  The similarities between the games is superficial at best. The strategic map in RoL is basically 
 useless. With one army and extremely limited movement choices, it's completely linear. No diplomacy, 
 no multi-army strategy, and the bonus system is pathetic. The strategic map adds nothing to the 
 game and it was a high point in RoN. Hard to believe that they undid everything that was so good 
 in RoN.
  
  Then we go to the battles. There is no variation in the basic strategy or premise of any of the 
 battles. Basically every battle is easily won by building up an army, defending an occasional attack 
 while doing so, and attacking the enemy capital to win. The graphics are terrible and the sound 
 is worse. There is no clear relationship between the units, i. e. what is best against what, as 
 there is in RoN. The "district" system for adding to cities is cumbersome and meaningless.
  
  There is no opportunity to use tactics and strategy in any of the scenarios. It's just build 
 an army and fight. This is in sharp contrast to RoN, which is all strategy and tactics.
  
  Finally, the story line is weak and adds nothing to the game.
  
  Poor excuse for a game and 
 I feel deceived by seeing the RoN name attached to this in any way.
  
  I hope Microsoft didn't spend a lot of money making this game. 
  
  I would still like to see 
 a real sequel to RoN. This is not it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 20, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the most innovative RTS's to date. Although each race has real world undertones 
 overall they are very original and all have very different units which really adds variety to the 
 battlefield. Each race plays differently as well. I found the Vinci are good to rush with, the 
 Cuotl are good to turtle with, and the Alin are very ambiguous as you can create a powerful army 
 of foot soldiers in the beginning of the game or horde your resources in order to create the extremly 
 powerful Glass Dragon.
  
  The graphics in this game are nice and a lot of the landscapes are beautiful. Units are very detailed 
 and so are your structures to the point where you can see little people manning defenses as your 
 enemy attacks which can be quite exciting.
  
  My big issue with this game is sound which they have seemed to fix slightly in the last patch. 
 I don't know if its intentionally done but even during the mightiest of battles you rarely hear 
 any explosions and you can barely make out gunshots or laser blasts made by troops.
  
  As far as the races go the Vinci and Alin could both be considered noob races just because of how 
 fast you get decent powered units and how their units are made to handle many types of units. The 
 Cuotl could be complicated and a lot of seasoned RTS players may shy away from them at first but 
 as you understand how to use their troops you become more and more used to them.
  
  The campaign leaves something to be desired due to poor voice acting and a cheesy love story intertwined 
 with an alright story-line. I was confused at first but as you play more you begin to see that 
 all the characters are rather flat and it leaves you wanting to know more about the character's 
 backstories. Cinematics are very nice though and you will feel pretty impressed with the overall 
 quality of them. If you want to know more about the races the only hints you get is the captions 
 of the provinces on the strategic map and the opening cinematic to the game so good luck.
  
  The great part of the game is that it is very balanced and you usually won't feel at a disadvantage 
 with any civilization once you've played them all. A bad part of the game is the AI which never 
 seems to mount a full scale attack on your lands as you do to theirs. They seem to flock to your 
 defense towers or mines.
  
  Only system advice I have for this game is that it can be a resource hog and the frame rates can 
 dip real low if you have other programs running while you're playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Ice
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 20, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  From the first moment I ever heard the description of the three races I snapped to attention because 
 I easily recognized the Terran, Zerg, Protoss concept the venerable Starcraft.
  Being a clone is not necessarily bad, provide it's a good clone that takes all the good parts, 
 leaves out the bad and innovates a tiny bit.
  Rise of Legends fails short of these expectations, as the final product is a disappointment.
 
  I have experienced several problems running the game such as disappearing *. big files, without 
 any logical explanation, stuttering sound (in this day and age who for God's sake still uses tons 
 of wav files instead of mp3's or wma's since Microsoft is promoting this format) , game freezing 
 even on my X800XL, P4@3ghz, 1gig DDR400 powered system without any fancy AA activate at a mere 
 1024x768 resolution. These tell me it's a very poorly optimized game, rushed to the shelves.
  The story is somewhat interesting so far, I do hope they don't screw up the romantic interest of 
 the game.
  The game behaves quite stupidly and annoyingly, for instance retaking a province I just conquered, 
 which I left armored to the teeth, filled with troops, which I consider a great design flow. They 
 should've implemented the Empires at war option of calling the player's attention in case of an 
 invasion and not decide arbitrarily the outcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 20, 2006 3:16 am PT
Review:  I was quite surprised when I heard that Big Huge Games was going to turn away an easy sequel to 
 Rise of Nations by changing its theme from historical based to some sort of strange mish-mash of 
 science-fiction, magic and muskets. This is a true "all that and the kitchen sink" type of game 
 where it seems they took almost every kind of RTS theme ever made mixed them together and then 
 added in their own secret sauce. How did it turn out? 
  
  There are three races each with their own story to tell through a series of cutscenes between battles. 
 Animation and Voice acting is really stiff but it gets the job done. The story is not going to 
 blow any one away but kudos to the creators for their effort and adding plot lines such as tragedy, 
 a love triangle and purpose for why you are battling it out with the other races. Its more than 
 we can ask for in real-life.
  
  The PR people will make you believe that Rise of Legends is Darwin's take on real time strategy 
 and that it has evolved into something that can walk on water. However, once you get over the shock 
 of the strange world of Aio, where the game takes place, you see that its still the same Rise of 
 Nations gameplay in a snazzy new engine. This is not a bad thing because RON was a very accessible 
 but strategically deep game but it still comes down to researching new tech, building up your city, 
 moving your avatar on the map to begin new battles, etc. However, its very well done with a easy 
 to use interface, tons of strategic options so that basically no two battles will be the same and 
 challenging AI. The question is that will fans of Rise of Nations which had a more historical basis 
 be willing to trade in their France for Fantasy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  One thing I feel bad about is that the designers are getting trashed by some reviews claiming that 
 the factions are too diverse. Basically for doing a good job on the variety offered to players. 
 Go figure. Anyway, just had to mention this first.
  The universe setting is great in my opinion. They have the faction of the west (I'm just labeling 
 them that in case it hasn't been used before) - the Vinci who rely on science as we know it and 
 invent stuff. Aptly named too after Leonardo da Vinci who was known for inventions (or at least 
 ideas for such) . Then the faction of the east - the Alin who reflect some of the philosophies of 
 metaphysics with their use of magic. Finally the Cuotl who are a people influenced by aliens and 
 use alien technology. This gives it the SG-1 feel which I think is pretty good.
  The plot is original enough and kept my attention. The factions specially have a very good variety 
 of units and unique powers. Of course, they also each have their uberweapons. One thing great is 
 that you don't have to gather half a dozen different resources just to be able to build and fight. 
 I mean strategy games are about resource management too but I don't want to devote my life to it 
 while playing a game. Still, the missions do take up a lot of time and are worth the investment. 
 I found it hard to choose a favorite faction. The Vinci are for those who want to be picky on upgrades, 
 the Alin are good for fighting - build a good small force and it can get you to the battle quickly. 
 But I must say - I didn't find my rush tactics to work well here. This game makes you wait and 
 upgrade because the enemy can wipe out even a decent force if you're too impatient. I haven't played 
 the Cuotl much but to me they seem like the a**-kicking faction. Not that the others aren't powerful.
 
  The great thing about the gameplay is that the units don't wander off and also I had a much easier 
 time selecting units and grouping them than in other games. Its also very easy to navigate around 
 the map. 
  I may have jumped all over the place with this review instead of organizing it well but gist of 
 it is that this game is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  If u think that u enjoyed the first Rise of Nations wait till u play the Rise of Legends. Chalk 
 up another one for MS Game Studios and of course the developer Big Huge Games who redefine the 
 meaning of HUGE.
  
  The strongest and most notable aspect of this game is the intoduction of its races which are three 
 in number. As the game isn't full of races, it allows for every race to be unique with a different 
 strategy for each race. Not to forget of course the Heroes which allow u to experiment more with 
 strategies and are a great asset for your army.
  
  Pointing out the low score GS has given the game, trust me its way better than a 7.6. GS has compared 
 it with the original RoN and declared RoL as flat. Comparisons are always inevitable and when u 
 have such a successful game as a predecessor, it is natural to expect more from the successor. 
 Although it may be repetitive at a few points but then again you can't blame the producers to ride 
 on their past success can u.
  
  Anyway moving on. The Graphics are a visual treat and even if u're not a hardcore RTS player the 
 game will still draw u in. At times the battles simply are so brilliant tha t u'll be amazed at 
 the awesome power of the game's graphic engine. 
  
  The sound might have been worked on more. There are times when it won't appease u but is overall 
 still quite good. 
  
  The campaign's are well designed and the cut-scenes good to watch. As GS so rightly said "Campaigns 
 themselves blend the conquer the world mode of the original Rise of Nations with stereotypical 
 RTS scenarios".
  
  The best part for any RTS is its Multiplayer. And if u're thinking it turns out to be good, u're 
 a bit off track. its not just, good its Great ;) . It is the multiplayer which will after all make 
 u come back and get all the strategic plans flowing. The thing which makes RoL different is it 
 allows for more experimentation with unit abilities. Better than throwing tanks at one another 
 anyway ;) .
  
  Well u've read enough. Now go and play it :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambamatic
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 19, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  I love playing RTS. Currently my favorite is Battle for Middle Earth II. When I bought ROL I was 
 very excited because of the reputation of the first game in the series. However, after playing 
 this game for about 10 hours, I have concluded that it is 10 hours of my life that I will never 
 get back again.
  
  The graphics and sound: Marginal. If you compare graphics in this game to those of any other RTS 
 out there, it is in the bottom of the list. I am operating a top of the line rig with Gforce 7800 
 OC'd card, Xfi, AMD Fx-53 processor, 2 gigs of RAM, and have the settings CRANKED and am still 
 not impressed. The look and feel is too cartoony. The voices and sound are silly and uninspiring. 
 
  
  The gameplay is slightly more interesting than other RTS games because the format is a little different, 
 with the strategic map. However, if you look at ROL's "Strategic Map" option and BME II's "War 
 of the RIng" option (which is like RISK meeks RTS) , the BMEII format just crushes ROL's strategic 
 map idea. 
  
  Basically, there is nothing new in this game... everything that has been done here has been done 
 better by other games that are already out there. The fact that they have made certain changes 
 is not even really a good thing, as a lot of the changes are counter-intuitive and slow down gameplay. 
 
  
  all in all, a big Yaaaawwwwnnnnn. There are other RTS games that are MUCH better in all areas. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theeleven
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  New Review please. It's an excellent game breaking new ground no wonder it's got strong feelings 
 going on both sides. All new innovations do.
  
  Got the demo and was not impressed but as I got the game and started getting into it the game's 
 real depth emerged. Lot's of different unit's and buildings ,different for each race. Ai is tuff 
 at higher levels. Most rts games are just different version of same thing. Really feel like I'm 
 in a different world here.
  
  The graphics are a real treat for eye's.
  
  About the sound. It's just right for creating the mood of this new world, turn it up if you like 
 it loud. 
  
  The story is not your usual. Guess thats why some don't like it.
  
  Great Game !!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raizor112
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Legends is without a doubt a great game that can stand on it's own without help from it's 
 predecessor. I know the comparison to the first Rise of Nations is inevitable and only logical, 
 but Rise of Legends is completely different from the first game.
  
  The most noticeable difference of course being the fact that Rise of Legends only allows you to 
 use three races. This is also one of the strong points of the game. Because there are only three 
 races, they have each been given unique styles, both graphically and tactically. This means that 
 if you change your race of choice, you're gonna have to change your tactics. This makes the game 
 diverse and a lot of fun.
  
  One of the best features, in my opinion, are the Heroes. Not just because they're tactically a 
 great advantage to your army..... but because they're really REALLY fun to use. Having Giacomo team 
 up with the Doge..... it.... it's.... it's FUN, plain and simple. 
  Having Giacomo blow your enemies off their feet and then letting the Doge get them out of your 
 way permanently with a special attack or letting the Sun God loose on an unsuspecting City with 
 a few troops to back him up....2 minutes later you'll be looking at a burning pile of something 
 that used to be your opponent's Capital. 
  I've played a few quick games for fun to try this out and it's amazing how fast the AI can go from 
 "You're unworthy, give me ---- timonium" to "Please spare me, would you be interested in peace, 
 oh benevolent one". 
  
  That said the overall gameplay is good. The campaign is pretty entertaining, the story is okay 
 and the cutscenes are pretty fun to watch. However the first part of the campaign is probably the 
 best. After that it starts getting a bit repetitive. 
  The quick games are fun for a while too, but eventually multiplayer will probably be the way to 
 go, seeing as you'll eventually be able to hand the AI's ass to him on a platter.
  
  The graphics are good too. Not just the environment looks good (which it does) but the units and 
 buildings look great too. The best example is probably the Cuotl. The way their siege units attack 
 is very cool to watch and the way the cities and buildings respond to damage (towers crumble, pieces 
 of wall break off, etc.) just doesn't get boring. Even though I've seen an Alin city fall many 
 times, it's still fun to send a few units their way and just watch the city crash and burn.
  
  The sound is the only thing I find a bit lacking. The sound effects (or lack there of) doesn't 
 seem to do the battles I see justice. For example I'd be attacking with a group of 10 Ground units, 
 5 Clockwork men, 5 Clockwork spiders and two heroes. The only thing I can hear well is the sound 
 of the minigun on the ship of the hero (sorry forgot the name) , a very mild musketfire and a little 
 electric burst thingie (which sounds more like static than a powerful destruction weapon) . But 
 it isn't bad enough to continually notice it, so eventually you won't even notice the "problem".
 
  Another problem with the sound is that the music played is sometimes very strangely timed. I'd 
 be killing a few enemies and suddenly get a music that makes me think I just found the most serene 
 place on earth. But then again the music isn't bad so you'll just be killing your enemies with 
 a relaxed feeling.
  
  In the end this game aims to please and does it well. Basically that's what games are all about. 
 So if you're looking for an RTS that isn't like the standard, entertains and is simply fun to play, 
 I'd say this game is definitely worth checking out.
  If you're looking for anything but an RTS..... then I don't know why you're even reading this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thitsa
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 18, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  RTS games are my favorite genre, the last great RTS being Warcraft III, in my opinion. I have tried 
 a lot of the newer RTSs since then, but I never found one that really excited me. Being a fan of 
 the original AOE games, but was disappointed with their latest offering. The same goes for the 
 C&C series. 
  
  What attracted me first to Legends was the game world that was full of character and atmosphere. 
 Being a fan of fantasy art, the graphics style just blew me away. Now having played the real game 
 for a few hours, I glad to say that the game plays as well as it looks. The interface is surprisingly 
 good for such a complex game. The in-game help system does a good job of explaining the intricacies 
 of the game. I have only scratched the surface, but all indications are that the game offers a 
 very deep strategy, allowing for very different play styles between the three distinct races.
 
  
  I have not played the original Rise of Nations game so I found the gameplay to be a refreshing 
 change from the basic RTS formula. I also played a few multi-player random matches and found it 
 to be a lot of fun. The interface gives me good indication of who is the dominant player in a specific 
 category at all times, so there is a sense of urgency. The after-games statistics are also very 
 through and the numerous graphs and charts give me a handy way of analyzing my game. All-in-all, 
 Rise of Legends plays well as it looks good, and I thoroughly enjoyed this refreshing new offering 
 to the RTS genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TalonKarrde88
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 18, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  The first note that must be addressed is the comparison to Rise of Nations. It is inevitable, but 
 it must be noted that Rise of Legends is significantly different from Rise of Nations, and really 
 can't be compared the same way. Aside from updating the graphics engine and using the strategic 
 map, Rise of Legends and Rise of Nations are really not the same game. Fairly obvious, one would 
 think, but people continually say that it's just a rehash of the Rise of Nations theme - it's really 
 not. Where Rise of Nations had about 18 similar races, differing by a unit or so, Rise of Legends 
 has three completely unique races that play completely differently - more a successor to a game 
 like Starcraft or Warcraft from Blizzard, if anything. Where Rise of Nations was somewhat historically 
 inclined, Rise of Legends is completely fantasy based. Thus, saying that it's a bit flat compared 
 to Rise of Nations is saying something like Counterstrike: Source is a bit flat to Half Life 2 - 
 they're really not the same game, and it's ludicrous to make a claim like that.
  
  Gameplay wise, the game is excellent in every regard. Obviously, because it is a new game, there 
 are some minor gameplay balances to work out, but it looks and feels, if anything, like a fantasy 
 version of Starcraft, one of the most revered RTS games out there. Each one of the races is methodically 
 crafted to be completely different, and they play differently. Even the Vinci and Alin, who have 
 similar tech trees, have different styles, as the Alin get vision of the entire map, while the 
 Vinci start out stronger in the beginning. Playing the Coutl may be a slight learning curve in 
 the beginning, but they balance out the early game tactics beautifully.
  
  The beef with the campaign seems to be that it isn't easy to get into or something - not a sentiment 
 I shared. It will not win the Best Campaign of the Year award but it was excellent in teaching 
 tactics and bringing new and interesting scenarios that had to be waded through - from protecting 
 a hero character while he was insane to attempting to defend an Oasis with both Alin and Vinci 
 forces that had their own separate economies. The progression of the campaign was nicely done and 
 the strategic maps balanced out such that the player would be forced to make choices in what to 
 build and upgrade, instead of typical games where the player can get every upgrade for every possible 
 unit and then have no difficulty defeating the boss. And did I get into it? Oh, Giacomo, Petruzzo 
 would be proud of you.
  
  The graphics in the game are undeniably good for an RTS. Turn it to the max resolution and fire 
 up anti-aliasing, and you have a screen that looks pretty and takes a nice machine to handle, especially 
 when the master units of each race start clashing and spells are thrown left and right. There are 
 quite a few times in the campaign where you can just sit back in utter delight at watching two 
 armies clash with everything they have.
  
  The sound justly deserves a lesser rating than gameplay or graphics. It is not always the right 
 sound at the right time - in the midst of a battle, summoning a hero and changing the soundtrack 
 seems a bit odd, but it is nevertheless a grand soundtrack. Occasionally, it actually punctuates 
 the action with startling preciseness, with your attack on multiple fronts drawing grand and epic 
 background music.
  
  As the reviewer missed, the multiplayer component is, with most strategy games, what it's all about. 
 It's what keeps players coming back, time and time again, after they've exhausted the difficulty 
 levels of the computer and the campaign. It is what I tend to judge "value" on, because it emphasizes 
 the replayability of the game. For Rise of Legends, this replayability is there. Rise of Legends 
 provides for automated matchmaking and ranking, which draws another nice comparison to Blizzard's 
 Warcraft III, and executes it flawlessly. If you want to chat, you can join a room, but you don't 
 have to - instead, just search and go, with options of 1v1, 2v2, 3v3, custom, or search any, if 
 there aren't too many players on. In game, the laggy players may drop, with a nice voting system 
 of how to continue. 
  
  Is it the same as Rise of Nations? No. Is it better? Hard to say - I liked it in a completely different 
 way than I liked Rise of Nations. Rise of Nations appealed to my megalomania in conquering the 
 world. Rise of Legends appeals to my imaginative side of conquering the world... with unique units 
 and much better gameplay than throwing tanks at each other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacarr02
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 17, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the demo immensely and bought the game with high expectations. The game graphics are 
 great (though the cut scenes are a bit wanting) , but the campaign was disappointing, the first 
 one being the most interesting and challenging. But there are lots of Quick Battle scenarios to 
 keep you going for a long time.
  
  I would like to have seen much more variety in the campaign scenarios. I have yet to see how you 
 can develop the highest level buildings and equipment in the campaigns, but I may have just missed 
 that the first time through. I am playing it a second time, so that is something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emppyrean
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 17, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are extremely detailed and fit well with the mythology in the game, which is unique 
 and fascinating. Everything in the game seems very well balanced, features like auto-explore, city 
 districts, exploration bonuses, and master units a cool addition (or improvement) and the gameplay 
 is prettty addictive. For those of us who haven't played Rise of Nations before - like myself - 
 this game is truly ground-breaking and a welcome addition to the RTS genre. The conquer-the-world 
 feature is pretty cool to get caught up in, and i just really like the attention to detail BHG 
 put into each of the respective sides - the Vinci cities are all moving gears and metal and clouds 
 of smoke, for instance - lots and lots of eye-candy here. I would recommend this game to just about 
 anyone looking for a new way to play an RTS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maltheus
Rating: 3.7
Date: May 17, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I was a big RON fan. All they had to do was take that code base and add on it. Instead they stripped 
 out most of the strategic elements in favor of more flashy tactical elements.
  
  Oddly, I found the shift to a single resource to have the opposite effect as intended. In RON, 
 if you didn't have enough of one, you made do with another. Resources weren't a big deal in that 
 regard. Things never came to a standstill. In ROL, I feel like there's too much focus on Timonium 
 because you need it for everything.
  
  I can do without heros. They are like jokers in a deck. They only distract from the strategic elements.
 
  
  There are pathfinding issues (which I NEVER encountered in RON) that distract from the game and 
 I hope they'll be fixed in a patch. The lack of formations is sorely missed.
  
  I miss navies and spies and that never ending fight for expansion. I can list a host of reasons 
 why this game isn't nearly as good, but the biggest is that I simply feel bored when I play it. 
 I'm just trying to get through the campaign so that I can be done with it and go back to RON (which 
 has never once bored me, even after countless hours) . If you like this style of game, play AOM 
 instead. It may be a bit dated now, but that was a lot more fun and it had more variety.
  
  People who are into fantasy may like this game, but it really isn't for the hardcore RTSers. That's 
 unfortunate given how well RON catered to them. They should have left the "Rise of" out of the 
 title altogether to keep from ticking off their fan base. The games have very little in common 
 and appeal to different demographics. And they should definitely do another RON expansion, since 
 they obviously can't be trusted to do anything beyond that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwk11
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 17, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  It`s a shame many of these games are reviewed too soon. By this reviewers own admission his expectations 
 were very high. Stating this means so much is EXPECTED that NOTHING is good enough. I dont think 
 it will get a decent re-review because the reviewer would have to admit he was not very objective. It`s 
 going to be a while before the depth of this game is realized. I`m just starting to see it.
  So now a balanced game that looks great and takes a chance at being a bit different is 7.6. And 
 multiplayer barely mentioned. Great game. Great game. Meh 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhaz200683
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 17, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I've been very dissapointed with the last releases of RTS. Rise of Nations was run on some awful 
 servers and with a very slow type of gameplay but it's predecessor Rise of Legends is really action 
 packed while not becoming purely a click fest. Rather it is a very deep and satisfying experience 
 where the smartest player usually will win.
  
  The three races reminds me of old Starcraft. Very interesting and different playstyles but takes 
 some time to get into. Counter units and economy isn't very intuitive but the game help provides 
 help
  
  The multiplayer services look very good and with the upcoming patch to fix some dropping issues 
 I believe the only threat to RoL's online sucess is the amount of players online. 
  
  I've tried the Singleplayer as well and the AI is definetively fun and competent with the exception 
 of a few suicide runs now and then. Here it is actually quite fun to play vs the computer, but 
 like always multiplayer is where the game is. I hope you see you there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danseko
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 17, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Being a RoN fan, I've been following RoL from it's conception, during development and into release, 
 and on the way I've heard lots of things about what people are now looking for. I've heard many 
 claim that every Gamer now is looking for something "new". But are we? In my experience with "real" 
 gamers, they're at least as focused on what was better before, as on drooling over new inventions.
 
  
  Yeah, us gamers don't mind the new at all - but we're most of all looking for the well done familiar. 
 In my opinion this is one of the gaps that RoL fills pretty damned nicely, by merging together 
 so many games; Warcraft 3, Starcraft, Rise of Nations, Dawn of War, etc, and also by pulling it 
 off solidly and wrapping it up in a tight package. That, my dear GameSpot reviewer, is what innovation 
 is - bringing together existing elements for the first time, and somehow making it work. RoL also 
 brings us one of the best multi interfaces for online gaming to date. In every nook and cranny 
 of the interface, you can find a persons rating, info on his last game, or a way to play or chat 
 with him/her.
  The graphics are also stunning, although mostly designed to be watched from an angle; you don't 
 see the full glory of the polish and effects until you tilt the camera and start the spin mode.
 
  
  As for GameSpots review, it was a catastrophe. To make a long story short, he somehow misses that 
 RoL, unlike RoN, is engineered 100% towards online play.
  
  So he starts off spending half his article bashing the STORY. Eh... I'll try to put this nicely: 
 Do you even know what a "gamer" is? WHO THE F**K CARES ABOUT THE STORY? Do you really think such 
 an obviously competitive / multiplayer game for some reason would rely upon the story? Did you 
 expect a "story" of metal, magic and techno gods to somehow fit together in a Nobel-prize worthy 
 novel? And the sound is not close to a "5". On top of this, amazingly enough, this guy manages 
 to not comment the unique multi interface, which has instantly appealed to everyone I've talked 
 to, who hasn't had their ass stuck to a couch playing 3rd person console platforms the last 5 years.
 
  
  I had a one-month (start-stop) GS subscription to get this demo, and I saw GS had improved a lot 
 since they started going all commercial. I was THIS close to now start a subscription on GameSpot, 
 but now I realize that (competitive) gaming is something they know less about than my 80-year old 
 grandmother. Someone (preferably an executive at GameSpot) give this sad console reviewer a bootprint 
 in his ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomic_Mutant
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 23, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations: Rise of Legends is an RTS game from the creative minds of Big Huge Games under 
 the head designer Brian Reynolds. Interested from the moment I heard about the title, I viewed 
 the E3 2006 Gamespot video on the game demonstration personally joined by Bryan. Then I remembered 
 that Alpha Centauri, a 4X type game under Sid Meier moniker, was also largely his creative 'spin' 
 on the genre. And the sterling resume of having developed many a game of the year candidate or 
 proud winner in Rise of Nations, you bet I was anticipating the release of this game... right under 
 the radar in the midst of E3 hoopla.
  
  So, how is this game? Well let me tell you I am not an experienced RTS player, never won any few 
 online matches that I foolhardily took on, and I must say that I was quite damn proud of myself 
 for having beat the Terran campaign in StarCraft without using any cheat. So I am, in the most 
 relevant sense, an RTS noob.
  
  Well I should be the last qualified person to answer any questions on the merits of an RTS, and 
 in fact I was aghast when the quick guide listing hotkeys assigned to covering many unit commands 
 and game settings popped out of the fancy DVD box (the game comes in 4 CDs) . Also, a full colour 
 70 page manual is certainly a very welcome return to the past where it was not considered merely 
 expendable.
  
  Rise of Nations: Rise of Legends (RoL for short) offers standard single player campaign, quick 
 battle skirmishes, and multiplayer that can involve up to 8 people.
  
  The single player campaign is where the eclectic world of Aio is introduced and developed through 
 the exploits of its main protagonist, Vinci nation's Giacomo on the path of avenging his brother's 
 untimely demise. I will spare the discussion of the main plot, but from the manual and the rendered 
 cutscenes, the setting is nicely established with rich background material that I had no particular 
 problem following along what seems to be a typical to the genre. Only that the cutscenes expose 
 some of the graphical shortcomings of the Big Huge engine with muddled textures and stilted animations 
 on extreme close up, accompanied by voicework which awkward delivery does not exactly endear me 
 to the characters, however exuberantly designed and directed.
  
  The first few missions concentrate on tooltips and helping gamers more acquainted with the basic 
 gameplay mechanics. The tutorial sessions are constructed in a way that you do not get the feeling 
 of being pulled through a series of mundane tasks. They pass by briskly enough and in no time will 
 you be staring at the turn based strategic map where planning a course of action in a bid to conquer 
 objective territories plays as important a role as actually being victorious in real time session. 
 On the strategic map that is similar to one in board games, you move your representative piece 
 (of Giacomo) to traverse your own territory or invade others. Invasion results in real time battle 
 to take place, often with indigenous forces, or within the framework of scenario scripts. If there 
 was an enemy piece in the contested territory or if it moved into it defensively, then the possibility 
 of facing a notably difficult and aggressive opponent increases. Sometimes they can gang up on 
 you and that certainly would spell doom if you are not very well prepared. This setup on strategic 
 map provides varying amount of challenge and increases replayability. 
  
  There are four 'resources' to collect on strategic map, and they are for research, wealth, army, 
 and hero skill upgrades. These can be gained only by successful territory capture or by building 
 facilites in existing cities that would generate them per turn. Research allows the upgrade of 
 the current military units that one can build. You can save enough up to get to the next most powerful 
 unit (ex. Juggernaut) that will prove to be a big advantage or opt for an incremental upgrade to 
 your existing unit (Musketeers) . You can decide to improve upon your exisiting territories by spending 
 wealth to upgrade its facilities. Each facility serves a particular function, such as military 
 district that offers protection against one invasion by opposition piece for one turn. Army determines 
 what unit one could start with, and hero upgrade enables new and more powerful skills.
  
  There are also 8 dominances, which can only be gained through successful invasion. These provide 
 special limited use priveleges within the real time session, such as 'treachery' that forces an 
 enemy unit to change sides, and perhaps turn the tide of a battle. 
  
  All these contrivances on the strategic map seems to make for an incredibly deep and varied gameplay, 
 despite the chess like veneer from the outset. There are many pathways for a player to embark upon, 
 depending on their strategic inclination or whim. One generally has to be aware of the location 
 of the opposing pieces and have to accordingly work toward the objectives to divide and conquer. 
 The overall campaign tends to encourage exploration and taking full advantage of whatever resources 
 at disposal, as other heroes join your cause and scales the difficulty to the player's favor. 
 
  
  As for the real time gameplay, anyone that is even remotely familiar with RTS games released in 
 the past five years will be able to grasp the basic conventions. These include camera with rotate 
 and zoom, minimap, group assignments, 'barrack' buildings, right mouse button for unit orders, 
 etc. 
  
  There are clear differences, however, in that the 'cities' that serve as your stronghold are predetermined 
 for each map, and that there are limited amount of them scattered as strategic points. The city 
 is itself a big fortress that have attack rating and hit points, and regulate not only income and 
 unit number limit, but tech advances as well. These abilities are upgraded by adding 'districts' 
 to the city, so space limitations certainly factor into overall strategy. The cities can be upgraded 
 into 'large city' and eventually 'great city', and the first one to develop into large city is 
 appointed the capital, and the objective of your opponents. 
  
  There are also no unit formations to speak of, and in its place there are different 'stances' that 
 adjust the level of aggressiveness your units would act not under your direct control. One can 
 also set waypoints for the buildings so that the manufactured units can instantly be a part of 
 a group. The group can also be identified by a streamlined interface that presents them as selectable 
 icons. 
  
  The default pace of the game seems slow, perhaps due to the fact that the units do not suffer damage 
 as quickly as in some games. The battles can sometimes get drawn out, but one can clearly determine 
 in most cases which side would come out on top, which would most likely result in sending reinforcements 
 or retreating. As such, RoL provides never an idle moment. Toward that inevitable confrontation, 
 the build up phase can get as tense and frenetic as you have to decide whether to invest fortune 
 into expansion or military build up with defensive posture. And there is always that race to the 
 first super unit, the creation of which is broadcast to all involved that they are in for some 
 serious butt kicking.
  
  The extensive map of hotkeys control almost every function from unit commands to scripts such as 
 'find barracks' or 'find damaged units', etc. Judicious use of the hotkeys will really alleviate 
 the micromanagement aspect of the gameplay (such as usage of hero skills) and the game pace, and 
 they can all be configured in user options to your liking. Also, one can select commands to be 
 performed when the game is paused, and it allows one to issue orders just by mouse just as effectively 
 and at leisure, at least in single player.
  
  The three sides featured in the game, Vinci, Alin, and Cuotl, have their own unique district to 
 add to the city. They serve a different function that is nonetheless quite relevant for emphasizing 
 each nation's strengths. They also differ slightly in how they collect wealth (for Cuotl, energy) 
 and how units are upgraded. There are around 12 units for each side, and although some of them 
 basically are only different in unit design and share the same intended purpose, many do seem to 
 have no distinct counterpart in the other two nations. These uniqueness about them are no better 
 captured than in the so called super units, which are more or less balanced in how they go about 
 levelling cities and causing general mayhem. And also in a cool little unit called Zeke, which 
 is introduced in the game along with a Vinci hero, that serves three functions of scout, land based 
 melee and siege weapon.
  
  With the distinct units and differences in resource gathering and management, it is a wonder if 
 Big Huge managed to balance the game. The units are also differentiated in how they use cover (such 
 as foliage) , and have distinguished characteristics that further set them apart. For example, clockwork 
 men unit of Vinci can absorb destruction of another unit into its own hit points and acquire enhanced 
 attack rating and hit point by being grouped together. Cuotl units can use partial invisibility 
 while its barrack can fly around as transports. It will be interesting to see what tactics would 
 transpire by experimental and successful players.
  
  The three sides also differ wildly in their overall aesthetic design. The concept of embracing 
 different cultural aspects observed in different corners of the historical world, although they 
 are quite liberal interpretation, and incorporating them in a game seems nothing short of inspirational. 
 Vinci sports a steampunk type visual to its buildings and units, with turning gears and ratchets 
 clicking, and generally have that Renaissance prototypical mechanical devices look on them (that 
 Leonardo da Vinci might spin in his grave notwithstanding) . Alin obviously gets cues from fanciful 
 Arabian fables with hovering buildings, efreeti units, and genies (almost half expected magic carpet 
 units) . Cuotl features an outrageous combination of Aztec monoliths with ominous alien technology. 
 As meticulous and impressive the buildings designs are, their destruction involves equally detailed 
 stages of progressive dilapidation, with billowing smoke and crumbling facades, conveying the sense 
 of seige quite impressively.
  
  The units are all well animated at least from the practical camera perspective. Shader effects 
 sometimes indicate the general well being of units. To enhance the atmospheric immersiveness of 
 the world, the game features weather effects and wildlife. The terrains have gentle rolling slope 
 to them and foliage permeates the landscape. The units fling about as if they had mass under realistic 
 physics. RoL is actually one of the first RTS games to support Ageia's PhysX technology, and its 
 physics is still demonstrated quite convincingly even without. I was quite amazed to see a small 
 soldier exploding into the air from a grenade burst and tumbling off the side of a cliff with its 
 limbs flailing about, and how the airborne units seem to lose control and spiral before combusting 
 into fiery ball. Little details like these make the gameplay more interesting and afford the units 
 some well appointed personality, lessening that generic clone feeling. Moreover, the Big Huge engine 
 that renders all these are quite capable in scaling the performance to various PC configurations. 
 
  
  One nitpick on the graphical front is that the units seem to have too broad collision detection, 
 that to move a moderately sized unit (e. g. clockwork spider) through a throng of musketeers involve 
 many of them trying to move out of its path and in turn spread out the other adjacent units in 
 a way that slows down the progression overall. I have also observed some pathfinding issues involving 
 units especially when there are a congregation of units in the way of their path. One final comment 
 to be made is about the scope of the camera; I personally think it covers too small an area. Resting 
 on a sprawling complex such as a great city can fill the entire screen on 1024 by 768 resolution, 
 and some airborne units can be entirely hidden from view depending on the altitude of the ground 
 over which they are placed. 
  
  Sound production seems to be overshadowed by all the pretty and shiny visuals. The overall quality 
 to the the background music soundtrack seems varied and high, and those who are irritated in the 
 least by looping tracks can adjust their playing frequency in user options. The units do not acknowledge 
 by voice, which is a bit disappointing, but obviates the repeating confirmation sounds that can 
 get grating after hearing them for an umpteenth time. The units do respond by a distinct sound 
 and the din of battle seems to increase as there are more units involved on the screen. An open 
 battle consisting of siege units can get rather loud and with noises accompanying destruction of 
 buildings and general mayhem.
  
  As for multiplayer, the maps are spread out over a variety of play options, such as 4 vs 4 and 
 in all there are around 40 maps. The matches seem to usually involve two opposing teams, with the 
 option of more variety offered in options such as diplomacy, where alliances are forged within 
 the game. Depending on map sizes, one could assume that the length of typical play session to vary 
 widely, accommodating gamers with differing time commitments. I have not tried multiplayer extensively, 
 but there are reports of "drops" during multiplayer sessions. The interface on the multiplayer 
 aspect seems to be intuitive and streamlined, and takes after the windows XP login system for profiles, 
 in which you can readily join up with others to be directly connected to a match. I am quite sure 
 that the patches released in future will address the performance problems as well as accessibility 
 issues. The matches are recorded and can be viewed later with bevy of control options. 
  
  RoL is certainly moddable, and maps and scenarios can be constructed using utilities included with 
 the game and those downloaded from the numerous fan sites along with proper documentation and guides. 
 Even though the expansion pack is probably now in the pipeline for Big Huge, I hope there will 
 be enough fan created materials to keep players busy until then. It is still too early to think 
 about the next installment in this uniquely conceived series, and as some of the inevitable balance 
 and multiplayer issues are resolved and fan feedback allows the gameplay mechanic to be polished 
 further, then they would be better able to decide where to take this franchise next. If RoL does 
 not certainly break new grounds in gameplay aspect, it certainly makes up for it in unique inspired 
 designs and robust playability. RoL continues Brian Reynold's creative streak that I first experienced 
 in Alpha Centauri wrapped in its technological jargon whereas the gameplay stays true to deliver 
 high entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 201090er
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 17, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  The first thing I will write are the bads:
  
  The singleplayer story, was told rather rudely and isn't what someone that didn't aconpanny the 
 games development will understand at first and will leave something to desire for those storytelling 
 addicts. 
  
  The sound seems to have conflicts depending on your system, I've seen reports from people who complain 
 that the sound of guns explosions and the like are rather hard to hear, although myself and many 
 others seem not to have this problem soo I think it might be an incompatibility aspect but is worth 
 noting here.
  
  VERY IMPORTANT THIS IS NOT RISE OF NATIONS 2!!!!!!
  BHG employees themselves say soo and MAYBE there will be such a game in the future.
  
  THE 
 GOODS
  
  Very distinctive gameplay and each race as a unique feel and style of play which enriches the game 
 plenty.
  
  Also the main things that fit in this game did make their way from RoN, namely the border system, 
 atrition, the comcept of cities relics and some more. The graphics are stunning and even low graphics 
 performance pc can play this game well as this was something BHG wanted to enable for low end pc 
 users.
  
  THE best aspect of all his perhaps the multiplayer, unlike any other multiplayer, even the first 
 few minutes of play will determine the outcome as many important decisions are made from start 
 to finish.
  
  Also worth noting, this is not flawed the same way RoN was by lack of strategy, there are more 
 possible tactics than you can know and this is something that will keep this game fresh for a long 
 time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DustinB
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 17, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  
  The Good
  1) Sides are very unique and play very differently from one another. 
  2) Graphics are very pretty. 
  3) Units are fun to play with, each unit feels like it has its 
 own strategic role. 
  4) Solo campaign is fun, strategic map feels like it adds depth without too much complexity. 
 
  5) Cooperative play with friends is really a good time. 
  6) AI is aggressive and keeps the game lively. 
  
  The Bad
  1) Games can take a long time 
 to finish. 
  2) Story is a little slow and sometimes hard to follow. 
  3) AI does not play "like a real human" but just keeps up the pressure even if it is wasting a 
 lot of resources. 
  
  The Ugly
  1) Frame rate gets choppy even on quality machines. 
  2) Battle sounds sometimes drop out completely, leaving you with just music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calraees
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 17, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  Alot of people are saying that gone is the strategic depth and tactical mechanics of Rise of Nations. 
 I tend to disagree. True, the game has been streamlined (not dumbed down!) in many ways so as to 
 free the player from the boring tasks of looking around for idle workers to work , see if they 
 have finished, and to have them build something. The fact is that being able to build on any part 
 of the map or your region is fine, and saves time. Also, streamling resource gathering is a welcome 
 addition, since this part of most RTS games is rather a pain. One wants to focus on the actual 
 game itself, rather than content oneself with how many trees one has succeeded in chopping down. 
 ROL is also well balanced, contrary to what some players are saying. They just need to play it 
 a little more and see where the strengths and weaknesses of each race lie, and then adapt their 
 gameplay to maximize on those specific traits. Visually, this game is much more impressive than 
 RON, although the sound might not be as orchestral as the first. Yes, some sounds could have used 
 some tweaking, and I am sure that a patch should help correct that problem. If not, one can always 
 depend on the mod community to come up with something to change the sound of some things in the 
 game. But these complaints are minor issues, and do not detract from the game as a whole. It is 
 an exciting blend of strategic gameplay and some cool innovations. No more orcs and all that all 
 too common stuff. This is definitely a game for all RTS gamers, and is even better with MP. The 
 game has a great deal of strategic depth which is quite obvious as one plays the game. All three 
 races function quitte differently and have different resources at their disposal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonscheiss
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 17, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  This review just is a disgrace.
  The whole game screams "wc3/sc Killer" - it's multiplayer is geared towards multi layered competitive 
 gameplay, while the SP just happens to be 1000x more compelling than RoN ever was.
  Also doing a completely unique setting should, if executed as well as it is in RoL (the guy even 
 mentioned how well everything balances out while at the same time being very unique) surely get 
 a bit more recognition than doing Star Wars Game 1875,3 (although I kind of liked EAW) or "Tolkien 
 fight night 2" (didn't think BFME1/2 wer so hot) .
  
  Has the reviewer even seen the kind of battles that can happen here? The overused word "epic" came 
 to my mind while playing it, and seeing how I'm mostly disapointed with most games coming out (I 
 started with RTS gaming when Dune2 was the next big thing) that says something about the game.
 
  
  Updating is really quick and easy, the game ships with a built in replay function, there have already 
 been 2 MP patches released. Looks like this game is up to reveice some serious support.
  
  So, in conclusion, where can we demand that this game is re-reviewed?
  I tend to trust gamespot 
 with their reviews, glad this one wasn't out for some time after release - I'm disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChampionHyena
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 17, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  318 votes put Rise of Legends at 9.1. It's ranked #6 on the PC as of this writing. Brett Todd clearly 
 does not get it. Rise of Legends is one of the best RTS games I've ever played. The strange but 
 intriguing mythos that Rise of Legends is built upon is one of my favorite parts. The steam and 
 gears of the Vinci, the Djinns and magic of the Alin, and the mysterious alien technologies of 
 the Cuotl are new and innovative and very well-fashioned. The factions are so vastly different 
 yet well-balanced. I hate to admit it, but it does remind me quite a bit of Starcraft (which is 
 not at all a bad thing) . The economics system has been vastly improved and simplified so no game 
 time is wasted with tedious resource management. Heroes are fantastically done. They are easy to 
 summon and resurrect, and thus do not demand as much attention as Warcraft III's heroes did. The 
 new Dominance system is outstanding and rewards players for their efforts even though they may 
 not have the upper hand in combat. The new Storm ability is also a practical yet novel idea, allowing 
 the player to steal soldiers and take buildings without having to destroy everything. Graphics 
 don't make the game, but in this case, they happen to be fantastic. Entire cities are animated, 
 environments are gorgeous, and soldiers even have their own ragdolls. I also don't see what the 
 problem is with the sound. The music is grand and instrumental, and the sounds are great. Some 
 of the sound issues from Rise of Nations are still present (clashing swords still sound like coins 
 clinking together) , but overall there is a vast improvement. In addition, everything that made 
 Rise of Nations great (spheres of influence, attrition, the research system) is still there. No, 
 it's not identical, but games that are identical to their forerunners are reviled for being uninventive 
 and games that differ any iota are reviled for being unfaithful. You CANNOT have it both ways. 
 Personally, I prefer the new assets that Rise of Legends brings over another arbitrary Rise of 
 Nations clone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krusher222
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 17, 2006 3:58 am PT
Review:  Ambitious yes, perfect NO! Not nearly as good as Rise of Nations. The whole game from start to 
 finish feels incomplete. From the strange movements, weird unit graphics, missing voice and sound 
 over to the utter imbalance of units So, while the game had the potential to be much better than 
 RON when you factor in the previously findings and couple it with the huge lag times, bugs and 
 slooooooooooow game play it just doesnt add up to being a great or better than RON game. I truly 
 wish Microsoft and BHG spent more time trying to make ROL a finished product either by rounding 
 out the edges, scaling back the (whiz bangs) or just balancing the need for a well rounded RTS. 
 As for the AI, I would say it is good not better than RON, but just plan good. In the end, If it 
 werent for all the quirky stuff going on, I would have given this game a GREAT rating just because 
 I love the concepts, however when it come to execution the game missed the mark. OH Well, Im sure 
 Microsoft and BHG will get it right someday! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProjectX_basic
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game from bestbuy over the weekend and it was on sale so it only cost 39.00 Canadian, 
 so the value i give it a 10
  
  the sound in this game feels just like ron, during battles, it still feels kinda quiet 
  so ill 
 give it a 6, but i also have only onboard sound card and there is a setting were you could turn 
 up for sound which might give it better performance, so a 7 instead
  
  Graphic wise thie is the best looking rts game running on my system without the slow downs, well 
 besides rome total war anyways. my system is a 3000+athlon, 9600 xt128mb sapphire, 512 meg. the 
 setting was second lowest but i turn the building animation on. I only played up to 2v2 so it might 
 slow down when i play something like 4v4 so ill give it a 9.
  
  gameplay wise so far so good, all 3 race are unique unlike other games were all there is are some 
 unique units and different stats for different race/country. you can compare this to starcraft and 
 warcraft 3 but whats great about this game is that you can have a lot more units than them. Havent 
 finished campaign yet, but i find all rts campaign are really boring anyways.
  
  THE BEST PART OF THIS GAME is MULTI PLAYER and there are enough player online already when i first 
 tried it May,13,2006. The quick match longest only took 1.5min to find someone for a quick 1v1 
 but its usually much faster.
  Im surprise gamespot didnt like the online features like being able to see who you recently played 
 and also be able to check there win/loss level, who they recently played, and if they beat them 
 or not.
  
  when you first joined ur obvously not ranked, and they give you a level obviously 1, so you have 
 an idea how good you and ur opponent are compare to you. The first game i played the quick match 
 system put me up against a level 7 player, maybe there wasnt enough people playing that time, but 
 i hope they make it so they try to place you against someone near your own level. You can also 
 choice a rol avatar, but they limit you to chose among 3 of them at level 1.
  
  games are played so differently online, some people just expand really fast, while others might 
 just defense up and get there super glass dragon at you, and there are even some that tried to 
 rush my miners when im expanding.
  
  just the vinci has so many ways of starting with them, i usually get the clockwork miner, but i 
 saw someone getting the sniper and use that to attack neutral cities for expansion which works 
 extremely well. The heros are a Huge Part of this game and im also surprise that gamespot or bratt 
 said its not. The spells and special moves these hero performs sets a winning battle vs a losing 
 battle, and thats just the beginning, combining spells and special power makes it even deadlier. 
 Im no going to give away deadly combo, but im sure once someone sees it, it would be used very 
 often in the future. (hint something to do with the doom cannon and a certain hero) .
  
  And also, there is something called national powers in the game were its like empire earth 2 where 
 if lets you have the best econmy, you get this power that lets you stop all battles for 15 seconds. 
 Of couse they'll have to charge everytime so no one abuses them. I dont pay much attention to them 
 but i guess you can combine them with different attacks are hero powers too to get the most of 
 them.
  
  for game play, because of mutli player, i give this a 10 (rts is all about multiplayer for me anyways)
 
  
  Seriously, gamespot need to re review this game because they haven't seen 
  all the type of strategy this game can offer without playing enough players online, I bet there 
 are players out there pulling out great strategies that even the developers didnt even thought 
 about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arguyle
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 16, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  It is clearly underrated by Gamespot reviewer, sadly. Rise of nations was a great game mostly because 
 of his innovative and unique gameplay. Lots and lots of upgrades, technologies and powers that 
 let players choose their priorities. Rise of Legends has the same objectives on that point. Lots 
 of possibilities. This is, in my opinion, one of the strongest features that makes this game awesome. 
 
  
  However, i need to clarify one thing: i didn't touch the campaign mode yet. Anyway, campaign is 
 only a "mod", this is not the game itself. Starcraft wasn't known for it's outstanding campaign, 
 of course not. The score should be based on the quality of the gameplay on a normal skirmish game 
 and can be influenced a little the gameplay score. 
  
  Another strong point is the AI on a skirmish. I don't understand why Gamespot reviewer is talking 
 badly about the AI. This AI is one of the best i've even seen. It even surprised me. BFME2 has 
 a poor AI and they are talking about their good AI... ?? They only attack in force like berserkers 
 would attack. No tactics, no strategy, of course no defense at all... that leaves you to defend 
 your camp until you have enough survivors and counter-attack. On top of that, they attack the same 
 spot, which is your weakest at the begginning. That makes your opponent so predictable for the 
 rest of the game. That's not what I call a good AI. The AI in Rise of Legends is simply not predictable. 
 Your opponent may attach you at the beginning, a bit later or just prepare a massive single attack. 
 They also defend their city. If you play against 2 computers, they may also team up their attack 
 and coordinate it to make one big hell of a rush on you... or they might split up their attack. 
 One attacking and the other just backing up in case of a counter-attack. Also, the computers is 
 very strong, even at moderate skill. If you don't take advantage of the map, they will, and this 
 is not a good thing for you particularly in this game. 
  
  Another very strong point is the graphics. Animations are very good, and the maps are the best 
 i've seen. The environment is amazing. It's hard to describe the immersive aspect of the map. Also, 
 cities are great too. One of your city may be as big as your whole screen when played in 1600x1200 
 resolution. And the architecture is very original too. 
  
  There are only 3 races in the game, but that reminds me a bit Starcraft. Starcraft had 3 distinct 
 races too. Each race may have a little similarity with races in Starcraft. Vinci are like human, 
 Cuotl are like Protoss and Alin has the same "darkside" as the Zerg. Since the originality and 
 the complexity of each race are important, this game doesn't need more races to be more original, 
 just like Starcraft.
  
  The addition of Hero unit makes you feel very powerful. Each hero may get to level 5, they all 
 have unique powers, and some are just devastating. 
  
  I feel the sound effet are not but since most unit have a futuristic way to fight... it's hard 
 to get an accurate sound of what you see. I think they did a pretty decent job on that point. Musics 
 are great, but i've heard a little better in some games. 
  
  Finaly, the gameplay, graphics combined with the sound effect can make huge impressive wars with 
 lots of action, since your army can be very very big. 
  
  You WILL be busy all the game long. So there's no way you'll get bored at playing this. No way. 
 
  
  Put your review in! This game deserve great score ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zurdael
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 16, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  As far as I am concerned, I have probably, along with most reviewers here, played this far longer 
 than the GS reviewer. Mind you, he does have a few good points, yet, a game isn't an appeal to 
 everyone, and I believe we just happen to have fallen upon the wrong reviewer.
  
  The Good : First of all, on the good side of things, the game has so many things. Open ended strategy. 
 While there are not as much of an active unit counter system, like in Rise of Nations and Age of 
 Mythology, or Age of Empire, there is actually multiple ways to counter one set of units. Generally, 
 infantry is the all around unit, that actually seems to be of some use in this game. The balance 
 between civilizations is also pretty good for a just released game, and the patches will definately 
 fix this. The lore is incredible, since two of the factions pump directly from some of the world's 
 greatest brains. Leonardo DaVinci's twisted vision of future, and the quasi-religious text of the 
 Thousand and One Nights, going from Genies to living Sand Storms. The Cuotl origin from an "urban 
 legend" you could say, that hints that human beings might have been helped at some point in history, 
 by extra terrestial forces. The lore of the game, and the subtle details of it, are wonderful. 
 As an exemple, going through the Vinci campaign, you might see pieces of the Cuotl mothership in 
 the background. The Vinci and Alin campaign are also very good, putting you up against a modified 
 version of your own forces. And lastly, but not least ( There is so much more, just buy the game!) 
 the depth of the strategy, full with good community and recorded game for analysis of strategies. 
 Two thumbs up. Side note, many have mentionned the lack of different nations like in Rise of Nations. 
 Wrong, Rise of Nations had 3 or 4 skin models, and the rest was but statistic. Although good in 
 intention, the extensive care and attention brought to each civilization in Rise of Legends is 
 astounding.
  
  The bad : Bugginess. Dear god, I have rarely had this many problems with a game's multiplayer. 
 All around infact. The first install around the game froze constantly, the second time around wouldn't 
 auto-download the patch.
  
  The Ugly : Two words. Cuotl Campaign. And plot holes in the campaign. It's good at first, but the 
 more you progress, the more plot holes seem to be present. The conquer the world campaign is more 
 like a not-so-linear campaign. The Cuotl campaign on its side, is 95 % skirmish games, and 5 % 
 scenarios, compared to other campaigns, who were the other way around. The sound. The lack of good 
 music. I would have thought of something more mystical. Although the music can be good at alot 
 of points, at others it just feels out of place with this one specific track that sounds like it 
 came from some 80' show.
  
  Resumed : Typical RTS, in the Rise of Nations flavour, with fantasy, technology and urban legends. 
 I couldn't ask for better. Although I am a little disappointed hearing rumors that there was supposed 
 to be a 4th nation ( Who's skins you can still see in game. See Berserkers and such ) , these 3 
 nations are just so awesome. Yet, the game is bogged down by crappy campaign and the bugginess, 
 that will definately be fixed in patches. 
  
  Thanks for this great game, I enjoyed every second of it so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcastle
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 16, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  and a rewarding gameplay. I play RTS games for Multi-player alone, i play teh caimpaign for about 
 2-3 missions to get the hang of the game, after that im all multi-player. And believe this game 
 was designed with multiplayer in mind.
  
  Each race is very distincted. there are many tactics and build orders for each race, and forces 
 are well mixed due to in game mechanics.
  
  they also re-did the interface for online, and its quite easy and fun to use. they are having some 
 "connection issues" but BHG is working on it and it should be all sorted out by the 23rd ( wwl 
 date )
  
  if you are looking for a BALANCED fun Multi-player experience... get this ASAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BornGamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 16, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I rarely play the single player campaign of any game and this one is no exception, so this review 
 focusses solely on the multiplayer aspect.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Graphics:
  
  My 
 rating is based on running the game at medium settings on an Athlon 64 3200 and overclocked GF6600GT.
 
  
  The game runs extremely smoothly and while the graphics aren't mindblowing, they're as good as 
 you can expect in an RTS and they do a great job of conveying the captivatingly designed fantasy 
 setting. Animations are fluid and the visual effects look great.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound design has received a moderate amount of criticism due to the subdued combat sounds and 
 subtle unit responses, but I've personally found these deviations from the norm to be a breath 
 of fresh air.
  
  You know your units are in your control without having them bark "YES SIR!" or "I'M ON IT!" or 
 even "WE ARE CHAOS!!! CHAOS IS STRONG!!!" ***fingernails down a chalkboard*** seventy-five times 
 every single game. Yes, you can switch off these confirmations in most RTS games, but a subtle 
 confirmation is better than no confirmation.
  
  The more in-your-face sounds have been reserved for the less frequent, more bombastic events. For 
 example, when you overpower a city you hear the satisfying explosion of toppling walls and shattering 
 glass.
  
  It's clear the developers wanted to make the game aesthetically pleasing without subjecting the 
 player to a constant barrage of repetitive noise.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Instead of building cities like in Rise of Nations you now have to take over neutral cities guarded 
 by neutral units, which you can do either by overpowering them militarily or simply by raising 
 enough gold to buy them out. You raise gold by ordering flying caravan units to trade with these 
 cities. Every time a caravan visits a city, the price of that city goes down until you buy it or 
 the price reaches zero, when it automatically becomes yours.
  
  This approach adds depth to the traditional RTS model... Will you try to create a huge economy 
 and buy as many cities and buildings as you can afford, recruiting their units into your army? 
 Or will you concentrate on mining Timonium to create your own army with which to overpower these 
 buildings and your opponents?
  
  There are also several different types of neutral buildings to be found on the huge amount of maps 
 that come with the game which, when taken over, offer a variety of advantages such as an economy 
 boost, a steady supply of combat units, or a powerful turret.
  
  Each faction has their own strategic strengths and weaknesses. The Alin are adept at rushing, the 
 Vinci are strong turtlers, and the Cuotl are good at booming, although they're all designed with 
 enough subtlety to make any strategy viable if well-played. They're also very well-balanced and 
 it's nice not to get that well-worn feeling that the first few months of retail are really a paid 
 public beta for the devs to tinker around with game balance.
  
  The tech tree offers solid, interesting choices with no failsafe route to success and heroes are 
 a welcome addition to the franchise with varied, well-thought-out and fun to use abilities. The 
 only thing missing is the look on your opponents face when the Doge obliterates their capital city 
 with his siege laser.  :D
  
  When using the mouse to select unit abilities micromanagement can get slightly overwhelming in 
 large battles, but it's only really a struggle during frantic situations and the default hotkeys 
 are laid out in such a way as to make using the keyboard shortcuts a more intuitive option.
  
  The multiplayer lobby is one of the most impressive I've seen in an RTS (and is fortunately 
 nothing like the original Rise of Nations lobby) , offering quickplay, ladder systems, ranking, 
 clan and chatroom support, and I'm glad to say the ingame netcode seems to be watertight. I've 
 played a ton of games online and have so far experienced slowdown in only one (a 1v1 where I assumed 
 the other guy had a lousy connection and/or computer as it lagged from the start of the game) .
 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Broad originality is almost impossible to find in any gaming genre, largely due to developers being 
 forced by publishers to create more and more of whatever sells the most units, but also because 
 of a lack of creative scope within which game designers can explore, or to put it another way: 
 it's all been done before. Big Huge Games seems to have accepted these limitations and worked successfully 
 within them, avoiding gimmicks and concentrating on perfecting the genre.
  
  They also took a huge gamble in avoiding the fantasy status quo of Orcs, Dwarves and Elves by electing 
 to create the highly engaging world of Aio. They're essentially depending on the probability that 
 a lot of gamers are sick and tired of the played-out Tolkienesque fantasy template, and I think 
 this will pay off.
  
  In short, Rise of Legends is a great game which now has a place in my top three. See you online! 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frodobags
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 17, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  (Wow a 7.6?! I find that to be off base and I think the reviews of the players/other game rating 
 sites shows this point. I never thought I would write a response to one of Gamespot's reviews but 
 this one is off course)
  
  After playing MMO's now for about 2 years it's nice to try something new. My frist RTS and it is 
 going very well... highly addictive. Graphics are lovely, game play tested and true, but what where 
 this game excells is in it's storyline and the fact the can go on-line with it and play your friends. 
 I also like the way each nation is different and it's own unique way. Magic vs tech is a wonderful 
 idea and wish more games had this element in them. Never seen it done quite this way and again 
 it is a much needed rest from WoW, GW and other popular MMO's out at the moment.
  
  Power to the Doge! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nodashi
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 16, 2006 12:52 am PT
Review:  Rise of Legends. I've been waiting for this game since first announced, I'm a big fan of Rise of 
 Nations. So my expectations where reasonably high.
  
  First things first: The game looks great. Really. It's a major improvement over Rise of Nations 
 "so-so" graphics. BUT there are some problems here. The gameplay is kinda slow BECAUSE they chose 
 to make the units so big and flashy. When you see minuscule units small, it's ok because of the 
 scale. When huge units are small, they feel REALLY small. Even worst, units have some animations 
 that delay reaction time, adding a lot of frustration to any atempt to micromanage your army.
 
  
  Then I startet wondering... maybe this is a macromanagement game. Maybe micro is not that important 
 here... then , boom, there's no way to say it. Not only the building part is really simple (along 
 with a very simple resource system, if not shallow in comparison with Rise of Nations one) , but 
 because you use hero units.
  
  Now, hero unit WERE taken from Warcraft 3. There's no way to deny it. They work EXACTLY the same 
 here. Yet, they probably didn't like the "Creeping" for WC3 (If you didn't play that game - your 
 heroes gained levels on XP, and you killed neutral beasts to gain XP and make your heroes powerhouses) ... 
 and in RoL they have no XP. Your hero can waste whole ARMIES and it will still be lv 1. How do 
 they grow? On CASH. So, for some reason, they feel an artificial adition to the game.
  
  Back on the graphics - the developers love to say a lot about the organic cities, they should look 
 like real cities... but the huge units and slow gameplay really make them seem more like small 
 sand castles inside some small holes than the metropolis they should be.
  
  Don't misunderstand me - the game is not bad. It has a LOT of fun potential because of great design 
 and interface designs. Yet, all of that positive potential was already in RoN. The hero system 
 simply didn't work with it, they wanted to be trendy and ended up with a spaghetti game, with many 
 mixed sauces.
  
  In my personal experience, RoL feels like one of those attempts to remake a good game with a great 
 graphics engine only to discover that what made the first game great doesn't work as well in the 
 new one. The "softened" economic model, along with the very artificial and "detached" hero system 
 make me, tough feeling a little sad, say this is a "ok" game, not a very good one and sadly inferior 
 to it's predecessor.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xblastem
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 15, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  The last game that i remember that i so fondly took a liking to like i have to ROL was C&C: Red 
 Alert 2. And that was a beautiful game to me. And i think its the fact that the factions are so 
 so SO much different from each other, in units and in buildings and in technologies too! I mean, 
 variety dude! This game is all spiced up and suits my taste amazingly. Now i can finally, FINALLY 
 get down to playing an RTS game for hours and hours instead of playing HALO: CE over and over again.
 
  The thing is, there are alot of RTS games out there. And if you're the kind of person who just 
 plays any RTS game you can get your hands on, you're gonna love this game. That's gonna happen 
 pretty easily. However, if you're picky when it comes to choosing the games you play, you'd want 
 to play a game that's worth your liking and your fanship, if you may. And I reckon, that this game 
 could well enough be, one of those games that are incredibly worth their salt.
  It seems like its perfectly balanced, with the not too fast, not too slow, but just right paced 
 gameplay action. Its graphical representation is just breath taking and for days you will find 
 yourself marvelling at the sheer exuberance and viberance of the art and graphics in the game. 
 Then there is the sound. It is powerful, it is a powerful communicator of the mood in which the 
 designers, BIG HUGE Games, want you to experience, specially during the campaign. And that, to 
 me, is very important in a great game.
  The gameplay is what I'm really amazed by. You build your armies and you go out there and you take 
 the enemy out. And when you drag a selection window accross the screen, guess what, non-military 
 units don't get selected! That is BRILLIANT! I mean, it is absolutly brilliant! Now, I don't know 
 if there are other games out there that do that, and there must be, but none have had me this hooked.
 
  You have to check the game out for yourself. Stop listen to me and go play the demo and buy out 
 the actual game. It will be well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silpherx
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 22, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I think my expectations for this game were very very high. It plays like most other RTS games out 
 there with some brilliant graphics and addictive gameplay. However, the "rise of nations" portion 
 of the previous game has been much simplified. Resource management has been toned down as well 
 as research and tech options. Also, multiplayer options have been cut also somewhat, though that 
 could be easily added in a future patch. I really like the on-line record tracking system also. 
 
  
  The three sides balance quite well, and have very fun and unique units to slug it out. The Vinci 
 are technological, land power. The Alin are magical and strong air power, the Cuotl resemble the 
 aztecs but with space lasers and shields. 
  
  I kind of expected this game to be revolutionary because of BIG HUGE's track record. While i definately 
 enjoy playing it and will continue to play it, can't help but think they could have innovated more. 
 
  
  Have to say the game does require some hefty hardware to run at good levels. Especialy in a large 
 map with 4+ players, it gets realy laggy on mainstream vid cards (less than 6800) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TH3_1NF1D3L
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 15, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  First, let me start off saying that I believe that StarCraft is the best of the RTS genre. Also 
 let me state that I loved Rise of Nations. So, when I say that Rise of Legends is one the the best 
 games I have ever played, you have a better understanding of where I am coming from.
  
  I started playing this game by the Quick Battle function which is akin to a single-player multiplayer. 
 It is you and up to 7 computers battling it out. I first played with the Alin. They are easy to 
 upgrade and have powerful units (once upgraded) . I believe that they are the best of the 3 races. 
 The Vinci have powerful ground units but, the air units leave something to be desired. The Cuotl 
 are strange because each of the units are so very different and can only attack a certain place, 
 as in land, air, so they require that you have lots of random units.
  
  The graphics of the game are beautiful. When fully maxed, you can see people actually walking around 
 the cities and people actually manning the defense guns. It is amazing. The individual units are 
 detailed so well that you can actually differenciate between pieces of clothing.
  
  Downsides: Is a resource hog. On the box it says that it runs great on Centrino, no. I'm running 
 a Centrino 2.13 and it lags greatly on the bottom end of the scaleable graphics option. But it 
 does not lag always, but at crucial times, like in the middle of a great battle, it will lag and 
 lag and lag. Sometimes even the sound will get stuck and start repeating itself. But, in my opinion, 
 these are not deal breakers.
  
  Last word: If you have the powerhouse to run this game, it will be greatly enjoyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paco_DeQuink
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 15, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Having played the original Rise of Nations and its expansion extensively, I eagerly awaited the 
 sequel. However, after borrowing Rise of Legends from a friend, I'm extremely glad I did not buy 
 it.
  
  Gone are the deep strategy and tactics which made RoN so much fun. Everything has been dumbed down. 
 There are no workers, only one resource, buildings build themselves in any territory. The introduction 
 of upgradable heroes makes this game feel too much like Warcraft 3 for my tastes.
  
  You can only capture pre-built cities. Many of the units are too similar.
  
  In short, Rise 
 of Legends disappoints to a new degree. Flashy graphics cannot hide the simple and unentertaining 
 gameplay. If you're looking for depth, replayability, and exciting multiplayer combat return to 
 the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tboy1990
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 14, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Just like it's predecessor, Rise of Nations: Rise of Legends is an incredible strategy game; featuring 
 some of the best online multiplayer out there for an RTS. If you're looking for a fresh but approachable 
 online experience, you should definitely GET THIS GAME. While multiplayer is the strong point of 
 Legends, the campaign is more than passable, especially considering it was nonexistant in the first 
 game, and few RTS' have made a campaign with a storyline that actually drives the action onscreen. 
 The campaign's strongest point is that it never falls into monotony; the moment you tire of one 
 setting or gameplay, you're whisked to another location, and presented with a new array of armies 
 to control. However, multiplayer is definitely the main aspect of this game. It's worth mentioning 
 that the netcode and interface for multiplayer is flawless. It's as if Xbox Live was lifted off 
 of the console and ported to PC just for this game; but with more functionality. You can go with 
 the traditional server list interface if you like, but Legends allows you to automatically be taken 
 to a server that features the gametype you want. Just choose a gametype, wait a minute or two, 
 and you'll be fighting your enemies in no time. This is exactly how every RTS should handle online 
 play. Once you're in the game, you'll be happy to know it's incredibly stable, especially for an 
 RTS. I've experienced little to no lag, and if you manage to lose your connection to a player, 
 a very nice mechanism takes place. Players in the server get to vote to replace the player with 
 AI, boot them, or keep trying at the connection. It's quick, it's easy, and it's painless. Lastly, 
 Legends is just plain fun. The incredible art style and ideas put into this game will make the 
 construction of every unit enjoyable. Also, the super weapons are very neat, featuring massive 
 destrutive power, but still maintaining balance in the game. Rise of Legends is worthy of praise 
 based on it's simple, intuitive interface, fun and addictive gameplay, and creative graphics that 
 will give both the new and veteran RTS player an incredibly fresh addition to the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkraptor63
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 14, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  If you want a real RTS then this is the game for you. The fantasy gameplay is incredible with its 
 breath-taking scenery and it gorgeous soundtrack this game blows past rise of nations. The game 
 play has a different feel to it, without the time advancements (like in nations) , but this game 
 brings something new to the table, districts. The districts approach is ingenious with having complete 
 control over everything from resources and population with districts, this is a welcome newcomer 
 to the RTS genre. The campaign is extremely fun. I usually find myself playing just the skirmishes 
 but the storyline and the characters are believable and in depth. 
  
  The skirmishes always bring something new for you to fight against. The AI is ridiculously easy 
 on easy and extremely hard on toughest, with many notches in between you are bound to find a level 
 to suit your gaming style. The three races all have very different aspects but are the same in 
 a way with the basic control. Everything is balanced and well played out.
  
  As a final note I recommend this game to anyone who is a RTS fan or just looking for something 
 to escape reality for a short while. The stunning scenery and score will have you believing that 
 you are off in the world Aio fighting with Giacomo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loamdaster
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 14, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game I was expecting Rise of Nations except set in a fantasy world. Well, the 
 game is more like C&C then it is Rise of Nations. Which isn't a bad thing since C&C had a few really 
 good games in the series. 
  
  Unlike RoN there isn't much nation building. It's pretty straight forward gather resources, gold 
 and create military units. The technology advancement reminds me of Warhammer 40K: Dawn of War 
 only a little deeper. 
  
  You don't make settlers in this game (Mr. Reynolds left his Civilization roots behind in RoN) . 
 Instead you have to either buy, conquer or trade to gain control of other towns. 
  
  The graphics and sound are superb. Animations are excellent from the littlest musketeer up to the 
 King Leviathan which is huge. 
  
  If you hated C&C and Warhammer: Dawn of War then you will want to get the demo first. I didn't 
 care for C&C much, but loved the Civ series and Warhammer: DoW. 
  
  Big Huge Games should have dropped Rise of Nations name and just called it Rise of Legends. We 
 all get it. Calling it RoN: RoL makes it sound like a sequel which it isn't. They should just stick 
 with the "Rise of" naming scheme and go on. That way people don't think of it as a sequel as much 
 as a new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffe_neo
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 14, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  The original Rise of Nations was one of my favourite RTS titles. It had a streamlined resource 
 model and fast, tactical gameplay. Attrition damage and assimilation time were some of the features 
 which really set it apart from the other mainstream RTS titles that sprung out over the years before 
 and after it launched.
  
  When I heard that Rise of Nations 2 was not really going to be a sequel but rather the same mechanics 
 in a different setting I was a little skeptical. However my skepticism was misplaced because after 
 about half a day's worth of play time I must say that I was a fool to doubt that the guys a Big 
 Huge Games were going to make a hash of the reputation that they had build on the back of Rise 
 of Nations.
  
  Rise of Nations: Rise of Legends sports all the stuff that made RoN a standout RTS and somehow 
 makes it better and whips it all together into a new fantasy setting. The 3 races which are featured 
 in the game are all unique and the attention to detail is amazing. Not just graphical detail but 
 the care taken in making sure that every race isn't the same. Credit to the developers though because 
 even though they've created 3 very different races they all seem to balance out nicely.
  
  Campaign is excellent, it features the return of the Conquer the World system where you choose 
 the territories you want to invade and each territory rewards you with a bonus. Throw in the extra 
 mechanics for levelling your heroes, choose what to unlock on the build tree and setting up which 
 troops you'd like to have in your standing army and you have a campaign so full of content you 
 will never be left without something to do or consider.
  
  I highly recommend RoN: RoL to anyone looking to add another solid RTS title to their collection. 
 Don't be put off by the fantasy setting if you are an existing RoN player or if you don't like 
 the fantasy setting because you WILL fall in love with it, I just know it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RFNeo
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 14, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Three years have passed since the original Rise Of Nations game came out and now Big Huge games 
 brings us a spiritual sequel that captures the best ingredients of the first game with a new and 
 impressive engine.
  
  Gameplay: If you liked the original Rise of Nations, you are going to enjoy every bit of the gameplay 
 of Rise Of Nations: Rise Of Legends. All the key elements that made the first game a success are 
 back: attrition, special units and an easy to play with economy. The risk-like map surely adds 
 the extra edge that a lot of RTS games nowadays lack. The real time strategy part of the game does 
 fall short on breaking new grounds. Do not expect the reinvention of the genre here. Battles are 
 basically a click-a-thon as in any other vanilla RTS, where the player that builds faster wins.
 
  
  The AI is very poor and will not use any advanced tactics at all. Even if you have weaknesses on 
 several points of the map, the computer will keep on sending units to the slaughter thru the same 
 point.
  
  There are some nice touches like the upgrading system on the cities and the leveling of heroes, 
 but nothing that will shake the foundations of RTS games.
  
  The most innovative point of the gameplay is without a doubt the storyline. Its very creative 
 and a breath of fresh air after playing countless WWII RTS or modern warfare ones.
  
  Graphics: The engine used on this installment of Rise Of Nations is beautiful. The units have incredible 
 detail and the building designs are amazingly crafted. The explosions are a feast to the eyes and 
 the levels are very well laid out. 
  
  Graphics have some shortcomings though. The animations are not very fluid and are not detailed 
 at all. Players with medium to lower end machines will get their performance hammered unless all 
 the nice details are turned off. Unfortunately, the game is very demanding if one wants to enjoy 
 all the eye candy.
  
  Sound: This is without a doubt the lowest point of the game. The soundtrack is to put it mildly, 
 very annoying and the sound effects lack variety. All you will hear from beginning to end is the 
 same explosion that will get to your nerves unless you lower the volume to a minimum.
  
  Voice acting is decent, but nothing to be shocked about.
  
  Value: If you want hours of decent 
 playing time for your money, this is the game to buy. The campaigns with the strategic map are 
 considerable in length. Once you have played thru the 3 campaigns you can have countless hours 
 of fun playing with your friends online.
  
  Tilt: I love RTS games and this one is no exception. The repetition on gameplay is starting to 
 get boring, but the small additions to this game and an extremely original storyline with imaginative 
 factions definitely has caught my attention.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cwarnke12345
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 14, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  Pick this one up if youre looking for an RTS thats got a bit of originality to it and is addictive. 
 The three factions mechanics as far as building units and cities are different and require you 
 to learn them and pick a favorite style.
  The game is fun the battles are cool to watch. The action starts pretty quickly and there is very 
 little tedium. Multiplayer run on Gamespy works very well with no bugs.
  Its a keeper if youre an RTS fan.
  
  On the Con side: 
  Sound could be better and options 
 for custom maps seem a bit barren. Options like changing the maps, resources and battle condtions 
 for wining would have made the game more intresting. It has some of this but its limited. This 
 could all be changed with a patch though and that would bring this title up a notch.
  
  Bottom line is its fun as is and is worth the cash if you enjoy RTS games.
  If your looking for 
 a new title with some different flavor and an addictive style
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joekoala1234
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 13, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Legends is one of the most unique games i think i have ever played. It has just about everything 
 a great RTS game needs. First, let's look at the graphics. I'll admit, the graphics look a little 
 cartoon like, but they're very well combined with the 3D effects. Next, the sound. I love the soundtrack 
 because it gets you in to the battle and makes it seem so very epic. The gameplay is very good 
 because Rise of Nations has some very unique kinds of gameplay. You actually make just one city, 
 and you have to add-on to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sklamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 13, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations: Rise of Legends is a very original game. However, it is very different from Rise 
 of Nations, and therefore might be dissapointing to hardcore RoN fans. It also just doesn't feel 
 like a true RTS at times. It's more like a Real Time Role Playing Strategy Game. I personally am 
 a big fan of RPGs, so I did enjoy this game. But the key components found is most RTS games such 
 as Rise of Nations are missing. There is no naval combat, only 1 resource that can be gathered 
 (besides wealth,) and no citizens/villagers to do the work. The only workers you have are miners 
 to mine Timonium, the only resource which can be gathered. Buildings build themselves, and you 
 can't build cities, only capture them.
  
  Rise of Legends is by no means a bad game however. There are multiple heroes which you can continually 
 upgrade, as well intriguing units for you to control. The campaigns have a deep story, which is 
 why this really feels like an RPG more than an RTS. If you like RTS games it's an interesting new 
 game for you to look into, but if you're looking for a hardcore RTS game like Rise of Nations, 
 you're not going to find it here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper_587
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  I went to EB Games on the day May 9 for one particular reason.... I couldn't wait to buy the game 
 Rise Of Legends. I have constantly been searching websites and surfing the net always lookin for 
 info on the game and now that I finally have it... I must say that it was definately worth the wait 
 and that I'm very impressed with it. It has been hard for me to put the game down since I got it 
 and i recommend it especially to RTS gamers, but I have a feeling others will enjoy such a game 
 as well as long as your computer can handle the graphics. Have Fun.
  
  Dan Rinskey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robert430
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 11, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  
  Anyone who liked Rise of Nations should definitely check out this game. 
  
  It's main campaign mode is divided as before into a meta map and an RTS component. Both received 
 numerous enhancements that add a lot of depth to gameplay as well enhance and simplify game mechanics.
 
  
  On the meta map, the player will be challenged to balance income, research and army development 
 as well as leveling your hero. On the RTS side, you would engage in many different scenarios that 
 tie together the campaign story.
  
  The graphics are great but require a high-end system to play well. Gameplay is amazing, very well 
 balanced and requires strategic planning (which is more than I can say for a lot of other RTS games) .
 
  
  My only problem so far is the sound which is just bad ; ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imihsas
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 10, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I think that my explanation above pretty much sums it up in my opinion. Easy to learn if you've 
 played strategy games before, nice details with the graphics including terrain and characters, 
 interesting story line to the campaign, been very stable so far (although, it took me a couple 
 hours to figure out why I kept getting the "MSXML 4.0 NOT PROPERLY INSTALLED" error when initially 
 trying the demo... but since figured it out) . There are plenty of maps for numerous players or 
 just against the computer, plenty of different characters one can summon to fight your enemy, including 
 all sorts of upgrades and such. The difficulty settings seem accurate in terms of the AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aji1020
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 10, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Big Huge game did an amazing job with this. The graphics are some of the best I've ever seen in 
 a stratgy game, and I play a lot of RTS. The gameplay is maginificant, along with all of the new 
 concepts. The nations seem to be very well balanced and are INCREDIBLY diversified and different 
 from each other. I played the original Rise of Nations for quite a while, and they improved on 
 the original in every way possible. This is one of the best strategy games I've ever played, I 
 recommend it to anyone, fan of the genre or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darnlioni
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 10, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  When you think of Legends Rising, what do you usually think of? Me, I tend to visualize a majestic 
 phoenix being summoned by a super-wizard with dual machine guns and a van with a kickass painting 
 of a stallion on it.
  
  But apparently the development team at Big Huge Games doesn't share my vision. If they did, they 
 would have one gigantic hit on their hands, which I suspect would be called something resembling 
 "The Battle for the Mountain of the Seers: Steeds of the War-Mage Fight 2006 Featuring the Music 
 of and Songs Inspired by Rush". HOWEVER, there is a remedy to this foresight, and his name is Zeke.
 
  
  A unit gained in the first campaign of the game (and also available in multiplayer sessions) Zeke 
 is something of a mystery - a fully sentient sardine can with a giant wrench who likes to hobble 
 around and kill things like nobody's business. However, when you delve deeper into the particulars 
 of this plucky little robot, you find that there is much more to him than a mere homicidal bloodlust 
 and comical gait.
  
  MUCH more.
  
  Like, he can turn into a flying scout unit with his little legs dangling and propellors and stuff!
 
  
  Think that all Zeke is good for is mindless slaughter of the innocent? THINK AGAIN, JACK. His blood 
 fueled fury carries over to buildings, too. Switch him over to Siege Mode and he can demolish enemy 
 cities in seconds flat, and could probably be persuaded to do the same to an orphanage. Because 
 to Zeke, all children are the same: flesh-filled pods of sweet, sweet devil-bot robo-fuel.
  
  So, all in all, I give Rise of Nations: Rise of Legends my highest reccomendation. With Zeke 
 on your side, no mortal army can stand in your way! Also, it is a real time strategy game with 
 some guys and steamy robots that aren't Zeke in it. I dunno. It's good!
  
  Also there is a fat guy in it and his name is the Doge or something? He looks like he retrofitted 
 a toilet and an organ together on top of some kind of giant crab to make a super-potty that shoots 
 lasers all like "PEW PEW!" What a guy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingjosefa
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  at first it seemed to be just another rts buld econ buld up men then whipe them out. but becase 
 of all the talk about it i bought it. as soon as i heard the music i thought of warcraft a game 
 with terific music and gameplay this has good music to. i checked out a skirmish game as the vinci 
 and was blown away by a combo of fun grafics and ai. i tried the coutl and allin to both fun and 
 balleced. i thought the camain cant have a good story i stand corected you feel like gacigamo is 
 real. my best game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_capo
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 25, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  So I am back with another short review. Ive just red the main review about the game posted on the 
 website and there is something I cant understand. Its just a curiosity but can I ask how many people 
 are involved in writing a review on a website? Its just that I cant explain how is that a game 
 like this one - a game that came up with so many new inovations and so interactive - can be criticised 
 so much. OK I agree that there are few problems within the game, maybe the sound, maybe the size 
 of each battle map doesnt give you the impression of masivity according with the size of the army 
 or the city, maybe there are few gaps within the storyline etc etc; but keep in mind that every 
 new original release has the right to come up with lets say errors (not technical but figurative) . 
 
  another thing that amazed me: how is it possible to say that this release is very similar with 
 the old one?!!! there are 2 things involved in any creation: the ideology and the structure. when 
 you want to develop something, its very important to follow a logical path between structure and 
 ideology. in this case the ideology might be similar with the previous version of RoN, but the 
 structure is completly different (the nations, the cities, the army, the way we have to develop 
 each campaign etc etc) . and what's more important: we mostly detect the fizical part of every game 
 (the structure mainly) cause the ideea comes up very naturaly, even if its an old one. so this 
 release is no more than lets say 20 % similar with the old one.
  one final ideea: the story line - its BEATIFUL. if you ask people on website about that, they will 
 say the same things: ITS BEAUTIFUL. no other prove need it (there are phone numbers where you can 
 call and become a part of Vinci or Alin. So many people made those calls and so many were delighted.) 
 . and I cant forget what effort has been made to develop this story.
  Sorry, but I am always sincer. That review on the website (no matter how many people were involved 
 in it) is 75% wrong. 
  P. S. Even those guys from BHG know that the game is not perfect. I apreciate the ideea of developing 
 something new for the game in the very next future (and I am sure, there will be patches too) .
 
  Excuse my english please 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
