-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rise of Nations
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/riseofnations/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 21, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 8.9, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 6,131 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Big Huge Games
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     May 20, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
By combining some of the concepts of Civilization with the general gameplay of Age of Empires, Big 
 Huge Games has created a truly outstanding game. 

  Designer Brian Reynolds had already made a name for himself with his work with Sid Meier on turn-based 
 strategy classics such as Civilization II and Alpha Centauri. But Reynolds went off and founded 
 a new studio called Big Huge Games and began work on the historically themed Rise of Nations, a 
 game that has finally arrived on store shelves. This superb strategy game combines the best elements 
 of real-time strategy with the conventions of the turn-based blockbusters that Reynolds had worked 
 on previously. By combining some of the concepts of Civilization with the general gameplay of Age 
 of Empires, Reynolds and Big Huge Games have created a truly outstanding game.  

          Rise of Nations successfully incorporates many turn-based strategy conventions, like cities 
 and national borders.     

  Rise of Nations might resemble Microsoft's Age of Empires games at a glance -- like other, similar 
 games, it has a host of different civilizations (18, to be exact) , each with unique bonuses and 
 four to five unique units. But beyond that, the game has a lot of depth, more so than other real-time 
 strategy games, thanks to novel concepts such as national borders, city assimilation, and more. 
 While these new features might seem foreign to real-time strategy players, fans of Brian Reynolds' 
 turn-based strategy games should know them well.  

  Unlike in other turn-based games, in Rise of Nations, cities are a focal part of your strategy. 
 Each of your cities has a radius around it that constitutes your national border. You can build 
 other buildings only within your borders, and you can build only a limited number of different 
 improvements for each city (such as a maximum of five farms each) . Since expanding your empire 
 depends entirely on your cities, the game makes you think harder about how and where you should 
 expand. This focus on cities also means that each one will become a distinct community, with its 
 own farms, temples, universities, and so on -- actual cities will populate your empire, unlike in 
 other real-time strategy games, where most of your structures are at your main base, while your 
 additional town halls exist in isolation near some resources.  

  This intriguing concept of national borders works as you might have expected it to in an epic turn-based 
 game, such as Civilization. In practice, national borders add depth to the game without being overwhelming. 
 For instance, since your national borders grow with the number of cities you control, you may wish 
 to aggressively expand your empire by building lots of cities, but you'll be limited by the extent 
 of your research in civics. In addition, any troops you send across the borders of an enemy nation 
 sustain attrition damage (to simulate the difficulty in supplying them over vast distances) . It's 
 an intuitive feature, and it also prevents your enemies from rushing you early on in the game. 
 However, both you and your opponents can recruit supply wagons that protect armies from attrition 
 damage.  

  In the meantime, you'll be able to recruit a wide array of different soldiers from different nations 
 across different time periods. Like other real-time strategy games, Rise of Nations uses a rock-paper-scissors 
 unit balance system -- for instance, cavalry are devastating against some archer units, while pikemen 
 can make short work of cavalry. Rise of Nations' combat is fast-paced, though it also features 
 interesting tactical considerations, such as flanking and rear attacks, as well as special abilities 
 that your general units can use to provide extra defense for your troops, cause your troops to 
 move on a forced march, or even hide your army briefly to set up an ambush. Cities are also crucial 
 to warfare in Rise of Nations, since successfully attacking a city doesn't destroy it, but instead 
 captures it for your own use. As such, battles over cities are crucial and potentially very rewarding, 
 and they also make the stakes a lot higher in multiplayer battles, which, despite the game's epic 
 historical scale, can often be completed in less than an hour.  

          In Rise of Nations, the stakes of city warfare are much higher -- instead of destroying an 
 enemy city, you assimilate it.     

  Thanks to its turn-based roots, Rise of Nations has other interesting features that aren't common 
 to real-time strategy games, but these features allow the already varied game to offer you even 
 more options. For instance, you can build wonders of the world (just like you could in Civilization) , 
 and these powerful monuments can provide bonuses to your troops as they stride into battle in real 
 time. In addition, Rise of Nations doesn't have any troop transports, so you don't have to micromanage 
 your troops as they march individually onto a boat. As long as you have a docks structure in place 
 and the right technology level, all your land-based units will automatically become transports 
 when they cross water. And as you'd expect from a game designed by Civilization II's cocreator, 
 Rise of Nations offers multiple victory conditions to suit a variety of different play styles. 
 You can win by conquest, by controlling 70 percent or more of the entire map, by building or capturing 
 a critical mass of wonders, or by capturing and holding an enemy's capitol.     

  Rise of Nations' unusual resource model is also noteworthy. Unlike in other real-time strategy 
 games, resource-rich areas don't get depleted. Instead, in order to gather the game's basic resources, 
 you need only place the appropriate gathering site for each resource and assign villagers to these 
 sites, and they'll begin gathering on their own. The knowledge resource, which is vital for most 
 technologies, comes only from the universities that you build for your cities. You can also find 
 rare resources -- such as precious minerals, crops, or furs -- around the map. If you station a merchant 
 at these sites, they'll give you bonuses to your resources and other benefits. Rise of Nations 
 makes it easy to understand how many resources you are getting and how additional villagers can 
 help you get more. Each building can have only a certain number of villagers in it, and the interface 
 clearly shows how many resources you get per villager working there, though you can research improvements 
 to make your villagers even more efficient.  

          Rise of Nations has an unusual resource model that lets you accrue knowledge and ferry 
 commodities with caravans.     

  Of course, with so much of the game's design rooted in the Civilization model, it's no wonder that 
 Rise of Nations' research system also stands head and shoulders above the systems featured in other 
 real-time strategy games. Although it isn't as comprehensive as the technology tree of Civilization 
 III, Rise of Nations' research fields are still broader than those of just about any other real-time 
 strategy game yet. There are four main areas of research: military, civil, commerce, and science. 
 Each area has eight levels, as well as a top-level technology for each area once you reach the 
 eighth stage. However, each of these technologies is balanced fairly well against the others, so 
 you're free to choose the technological path you most prefer without worrying that your unbalanced 
 research might leave you vulnerable in some way. Additionally, you'll conduct most of your research 
 in a single building: the library. The consolidation of most of the game's technology under one 
 roof is a breakthrough in logistics -- you no longer have to go hunting for different buildings to 
 conduct research.  

  Like Age of Empires, Rise of Nations features eight different ages: classical, medieval, gunpowder, 
 enlightenment, industrial, modern, and information. Even though game's timeline begins in the Dark 
 Ages and ends in a futuristic era, it manages to strike a perfect balance between the different 
 ages and the breadth of technologies available in each. And despite all that depth, Rise of Nations 
 is paced well and isn't overly complex -- the game's interface makes it easy to understand what you 
 need to do to advance to the next age, and the resource costs of advancement are challenging to 
 meet without being ridiculously expensive.  

  The only really serious complaint that hard-core strategy fans could level at Rise of Nations is 
 that the game doesn't have a story-based campaign like so many other recent real-time strategy 
 games. Instead, Rise of Nations features a single-player "conquer the world" campaign in which 
 the world is divided into sections, like in the classic board game Risk. You start out as one nation 
 on this map and attempt to literally conquer every other country in the world. Controlling your 
 nation on the world map is turn-based, but when you enter into territory you don't control, the 
 game changes to real-time mode. Interestingly, the campaign offers different scenarios for different 
 territories. In one territory, your mission might be to withstand a barbarian raid for 30 minutes. 
 In another, it might be to race across a map to destroy a barbarian encampment. In a contested 
 territory, you might have a normal conquest game in which you must eliminate the enemy. Capturing 
 and holding additional territories gives you benefits, such as an extra army or resource bonuses 
 you can take with you into every tactical battle. However, this campaign, which is really just 
 a glorified version of Risk, isn't as developed as the actual real-time game. Still, it's enjoyable, 
 if a bit simple, and it adds a substantial single-player component to the game.  

          Rise of Nations has no story-based campaign or prebuilt scenarios, but it does have a single-player 
 mode that resembles Risk.     

  In many ways, Rise of Nations is better than the strategy games that have come before it. It's 
 smarter. It's more challenging. It gives you more to do. It also has a highly customizable multiplayer 
 component, as well as good tutorials that will help new players get started quickly. The game even 
 has fairly detailed graphics, especially for the different civilizations' architecture, as well 
 as good sound effects and a dynamic music score that changes to reflect what's happening on the 
 battlefield. But what really sets Rise of Nations apart are all the new concepts it introduces -- cities, 
 attrition damage, commerce caps, caravans, rare resources, a broader and more distinct technology 
 element, national borders, and more make the game deeper and in many ways more enjoyable than any 
 other real-time strategy game to date. For years, real-time and turn-based strategy games sat at 
 opposite ends of the spectrum in terms of their gameplay and audience; very few games have even 
 tried to bridge the gap between them. But now, these two distinct styles of strategy have come 
 together in the form of a truly excellent game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (184 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ggilgil
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Like any strategy game, its learning curve take good time. But when you learn all the basics and 
 familiarize with the game's reality, You'll fell sucked-in and won't want to stop so early.
  Unlike most strategy games it have six resources : Food, timber, wealth, metal, oil and knowledge, 
 that is particular different from the others cause can't be bought or sell. 18 real world nations, 
 each one whit its own unique units, all they based on its country story.
  The random generated maps create numerless match possibilities. You'll be every busy, ever doing 
 something exciting. By doing researches, you'll be upgrading all kinds of things on your empire, 
 since clothe's stuff to spacial project. Thru each match, all the mankind history will happened, 
 all arranged on a incredible way, probably best then you may be thinking.
  The efficient multiplayer system bring competitive matches. Rise of Nations is great in all way.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehboob_j
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  (*o*) I completed every level and scenario of this game, Conquering the world camping was wonderful, 
 i never believed to complete it but i just followed my own stretegic thinking to complete and conquer 
 the world camping and became the world camping conquest. i also played other strategic games like 
 strong hold and age of empires 1 and 2. but i never found them to be so intracting like this game. 
 the graphics, the strategies implemented in this game to play it were wonderful. i think this game 
 let you to be strong on making stretegic management for any action to be taken in real life on 
 large scale. In this game the most i liked was the creation of the wonders, making more wonders 
 made the player's game to strong position, which help the player to be the conquest in revery game 
 like this game. *- ('=') -* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is an extraordinary game designed by the archdesigner of Civilization II, Brian 
 Reynolds, and it combines features both from Age of Empires and Civilization.
  
  First of all, and unlike many previous games, this one has a more political style, as it combines 
 the old-school "just violence", and new features, like national borders or spies and generals.
 
  
  Unlike Age of Empires, here cities play a different and more important role in setting up your 
 nation and controlling the map, as the give you geographical advantage. For example, when you conquer 
 a hostile city, after the city is assimilated, you gain advantage. Finally, in skirmish you can 
 win by controlling at least 70% of the map, when using default settings. Furthermore, every city 
 is a single community, having its own farms, lumberjacks, universities or temples.
  
  As for the borders, the player can choose to expand by building cities or forts, or to play defensively 
 and keep an army near the boarders, just in case...
  
  Now, if you attack early in the game, you will find out that your soldiers' health is damaged when 
 entering a hostile territory or a neutral one. It happens under particular circumstances, which 
 are four:
  1. You have entered a nation with whom you have peace.
  2. The enemy has done research in one of his towers.
  3. The enemy nation is the Russians.
  4. Your 
 enemy has built the Colloseum.
  
  A very important feature of the game is when a player builds a wonder, which gives the player a 
 variety of bonuses, which have often to do with the resources you collect. Since only one wonder 
 is allowed per city (except the Egyptians who can have two) , you will have to build more cities, 
 or capture others. Then if you or your team have enough wonder points (the default number is 8) , 
 you will win the game.
  
  The kind of resources you will have to collect or the way you collect them is also unusual. For 
 example, food is colected by farms, wealth from markets and caravans and knowledge (which is vital 
 to progressing through the ages and researching new technologies) is gathered by building universities 
 and assigning scholars to work in.
  
  The game also provides a "Conqer the World" campaign, in which you lead your nation from a small 
 territory of the world in the ancient ages, to a mighty empire of the future. Luckily, you can 
 choose to continue playing when the game is over, till you beat them or get beaten. It's a pity, 
 though, that the game doesn't include a particular historical campaign.
  
  In addition, the graphics are very good, and as in Age of Empires, each civilization type has its 
 own architecture and culture similar to the real one.
  
  To sum up, this game is not just another good title from Microsoft Studios. It's the features it 
 has which make it reasonably deep. Of course, I recommend this game to everyone, from a beginner 
 in strategy games, to a real master of this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YourNo1CR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  REVIEW
  From the first time I played this game, I knew I was going to be playing this for a while. From it's 
 memorable music to it's unique type of soldiers, I played this game for hours on end.
  
  It's conquer the world campaign was one of the best campaign of any game that I have ever played 
 and it's many ages, upgrades and nations made a far better game than age of empires 3.
  It also has a clever way of distributing and collecting resources instead of going to markets buying 
 and selling, you are encouraged to make lots of cities (I make around about 5-6) use caravans to 
 collect wealth and use merchants to find valuable resources for you such as uranium and oil. The 
 game also has a varoius amount of soldiers on land, sea and air from unique infantry to heavy tanks.
 
  
  However the game does have a few bad points for example your airplanes always seem to run out of 
 fuel quite quickly which is annoying because bombers can really be useful. Another bad point is 
 that their is no story campaign (but you could always make your own in scenario editor) . But it's 
 quite obvious that the good outweigh the bad.
  
  Overall, it's a very good game and you should definitely buy it. It has been out for a few years 
 now, so it shouldn't much around 10.
  
  HINTS AND TIPS
  *Build air bases as far out to your border and as close to your enemy (not near danger) as possible 
 to make sure your planes don't run out of fuel quickly (same with missile silo) .
  *Build as many cities as possible, and use your caravans to your advantage.
  *The terracotta 
 army wonder is useful as it makes soldiers for you once a minute.
  *Always build 5 farms,1 university in each city.
  *Build your city as far out as possible so 
 then you can conquer more territory.
  *Build your lumber camps and mines to as big a mountain and to as many men as possible.
  *Always 
 look at technology and upgrades.
  *When first playing, play as China (they're good, I always play as them) they create villagers, caravans 
 and merchants in an instant and have cheaper upgrades..
  
  If you need any more help, please write a message to YourNO1CR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxGRiFxXRvB
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  ok. i checked EVERY store in my city and i couldnt find it. until i went to ebay... instead of 
 buying it on ebay, i bought to off my friend... so i layed it for a while... till i figured out 
 i need windows XP to play online. so i got pissed cuz i have Vista. but i still like it and its 
 still i good game... worth playing that is. but until i got a 360... i stopped playing. hah. but 
 over all... R. O. N. is a GREAT game! so... all in all.. i DO advice this game too all hrad core 
 strategits... and i live in brantford and i have unreal tournament 3 and halo 2 for pc on sale ... 
 asend me and email on my GS account ifu live near or in brantford and those games fulyl work i 
 havnt played any of them cuz my pc doesnt have a good senough graphics carrd,, thanks.. my name 
 is ali elhajar... saying PEACE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sakhal
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  If you played Age of Empires 2, you will remember those commands that allowed to setup the behaviour 
 of your units. The could be agressive, defensive or stand ground. They could also do patrol tasks 
 or follow an enemy or ally unit automatically. Well, sadly, nothing of this is in this game. Your 
 control over unit behaviours is very basic. Often, your units will abandon their safe positions 
 on their own to pursue some enemy that they have seen, entering enemy territory without any kind 
 of support. The story ends when they are killed or die by attrition, while you are busy with other 
 tasks and don't even notice it. Another feature that is missing are the army formations. This means 
 that you cannot send your army in an orderly way, they will go on their own, this means, the faster 
 units will abandon the slower ones, and leaving behind all the valuable support of their comrades, 
 generals and supply vagons. You have to stop periodically your army to reagroup it, which wastes 
 your time - and time is very important in this game -. In a modern game like this one, this seem 
 quite out of place. Albeit sometimes you need your troops to quickly reach targets, there sould 
 be an option to let you send your army all together in a block, which is usually the most convenient 
 way of moving an army. and by the way, can you imagine a modern army without some kind of medics 
 or mechanics for vehicle reparations, or buildings for such tasks? Most of strategy games allows 
 you to regenerate your damaged units without having to enter a building, which is natural. In this 
 game however, if your army of tanks have their units half-dead, you will have to make a new army 
 of tanks. Not nice.
  And I said this all because I like this game. I think it shows an interesting concept of older 
 and newer worlds, the battles are funny, and the units are interesting. But the strange thing is 
 that it lacks a real tactical control system, which is present in strategy games much older than 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  I have played all sorts of stategy games and games of other genres too. AOE is my all time favorite 
 RTS game. But if you ask me to choose a second, i will choose Rise Of Nations.
  
  Yes this game is quite fun. You start out as nomads and go through different ages till the Modern 
 age.
  
  The graphics and gameplay of this game is quite good. Especially the nuke effect is amazing. I 
 loved using the B2 bombers, stealth bombers and Missiles.
  
  The only thing i HATED about this game is the UNREALISM. At start the resource gathering is normal 
 and the game is also very slow. But then it goes way too fast. Also as the age progresses and when 
 you research technologies Horribly FUNNY thing happens!! LMAO ROFL, the horses i. e. your KNIGHTS 
 are converted into Battle Tanks. I laughed a lot when that happened.
  
  Barring the funny facts above its still a Very Good RTS game and enjoyable. But gets a little Repetitive 
 in the end. Lasts quite long maybe for a year. Then you will get bored.
  
  Yes, buy this game. Still if you feel risky, do rent it FOR SURE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rotten__eggs
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  THE BAD:
  
  Dont get me wrong this game has some great factors going for it but the battles...... well there 
 all the same. Really i emphasise the "Strategy" in this game, while fun for a few days, it really 
 starts to get way too repetitve. The only real way to win in this game is to mass an enormous army 
 and crush your opponent in 1 attack, im telling you I've tried rushing, building forward bases, 
 im a strategy fan and i know how to play, but none of those strategys work its more like who can 
 mass an army the fastest, while buying upgrades to make your army better. I dont think your goin 
 to b a huge fan of this game unless u were one of civilization series, which are equally boring 
 with no battles at all. The graphics are niether horrible or good, but im not as concered with 
 graphics as gameplay, all the nations are practicly the same sooooo replayability is as exiting 
 as paint drying.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  Although i found more faults than pleasure with the game, one thing i liked was the depth. The 
 town building part tho similar to civilization is still fun. The tech upgrades are cool i guess, 
 alotta resouce gathering is avalible tho not manditory which is nice, can be played on older computers 
 since the graphics are.... a little disapointing for 2003,
  
  
  Over all:
  
  If your looking for a game more exiting than civilizaltion but not as fast as a real time strategy 
 game like Command and conquer generals, this is the game for you, personally it bores me I'd rather 
 be playing C&C Generals 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SEEDman_X
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  
  
  What makes a good strategist? In my opinion, a good strategist has the ability to defeat the opponent 
 despite being completely outnumbered; like Hannibal. A good strategist can assimilate the opponent 
 without a war, but when a war is necessary, he or she can defeat the opponent with minimal casualty; 
 like Sun Tzu.
  
  If you agree that those are some traits for a good strategist, this game is for you. Rise of Nations 
 sets aside the elements found in traditional RTS. This game is not about gathering the most resource 
 and crush your opponent with a larger army. Instead, it takes out a lot of the micromanagement 
 in resource gathering, and emphasize on other strategy factors such as supply your troops, and 
 gaining resource by killing their trade caravan and destroying their facilities. You are required 
 to make decisions that a general or a leader will have to on the battle field. 
  
  The campaign plays like the board game Risk. To many people, it might be a refreshing bonus. For 
 me, however, due to the lack of story in the campaign, I never got really into the it. Since the 
 campaign is usually the place where I learned about different civilizations and units, I had a 
 relatively harder time learning RON in comparison to other RTS games. However, RON did a spectacular 
 job with the multi-player. The random maps features a good AI, and the LANing and online option 
 is more fun. The game also features one of the best post-game report I've seen.
  
  In general, if you appreciate the realism and complexity of a good RTS. Rise of Nations will not 
 disappoint you. The outcome of this game is determined more so by strategy than resource gathering 
 or brute force.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: echo-sentience
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely great. It might not have the graphics or units BUT it will probably become 
 a classic in future... better than Civilisation AND Empires. 
  
  Basically, this game is about our world, our history, and what could've happened. It spans out 
 like, hundreds of years, with changes in every era.
  The best part has to be the Wonders. Imagine building the Pyramids next to your cities. It is very 
 cool! All the nations have different powersand stuff. It gets a bit repetitive when you play it 
 a few times but what game doesn't?
  
  This game can be played on any computer. The graphics are ok and shouldn't be a cause to complain. 
 The sound gives you the atmosphere of the game and complements it really well. Also, the game play 
 is easy. Not to complex that you would give up but not to easy where mundane where you would get 
 irritated. 
  
  The single player conquest mode may not have a story. But it gives you a chance to write your own 
 story. For you to rule the world!!! All in all, a game worth buyin' and keepin' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geniustiong
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  When i first picked up a copy of Rise of Nations, i was thinking about tank rushes and all that 
 you get in the noobed C&Cs you get these days. No, it's not like noobed C&C. Civilization meets 
 Age of Empires in here. You can play through the ages of the world from the classical age into 
 the information age which mind you is where we're at now. Then you can your goverment type. Democracy 
 and all that. You also have to gather resources and mind you when i say resources, i don't mean 
 just tiberium or ore or minerals and vespene gas in starcraft. I mean, food, oil, knowledge and 
 wealth. As expected in every RTS game, you'll have to build defenses and of course, an army. There's 
 a lot of variety of units in Rise of Nations. You get the Special Ops, which are used for sniping 
 and demolishing buildings, then you get riflemen, which are useful for early rushes. Speaking of 
 rushes, spamming one unit like a noob won't help you here because Rise of Nations is realistic 
 enough. You have to pick the right unit for each target. You also get rare resources which can 
 benefit you in their own ways. Nope, there's no Star Wars tech like the Ion Cannon featured in 
 modern and classic C&C but there is WW2 technology which gives you the Anti-Tank rifle and the 
 Flamethrower. The campaign is quite good although it has no proper storyline at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johntonx
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  What we can say about this game? Simply Perfect!
  
  Rise of Nations is a type of game that you never forget, and of course, never stop playing. Even 
 three years after I buy, it stills my best game. This game has an incredibly well made AI, witch 
 results in an extremely fun playing.
  The only thing that someone might not like is the visual. But, after some hours of game experience, 
 you don't feel this more. The graphics, although not the best so far, is very well made.
  
  The strong part of the game is the playability. You never get bored with this game. The concepts 
 of Turn-based strategy games that Brian Reynolds brings to the RTS Rise of Nations, made the game 
 experience more immersive, and the automatics decisions that are often made by the computer made 
 the playability superb.
  
  Let's talk about the CTW, the Conquer the World Campaign. Although the name "campaign", the gameplay 
 here it isn't in a scenario line. You chose the ways for conquering the world; you can even pass 
 through the history without being much present, only working with diplomacy, or launch a world 
 conquest.
  
  The Quick battle mode isn't too immersive, but it offers an unlimited gameplay. It implements the 
 elements of cities and nation borders that have a gigantic influence in the play progress. 
  
  To finish, Rise of Nations is a very expected game that, when released, turn real all the pre-release 
 promises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CGSproductions
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  We didn't have anything to fight a tank except the C4's, but it was impossible to plant one without 
 going through all the enemies. Eddie and Orton stayed back to snipe, while the rest of us went 
 face to face with the enemy along with the other teams. "Any of you has a bazooka or anything that 
 can take a tank?" asked Cena "Our team has RPG's sir" said a British soldier There are 2 tanks 
 coming from east. We must shoot them immediately!" said Cena
  The British soldier ran towards another soldier. There were too many enemies, we had to stay covered 
 and throw grenades. One of their tanks shot and killed some of our soldiers. At the same time the 
 RPG was shot and blew up one tank. Then enemy helicopters approached. "We have to get outta here 
 or we all die!" yelled Cena
  "We'll call an airstrike on them" said another team
  We ran away just on time, the airstrike came 2 minutes after called and saved our lives. It was 
 now getting dark and we're eating our stale food. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoseWeed619
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Rise Of Nations is a very user friendly game and easy to learn. Microsoft & Big huge games have 
 followed EA (Electronic Arts) with its Rise of Nations with regard to game engines. Most games 
 are either real-time or turn based. Around three years ago EA developed its Shogun Total War strategy 
 game. This was a real break through in the strategy gaming community. The game combined real time 
 strategy and turn based strategy. The game was such a huge success that they are still creating 
 games using the very same game engine. There have been several new releases since Shogun Total 
 War such as; Medieval Total War, The Mongol invasion expansion pack, The Viking invasion expansion 
 pack and the soon to be released Rome Total War. Now three years later, Microsoft took a look at 
 this great idea and ran with it. It may not be the exact same game engine but is the very same 
 idea. Rise Of Nations offers the gamer a real time and turn based strategy game. Rise Of Nations 
 is a decent game. If you have played one of EA's Total War games it will be very easy to pick up 
 and play. It's like playing a expanded version of Age Of Empires. 
  
  Description of game play 
  
  You have the choice of leading one of eighteen different nations 
 (Listed below) . Once you choose the nation that you will lead you will go to the strategic map. 
 This is basically a map of the world. You start out as the leader of one small territory. The only 
 way to expand your empire is to conquer the sounding territories. That's always easier said than 
 done. In the same fashion as other RTS games you start out with a few foot soldiers and archers 
 as well as a few workers. You must constantly build farms, developing your city, building defenses 
 and gather resources. Along with this you must constantly do research in your library and build 
 an army large enough to go on a conquest and conquer other territories and eventually other nations. 
 
  
  So when you first start the game on the strategic map you will take you army and move it to attack 
 a near by territory. This territory will usually be a band a barbarians in the early stages of 
 the game. These are prime targets for young empires. If you do not take them someone will. Barbarians 
 are easier to conquer and no one declares war on you for expanding into a barbarian held territory. 
 Once you move you army to attack the territory on the strategic map you will end your turn. Now 
 you are sent to the RTS side of the game. You zoom in to your little village and life and the battle. 
 This is all Real time and you only have so long to conquer your opponent. The usual time is 90 
 minutes. If you are able to build up a larger military faster than your opponent and conquer his 
 capitol you win the territory. 
  
  The more territory you govern the more resources you have. If the game is going well for you soon 
 you would have several different armies expanding your empire in all directions. After several 
 hours of game play it will eventually come down to three or four super powers. This countries are 
 always very hard to beat. But if you are not on the offense with them then they will attack you. 
 I found the quickest way to conquer a super power is to attack their capitol territory as soon 
 as possible. When I say capitol territory I am referring to their capitol on the strategic world 
 map. Once your opponent looses his capitol you win his capitol territory and everything within 
 his empire. 
  
  There is also another way to expand your nation is to attempt to purchase territories from other 
 nations. Sometimes they will sell it to you. The way to build up your funds is do a lot of research 
 in the commerce field. You must also expand your nation. The larger your nation is the more funds 
 you receive each turn. If you can manage to conquer all of the opposing super powers, you are indeed 
 the ruler of the world and therefore you win the game. 
  
  Nations the player can choose to lead 
  Aztecs - Bantu - British - Chinese - Egyptians - French 
 - Germans - Greeks - Inca - Japanese - Koreans - Maya - Mongols - Nubians - Romans - Russians - 
 Spanish - Turks 
  
  Ages 
  I Stone Age 
  II ****cal Age 
  III Medieval Age 
  IV Gunpowder Age 
  V Enlightenment Age 
  VI Industrial Age 
  VII Modern Age 
  VIII Information 
 Age 
  
  Areas of Research 
  Military - Civic - Commerce - Science 
  
  Game Play [ 7 of 10] 
  The game play is a lot of fun because it demands strategy as well as some 
 knowledge of basic tactics. There will also be variable in every game that you play. You will never 
 play the same game twice. 
  
  Replay Value [8 of 10] 
  The replay value may be one of the best things about this type of game. You will never get the 
 same game twice. There are just too many variables. This is the main reason that I like this combined 
 game engine. The replay value is great. 
  
  Graphics [6 of 10] 
  The graphics are average. They could have done a lot more work on the battlefield and map graphics. 
 But then again I am always expecting a better game with better graphics and it just hasn't happened 
 here. 
  
  Sound [8 of 10] 
  I like the sound that was incorporated into the game. There is a variety of different musical tunes 
 that play during the game. You can change them around or shut them off. 
  
  Multi-Player [6 of 10] 
  Rise Of Nations does offer a muti-player option. I know there have been 
 some issues with this section of the game. I was unable to get anywhere with it. There is a patch 
 that has to be downloaded from the official site. This Multi-player room is ran in conjunction 
 with Gamespy. 
  
  Over-All [7.5 of 10] 
  
  Conclusion 
  
  I would recommend Rise Of Nations to the strategy gamer or someone who enjoys playing Empire Earth 
 or Age of Empires, RTS types of games. If you like this one there is also an expansion pack. The 
 game and its engine are a success. I give Rise Of Nations two thumps up. 
  
  Rise Of Nations Series 
  Thrones & Patriots expansion pack 
  
  Official Site 
   
 
  
  Recommended:
  Yes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Rise Of Nations is an RTS from Big Huge Games, and their name doesn't lie.
  RON is a big, huge game. And, it's amazing gamplay couple with good graphics and perfect sound 
 effects makes it the greatest RTS ever.
  My previous nominee for best RTS ever was Age of Mythology. And don't get me wrong, AOM is an awesome 
 game. But AOM isn't anywhere near as good as RON for few reasons.
  
  Rise of Nations takes typical  formula seen in most RTS games. But 
 it also includes trading, stock selling, and advancement stuff that I had never seen before. This 
 game may be too complex for some people, but those who can understand it will enjoy every minute 
 of it.
  
  It has a Conquer the World campaign, in which you conquer countries around the world one-by-one, 
 building up your power along the way. As you advance across the six ages, you'll notice your population 
 and buildings will look more advanced, and you will have more advanced units available to use within 
 your army. You can choose from various nations which all have their advantages or disadvantages, 
 but it is evened out between them very well.
  
  If you like RTS's, and ESPECIALLY if you liked Age of Mythology, then Rise of Nations is something 
 you should definitely pick up, provided you have the time available that it's going to swallow 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicisamazing
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is one of the best rts games out there. It features a huge amount of civs with 
 unique units, great graphics and one of the best single player modes in rts history. With eight 
 ages, Rise of Nations gives the full sweep of history. The single player mode is, just like everyone 
 says, a lot like Risk. The rules for the battle change based on the conditions. The game mostly 
 sticks to the well-tested methods for real time strategy, but also incorporates elements usually 
 seen in turn based strategy like borders and large tech trees. Another interest element is the 
 general unit. The general acts as a benefactor to nearby units, but also has special abilities 
 that can change the outcome of a game. The best of these is probably Ambush, which makes your units 
 invisible until they attack. Everyone should have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandorock
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations, well, has a lot to do with war. However, you can play it peacefully if you like. 
 Regardless of how you swing it, this is a game worthy of being played!
  
  It's a war strategy, meaning that you've got to plan, aim, and conquer. On the other hand, however, 
 there's the economy of your nation to think about. Between war and economy, you've always got something 
 to accomplish. Best stay on your feet!
  
  I have been playing this game for a long time. When I first started playing, my brother and my 
 dad were better at it than I was. Later on, however, I got better than them. Now, my brother is 
 better than my dad and me! The point is that this is a game you've got to work at, and it's fun 
 like that.
  
  If you have yet to buy this game, also buy the "Thrones and Patriots" expansion pack with it. The 
 x-pack presents a bundle of new nations, new objects, etc. Surprisingly enough, you cannot play 
 as the Americans without the x-pack!
  
  This game also has a very awesome scenario editor. Customize and build your own level, or scenario, 
 that is, with the scenario editor! If you know C++ or some other type of scripting language, you 
 can really get funky with your own scenarios!!
  
  Over all, this game is very addictive, and you'll definitely get into it once you've got your economy 
 going! I, "brandorock," recommend this game to anyone and everyone out there - ready to wage war! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is an all time favorite of mine I would play it 24/7. the single player aspect 
 of the is long and boring some of it you'll get through very fast but other parts will just tick 
 you off, example (no villagers just a few soldiers and enemies coming out of every corner of the 
 map.) what I like playing the most is the instant action maps that you could tweak out to your 
 advantage or disadvantage, I would adjust settings like (all 7 cps on one team against me, all 
 cps very hard, no missile shield so teams can go crazy with nukes.) one thing that I don't like 
 about rise of nations is when some nations upgrade to the last age the information age all the 
 teams have the same stuff they could tweak this area more when creating the game. Once you get 
 bored of playing rise of nations you might uninstall it from your computer, this is a very bad 
 idea you'll find yourself playing it again in a couple of months again any ways. The multiplayer 
 aspect I heard is great fun but I can't really say anything about it because when I try to connect 
 online the game said it had eternal error and every time I reinstalled the game or put patches 
 it would say the same thing. From my friends point of view they say game play changes online is 
 nuts. The online community for this game is pretty weak cause they won't create any add on's or 
 mods for this game. If they ever created a mode for this game I would like to see more countries 
 or some type of alien invasion force for rise of nations. Overall this game rise of nations is 
 very addictive to play and launch nukes all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ladykiller2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  ive seen some people talking smack about this game... for me heres the basics... great campaign 
 that can unfold alot of diffrent ways. it also has many diffrent races... or factions of countrys 
 around the world... and a very good multiplayer. and all these things for a not so steller computer... 
 for me its an instant classic and ill be playing it for years to come! i bought this game a month 
 ago and i have already played it for almost 40 hours... all well being in basketball and honors 
 math! just shows you how much i personally love the game. the game has very easy controlls and 
 a very easy to master gameplay, so when it comes to the best RTS rise of nations has my vote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alext_b
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Big Huge Games has taken the concept of Age of Empires light years ahead to create this revolutionary 
 game.
  Rise of Nations features a gameplay system spanning across 6,000 years, from ancient times to the 
 modern and post-modern age. The game's only campaign is one in which you must conquer the whole 
 world. The game presents a set of advancements that lasts till the end of the game.
  The game offers a wide range of skirmish options to keep you playing for ages. The superb graphics 
 also presents a very pleasant gameplay experience.
  Another notable feature of the game is its amazing soundtrack. The in-game music is bound to add 
 excitement to the game and to some extent, even inspire you with new ideas. Who knows? You might 
 even be faced with the urge to copy the tracks into your hard disk to listen to them even when 
 not playing.
  Rise of Nations also has decent online features. Using GameSpy's matchmaking service, you'll be 
 able to find games of your choice and even make new friends.
  The number of civilizations at your disposal and a fair amount of mods can make the game worth 
 playing a few times as it adds an experimental flavor.
  The only real flaw in the game is that it can get a little repetitive after paying the campaign 
 a few times, even with different civilizations. For a fan of RTS games, this is a satisfactory 
 buy, but someone trying this genre for the first time should rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Alright, so once again I think Gamespot actually overrated this game instead of underrating it 
 as we usually notice here and there.
  You probably already have seen or heard that Rise of Nations pretty much feels like a hybrid mix 
 of Age of Empires and Civilization. Matter of fact, it really is. If you played both those games 
 you can't stop thinking about how this really just feels like a clone of those timeless classics.
 
  I've played this game for a good 20 hours or so total and I have to say. Theres really not much 
 entertainment left after the first "oooooh" and "ahhhh".
  I'll get to the point. The game completly lacks a campaign. Thats its downfall no matter what everyone 
 else thinks or sees about this game. Not the graphics, not the gameplay, not the laggy multiplayer.... 
 its the inexisting campaign. Sure you can play as the Romans, the British, the Russians.... heck 
 even some random African civilization but you never, in the whole game, ever play a scenario based 
 campaign that involves a storyline with some dialogue and some missions or simply something unique 
 to do.
  All the game has to offer is a mode called "Conquer the World". Sounds awesome right? Not really. 
 You start out with one province and move your armies to conquer more. End of story. All the battles 
 are just maps where you dont do anything other than capture the enemy's capital. The starting conditions 
 are the same for all the battles you'll fight now matter what.
  Medieval Total War ocercame this repetitive aspect by making maps and situations very unique but 
 Rise of Nations just doesn't. So the game turns out to be simply ripetitive.
  Don't get me wrong though. There are some great aspects of the game that show quite a lot of final 
 polishing though. For instance, your citizens will automatically gather a resource if a slot is 
 free for them to gather, if they are idle long enough. Therefore you will always have 100% production 
 as long as you have idle citizens around. Also, your army doesn't have to kill that one enemy soldier 
 you clicked on before attacking everything else, in a way your army will be smart and attack everything 
 they can no matter who you clicked on.
  Anyway, the game really just lacks a campaign. It has everything else an RTS fan would enjoy. Unique 
 units, lots of nations, plenty of research.
  Enjoy it... even for only a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lopur94
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is a great RTS game which is a fabulous gaming experience. Once you start playing 
 you can't stop. The game is mostly about dominating and defeating the opposition through economy 
 or military. There are fun ways to conquer your enemies.
  1. Through ground units, or military vehicles like tanks.
  2. Aircraft, once you reach the industrial 
 age you will be able to create aircrafts which will get better as you progress.
  3. Naval, you can create submarines, battleships and even aircraft carriers in the game.
  The 
 game lets players experience each age of the world and so the genre is historical fiction. You 
 start from the Classic Age and progresses letting the player feel what is in store for each age. 
 Each age is fun in a unique way because of the variety of units to create and how gameplay would 
 be like.
  This game is aqddicting at first but once you get the hang off it, it gets pretty old. But it is 
 a must buy for RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcburger99
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is an inovated game with a fun gameplay. I definitely like the feel of this game 
 and it runs smooth. Some of the aspects are a lot like AOE and civilization games. One of my favorite 
 features is that Rise of Nations incorporates ancient along with modern warfare. This game plays 
 online, for people who are looking for more of a challenge, and playing against real people. The 
 online is faulty and has some lag issues though. Nonetheless this game does have some aspects from 
 other RTS games, and is worth a try. It may not be the best game on the market, but it is still 
 worth a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coyote_sprit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay -10/10 I really enjoy RTS and TBS elements that make up the gameplay along with several 
 ages including a futuristic NORAD, ultra enhanced age it's quite genius to say the least and addictive.
 
  
  Graphics - 7/10 Although 2D in 2003 might seem a little odd I can assure you they are quite polished 
 and the terrain and textures are quite clean and detailed.
  
  Sound - 8/10 Some song will miff me out but mostly they don't get old and have nice composition 
 that fits with several situations.
  
  Value - 9/10 Every RTS game I've ever played has never really died on me it might have taken a 
 short nap but it's always been fun.
  
  Tilt - 8/10 From a distance this may seem like an AOE clone but I can assure you, although it shares 
 elements with AOE its got alot newer features and it has nukes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blixs
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game was the mutated offspring of Civilization and the AOE series. It possessed the traits 
 of both genetic samples, the easy micromanagement style of Civilization, and the RTS concept of 
 AOE. However along the way a mutation occurred marring the potentially beautiful offspring of these 
 two famous games, and turning it into a horrible monster, all thanks to the repetitive game play 
 and atrocious fighting system.
  
  The fighting system was all about counter, counter, counter. The same rock paper scissor style of 
 AOE, but AOE's system had substance, was well balanced, and was not messy, in contrast to that of 
 RON. Most of the battles I fought didn't even require cavalry or air support, just massive hordes 
 of infantry, and if I needed to take a city, I brought along a couple of cannons, but never used them 
 against enemy units because they prove ineffective, which is completely inaccurate by military standards.
 
  Fortifications in RON are terrible, in AOE they were the pillars of your defenses, capable of mowing 
 down many units at once (Speaking of Castles) , in RON they can only attack one, and do not receive 
 bonuses from garrisoned units. I find it also unbelievable that one cannot build walls in the game.
 
  The sea transportation of land units was equally awful, it was so messy that it turned island scenarios (usually 
 the funnest to play) into frustrating, unplayable, garbage. As your units do not board transport ships, in 
 which there is limited space according to the size of the unit, but each unit is transported individually, 
 making large seaborne invasions a big no-no when the seas are still infested with enemy ships
 
  
  Though their were some innovative things in the fighting system such as Generals, overall it was 
 messy, it was so bad I literally have to turn away from my monitor from time to time in disgust.
 
  
  Don't believe the hype people, this game may have some good features, but the bad outweighs the good. This 
 is definitely one of those games you rent or borrow, but never buy. For me it was a waste of $30. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  I loved this game for the first days I had it, then quality dropped.
  This game basically combines Civilization and Age of Empires. it's disapointing that all they did 
 was copy the Civilization and Age of Empires series.
  I was expecting an interesting strategy game, but I was very disappointed by this game. Graphics 
 are not very good and the game is very slow. This game may probably appeal to turn-based strategy 
 fans, but for the rest not much is there.
  The game would have been much better if the nations were more unique and if there was terrain that 
 figured in combat. I still can't believe you can't set up walls in this game!!
  If your looking for a easy going real time stratergy game, this is probally for you, but in my 
 opinion the best stratergy game you can get is civilization 3.
  This game breaks no boundaries when you actually look at it. All the components have been welded 
 together nicely, and the result is interesting to look at and listen to, for a time. But after 
 you've struggled your way through several missions of horribly generic and reductionistic history 
 one quickly tires of the monotony. Not good at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hock3yl1f3
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. I loved playing it. However, it's disapointing that all they did was copy 
 the Civilization and Age of Empires series. You should rent it or borrow it if you can. I guess 
 if you really liked AoE you can get it, but if you've played AoE 3 its a waste of money cause its 
 an old game. Save your money and I recommend trying the demo first. I recommend ths for ppl who 
 have junk computers like me and can't run any of the new games like AoE 3 or Civ 4. Like I said 
 earlier just try to rent it or borrow for like no more then a week and you'll have experienced 
 the whole game. Over hyped in my opinion. However, dont get me wrong its still a quality game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhaskarchatta
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 8, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  This is just another of the same type game of AOE, Civilization, and the like but with a Risk board 
 game style. Actually I mean to say that you should gather basically the same resources, build your 
 troops, and fight the enemy off while they have more advantage than you do. But you must be steady 
 of collecting the resources and making troops to save your side.
  
  There are however other options that are different from the others. And defend while the other 
 sides have more troops than you can ever build at the same level.
  But the Graphics are great. The City looks to be real....
  Anyway it's worth playing...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  Perhaps one of the first to introduce concepts of turn-based strategy into an RTS succesfuly, it 
 is one of the games that have made a significant mark in the gaming arena, at least indirectly.
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Now, don't expect great graphics here. Released in 2003 it has some decent graphics, enough to 
 find your way through the game. It is bright and clear, but has no marks of the realisticity factor.
 
  
  SOUND:
  
  Not much here either. Decent is all you can say. In-game sounds aren't much noticable but the background 
 music is well... okay, that's all. At least it isn't irritatingly intense as some games have it.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  This is the best part of the game. Creating a superb game based on a single genre is something 
 but creating a game that is a hybrid of genres and channeling it to be played in a single genre 
 mode is entirely different. It isn't only the execution of the concept that is so good, even the 
 thought of combining elemebts in a way that Rise Of Nations had is great. As a turn-base strategy 
 and RTS mix it is reallt good.
  The concept of city has made the game all the more interesting. It actually makes you feel a little 
 more purposeful and offers more interactivity om the non-war aspects of the game. You are actually 
 controlling a nation from ancient to the information age, and not just an ordinary battle camp.
 
  There are two drawbacks here - one, the campaign mode has no storyline and two, there is a pop 
 cap. When you are controlling a nation, a pop cap does not actually fit in.
  
  FINAL VERDICT:
  
  The gameplay is so good that it largely compensates for the drawbacks. You 
 might not be able to play it as a serious game but it is a fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamez_Hunter99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  the gameplay in rise of nations is brilliant, the game is much like other RTS games but it has 
 different concepts such as national borders, city assimilation and more. The game has a really 
 good single-player campaign called conquer the world where you choose a nation and conquer the 
 world, the campaign is good to play through and is very enjoyable. Cities are a main part of your 
 empire as you play a game. Each of your cities has a radius around it that increases your national 
 border. You can build other buildings only within your borders, and you can build only a limited 
 number of different improvements for each city such as a maximum of five farms in each city. The 
 game has a wide choice of soldiers to choose from for your army for slingers in the ancient age 
 to infantry in the modern and information age. Overall the gameplay in rise of nations is brilliant 
 part of the game.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in rise of nations is good. The games buildings all look good and have good designs 
 for some of the nations. The unique units all look good with good character designs when you zoom 
 into them. Overall the graphics in rise of nations is good but could have some improvements.
  
  Sound
  The sound in rise of nations is good. The game weapons all sound different and all 
 sound good, the in game music is ok and sets the mood for the game. Overall the sound in rise of 
 nations is good and sets the mood for the game.
  
  Value
  The value for rise of nations is great and will keep you playing for days, the single player campaign 
 has good replay value and takes awhile to finish. The single player instant action games will keep 
 you coming as it will challenge your skill of this game. Overall the games value is superb and 
 will bring you back to the game.
  
  Tilt
  Overall if you a fan of RTS games or just getting into the genre then you should pick up this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leroys4
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I'm pretty new to this type of game but it is just so fun! it does not take a really long time 
 to lean to play and it is addictive if your a fan of this type of game and
  have a spare five dollars than get this game for $4.99 at game stop before the deal ends on June 
 19 2007. I don't have anything else to say so I'm going
  to just say is a bunch is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is 
 is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aureldaking
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  oo oo oo oo oo oo oo oo I bought this game at the same time with Age of Mythology. I was expecting 
 an interesting strategy game, but I was very disappointed by this game. Graphics are poor and the 
 game is very slow. This game may probably appeal to turn-based strategy fans, but for the rest 
 not much is there. Since its launch this game was over hyped and the fact that nobody talks about 
 it today says a lot. So move along people, nothing to see here, there are much better games out 
 there oo oo oo oo oo oo oo oo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ut40755
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 15, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  All the teams are all the same with the exception of a few unique units. This game basically combines 
 Civilization and C&amp; C. The overall concept of upgrading your era and researching things is excellent, 
 however, not well executed. The game is fairly boring in the early ages as it takes a long time 
 to research your way up (although starting at the higher ages is not much fun either) , but once 
 you reach the higher levels it gets better. It can get very very fun when you start a diplomacy 
 game (free for all with no war initialized) and then surprise nuking everything. Overall it's a 
 fairly good RTS, but there are much better than this. If you like Civilization type games, you 
 will love it, but if you are more into Starcraft and C&amp; C, demo it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wacko342
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  This game is great! I am still coming back to it even after three years of playing it. The gameplay 
 is easy to learn especially with the tutorials which aren't boring. The campaigns are fun and can 
 take a long time to complete. They are set up like a RISK map where everyturn you move your troops 
 and have the option of invading an enemy territory. The graphics aren't bad even though there 3 
 years old. The quick battles are fun and the different modes for random map are fun too. This game 
 is even better with the expansion. Sound wise it is fine. You get your money's worth with this 
 game. If you are thinking of buying this game 1. GET IT!!! and 2. get the gold edition. Have fun 
 conquering the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nation is very similar to the Age of Empires/Age of Mythology series. The graphics are 
 simply superb. Very good texture, effects and a close zoom, Rise of Nations was the best-looking RTS 
 at it's time. The sound is again wonderfull. A superb sountrack combined with magnificent and realistic 
 sound effects, despite of the total lack of voice acting. But the gameplay is the best part in 
 Rise of Nations. The Conquer the World campaign is the best. Take control of one out of about 25 
 civilisations, each with their specific units &amp; bonuses,&amp; conquer the world. For example: the 
 Russians have one of the unique units the Kathyusha bomber, while as bonus they get The Russian 
 Winter: attrition damage on the enemy units in it's territory, starting 30% per minute &amp; can 
 be upgraded to 50% per minute. The Mongols have very strong cavalery, but they get weak in the Industrial 
 Age. There is a campaign map, similar to Total War where you administrate the territories, upgrade 
 their strenght, use bonus cards in different ways, make diplomatic treaties with the other factions 
 or attack. Than, the TBS changes into RTS &amp; the rest is well known from Age of Empires, just that's 
 more interesting. Over 200 different units, over 30 different buildings, looking different from a 
 faction to an other, very complex research tree &amp; a hell lot of usefull tactics. The game starts 
 from the Ancient Age &amp; is finished in the Information Age. Trully the game of the yer 2003. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelion456
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 6, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  To Put it simply if you like RTS games you couldnt do any better than Ris of nations, Granted the 
 graphics arent fantastic but the gameplay is simple but complex if you did deep enough if you like 
 RTS's and you have a Computer The main Single player campain is bulit around a risk stlye board 
 where you take it in turns to move you armies around the board. when your army is attacked or you 
 attack another army it goes into a realtime Battle That can be anything from Defending a base for 
 15mins or starting with a large force and bulldozing everything in your way.
  
  There are loads of faction to choose from most of them have the same units but with about 8 Special 
 units uniqe to their faction.
  
  To put it simply if your and RTS fan then you couldnt do any better than this
  BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: right2ryhme
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 18, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Really when i was playing age of empires i thought i was getting the very best an RPG game had 
 to offer . i mean Age of Mythology really has something to offer but Rise of nations is the bum 
 as in if you're a fan of big time bombadding, civil destruction and a whole lot of massive army 
 destruction tactics, it's got it all and that's something some RPG of it's kind does not have. 
 Rise of nations has a massive game play keeping it ahead of all other RPGs of its kind plus the 
 way your nation gradually becomes a more civilized one it really shows a huge number of professional 
 touches to get the game done. Now if you're a huge fan of seeing things getting destroyed or blown 
 up, i thing it'll do job especially when you get to the information age then things starts getting 
 reeally interesting like having more bombardment units and some really cool nuclear warheads to 
 keep your opponents on the hedge and some other features that just can't be missed. Like in the 
 real world there's a certain age a country will get to before they can start doing or building 
 some things and it also was applied in the game and that's where the issue of you upgrading your 
 country is very important 'cause when don't upgrade all the aspects of your economy, you loose 
 your intelligence when the time comes. To me i'd say rise of nations was a success and if you havn't 
 played it yet you can just get ur'self the demo on this site before you get the full version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 5:02 am PT
Review:  This game is very simple yet complicated at the same time. That make sense? good. The resource management 
 is quiet confusing at first because unlike most strategy games u assign workers to buildings . 
 So in AOE2 u could have had like 12 wood cutters chopping like three trees but in RoN u can get 
 like 8 per building. That is good. The army management is quiet simple which may get repetive after 
 some time, swamp the enemy. The world conquest thingy is really fun but like most strategy games 
 that use the world conquest thing it gets kinda repetive. It is great how u get soldiers in tiny 
 squads (three ppl) and u can add them to make a huge army but how the cost for them increases everytime 
 u build them is annoying. It adds another obstacle for gamers so they can't just keep on using 
 the same units over and over again if they wanna be efficent. Pros-fun, different, large armies, 
 a lot of units and factions, unique units, different times, conquer the world!!
  
  Cons-repetive sometimes but still fun even then, graphics but it was probably good for that time (come 
 on they can't predict the future) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 353535355353535
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  If you have played games like Age of Empires 2, or Empire Earth, you owe it to yourself to pick 
 up a copy of Rise of Nations. Rise of Nations may seem like just another RTS game, but It really 
 stands out among the crowd a little bit. In the standard rules, you will start out with a city, 
 some citizens to work improvements around that city, and of course, improvements like farms to 
 collect food for your growing civilization, and woodcutters camps, to build your growing civilization. 
 As your civilization grows, you will advance through 7 different ages. The first one is the ancient 
 age, which is the era of civilizations like sumer and ancient Egypt. The next age is the classical 
 age, which is the age in which nations like Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome lived and died. The 
 age after that, the third age, is the midieval age. The next age is the gunpowder age, which is 
 around the time of the Renaissance. The age after is the enlightenment age, which is the age when 
 great European colonial powers ruled, like Britain and France. After that, you will progress to 
 the industrial age, which is the time of the industrial revolution, and the first world war. The 
 next age is the Modern Age, which is the time of world war 2, through the 1950's and early 60's.
 
  The next and final stage is the Information age, which you could say is from the Vietnam war to 
 about 20 years from now. The game is very streamlined, as all units from the ancient age can be 
 upgraded all the way to information aged armies. As your civilization grows, you will need to collect 
 6 basic resources which are: Food, Timber, Wealth, Iron, Knowlege, and Oil. You can also collect 
 rare resources such as citrus, gems, diamonds, copper, uranium, and much more. These can give you 
 bonuses throughout the game. Another Interesting part of the game is wonders. These are the man-made 
 wonders of the world, such as the Taj Mahal, the Pyramids, and even a possible future wonder called 
 the Supercollider. These wonders will give you great military and economic bonuses throughout the 
 game, and will make big contributions to your score. As of now, March, 2007, Rise Of Nations has 
 very low system requirements, and therefore can be enjoyed by most computers of today. The only 
 complaint that I have to offer is that there are some things in the game that could be more like 
 real life, and be more of a challenge to players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  As RTS games go they are a dime a dozen these days. Which is why a good RTS game is sometimes hard 
 to find. This is one of the few good ones. Although released a few years ago it still offers great 
 play value and awesome gameplay both multiplayer and single. You can immediately see the AoE2 similarity 
 of the game, however it does NOT play like the AoE series.. in fact it plays a heck of a lot better. 
 With the option to stay in an age you like or go up to the information era.. there is a taste for 
 everyone here. In fact the maps are huge in skirmish and in campaign modes. offering some lasting 
 gameplay. Graphics: Improved over AoE2 and still pretty decent today.. I say graphics take a back 
 seat to great gameplay. :)
  
  Sound: Excellent.. musical as well as sound effects.
  
  Value: tons of playability is available here and most RTS games don't really have a strong single 
 player portion that lasts quite a while.. and this one really does!
  
  My personal preference, I give the game a perfect 10 for it is one of the few RTSs I very much 
 enjoy and still play on occation.
  
  The expansion gives more campaign options and more races with unique abilities.. this enhances 
 the core game.. which was great.. just needed that extra umph to make it exceptional.. and thus 
 the T&amp; P pack does this perfectly.. I highly recommend both the core game and the expansion 
 as worthy of any hard core RTS player! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TankmanT34
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  This game is, for all its attention to little details, a poorly designed game. I do not want to 
 get stuck on a tread mill of mindless clicking. No brains are involved, just a desperate attempt 
 to follow the same pattern of city and army building faster than a predictable AI opponent does 
 it. In this respect it is even worse than a Command and Conquer game. In its day Command and Conquer 
 was excellent because it was novel. These days that is simply not good enough. This game breaks 
 no boundaries when you actually look at it. All the components have been welded together nicely, 
 and the result is interesting to look at and listen to, for a time. But after you've struggled 
 your way through several missions of horribly generic and reductionistic history one quickly tires 
 of the monotony. Not good at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsdaydave11
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I really don't know what to think of this game. It looks awesome on paper, but for some reason, 
 It seems like there's something missing. But still this game is still really good, especially because 
 you can play from the Ancient Age, all the way to the future. There aren't very many games out 
 there that cover that many periods of time. The graphics are awesome (for 2003) and don't take 
 very many system resources. You could play this on a very old computer and still have it look beautiful. 
 I think that this is a good game and any RTS gamer should definitely get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarCat2k6
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 4, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  This game is great. I know it's been out for awhile but I just started playing RTS games and this 
 is the best I have seen so far. The first time I played this game, 5 hours went by quick. It is 
 so easy to lose yourself into the game. There are so many senarios you can play and the Learn to 
 Play option gets you started right away. At the start the tutorial tells you how to set up your 
 city. After awhile you get the hang of it and start making your own choices with some help now 
 and then. The graphics are awesome and the sounds make you feel like you are right there in the 
 battle. I think I will be playing this one for a long time. It's one of those games you want to 
 keep playing over and over until you master it. Ok enough with the writing. I have to get back 
 to playing now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feichi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 2, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is a real-time strategy computer game, developed by Big Huge Games and published 
 by Microsoft. The development of the game was lead by veteran Brian Reynolds, of Civilization II 
 and Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri. New concepts, taken from turn-based strategy games, have been added 
 into the game, including territories and attrition warfare. Rise of Nations features 18 civilizations, 
 playable through 8 Ages of world history.
  
  Rise of Nations, on the surface, is similar to many real-time strategy games. The player starts 
 with a base, dispatches resource-collecting workers, creates factory structures with which to build 
 an army, creates research structures with which to strengthen their army, and eventually takes 
 that army out to obliterate the enemy's army and settlements. Its excellence comes from numerous 
 small innovations in game mechanics.
  
  Rise of Nations employs the concept of territory, as employed in Civilization III; the area near 
 the player's settlements is considered their territory, and no other players may build within it 
 (though, conversely, they may not build outside of it) . A nation's borders can be expanded by (among 
 other things) the creation and expansion of cities, so that one's power becomes based in that of 
 large economic cities of great importance to one's victory or defeat, and later technological advances 
 cause enemy units to take damage while within allied territory. Because cities are so critical 
 to gameplay, they are not destroyed when attacked, but rather converted to allied control.
  
  Each of the 18 civilizations in Rise of Nations has its own set of unique units (e. g., the 
 Japanese have the superior Samurai as their heavy infantry unit) throughout the ages as well as 
 a unique graphics set within their respective culture groups. Nuclear weapons in the game produce 
 a realistic and devastating mushroom cloud animation, and dogfights in the sky between fighter 
 aircraft are well animated. There are six resources in Rise of Nations, four of which (Food, Wood, 
 Metal and Wealth) are used to build new units (a fifth, Oil, is added later) . Each type of unit 
 requires only two kinds of resource, and each copy of a specific unit costs more to build. Both 
 these conceptsresource diversity and ramped-up unit costalong with the fact that units are also 
 deliberately designed in a paper-scissors-rock weakness systemencourage the player to create diverse, 
 well-balanced armies.
  
  Like in the Civilization series, any nation can be played during any age, despite that, historically, 
 the nations may have come into existence or been destroyed at extremely different times in history. 
 The end conditions are made to be historically neutral, in that one can win the game by a capital 
 capture, territorial superiority, researching four dominating technologies, or the usual wonder 
 and score victories. A single player campaign, Conquer the World, is included in the game. It is 
 comparable to the game Risk, except that attacks on enemy territories take place during in-game 
 battles, which can last as long as 2 hours, depending upon the scenario. The control map is about 
 the same as Risk's, but luck isn't as crucial. Also, the player will need to increase territorial 
 strength on their territories and engage in diplomacy with other nations. The expansion pack added 
 four new Conquer the World campaigns: Alexander the Great, Napoleon I of France, the New World, 
 and the Cold War. The Cold War is by far the most interesting campaign. In it you can play either 
 the USA or the USSR after World War II. You'll have to expand your influence in the world by diplomacy 
 or by force. You can also choose to participate in spying missions to gain valuable prises. Perhaps 
 the most interesting thing about this campaign is that you can fight a nuclear war.
  
  There are more than 200 different types of units in Rise of Nations, ranging from the Ancient Age 
 Hoplite to the Information Age Stealth Bomber. Most military units are created from either the 
 barracks, stable, siege factory, docks, airfield or fortress. Unit types such as Light Infantry, 
 Heavy Infantry and Ranged Cavalry are upgraded as the player advances through the ages. Each nation 
 gets its own set of unique units. For example, the Greeks get the Companion cavalry, the Russians 
 get the Cossack, the British get longbowmen, and the Germans get the Tiger and Leopard tanks. Because 
 of the wide variety of units in the game, players have the opportunity to create an army customized 
 to their tastes. Most units have a cost that is roughly equal to that of their peers. Rise of Nations 
 is an excellent empire-building game that offers exciting and realistic battles, but there's also 
 plenty of technology to research and buildings to build. The graphics are great, and so is the 
 detail that goes into everything, from the units to the landscapes. The game's music is a letdown, 
 however. The tunes that play in the background aren't catchy and can even get annoying after hours 
 of playing. Another minus is the campaigns. There's no story whatsoever to all of the campaigns. 
 You just move from one battle to the next. There's plenty of strategy, but the lack of a storyline 
 or cinematics is a disappointment. Rise of Nations is easily one of the best real-time strategy 
 games on the market today, and fans of the genre should definitely give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: napsterap
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  EXCELLENT GAME i love it im always stuck on it had it for years im always on multiplayer i would 
 recomend it to any PRO GAMING MASTER everyone who likes RTS should have this game this is like 
 The RTS if all RTS's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgnurules
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  In late 2003, i downloaded a demo for this game, and from the minute i booted up a level, i was 
 whomped! i always seemed one second behind the enemy, and eventually i lost. but 15 hours later, 
 i kicked ass, and i was thinking, wow, this is the best strategy game out right now (Sorry Warcraft 
 3, i didn't know what you were) . Then, i ordered this game without thinking twice, and i never 
 looked back. The game has an amazing tech tree. you research large technologies, to give you benefits 
 of larger population limits, larger resource caps, and other bonuses. you'll even unlock many smaller 
 upgrades which will aid your production efforts and speed up building and creating of everything. 
 Also, many elements that i had never encountered, attrition will damage your troops without supplies 
 when you're in enemy territory. Territory as another great addition since it adds realism so that 
 you or your enemies won't just set up a huge base outside of yours, unless they're bordering you, 
 then good luck. To keep it short, the graphics and sound are pretty crappy and generic, but this 
 game has the ability to kick so much ass without it, you won't really notice. There is so many 
 interesting mechanics and modes that makes this game unique, i could continue to explain for about 
 another 10 minutes, but i think i have said enough. This game really is fun, and you will enjoy 
 playing this game for dozens of hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  Rise of nations is both age of empires mixed with turn strategy games like civilization and omg 
 it rules.
  The game features the same gameplay like age of empires, where you have to build buildings, collect 
 resources (different way though) and have to build an army.
  The game features national borders, this is because of the world territory.
  
  Gameplay:
 
  +Mix between age of empires and civilization like games is excellent
  +Easy resource gathering
  +Nice CTW mode
  +Multiplayer is really addicting
  +AI isnt that 
 bad
  -Most games take about 1 hour to complete (Multiplayer exluded)
  
  Graphics:
  +Runs good and has no problems
  +/- looks are decent but not great, its the gameplay that is 
 exceeding in this game
  
  Sounds:
  +Sounds are decent
  +Music is nice and addicting
  
  Value:
  +Incredible lasting value
  +New CTW mode plays like risk and is great
  +Replayability
 
  +Different nations with different units and powers add some variety and value to the game
  
  Tilt:
  +Overall good presentation
  +Easy to use interface
  +/- No story based game, which 
 actually isnt bad
  
  I say, if you like age of empires or cicilization, give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargez117
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  This game is a truly wonderful game. The AI are pretty smart. The graphics are great, especially 
 for when this game was made. The interface is great, and its a great game despite its flaws.
  
  Graphics: Great, the building graphics are beautiful, and the terrains aren't half bad. Unit 
 AIs are pretty good for the time, and the size of the units on the interface. Gameplay: Great, 
 the AI are really smart. They know how to flank, and they know when they can see you as a threat. 
 The only AI that isn't too hard is the Very Easy AI level, after that, unless you're really good 
 at the game... you're not gonna do too good at it.
  
  Interface: Brilliant. Micromanaging at its finest, the click right click interface works well. 
 Units: A great Variety, I was very impressed, and the fact that armies can have commanding officers, 
 and its a great strategic idea.
  
  Sound: Ugh. The soundtrack was alright, but the gunfire sounds are pretty bland, rocket fire is 
 almost no existent, and explosions are almost no existent too. But the sound track almost makes 
 up for this fact.
  
  Value: You can't stop playing this game. I love playing and I've been playing for the past year 
 after I bought it. Its a great game and I strongly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Grave
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is a great idea and probably the most complex RTS game out there. It looks and 
 feels much like Age of Empires, but spans over the whole history of mankind and has far more complex 
 rules that cover almost every aspect of civilization management.
  
  The main feature of the game is Conquer the World option which combines a Risk-like turn-based 
 game in which battles are fought as RTS scenarios. The problem that wastes this whole idea is that 
 there are just too few different kinds of scenarios so the game eventually becomes very repetitive. 
 Early battles against barbarians in unclaimed territories do give some diversity, but once the 
 whole world is claimed and you start fighting other civilizations, the game turns into a series 
 of similar scenarios collectively called Conquest . You will start with a city and fight an enemy 
 that also starts with a city dozens of times before you conquer the whole world.
  
  With a campaign that features more unique scenarios, this game could have been the best RTS I ever 
 played. Like this, it is just a great idea that didn't reach its full potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shegevara
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  WOW.. you hardly see that kind of game anywhere. Revolutionary amazing.
  
  Gameplay:
  This game is a game, where you absolutely never got bored. At least in the middle of the game. 
 For me, the difficulty of the game, raises, when you advance more further through the ages and 
 when you expand your territories. I found easy in classic age and very very hard game in information 
 age. This game is about military in one of it's major keys to victory. At the first 2-3 ages, you 
 must just watch to raid opponent with millitary. You advance your millitary in your universities 
 along with civic upgrades, science and commerce. They are all big and huge keys to victory along 
 with border expanding and conquesting the enemies. The micromanagement of your economy is important 
 too. You must watch that your recourses don't went to waste (increasing technology in universities 
 should solve the problem) . If you are a little more peaceful person, you should consider to build 
 mass wonders and hold them for long. That will bring you victory too. So there are so many choices 
 to win.. but they are all hard and very different, so your fun will absolutely go with your game. 
 Graphics:
  well, this is one thing that really isn't very detailed and it's only thing that bothered me. Well, 
 i hope there will be Rise of nations 2 with very similarconcept but hard improved graphics.
  
  Sound:
  no words to say. It's really gorgeous.
  
  So if you are a hardcore gamer you 
 JUST MUST HAVE THIS GAME IF NOT YET, and if you are not, you can give RON a chance, thought its 
 such a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWalrusAE
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! I am still coming back to it even after three years of playing it. The gameplay 
 is easy to learn especially with the tutorials which aren't boring. The campaigns are fun and can 
 take a long time to complete. They are set up like a RISK map where everyturn you move your troops 
 and have the option of invading an enemy territory. The graphics aren't bad even though there 3 
 years old. The quick battles are fun and the different modes for random map are fun too. This game 
 is even better with the expansion. Sound wise it is fine. You get your money's worth with this 
 game. If you are thinking of buying this game 1. GET IT!!! and 2. get the gold edition. Have fun 
 conquering the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations. I played this game because I really liked Age of Mythology and was looking for 
 another great strategy game... and I think I found one, Rise of Nations. It is not as similar with 
 AOM as it is with AOE-series, and has some concepts applied like conquering the whole world by 
 fighting every other civilization through time (concept later applied at Civilization IV) , and 
 building your empire from the ancient to the modern era, which are very innovative for a then strategy 
 game. I'm not a great RTS fan but I've enjoyed playing both Age Of Mythology and Rise Of Nations, 
 and am looking forward to get Age of Empires III. But if you're a fan of RTS, Rise of Nations is 
 a must-try-first game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abyssion100
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 22, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  opening: great rts! one of my most interesting one! 
  
  gameplay: many ages and units! but the campaign is kinda hmm short? well its enough! also it was kinda 
 realistic XD like roads and things! first villages and now citys!
  
  graphic: graphic is at least 3d and thats good XD
  
  sound: hmm what about the sound? nothing 
 to write about :- (
  
  value: hmm well u have beated the game then maybe go play at internet XD
  
  tilt: much tilt! other 
 likes this game so much so...
  
  owerall: there was not so much to say about this game, just that its great and fun! kinda annoying 
 when enemies does nuclear bomb : ( . . . oh no! not 100 words! maybe cuz im having music on -_- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gulbraa
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  When I firat looke at the game I knew that it was a good one. I know most people fall towards graphics 
 and so but RON has OK graphics but GREAT gameplay. I think that if there was a little more freedom 
 in the game it would have been better but then some people say that it is better the AOE3 (Age 
 of Empires 3) I think that both are good games but they are different in evrey way. one spans through 
 the history of humankind and the other the imperialism. so you pick which but I pick both. If you 
 ever need a good game buy RON and AOE3 because both are GREAT games!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksoulhunter
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 21, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is AMAZING the gameplay sound everything is excellent espically how it revolves around 
 all time. well to the gameplay, its a good game havent tried multiplayer but id imagine its better 
 than the single player. Overall its easy and fun to pick up on and the strategy elements are there. 
 sound, the music is rather tiresome not bad just not entertaining. but the effects r good. Graphics, 
 well they arent new but they deffinatly appeased me. i like how when the units die they crawl for 
 a bt then die or they twitch b4 dieing. value i recoomend this game to anyone who loves a good 
 rts the highest rating ive ever given a 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woolston
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  Rise of nations is absolutely brilliant. The gameplay is addictive. Building cities and taking land 
 for your country is lots of fun. Graphically the game is perfect. There is lots of variation between 
 the nations and the conquer the world campaign never gets boring. The music adds to the experience 
 and makes it highly immersive. Researching different technologies is also fun .There is nothing 
 wrong with the gameplay except it maybe lacks the fluidity and sense of scale rome total war has. Still 
 this a brilliant game and it is worth the money. Once again, as with most strategy games it suffers 
 from the fact that once you get past a certain point it feels like nothing you do will help you 
 win, but other than that i have no complaints 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMER_SIMPSON
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  I am just obsessed with this game and although i am a slow learner taking this game about 5 hours 
 to learn and grasp fully i think this game is so good that you MUST have this game.
  
  The requirement to research Military for the good units, Civics for more cities and bigger borders, Commerce 
 for your resource income and science for the cost of researches.
  
  Gameplay (10/10) : Really fun
  Graphics (9/10) : Not the BEST graphics that i had ever seen but certainly 
 great
  Sound (10/10) : Good music and sounds
  Value (8/10) : No Comment
  Tilt (10/10) : No Comment
  
  Overall this game is great I give this game 96 percent. and i certanly 
 reccomend it to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatesamuri
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  okay , so we go to war with a nation, who thought of hey lets build men? how do you build men? 
 they are born!! oh well. then you say lets have a citizen create our empire, wouldn't that make 
 the citizen king? this is just like all the other rts games, except that it trends to compell ou 
 to play. i am for it and against it. hey, starcraft is just as good, and the plot line is so much 
 better. empires at war is better, especially for all the star wars addicts. command and conquer 
 on the other hand is the game that made the rts games come forth. its like saying metal gear solid 
 for playstation was the begining for the sam fisher games because it introduced stealth into a 
 game. at least one of the better games out there is the first decade to rts, b/c the games actually 
 have a meaningful plot that helps propell gamers and paserbyers into it. overall, it could have 
 been better but it is stilll pretty darn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsuki
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 20, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is by far one of best RTS in the market. 
  
  Why? Simple because they creator is Microsoft Games and Big Huge Games, two great gaming companies.
 
  
  RoN follow the formulas of Age of Empires Game Styles and also the Tacticts of Diplomacy . Also 
 you can play famous nations at their infant state up to their powerful and unique. 
  
  Each Nations has their ups and downs for Example: the Mayans - Their building capability are good 
 but their economical attibutes are low. 
  
  Long Story, Short Version: This game is cool and entertainting also for good for practice for others 
 RTS on the Fields. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  RON is a amazing RTS game where you start from the Ancient Age and build up and advance until you 
 reach the Information Age. On the way, you must start and break alliances, declare war start peace. 
 It's very addictive, especially when you're commanding vast armies in the thick of battle!
  
  Gameplay: This game is extremely fun, when you're in multiplayer the fun really kicks especially 
 when you're fighting battles online!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are quite stunning and really add to the flavour of the game.
  
  Sound: 
 With historical songs and music, the sound really makes a personal style for the game and I like 
 the way it does it.
  
  Value: This game is a timeless masterpiece and it has no limitations to it's greatness!
  
  
 Tilt: This game is the best RTS game I've played so far and I definitly love playing it. I recommend 
 buying this game whether you're a RTS fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-mE_16
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 1, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game with lots of differenet features and lots of detail in the jobss to be done. 
 i love how you start off as just some cave men and then by the end uve made it all the way to our 
 age. from arrows to machine guns. from cannons to tanks. from little wooden ships to great big 
 destryers and submerines. from classic age to modern age. anything you can imagine. pyramids to 
 space shuttles. wonders of the worlds are bilt in this game. not like othe4r rts's where each team 
 gets to build there wonder only. in this one you can build atleast 10 dfferent wonders all at the 
 same timewif youd wish a great way to get your attention 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  This game was recommended to me by my cousin. He claimed that it was way better than Age of Empires. 
 So I think, ok I will give it a shot. In most areas, he was right. The graphics are way better 
 in this game but the gameplay in Age of Empires is still better. You control the game by building 
 cities and your goal is to get rid of your rivals and achieve your objectives, depending on what 
 you set them to be. The graphics impressed me the most, with alot of detail and hard work put into 
 them I could tell. The gameplay is ok, I didnt like the idea of attrition damage, it made things 
 really difficult to attack people. I liked using the nukes and the fact that they made it realistic 
 that if you used too many nukes, there was a countdown to the end of the world. There are good 
 units to use and the technologies are pretty advanced and detailed. This game has a good number 
 of races to choose from, each with their own advantages and disadvantages. I think will like this 
 game even more, but for now, it gets a one thumb up for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dspence91
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Even though Rise of Nations may seem outdated to some, this game is easily one of the best strategy 
 games for PC ever. The game play is great and the game is particularly easy to handle. It usually 
 does not take long to catch on to the way of the game.
  
  The single player is what makes this game shine. A custom game can last from 20 minutes to three 
 hours, depending what epoch you start in and who you play it. Personally, I think the game lives 
 up to its potential the most when a complete game is played. There are many unique units to use 
 in your arsenal to battle against many different civilizations. The game starts with a few civilians 
 and, usually, a town center. The civilians must gather resources and build many structures. As 
 the game goes on, many new units and buildings appear with the use of research. Research is, well, 
 researched by using the resources gathered by civilians. Some necessary resources in the game are 
 wood, food and wealth. Others are iron, oil and knowledge. All these resources help you to develop 
 your civilization to beat down on all the others. 
  
  There are many ways to win in the game. I think the best is Conquest because that always takes 
 the longest to win. Others are Capitol Capture, Territories, Number of Wonders and so on. Wonders 
 are also a primary point to win the game. Wonders are large gains in your civilization. Some wonders 
 are the Terra Cotta Army (my favorite) , the Statue of Liberty, the Eiffel Tower and many more. 
 They give different gifts to your nation. Some include soldiers or resources or attack and defense 
 bonuses. The maps in the game are also very well made. The terrain is exceptionally precise, also 
 with the graphics. The buildings look very real and the units have amazing detail.
  
  As one of my personal favorite games, Rise of Nations has definitely lived up to its name. No wonder 
 it was awarded PC Game of the Year in 2003. Everything about this game is great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JabbasChef
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 12, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Rise of nations.... think age of empires but 100X better.
  
  Ron is a great rts and there are many reasons 
  
  (Gameplay) Ron is basicly like this you pick 
 a nation like germany and you start out as stone age and you go through all the ages all the way 
 up to the information age i. e now days. whats cool is that you can have 200 units unlike some games 
 were you can only have like 50. eventually you can get nukes and bomb the hell out of you enemies 
 you can make peace wage war make allies. online is great.
  
  (graphics) decent like its not the best but it works and with not super good graphics you dont 
 need a mean machine to play it
  
  (sound) decent also its music isnt going to win any oscors but hey it works
  
  (value) this 
 game is only like 20$. 30$ with expantion which i will also be reviewing soon.
  
  (final thoughts) this game rocks its sooo fun i guaranty this is the most fun you will have with 
 an rts and i can wait to play Rise of nation: rise of legends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations features elements of Risk and Civilization combined with the usual RTS conventions. 
 At its core, it is however a real-time strategy game. 
  The campain portion of the game consists of a map of the Earth divided into several sections, with 
 most territories offering some sort of bonus, like an extra army. There is no creating of units 
 on the campaign map, and the only way to increase your forces is to capture the aforementioned 
 territories with 'army support' attributes. This means you won't have enough armies to cover your 
 whole empire if you expand too much and realistically forces you to limit the amount of fronts 
 on which you're fighting. The enemy can overrun your position if it attacks with two armies more 
 than you have stationed on a territory. This of course applies to you as well, which leads, once 
 again, to a realistic massing of forces on battle fronts and attempts to encircle enemies usually 
 lead to success. Once you move an army onto an enemy square and pay for starting war, the battles 
 begin (I still don't know where that money goes... probably propaganda posters and USO shows) .
 
  The RTS portion of the game starts off conventionally enough. You have your farms, your lumber 
 mills, your town centre, your barracks. However, you also have your empire borders, which are expanded 
 when you build new cities or forts. Borders are an important part of your strategy as enemy buildings/units 
 can take damage if they find themselves on the wrong side of the tracks. You also won't find yourself 
 razing enemy towns to the ground, as they are instead captured and a timer starts during which 
 the enemy can take his city back before it becomes yours. This means you won't have to waste time 
 creating new bases from scratch as you expand into enemy territory. It all works quite well, but 
 a certain repetitiveness will soon start to creep in, and the feeling you're just playing some 
 levels instead of taking over the world will become apparent.
  Unfortunately, there is a jarring inconsistency between the RTS maps and the world map. While the 
 maps you battle on are interestingly modeled after the areas you're fighting for (move from Italy 
 into Africa and you will have water on the map, and it'll play like a zoomed-in version of the 
 World map) , there is no connection between what happens on the RTS and the state of the World map. 
 You will find yourself defending your claimed lands from enemy attack often enough. The idea is 
 to either hold out for 90 minutes, or capture the enemy's capital city. This will repel the attack 
 but no matter the outcome of the actual battle, all you'll do is keep the contested territory for 
 yourself. Picture this: Britain attacks France, and the French create a network of prospering cities 
 and docks on their side of the Channel. Then, their armies cross the Channel and annihilate the 
 British, seizing their capital. On the main map, this will count as a French victory, therefore 
 France does not fall, yet Britain remains in the hands of the Brits, since they were attacking. 
 Now, to repay this insult, the French attack Britain. This battle takes place on the same map, 
 yet without any of the cities placed in the last battle. I'm guessing all the cities disappeared 
 into the abyss the "war money" goes to.
  It's disrepancies like this that detract from the feeling that you're playing an amalgamation of 
 an RTS and Turn-Based game and leaves you with two games stapled together. 
  The game fares better when the campaign is left out, as you'll battle from any era you wish, researching 
 new technologies and updating your units. The updates are fun and lead to 'new' units, but the 
 change is quite a jolt. Your sloops suddenly become modern warships, for example. 
  The environments are all nicely modeled, with trees, grass, hills (no tactical value) , mountains, 
 and flowing oceans. Little touches like your 'unemployed' citizens sitting around or infantry getting 
 literally blown off the battlefield add to the atmosphere of the game. Several difficulty settings 
 are also featured, as is a nicely done tutorial where you can either learn gameplay mechanics in 
 several separate missions, or just play on your own and recieve pointers as to what you should 
 be doing. 
  If Rise of Nations were to better integrate its gameplay styles there's no doubt it'd be a contender 
 for one of the best strategies ever. Alas, it ends up as a solid RTS with some novel gameplay twists. 
 It's a lot better than your average build/kill game, but not the masterpiece I was hoping for. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyborgarm
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  same old, same old ... just never really exited me i didnt like its tech tree and units and the 
 campaign got repetitive. Oh, and it looked like there were more units, but it was just groups, 
 so u didnt have the option of buying more cheaper units to back up your expensive ones, like in 
 empire earth. Empire earth, although graphically crappy, is better than this overrated game because 
 of the high unit cap and general variety of units. I'm also pretty sure there were more types too. 
 Dont waste your money on just another average strategy game. If you really want RTS/Strategy mix, 
 get Rome total War 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonePirate
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  This game has so much to give, even now. It has definately influenced AOE 3, by allowing the player 
 to capture cities in certain locations (also letting you name then which is nice) and creating 
 actual fronties for the different countries, giving the game a lot of realism, as other stragedy 
 games had never done any of those things.
  This game is unique, and is like Empire Earth, where you can have to maintain the security and 
 boundries of your civilization through a huge period of time, using diplomacy or your armies.
 
  The graphics at the time were superb, and are still good enough to pass off for a modern day game.
 
  The gameplay is superb and you should definately buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avenger1212
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I consider myself to be a true fan of the RTS genre. I have played strategy games since Command 
 and Conquer 1 and the original Civilization. The reason these games keep getting mentioned over 
 the years is because they gave something to RTS's that defined the elements of that type of game 
 that we would crave for years to come. In my opinion, Rise of Nations should be added to the imortal 
 list of those games who have achieved this level of excellence. 
  
  Balance - Historically, games like C&C and Star Craft have been synonomous with the world "balanced". 
 Regardless of what race or faction you would play, these games kept unique racial advantages even 
 and the playing field level. Rise of Nations has achieved this level of harmony as well. To those 
 who know what I'm talking about, it can be understood this is not a small feat.
  
  Gameplay - At first glance, Rise of Nations can seem overwhelmingly complicated. Suprisingly though, 
 after a short time of getting the feel of the game, players can find the interface very intuative 
 and easy to use. The tech trees and upgrades are defined well and it's not terribly hard to get 
 a grasp on their progression and how to leverage choices when moving up the tech tree. Also, the 
 sheer number of options available to you keep offering something to work for while planning the 
 demise of your enemy. The hardest part of base building and upgrading is remembering to continue 
 upgrading, as a lot of your attention will inevitably be focused on troop movement and tactics. 
 Troops are handled by similar methods to standard RTS methods of grouping (i. e. Ctrl 1) and click-to-move/attack. 
 
  
  Graphics - Graphics are neither superb or bad, but given the RTS genre, they are more than sufficient 
 to create a pleasing atmosphere.
  
  Sound - RTS music is there simply to drive the game and drown out the silence between explosions. 
 This game has a great soundtrack and all the gunfire, explosions and such are right in line whith 
 what one might expect.
  
  Value - I have played this game over and over again and it's just as much fun every time.
  
 
  In conclusion, Rise of Nations is a really well done game. Players have so many different options 
 available to them, it keeps things fresh and playing in the different eras in history function 
 differently enough to really seem like different games. Evolving up the tech tree is quick and 
 exciting as new technologies become available. Racing to upgrades against the computer can make 
 for some desperate situations as you fight to gain and hold cities. I can't say you're just going 
 to sit down and be blown away by Rise of Nations, I wasn't and that's really not what this game 
 is about, but you'll find that the quality of game design, variety of races and tech options, and 
 exciting fluid and well paced gameplay make this game really shine. This is a quality RTS and quite 
 easily one of the best of it's kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nummel
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for 7 hours straight for just one day, and I would have to say that it is the 
 best RTS game that I have ever played in my life! The game could use a little more graphic quality, 
 but the challenge that the game presents makes the game interesting and addictive. This game is 
 a must have so don't go out there and rent it, just buy it. There are a few difficult parts in 
 the game but overall you should be able to finish a battle by the 4th time you try it. Exellent 
 job to the people who designed this game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kocka
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  This review will be short and simple!
  This game is awesome! The single player is good, but the online is extremely great and thrilling. 
 Graphics are nice kinda 2d/3d hybrid, but this isn't very important in RTS games. The gameplay 
 is the most important here! And it's frigging awesome!! The sounds are great too! Single player 
 carrer is fun too, but not very realistic though ( I prefer skirmish matches in single player) 
 Actually there're some bugs in the game, but nothing serious. One of the best features in the game 
 is that RON takes place in several ages of the history. To understand what I mean, I'll tell you 
 some of these: Ancient Age, Classical Age, Information Age, Modern Age. You can research commerce, 
 civic, millitary, and some other stuff to advance to the next age. So the game is thrilling, and 
 diverse.
  
  Try this game! You have to! Even if you don't like RTS games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best, and most realistic RTS game I have ever played. Its amazingly good! You 
 can do a lot of things in every ages, and its fun.
  Of all the strategy games I have played, this is on topp of the list.
  
  The good: Very good 
 gamplay, not to hard to learn, and very much cool things you can to. Very nice made
  
  The bade: hm.. the graffic and sound could have been a little better.
  
  exept from the graffic 
 and sound, is this one of the best strategy games I have ever played, I recommend it a lot, espesally 
 to all RTS fans.
  
  Very, very good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix-Suns
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite game! I have only played the demo and I have had already been addicted 
 to it. The graphics, music, gameplay are all superb! This game is also good and helpful for kids 
 who want to learn ancient history while having fun too. There are a variety of nations you can 
 pick in this game and every nations got its only unique and special advantages. Here is a tip for 
 all players: Get as many resources as you can! I can think of nothing to criticize this game. Overall, 
 this game is fantastic, and I can't wait for the new Rise of Nation to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  Big Huge Games succeeded in creating a game that contains both Real Time action as well as the 
 in-depth Civilization development of your empire. As usual, the main strategy is to rapidly gather 
 resources, build a strong army and overwhelm your enemies. Thats what most RTS games is all about. 
 The real time combats have been well developed. You can use tactics such as a cavalry flank attack 
 or gain landscape advantage. Compared to Civilization, you have to do less micromanagment which 
 is an advantage in my opinion. The technology tree is not so complicated either, making it a very 
 playable game. The interface is very user-friendly. Together with the Thrones & Patriots add-on, 
 it will provide you many hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whgresiak
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I first played Rise of Nations at a friends house and loved it. I soon bought it for myself. Rise 
 of Nations is one of the great RTSs in the past few years. You take control of a faction and take 
 from throwing stones to launching nukes at your enemies. I later found that the multiplayer is 
 what the game is all about, when I found I was really just a noob, even though I thought I was 
 good. The original can be picked up for under $20, the Expansion is $20 or you can get the Gold 
 edition (both) for about $30-35. Great RTS, defiantly worth and it doesnt even need a souped up 
 computer to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franklinzhang
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Great gameplay, graphics, and sound! Makes me think that I'm actually travelling back and forth 
 in history. Really liked the CTW campaign! Could do better on the number of ages and researches. 
 There could've been an age in the future rather than just four expensive high-value future researches. 
 I really liked how you could bomb cities with nuclear missiles! Bad thing is that if you have a 
 slow graphics card, then the load times take over 5 minutes. Loved how the tutorial takes place 
 in an actual history scene! Best wishes for RON: ROL! I'll get that game as soon it comes out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LM101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 12, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  Rise of nations is great as it has a very big choice of teams you can play as such as the aztecs 
 and the russians. Each team has their own special men or buildings and each building is different. 
 You can make farms and build up your food to buy more soldiers and civilians. Its is great when 
 you make a huge army and then march them up aginst the enemy and zoom in on the war. You progress 
 through different ages in the game such as the classical age or the gunpowder age. The campaign 
 mode is great where you have to conquer the world which is very fun. This game is amazing as the 
 amount of options you can choose is simply astonishing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalshotput
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I just picked up Rise of Nations to have a good ole' RTS in my collection that i could pull out 
 every other rainy day and just help time fly by. When i installed this game, however, it didnt 
 just become an every other day occasion, it became a "i gotta go home and uhhh... let my dog out 
 *cough*" type of thing. This game is a very addicting game for those of you who liked command and 
 conquer, age of empires, and all of the other well known RTSs out there. This game has an about 
 30 minute learning curve and from there on its all about finding your own strategy, wether its 
 taking the longer route and hoarding all of your resources to mass an immense army to overrun the 
 enemy, or the quick route of building a small army as fast as you can in an attempt to destroy 
 what little town your enemy has at the beginning of the round. There are many nations that you 
 can become and that, again, is another thing which you must decide which is your favorite through 
 playing each individual one. The best part about this game, i think, is the conquer the world campaign. 
 This brings all of the strategic elements of the board game Risk with the fun of battles every 
 time you invade a country or someone invades yours. I highly recommend this game for someone who 
 wants to find a good, hearty, kick ass RTS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is a good game. I really like this game because it is a little different from Ages 
 of Empires and also because you can do some really cool things in it. The graphics are pretty good, 
 especially for a Real Time Strategy. If you enjoy playing Ages of Empires and you also enjoy any 
 Real Time Strategy, Rise of Nations might be something to check out. I would prefer this game over 
 Ages of Empires just because it has more to do. But for the low price on Rise of Nations it would 
 be something everyone should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandy4
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  When i first looked at this game it appeared tht is was going to be another boring rts with every 
 nation having the same people and upgrades but i was wrong. There are many many factions to choose 
 from (even more wen u get the expansion) each faction includes it own unique strategy or unit. 
 This wasnt like age of empires where u build a armory then u can advance to the nxt age in rise 
 of nations u must first construct certain buildings then get to a certain level in the upgrades. 
 This makes the game a bit longer as it difficult to rush through the ages while trying to kill 
 enmeies or defnd your base. There are also different types of resources and depending on the amount 
 if resources depends on how many workers can work there. 
  
  The game only gets a bit repeitive wen u reach the modern day age as morealess all factions lose 
 their speial units bar some. This i think spoilt the game. 
  
  A good factor i though wen sum one launches a nuke armaggedon sets in in which once a certain number 
 of nukes have been used then the game finishes. However once all small upgrades r finished at the 
 library 4 more main upgrades are available, one is missle shield which means long range missles 
 the nuke/cruise missle cant touch the base asa they r deflected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is a blend of RTS and TBS elements and no game has been more successful at combining 
 both of these styles of strategy. The game plays more like a real time game than a turn-based game 
 overall, but the turn based influence is strong and is blended seamlessly into the sometimes tired 
 RTS formula. 
  
  Base building, always an important part of RTS games, is taken far beyond the norm found in games 
 like Warcraft III and Age of Mythology. Instead of just having one main base with all of your structures 
 and one or two expansion bases, Rise of Nations has you creating cities all over the map. Your 
 first two cities are likely to be resource collecting centers, cities thereafter are used for expanding 
 borders, creating military buildings, and forming a perimeter around your capital. At each city 
 you build structures such as universities, markets, granaries, and temples. Only one of these buildings 
 can be built at each city, so expanding is necessary. 
  
  Expansion brings us to resource collecting which is handled in the most intuitive way of any RTS 
 game. Resources never run out and provide a constant flow of income. For example, having six citizens 
 working at a wood camp in the beginning of the game will provide an income of +60 wood every thirty 
 seconds. As you expand your empire, build lumber mills, and research specific technologies, your 
 trickle can climb to +400 and it is possible to gain +999, the highest cap, but it takes a long 
 time and a lot of research to reach that level. 
  
  Speaking of research, RoN handles this better than any other RTS as well. Most research is centered 
 in one building: the library. Here you will research military, civics, commerce, and science techs, 
 with each level of every tech bringing in it's own benefits. More specific research is relegated 
 to other buildings like in other RTS games, but instead of playing guess and click to find what 
 you can research, simply hit the 'tab' key to scroll through all available research. 
  
  Combat is pretty standard for an RTS game: build units, group them, and send them to the enemy. 
 There are some differences here than in other games too, though. First, you will eventually have 
 to traverse through enemy territory which is protected by attrition. What this means is that without 
 the proper unit (supply wagon) your army will take damage over time when inside the enemy border. 
 Each civilization also gets certain specific units that are stronger, faster, and overall better 
 than the generic equivalent, use these units to your advantage along with other national bonuses. 
 
  
  There is so much more to this game that I will leave to you to find out. Generals to lead your 
 army, spys, commandos to sabotage units and structures, rare resources that offer bonuses to your 
 civ in addition to extra resources, Conquer the World Risk-style campaign, and multi-player. 
 
  
  If you're a fan of RTS games, you absolutely must get Rise of Nations, no questions asked. 
  
 
  There are so many things that are done right by Rise of Nations that it puts other popular franchises 
 to shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowbrains788
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game for the first three months I had it, then quality dropped. Graphics aren't even 
 great in highest detail, not much zoom, but, through and through, it has great, varied gameplay.
 
  If it had a campaign, i ahve long forgotten it, which is usually not good, but still has great 
 battles, I would have like some AT mines, but, it doesn't matter. There are way too many cheat, 
 and the game is klunky.
  Sorry if it offends you, but this game gets old way too fast. It's a great game, but could use 
 more features. On a side note, I can't wait for Rise of Legends, it looks much better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  When Rise Of Nations (RoN) was first announced, everyone was amazed, the graphics were excellent 
 and there were many nations to pick from, all with their respective powers and units... finally, 
 people said, were back to the genius of Age of Empires. Happily, I report, they were not wrong.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Some of the graphical moments featured in RoN are truly awe inspiring (waves crushing on the beaches, 
 leaving foam as they retreat back in the sea) , but some are not. Don't get me wrong, the graphics 
 are great, supporting resolutions of up to 1280x1024, but some of the animations seem a little 
 choppy (mostly the plane animations) . However, overall the graphics are great. Missiles leave trails 
 of smoke, the nukes look great, etc.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  This is by far the best sound I've enjoyed in an RTS for a long while.
  
  The music is great 
 and changes by the era youre in and by your state (war, peace) but as in Civ 3, theres another 
 drum single in the early ages of the game thats extremely bad... However, that drum solo is not 
 enough to detract form the fact that this is the best music I've heard in an RTS to date. As for 
 the SFX, theyre mostly good but if you have all the alarms turned on, the only thing you can hear 
 are alarms (in the form of bells) and they become irritating fast. Luckily you can turn them off 
 so thats not a real big issue. Overall the sound is the best I've found in a RTS or any other 
 game, in the past year.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Gameplay in this game is a mix of innovation and pure genius. There are so many innovations it 
 would take me this whole review to tell you about them, so I'll try to concentrate on the most 
 important ones.
  
  The first thing your will notice when you start playing is that ALL CIVILIZATIONS have 3-4+ unique 
 units, this is an AWESOME touch and makes for a much longer and enjoyable game. These units make 
 multiplayer games unique and help establish the need for different strategies for each race (like 
 in Starcraft, for example) . When you pick your civ and begin playing the game you will notice another 
 striking fact, resources are limitless. Don't worry however, resource collection is well balanced: 
 For example, there can be only 1 mine on a mountain and only 5 (7 if your Egyptian) farms in a 
 town, so you can't just send 1000 villagers (villis) to collect one resource. To further balance 
 resource gathering Big Huge Games implemented 2 fail-safes: A limited number of cities, and a commerce 
 cap.
  
  The player can only build a maximum of 8 cities (but you can capture as many as you desire) . This 
 number can, of course, be augmented by wonders and other national bonuses. The actual resource 
 gathering, and a commerce cap is the second reason why resource abuse is futile. In RoN you collect 
 resources by sending an amount of villagers in a resource building (these buildings can accommodate 
 anywhere from 1 to 10-12 villagers) . Every villager you send to one of these buildings increase 
 the amount of output of that resource per minute. This commerce cap acts like a ceiling that prevents 
 you from gathering any more resources after a certain point. The amounts you can gather can be 
 expanded to a maximum 999 of one resource/minute by wonders, national abilities, and researching 
 the commerce wing at the library.
  
  The library, now that we stumbled upon it, is RoNs only facility specifically designed for research. 
 There are 4 sciences to research in each age at the library (you only need 2 to advance to the 
 next age though) . The 4 sciences are: commerce, science, war and civics. Commerce allows for a 
 bigger commerce cap and more caravans, science allows for higher lv. buildings (granaries and such) 
 and higher lv. tech, war allows for a greater pop limit and better upgrades, and civics allows 
 for more cities to be built.
  
  All of what was mentioned however, is just some of the minor improvements to the game engine; the 
 real ones are up ahead.
  
  Military action in this game is amazing. RoN does not bog you down with stuff like concentrating 
 fire on a unit or building (except for artillery) , or babysitting troops aim, because you have 
 to order your supply trucks around so that your troops don't suffer attrition damage (damage taken 
 from being in enemy territory) , or because youll be spending your time moving smaller groups of 
 units in attempts to outflank the enemy, hit him from the sides, or attack him from behind. Even 
 before going to war the improvements in troops section start appearing. First of all, theres the 
 rock-paper-scissor routine where a unit does better against another (like lets say, swords man 
 vs. pike man) , and then comes inflation. That's right, inflation... in this game you can't just 
 build 50 horseman, 50 archers and 50 artilleries since the prices are going to increase so abruptly 
 your just not gonna be able to build all of that. In fact you'll have to use actual strategy and 
 a mixed groups of units to defeat your enemies; a very nice touch.
  
  Single player in RoN is another genius contraption. Instead of bogging you down with scripted campaigns 
 and badly acted voice-overs, you make your own campaign in Conquer the World. A Medieval: Total 
 War like mode that has both a turn based part and a RTS part, Conquer the World is one of the most 
 dynamic campaigns ever to come packaged with a strategy game. While on the Conquer the World map 
 you can buy cards (that give you bonuses in battles or other wise) or you can use wonder cards 
 to build wonders, or you can of course sign treaties, alliances or declare war. You also build 
 or capture armies on this map, which you can move as you see fit. When moved into enemy territories, 
 however, the game plays like a normal RTS, returning you to the normal engine where you build a 
 base and you attack the enemy.
  
  There are only a few of complaints about the gameplay... first I'd wish they wouldn't have inflation 
 for villis, it makes it needlessly hard to expand at the beginning, which gets me to the second 
 point, why, I mean why, did they have to put time limits in the Conquest the World part of the 
 game?? We get it, the game is very fast paced, but you don't have to make us beat the computer 
 in 90 minutes to prove it to us (which I'd say is quite hard for new players) . Some people may 
 complain that there are no scripted campaigns at all and that the US is not in this game, I however, 
 dont really miss either to tell you the truth not to mention both will probably be included in 
 the Expansion Pack.
  
  Another ''interesting'' (and rather dumb) thing is that the demo of this game gives a little too 
 much away. You can play with 4 different nations on 3 different maps on any difficulty and have 
 access to all of the games techs and units (except those specific units of the nations you can't 
 play as) .
  
  Multiplay: 5/10
  
  Multiplayer is the reason I gave RoN a 9/10.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the people online are great, but it's the games that are horrid. My number 
 one complaint is the fact that people play this game on normal speed (which is CONSIDERABLY slower 
 than fast) making it quite ironic that the producers tried so hard to make us understand how fast 
 paced this game is only so that no one (or few) play it at it's designed speed.
  
  The other complaint is that not many people play this online (which surprises me since this was 
 the best selling game in May, and 3rd best selling game during the month of June) . The final problem 
 with multiplayer is the lag: It's horrible. It may take me 1-2 games (and when you only have 8-9 
 online games, that's a lot of games) to find one that actually works, as it should.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  This game brings a ton of innovations to the genre, but I'm sad to report 
 that there are few people to care. If you really arent into the whole smart RTS stuff, at least 
 download the overly generous demo and give it a try. You wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  Every once and a while a game comes out that brings a tear to a gamers eyes. It may not be totally 
 revolutionary but it perfects the modern concepts of the genre. For strategy fans around the world, 
 your game has arrived.
  
  In Rise of Nations players can choose to be any one of eighteen nations. The types of nations are 
 widely varied and depending on your preference you can choose to play as the Aztec, the Romans, 
 the Nubian, or even the Koreans to name a few. Each race has its own unique abilities and units. 
 For example Egypt has food production bonuses which give it a free granary in the beginning and 
 all granary upgrades are in fact free. England has powerful ranged infantry like the kings longbow 
 men and the black watch and can create anti-aircraft units faster and cheaper than other nations. 
 The differences between each side are significant and add immense replay ability to the game by 
 making each nation a totally different experience. 
  
  For players intimidated by the plethora of features, do not fret. Rise of Nations comes complete 
 with a six mission tutorial that helps ease you into the game. These tutorials will teach you the 
 basics such as moving units around and attacking enemies. Once comfortable with your skills you 
 can move on to more advanced features like upgrading buildings, gathering multiple types of resources, 
 and advanced combat tactics like fortification. Once players are comfortable enough to fight the 
 AI on their own they can delve into the single player campaign, opt for an instant action match, 
 or even load one of the games built-in scenarios.
  
  The single player campaign is conducted through the Conquer the World mode where, you guessed 
 it; you have to take over the planet. This campaign mode has players start off in the home country 
 of whatever race they choose. In this turn-based mode players can choose to invade adjacent lands 
 by moving their army accordingly. On the global map they can declare wars, barter peace deals, 
 or even make alliances with other nations. Once alliances are formed your computer ally will join 
 you in any battles that are adjacent to its territory. Players also have the option of buying land 
 from other nations. This feature makes for a nice change of pace when players just want to take 
 a breather for a turn or two. 
  
  Declaring war, gaining peace, allying, and buying land all require the games monetary currency 
 of tribute. Tribute can be acquired by conquering lands that bear a tribute insignia, keeping your 
 armies stationary for one turn, or as plunder for conquering an enemys capital. In addition to 
 tribute there are a number of different other items which can be captured in territories. Areas 
 with supply centers give commanders an extra army on the global map. Rare resources in a land give 
 players bonuses like extra types of primary resources and reductions in research costs. Cards are 
 acquired which can be used in battle also. The powers of these cards are extremely diverse. With 
 the cards you can borrow other nations unique powers, cancel the unique powers of the army you 
 are invading, and even receive extra resources to start off with. The only significant factor that 
 limits gameplay is determined by which age it is.
  
  Rise of Nations features eight different ages: ancient, classical, medieval, gunpowder, enlightenment, 
 industrial, modern, and information. Existing buildings automatically change their appearance depending 
 on which age it is. In fact the only units that need to be updated manually are those of the military. 
 Upon reaching an age, certain buildings like granaries, lumber mills, and airfields can be constructed 
 and used. That being said, some of the buildings require certain levels of military, civics, commerce, 
 or science; all of which can be researched at the library. These four main research groups are 
 upgraded through the games complex resource gathering system. Food, lumber, metal, oil, wealth, 
 and knowledge are the games six main resources. The gathering itself is straightforward and simple. 
 Simpler buildings like the woodcutters and the mines simply need to be built and citizens will 
 start harvesting. If any of your citizens are lying around doing nothing they will automatically 
 go to the nearest resource gathering facility that has available room for workers. Universities 
 can be built and scholars can be trained to increase knowledge output. Wealth is acquired by caravans 
 that travel between your cities. Oil is the most simplistic and while it doesnt appear until the 
 industrial age, needs only an oil well constructed to be harvested. In addition to research at 
 the library, resources are also used to fund the myriad of upgrades available in the game. Upgrades 
 can be found typically in any building and will increase resource output, reduce the cost of upgrades 
 themselves, make buildings and units cheaper, even upgrade military units to more advanced fighters.
 
  
  The gameplay of Rise of Nations offers a little something for everyone. Both single player and 
 multi player feature several game modes. There is the basic death match which boils down to a fight 
 to the death between any number of players on the map. No Rush restricts players from attacking 
 until the gunpowder age; this is good for players who like to gradually ease into combat. There 
 are even game modes which restrict military activity all together. Players will find themselves 
 fighting over who advances to the information age the quickest. These alternative modes are a 
 welcome change to the kill, destroy, maim, obliterate type of gameplay in most real time strategy 
 games.
  
  If this game is anything its insanely hard. Players will want to stick with the easier difficulty 
 settings until they are more comfortable with everything. The AI can be savagely quick and brutal. 
 Even on the moderate difficulty setting I was having trouble keeping up with the computers pace 
 of evolution. My ego was heavily bruised as I, a hardened strategy veteran, was soundly defeated 
 by several hard computer opponents. With that said however I would like to accuse the computer 
 of not playing fair. Attacking my spear chucking legions with machine gunners is not a fair fight 
 at all. I thought I had a chance when I researched the gunpowder age but it appears that muskets 
 dont do as well against panzer tanks as I thought they would. Even if you do manage to keep pace 
 with the AI on the technology front expect a smart opponent on the battlefield. It will often flank 
 and attack your units from the rear. My artillery units, which were kept well behind the front 
 line, were often taken out by small squads of enemy units that managed to sneak around my fortifications. 
 It is a satisfying experience though to defeat the computer when youre against all odds.
  
  Visually, Rise of Nations is drop-dead gorgeous. The amount of detail given to the units and 
 structures brings a tear to my eye. The animations for catapults and trebuchets are wonderful and 
 great to watch. You can see armed horsemen bring up their arm and fire their pistol. The animation 
 is complete with a small flash and puff of smoke. Machine gunners will laboriously pack and unpack 
 their giant gun accordingly. Infantry can be blown across the map and burnt alive depending on 
 which unit is responsible for its untimely demise. Even with its spectacular and rich graphics 
 the Rise of Nations engine is solid. It held together and a shutter in the speed of the game was 
 never really experienced. Even in large military battles the frame rate remained constant. This 
 held true for multiplayer battles as well.
  
  Rise of Nations features an excellent score of various orchestral tracks. They do a great job of 
 setting the mood and they give your small cities some personality. One of the first things I noticed 
 was the uniqueness of each unit. When spearmen and cavalry charge into battle you can hear their 
 weapons contacting one another. The roar of the cannon as it fires is enough to wake up anyone 
 in the house with the bass turned up enough. Overall the sounds are just a completely satisfying 
 part of the game.
  
  There are several types of multiplayer available. Players can battle over a LAN, direct connect 
 to each other, connect via Gamespy Arcade, and Rise of Nations also powers its own in-game matchmaking 
 service powered by Gamespy as well. Its fairly easy to set up and create games. Players can also 
 look for games according to different options like the map, type of game, amount of players, etc 
 The in-game interface is nice and provides a user-friendly environment for users to quickly find 
 their friends to set up matches. Players will find the same options available in multiplayer as 
 in single player skirmish. No Rush, Technology Race, and Death Match, are just a few of the types 
 included and they help to make multiplayer a diverse affair.
  
  All in all there isnt a lot to complain about with Rise of Nations. The military battles themselves, 
 even on easy modes, tended to be very rigorous and demanding. One might say they were almost too 
 fast. Players that arent RTS regulars may have a hard time adjusting at first to this type of 
 play. There is a fairly steep learning curve for new people to the genre.
  
  Rise of Nations does have some minor stability issues but nothing that causes too much trouble. 
 The worst that happened to me was three occasions when the game froze my computer completely. Twice 
 during a mission loading and once while trying to connect to the games multiplayer interface. 
 These flaws arent enough though to scare away consumers. The recommended retail price of $54.99 
 is well worth it for this title.
  
  Rise of Nations offers a lot on the table in terms of gameplay. Whether you are a strategy buff 
 or a casual gamer this title is a must have for your collection. The single player will give you 
 near limitless replay ability and challenge your skills while the multiplayer offers an excellent 
 chance to play on the world stage. Big Huge Games hit the RTS bulls-eye on this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusismyhomie
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations, when it came out, was one of the games that I truely was interested to play. Because 
 I am a true strategy and warfare game person. I love starcraft and Age of empires, but this game 
 is now my number one strategy type game! There are so many different things you can do to play 
 and enjoy this game! The Gameplay is awesome; matter of fact, it is the best game for gameplay 
 (For all you gameplay lovers, this is the game for you) . The game has great, but not perfect graphics. 
 Rise of Nations is so good that I bet it would still be fun without the 'Amazing' Graphics. And 
 the historical background in this game is perfect! You can learn alot about civilizations and how 
 they ally with each other for reasourses.
  
  If I had to describe this game I would say: AGE OF EMPIRES + COMMAND AND CONQUER + CIVILIZATION 
 + WARCRAFT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 25, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to RTS this game is God. For starters it is one of the few games that actually have 
 a "really hard" hard setting. They didn't fool around when one strongest bot versus 4 (or more) 
 can win easily. We have played this game for hours at numerous LAN's and i can say confidently 
 that i would never uninstall this game from my computer!
  Graphics are good, sound is good, AI is amazing, gameplay is perfect. Keeping track of resources 
 and troops and buildings is as easy as 1,2,3 (programmable shortcuts in-game!) . Advancing ages 
 is simple yet effective and noticeable, and your able to start at a the stone age and go all the 
 way to information allowing you to launch cruise missles and nukes! Settings you can change anytime 
 allow you to make sure your citizens dont stand around or start gathering without permission. There 
 isnt a thing they missed. And let us not forget about the in-game voice taunts. Those are alwyas 
 fun to mess around with ("purple" is great) .
  So for those interested in an RTS worth the money, drop it all on Rise of Nations and the expansion, 
 which is also an excellent add-on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GazzaB
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is one of the best real time strategy games created by Microsoft. Unlike the other 
 RTS games created by Microsoft, Rise of Nations is allot Different and better.
  Firstly, at the barracks instead of creating one unit at a time, when you build one unit in Rise 
 of Nations, 3 units appears which makes it a lot easier to build up large armies. There are 7 ages 
 that your civilisation can advance to, they are the Ancient age, Classical age, Medieval age, Gunpowder 
 age, Enlightenment age, Industrial age, Modern age and Information age. The A. I players a pretty 
 smart but they could be better. They only play fair when its on moderate, if its on easy or easiest 
 its too easy, but if its on hard or hardest it's basically impossible. The gameplay could be improved 
 in the last two ages because if your on moderate or higher they nuke you as soon they can and its 
 not really that fun when you have rebuild your capital after its been nuked. The 3D graphics are 
 really good but only the units have 3d graphics with them everything else is 2D.
  There is a new expansion pack for Rise of Nations Thrones and Patriots. It gives you 6 new civilisations, 
 20 new units and a new option which lets you choose what kind of Government you want.
  Overall, Rise of Nations is an excellent game, a great choice for any RTS lovers out there.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxmikechief
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 23, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  The games makes a very innovative system combining Age Of Empires with Civilization; it has a medium 
 playbility with awesome form of technologies, but with the time, poor game.
  Maybe not the best option if you want a strategy game, but an option to break with Age Of Empires.
 
  A game that is good to play if you are bored, but not the first option to play.
  Very disappointly to me, because it make big promise and the result is medium game, entertain at 
 first, bad with the time.
  Has a little thing that is the Real-Time ans it save the game just a little.
  All flash, no substance.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperz89
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  yes this game is truly marvelous as in graphics wise/macro commands to make a player play well 
 in game. well as you see most people loved it basically because u can turn ur time from the old 
 age till the modern age. which means u gain increased groups of new army units and buildings. example 
 such as US's missile and tanks are upgraded around the age of industrial and so on. once you obtained 
 tat age, the game becomes really aggressive and i mean theres lots of real effect shoot there and 
 here style. even so u can oso choose to play the age where there's only farmers, hunters which pits 
 you into a challenge where u set a age u like and battle ur friends/online players. moreover, most 
 of the race's units are very good detailed. and the game has many settings like set ur wonders/difficulty 
 against a computer. thats all, the rest is up to u buyers/lovers of rts to determine if u wan this 
 game or not. but its a must for ur game collection. play online never gets bored plus LAN ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kollons
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I've played tons of RTS games and this is without discussion the best historical RTS game. I've 
 played Age of Empires III (apparently the the most promising historical game) and Rise of Nations 
 is 10000 times much better. It has infinitely possibilities because there is lots of ways to get 
 the victory (due to, in addition of other features, the evolution concept bars, like economy, military, 
 etc., including the evolution ages bar) , so it has lots, lots, lots of winning strategies. It's 
 an unforgettable game, it's perfect. If you don't have it, what are you waiting for?
  And look out for Rise of Nations: Rise of Legends. This will be ,for all I've seen and read, surely 
 the best RTS fantasy game. Look it out.
  Congratulations to Microsoft Game Studios and Big Huge Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit_pie
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  This game is good dont get me wrong but it fails to be as good as age of empires. If your looking 
 for a easy going real time stratergy game, this is probally for you, but in my opinion the best 
 stratergy game you can get is age of empires or civilization 3. This game also goes at quite a 
 fast pace, going from one technology to another without any waiting around so it doesnt really 
 feel right. The graphics are nice however as is the sound. So if your still unsure about this game 
 then i would recomend renting it first. If you have any questions about this or any other game 
 i have reviewed please feel free to send me a message and ill get back to you ASAP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zephyr_3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 3, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by stating that this game is simply amazing, as I have never been a huge fan of 
 the RTS genre, this game changed that very quickly. One of my biggest complaints about many RTS' 
 is that they take so long to play and are hard to play if you don't have very much skill in the 
 genre, but with this one it is executed flawlessly and fast, so you can finish it somewhat quickly 
 and not have to devote your entire life to it and it is really easy to just pick up and play without 
 having very much experience in the RTS category. Very unique design unlike other games in this 
 genre, since its built around the idea of having a country and cities that you have to support 
 and build onto. This is one of the best games I have ever played and I would recommend it to just 
 about anyone, even those of us who don't venture into the RTS genre often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 1:59 am PT
Review:  Terrain doesn't matter as a tactical consideration, which is very disappointing. So putting archers 
 on the crest of a hill doesn't give them any bonus that I can see. It feels like you are playing 
 the game on a flat 2D plain with the illusion that there are hills and valleys. Troops do need 
 to maneuver around trees and water but that is about all you have to consider regarding terrain. 
 
  
  Then there is the alarming fact that are no walls that you can build. You can build towers and 
 later on fortesses, but that is it -- no walls or gates. What this means is that you are forced 
 to play an offensive game at all times since there are so very few defensive options.
  
  The game is fine as a real-time strategy game I suppose, but as a tactical game it 100% lacks. 
 The technology tree looks interesting but in practice there are very few technologies that are 
 truly different between the different nations, so all nations tend to use the same technologies. 
 
  
  The game would have been much better if the nations were more unique and if there was terrain that 
 figured in combat. I still can't believe you can't set up walls in this game!!
  
  Anyone who is looking for a faster-paced Civilization will be sorely disappointed by this RTS game. 
 That's all that this game is -- another RTS game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frost6969
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  One of my all time fav games out there. The objec of the game is to pick a country and take over 
 the WORLD through battle. It is really easy and I have notice one small this I was not to happy 
 about and that is as soon as yo sart a new battle send all your troops to the other end of the 
 map because your opponent has none and is makes it easy to take there capital. So there isn't really 
 that mch sport to it. But it does have pleasing graphics and the sound is well done. While playing 
 it also gives you a sense of power which think s always good in a game. I do still recommend this 
 game to all. It is fun when you take your time and take over one capital at a time. I will be gettting 
 the expantion soon so I can wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DARdevil89
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  Only bad thing is poor music and maybe graphics, which could be better. 
  There is still one thing-in tutorial with Battle for Britain, destroyed french town with nuclear 
 bomb, and they declared me war-there is no logic-Britain, France and Germany didn`t have that weapon 
 in WWII, I know that nuclear weapons come automaticly with modern age, but they could fix that 
 little stuff, and I am sure that it isn`t only mistake like that. Also, in the same tutorial, there 
 is no Berlin, Warsaw is really close to France.
  "Rise of Nations" really deserves that name, you can start with a really small group of people, 
 I made my own scenario and began without city, only with one citizen. Passing through time is also 
 excellent, you can learn history with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazykage
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  The game rise of nations is a good rts. The game is a regular rts the controls and the hot keys 
 are the same and if you have played anytype of rts then you should be able to jump right in to 
 it. The game isnt completly perfect when it comes to the graphics in other words there is room 
 for inprovement. But on the other side the game has a huge amount of playabl nations. The nations 
 also have a great deal of uniquness in them. They al have differnt building and troops. So if u 
 like rts games then u should thik of picking up rise of nations.
  
  Ps= rise of nations rise of legends is looking like it will pick up the graphics hole that rise 
 of nations didnt have. But sadly it isnt looking like the troop amount will be good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwollenFridge
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Perfectly balanced gameplay, extremely innovative, combines concepts from turn-based strategy 
 games with real time-strategy games to create something truly unique, great animations, great sound, 
 amazing AI, Conquer the World, endlessly replayable, incredibly intuitive, superb interface
  
  Cons: Music is a little understated, tons of races, but none are dramatically different from 
 each other
  
  Rise of Nations is the debut game from Big Huge Games, founded by Brian Reynolds, the genius who's 
 collaborated with Sid Meier on turn-based strategy games like Alpha Centauri and Civilization II. 
 Rise of Nations may be a real-time strategy, but it's easily up to both those games standards. 
 It's a tremendously innovative game in a genre that's starting to stall, but more importantly, 
 it does them all perfectly.
  
  Rise of Nations looks like a regular real-time strategy game on the surface, but there are many 
 innovations contained in this strategy game. The first thing that will hit you about this game 
 is its streamlined, clean interface, which practically eliminates excessive micromanagement. In 
 fact, Rise of Nations is so clearly ahead of its time, its interface still makes newer games feel 
 outdated and clumsy. Rise of Nations is also very intuitive, despite its ten bazillion techs, because, 
 simply put, everything is laid out sensibly, just where you would want it.
  
  Another one of Rise of Nations most important innovations will soon come into focus as well - national 
 borders. National borders in and of itself is not all that innovative, as its a carry over from 
 Reynolds' turn-based strategy pedigree, but its never been seen in an RTS before, and it's pretty 
 much implemented flawlessly here. Simply put, each of your cities exerts an influence around the 
 borders. It's hard to explain how much this affects gameplay, but it comes apparent as you play. 
 Suddenly, city placement becomes that much more important. Another one of Rise of Nations' endless 
 innovations is the fact that when you attack cities, you don't destroy it, you simply capture it 
 (although you have to defend it for a certain amount of time before you can do stuff with it) . 
 This makes it imperative that each of your cities is well defended, as if you lose them you'll 
 lose trade routes, resources, and territory, and likely a strategically placed military foothold 
 as well. Also worth noting is that your units will suffer attrition in enemy territory (provided 
 that they've researched the tech, which they should) without a supply wagon, which makes for very 
 interesting battle situations.
  
  Rise of Nations' combat is not pure micromanagement ike other games (such as Warcraft 3) , it's 
 a brilliant mix of strategy and tactics. You have to use certain units against certain other units 
 for best results, and if you don't deploy your units correctly, then you'll be slaughtered by an 
 inexperienced player. Luckily, all the information in Rise of Nations is at your fingertips, which 
 makes the fast-paced combat exhilarating. The best battles will decide the games and can last for 
 absolutely nerve-wracking lengths, especially since they're all purposeful - battles will almost 
 never be in the middle of nowhere, they'll usually be centered around the capture of a city, which 
 will make for great sieges as you both reinforce your armies and try tactics like flanking or diversionary 
 tactics such as attacking another city. The battles could hardly be more fun.
  
  Rise of Nations boasts two modes, Conquer the World and more regular Skirmish. Conquer the World 
 is an interesting venture for Big Huge Games, as it's a fast-paced Risk-style board-game in which 
 you try to take over the world. Conquer the World is very fun, but Skirmish is ultimately the core 
 of Rise of Nations' gameplay. Rise of Nations multiplayer is immensely fun, although unfortunately 
 the huge shadow cast by Blizzard causes the community to be rather small. Still, if you can find 
 a friend to play with - which you will easily if you show him the game - then the experience is 
 just as great as it can be. Luckily, if you really can't find anyone to play with, it really doesn't 
 matter - the AI in Rise of Nations is so good that it's pretty much as exciting to play against 
 as regular people, and you can learn incredible amounts of information from it (this is one of 
 the few games where watching replays is not only informative but extremely fun) . Skirmish is also 
 incredibly customizable, as Big Huge Games has given you too many options to count to tweak gameplay.
 
  
  I'm sure I could talk about Rise of Nations' gameplay for much more, but it's probably better if 
 I move on to graphics.
  
  The graphics in this game aren't run by an incredibly high-tech engine, but luckily, the stuff 
 they're rendering looks great. Most importantly in the department of graphics, though, is the amazing 
 animations. If you zoom in, you can see the water running in some buildings or the wood being cut 
 in the lumber mill, as well as soldiers reloading their guns or citizens cutting the crops. It's 
 these endless animations that makes it still a very fun game to watch as well as play - sure, it's 
 no Age of Empires III, but for its time it looks superb.
  
  Sound in Rise of Nations is equally superb. The music is great, and will often reflect what's going 
 on at the moment you're playing, although it's unfortunately a little understated, and it would 
 be great if we had some more swelling battle music. The individual sounds of the game world itself 
 is also terrific, and each sound makes absolute sense.
  
  Rise of Nations' value is terrific, what with two game modes and endless customizability as well 
 as a robust multiplayer system. It would help if it had a more popular multiplayer community, but 
 it should be relatively easy to hook your friends on this relatively cheap game.
  
  Overall, I just can't say enough about Rise of Nations. It's easily one of the most fun games I've 
 ever played. For any strategy game fan who missed this - get it and the Thrones and Patriots expansion 
 immediately if you're looking for something to play. It's a game of a caliber that has yet to be 
 even come near to in the real-time strategy genre, and one whose endless innovations are still 
 ahead of its time and have yet to be assimilated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_1234Anderson
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  When i bought this game i thought that it would be like Age of Empires 2. i was greatly disappointed. 
 the graphics are not the best and the setup isnt good. the game has a few good points too. the 
 cold war missions are cool because you manage nukes and other cool weapons. other than that it 
 is a waste of money. i would recommend Command and Conquer Generals for a modern day combat RTS, 
 Age of Empires 2 for a dark ages RTS, and Empires Dawn of the Modern World for a WW2 RTS. this 
 game is boring and looks bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadGeorge987
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Introduction:
  
  To start, I would like to say that this RTS is unlike anything you've probably ever played (aside 
 from some Civilization games) . It involves going through 8 different ages in time, spanning over 
 6 000 years of history. It starts at your ancient age, and spans all the way to the information 
 age of today and the near future. 
  The greatest feature about this game is that the economics work exactly like they do in real life: 
 you have your citizens performing everyday tasks like mining, farming and woodchopping. Also you 
 have scholars researching and learning at the university. You need knowledge in order to upgrade 
 to the next age of time. For gold, you use merchants to travel between your cities for trade purposes. 
 The economics run well, but in a realistic way as well. 
  About the economics, you don't really run out of economics, so technically, one could turtle. However, 
 it would be an extremely weak turtle, because although you don't need to expand, you'll definately 
 want to so you can keep your nation's war machine running. 
  There are many, many other features in this game that you will want to figure out for yourself, 
 such as diplomacy, and the different governments. But those aspecs are best found out while playing, 
 as apposed to reading this review. Let us commence the review now.
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  What can I say? The gameplay is absolutely fantastic, and it prevents people from doing those annoying, 
 somewhat under-handed tactics. For example, turtling is not practical, because with only a few 
 bases, you wont have the resources coming in fast enough and your opponent will just run you over. 
 Also, amassing one type of unit doesn't work either, because this game is quite balanced. 
  This game isn't purely about macro (economic management) though, as it provides times for intense 
 micro as well. Like most good strategy games, you must learn to attack on multiple fronts, while 
 focussing on the priority targets. That, and this game features a formation system, where you can 
 choose how your units stand by clicking, holding, and rotating the mouse. 
  The wonders of the world system isn't great, but it isn't bad enough to take away from the game's 
 gameplay. Basically building wonders such as the Eiffel Tower give your troops special bonuses 
 (although nothing too drastic) . 
  The technology tree is another strong point, as it blends in perfectly with the economics of the 
 game. Units are upgraded as your nation goes through the ages. For example, a unit wielding a bow 
 and arrow may be upgraded to something with an automatic weapon in a later age. 
  Although some of the most complex gameplay you'll probably ever see in an RTS, you'll definately 
 want to find the time to play this game and learn the in's and out's of the 18 different usable 
 nations. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Unfortunately, we have nothing revolutionary in this catagory. Not all is lost though -- you still 
 get above average graphics with this game. If a sequal was ever made (not counting the expansion) 
 something they might want to work on a little bit more are the combat animations, because at times 
 they can seem a bit bland. 
  
  Sound:
  
  Sound was decent, to say the least. There have definately been better voice overs, as well as special 
 sound effects in other RTS games. Sound is important to set an atmosphere, and that is something 
 crutial that this game lacks a bit in. 
  
  Value:
  
  You will get a lot out of this game, as it has a lot of replay value, and it's just simply worth 
 the time. You'll spend time learning each of the nations for sure, as well as engaging in a lot 
 of skirmish matches against computers. However, you'll definitely want to check out the single-player 
 campaign. It is very fun, and gives you a risk-esque virtual board in which to play your matches. 
 
  The reason it cannot get a 10 for value is because the online community is dying. This should seem 
 like a bigger loss than 1 point, but really Rise of Nations is great any way because it is a very 
 versatile game. I personally find more fun playing friendly matches with friends than going head 
 to head online with some random person -- but that's just me, and by no means is this game bad 
 online. 
  Another great use for this game is LAN parties. Nothing feels better than astounding some friends 
 as they watch you colonize an entire map while spanning through 6 000 years of history. 
  Bottom line is that even with a decaying online community, you get a lot out of this game. 
  
 
  In conclusion...
  
  Overall, I think this game definitely deserves that superb rating I gave it, and it really means 
 something coming from a very picky RTS fan like myself. All this game really needed was more time, 
 so they could perfect some important aspects, such as setting an atmosphere with better sound. 
 This game is a classic, and if you're a gamer looking to increase your skills, get a good RTS, 
 or even get a gift, this game is superb.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DumassBarb
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 17, 2005 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This is an RTS that did a few things different. The resourse gather rate system was probly the 
 best part about this game. Less micromanagment is always a good thing. The technology tree was 
 very nice to advance in and the bordering of your cities was really cool. Recomended for any RTS 
 player. Recomended for any RTS player. Recomended for any RTS player. Recomended for any RTS player. Recomended 
 for any RTS player. Recomended for any RTS player. Recomended for any RTS player. Recomended for any 
 RTS player. Recomended for any RTS player. Recomended for any RTS player. Recomended for any RTS player. Recomended 
 for any RTS player. Recomended for any RTS player. Recomended for any RTS player. Recomended for any 
 RTS player. Recomended for any RTS player. Recomended for any RTS player. Recomended for any RTS player. Recomended 
 for any RTS player. Recomended for any RTS player. Recomended for any RTS player. Recomended for any 
 RTS player. Recomended for any RTS player. Recomended for any RTS player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmax32222
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Now I bought this game on its release date and it probably wasn't early enough. I have played this 
 game a lot and I plan on playing more. After playing the newest big time competitors of RTS's: 
 Age of Empires III and Warhammer 40K probably being the most prestigious of late I have decided 
 neither are still as good as Rise of Nations. 
  First of all the resource gathering in this game is great, compared to most games as I adore steady 
 streams. And you have a cap on resources that you currently increase during the game which is a 
 very good idea. Not only for new players because they'll know they have to increase resource getting 
 after but for expierenced players so they can't rush ahead in resources right off the back. (They 
 still can compared to new players of course)
  Technolagy upgrades are very importent in this game and without them you will NOT win against non-easy 
 computer oppenets or any other real person. This also means you must build many buildings in each 
 city. Which brings me to cities. In most games you want to make as many town centers as possible 
 but sometimes its hard and sometimes you might not even want to (Protoss in Starcraft) but in Rise 
 of Nations, you have to. You must build many cities because you can only put a certain number of 
 buildings per city. This really makes your civilization seem like a civilization. 
  Now to my favorite part of the game: combat. In this game you will see some of the biggest combat 
 around but certainly the best. It's just like real life and you need strategy to win. Flanking 
 and getting up on hills do more damage. 
  So if you want the best RTS game on quality of gameplay not graphics get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcoholhamster
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:54 pm PT
Review:  although this game is very like AOE, it brings a lot of new concepts to the table. i quite enjoyed 
 it, although the campaign is not a story mode, which i didnt like. the game is great up to about 
 the industrial age, and then it gets repetitive, with all the different civilisation's units becoming 
 the same, or very similar.
  be that as it may, for a game of its type, rise of nations manages to remain engaging in the quick 
 battle mode, or whatever it is called, which alot of games of this type arent able to do. usually 
 i stop playing once i have finished the campaign, but rise of nations has good longevity, and perhaps 
 it hasnt quite got the recognition it deserves.
  
  the music does get annoying tho...
  
  9.1 spuds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redrobodragon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 6:36 pm PT
Review:  You can experience all sorts of new things in this game that you dont see in other strategy games. 
 Its made in 2003 * (not sure but approximate) and its is still competible with empire earth two, 
 infact I like this game better than that (I have both games) . This game is a mix of civilizations 
 3 and age of empires. You can almost see both games in it. The graphics are much better than both 
 those games. There is only 1 STRATEGY game that I preffere and thats age of mythology. ( my overall 
 favorite is unreal tornament 2004, make sure u dont miss that 1 either!)
  
  MOST GAMES ARE ONLY GOOD FOR A PERIOD OF TIME AND THEN THEIR NAMES IS DELETED FROM YOUR MIND. BUT 
 THERE ARE SOME GAMES THAT JUST NEVER DIE AND THIS GAME IS ONE OF THEM. INSTANT CLASSIC!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller17
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 4, 2005 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Rise of nations is a great game, because of a lot of things that make it one. First there are a 
 large number of civilizations to start with, which are more than ordinary games. After that, each 
 civilization has its own types of buildings and special units, which adds depth to the game. Next, 
 the graphics are quite good, and the gameplay is fun. 
  You will continue to play this game many times before you start to get tired from it, which won't 
 be until a while after. The sound effects are quite good, and the conquer the world campaigns are 
 awesome. Overall this game is quite extrodinary.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glentel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best game I've played since Starcraft. The graphics and the music in the game 
 are great. The gameplay is the strongest point of this title... there's a good learning curve and 
 the more you play and learn, the more you like it! The AI of the opponents in single-player mode 
 is pretty good too. I've never played it in multi-player mode but I will in the coming months.
 
  
  Another great thing about this game is that you don't need a big gaming rig to play it.
  
  To resume, it's a superb game from Microsoft and like I said in the title of my review... I 
 can't get bored by this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjj014
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  This is definitely the most intense and exciting strategy games I have ever played. In the first 
 age you like "aw this is just gonna be another one a those boring strategy games where the units 
 just sit around and hit each other with swords and spears." Then you get to the next age and its 
 about the same, just a little more entertaining. Then the next age starts to get pretty fun because 
 it's time period is close like WW I, so you can make a stupid little Bi-Planes to fly around and 
 shoot little people from the air. The next age is around WW II, and then you can start getting 
 pretty serious about an air force because you can make more advanced fighters and bombers. Then 
 the next age gets really exciting because you can make nukes and short ranged missiles, cool tanks 
 and people, and really nice fighters and bombers that can travel for a pretty long ways before 
 having to turn around and re-fueling. In this age you can also make stealth bombers so that anti-air 
 weapons cant hit them.
  The bad thing about this game  I lent it to one of my  
 I don't think I'm getting it back ; (
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cItYoFtHeDaMnEd
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:17 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is an amazing rpg. The game contains all the major nations of history, you can 
 choose from what age you want to be a part of. Fulfill your objective of protection, infiltration, 
 or total war. The game is a blast the entire time you have it. The game never gets boring ever, 
 period. The game also has an amazing online version, with tons of terrain and difficulty options. 
 This game rocks out loud. The only thing that i wish they had in the game is the history changing 
 option. In some rpg`s, such as Civilizations, you can change the course of history. Pretty fun 
 feature they could have added. Still an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 200163796
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 26, 2005 3:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Its my favorite RTS game so far. It has two dozen civilizations and tons 
 of units. The graphic is outstanding for a none 3D game and the units movement shows great detail.
 
  It is a RTS game and plays like other game of its kind with few exceptions. First, you do have 
 to researce tech to advance in age. The tech is also needed to build more cities, which acts like 
 a town center or structure that makes resource-collecting units. Also, the tech lets you build 
 more units and caravans. Caravans collect, or make, gold. The game has eight time periods from 
 ancient to now. The civilization includes Koreans, Romans, French, British, Bantus, Mayas, and 
 many more. My personal favorite is French. Their Supply Wagon units can heal friendly units, and 
 the unique units, which are cavalry, are very useful during the Gunpowder and Enlightenment age. 
 
  A key to success in this game is using hot keys and being quick. We also have to be able to balance 
 your units in your army in order to win any battle. This is not really a kind of game that makes 
 you think. The battles are won by starting the game with a definite strategy that will make you 
 a winner. This is game for casual fans and RTS fans. If you are a RPG fan, you should download 
 the demo located at the download section of this website. The demo introduces on most of the gameplay, 
 graphics, sound, and wether or not you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLaskowski
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:30 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome strategy game. I was debating between this and an EA role playing game, I forget 
 which one now, and everyone I talked to said this game was far and away better. It is a very immersive 
 game, you just don't even notice the time go by, you play scenario after scenario. It is very creative 
 with the different skills for each nation, which make it interesting. I like how you can take completely 
 different strategies and still be successful. The gameplay is great, how you go from time period 
 to time period, advances in your technology is awesome. It is just a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2005 11:26 am PT
Review:  Real-time strategy games have been around for along time. And there have been many superb ones 
 like Age of Empires, Age of Mythology, and Civilization. Which were all pretty much perfect games 
 of there genre. But, now there is a new game to dominate the genre. And thats Rise of Nations. 
 There is really nothing to complain about in this game except for a few minor problems that don't 
 interrupt your experience in any way. If your a fan of real-time strategy games, and you have a 
 good enough computer to run this game, then you owe it to yourself to get this game. It's that 
 good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pehota
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:50 am PT
Review:  Rise of nation is one of the greatest strategies ever made! The game idea is awesome, you can choose 
 many nations to play; and every nation is special. You can use nation speciality for your own adventage. 
 You can build alliences, make wars or peace. Trade and develop your nation to highest level of 
 intelligence.
  
  The grafics is good, as an example, you can see how a soldier load the gun before he will open 
 fire. Every detail is shown, even soldier's clothes are very detail.
  
  Game need some memory space in you computer and also you need at least 256MB DDR Ram! and 128 mb 
 Video card like Ge Force FX 5500 or higher for best game play. 
  
  I have not seen many buggs in game, only during loading saved game some buggs might come up, so 
 i advise you to download update patch .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zim909
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is an insanely good game. Created by Big Huge Games, this game is essentially a 
 re-built Age of Empires that extends out of the age of Swords and arrows. This game is, simply 
 put, awesome. If you're into RTS at all, you'll love this.
  
  While it has it's similarities to Age of Empires, it also has it's differences. Rather than researching 
 everything at the buildings that you need, which you still do most of, you can now build a library 
 in your city within which to research the progression of the ages and the military, civic, commerce, 
 and science research you need.
  
  Also, now, as you progress through the ages, you have to gain new resources. for instance, when 
 you get into the Classical Age (the second age) you must build mines near mountains and universities 
 near cities, one to collect metal, a needed resource for all things military, and knowledge, needed 
 for library research. and also, as soon as you hit the industrial age (age six) you need to start 
 gathering oil. You don't just stick with the food, gold, wood, and rock you get in age of empires, 
 in this you get food, gold, wood, metal, knowledge, and oil. 
  
  also, you can now get to the ages of stealth bombers and aircraft carriers we know today, not just 
 the ancient sword-shield and bow-arrow method as used in age of empires
  
  the strategy portion of the game is amazing. Rather than building transports at a dock, all you 
 need is the dock, and if you order someone into the water, they just make their own transport in 
 an instant. no population limit space wasted on transports. Also, speaking of population limits, 
 you're not just limited to one citizen or military unit per one population space, now you can build 
 three per population limit space, and these three stick together in one battalion, so an army of 
 forty battalions would be like 120 men rather than just forty.
  
  Again, if you like RTS games, BUY THIS NOW!!! It's simply amazing. You won't regret it. sometimes 
 it can get confusing, so even if you're a really experienced fan of Age of Empires, do you know 
 how do use submarines and planes? you should probably do the tutorial rather than rushing into 
 a battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gin_maiden
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 3, 2005 9:41 am PT
Review:  everyone who played age of empies will get right into this game. the game feels little like a age 
 game. is just lke any other RTS out there where you get wood, gold, food, and some other stuff 
 that u dont find in the other RTS games.
  
  the game starts by u choosing a country to play with ( there are many countries to choose from) . 
 after u choose a country u go and conqure the world. u can invade other countries or make allies 
 with them or they can invade you
  but the game is little more deep then that. when u invade other countries you have time limit to 
 invade them, so you won't take 30 hours to invade a country.
  
  when you go and attack you will have a very big army. is not like warcraft 3 where u have a small 
 army.
  
  over all this is the game to get for any RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xwolfghost
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 7:28 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations blows all AoEs and EEs out of the ball park. Giving you a tast of every world it 
 test your skills of all ages to the Modern age. The graphics in the intro are deffinetly revolutionary. 
 Giving you a little look at the ages you will go through it will amaze you over and over again. 
 
  
  The main difference you will notice thats sets RoN from AoE are the cities. They are the main center 
 of your econamy since you can only have a certain amount of farms in one city and other buildings 
 such as the University. You can build more cities by reaserching and building the cities afterwords 
 ofcourse. Another big difference are the villager or the workers. Instead of moving back and forth 
 from your Town center you are forced to build lumber mills and mines right beside the resources. 
 Only a small group of 5 villagers can go in one mill or mine depending on the size of the resources.
 
  Seems small at first but the resources will never run out.
  
  With the cities come the territories. It expands a little out of the city zone area and it is the 
 only area you can build certain buildings in and your cities will make your territory grow outwards. 
 The territory also gives you advantages for your military. If you attack then your troops will 
 get disavantages. 
  
  To capture the cities you have to attack it until the health goes down to its lowest then you can 
 capture it with troops around it capturing all the buildings. But that were it gets hard. If the 
 ememy has enough troops around the town then you have to fight them off in order to get the city 
 while under a disavtage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 28, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Best computer game i have ever played. Nuking people never gets old.
  The expansion pack is also very good. . Replay value is very high. Graphics very good. Sound is 
 defiante especially when in a battle. Confusing at first but once you grt the hang og it it is 
 very easy. The "Conquer the World" scenario, is the main part of the game and is very hard but 
 fun and keeps you likeing the game not get board after you loose a few battles. There is also a 
 "Quick Battle" scenario were you can pick the nation ,maps, and other things. That is not hard 
 if you do not want it to be because you can pick how easy or hard you want it to be. Any and i 
 mean anyone who likes strategy games get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CivroN
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:39 am PT
Review:  When i played this game i thought it was just another age of empires clone but it i not. It plays 
 like empire earth well empire earth is a lot better but hey the gameplay and the elements of a 
 complete strategy game is really there. I played this game for hours and the research technology 
 tree is not that too complex compared to that of empire earth so this game really rocks and it 
 is one of the best strategy games out there. I bet the expansion has more great things to offer 
 and more excitement especially to the harcore strategy gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gyro-ranker
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 25, 2005 9:58 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks, this is one of the few games in RTS history to have not only great gameplay but 
 be fun for any style of person. It doesn't matter how you like to battle there is a perfect nation 
 for you in this one. And to make things better it has AI's who actualy fight back and pretty hards 
 too (at hardest level cheats wont save you from the computer !) . But not to discourage new players 
 it has lower level diffuclties that let you learn how to win in a RTS. However where i think this 
 game shines the most is in all the units there are, there are just so many units in this game that 
 it makes the learning curve just a little long but tutorials will help out any new players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ___ZePhYr___
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  Firstly, if you haven't already bought this game, go and and get it...
  
  Done that?
  
  Good work. You've just purchased a title that is not going to let you down in the slightest. In 
 fact, it is more likely to do the exact opposite, and you will quickly become addicted.
  
  Rise of Nations looks, at first glance, just like any average RTS. But scratch below the surface 
 and you will realise the depth that Big Huge Games have managed to fit into the game. The basic 
 premise is simple: build cities and gather resources to advance technologically and build up your 
 military. However, there are also many new features in the game that set it apart from being a 
 generic RTS slog.
  
  For example, each city you build has its own bounds, inside which you can construct buildings varying 
 from temples to universities, each of which serves their own purpose. These cities then have an 
 effect on your national border. Inside this, all the land is yours to do what you wish with. Their 
 are other bonuses, as well, such as attrition damage to enemy units that enter your area and how 
 your opponents cannot build inside your territory.
  
  I also like the resource collection system in the game. When you need a resource such as wood or 
 metal, you build a lumber camp or mine on the respective resources contained on the map and assign 
 citizens to work there. There are also alternative methods of resource gathering, such as gaining 
 gold from building caravans and knowledge from universities. There are also special types which 
 can only be collected by sending out merchants. These confer extra bonuses to your nation.
  
  Another great thing about Rise of Nations is the huge time span it covers, going from ancient 
 times to the information age. This provides huge variety from the game, as you can make so many 
 different units and buildings.
  
  Which leads me on to the military side of things. There are three distinct categories of troops, 
 built from three different buildings. There are the infantry, of which there are 5 types, created 
 in the Barracks; the cavalry (and later tanks) from the stable (later Auto Plant) ; and finally 
 the artillery and support, from the Siege Factory. There are also Generals and Spies from the Castle. 
 The Generals command your armies and can give extra functions such as marching faster or creating 
 decoy units. The Spy sneaks around undetected in enemy territory, and can plant informers in enemy 
 buildings or bribe enemy units.
  
  There are also many different ways to win, as well as many different custom types of game, which 
 cater to all styles of play. These vary from the traditional conquest, to a victory by building 
 many wonders of the world or controlling lots of territory.
  
  As well as the one off battles, there is also a Conquer the World game mode. Here, the world is 
 split up into different sections and you move army pieces around the board. When you move an army 
 into a territory, it initiates the real time battle. The type of battle changes depending on the 
 situation. For example, attacking a small unclaimed territory could lead to a simple battle to 
 suppress barbarian resistance, whilst an attack on a nation's capital area would be an hour long 
 conquest battle.
  
  The graphics look very polished for a strategy game, and each civilisations units and buildings 
 have very distinctive looks as well as the different units in general. The music suits the game 
 very well, and changes with the situation, from a relaxed tone to an exciting climax when the battle 
 begins. The sound effects themselves are also easily good enough, if not amazing.
  
  The game has great replay value, due to different situations and huge variety, and, of course, 
 sheer addictiveness. it manages to introduce new concepts to the genre whilst incorporating the 
 best of previous strategy games and merging the most enjoyable features of turn-based and real 
 time.
  
  Overall, Rise of Nations is perhaps the most satisfying strategy game you can buy, and you will 
 be coming back for more again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwitdude
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 20, 2005 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is very hard to describe. When you first decide to play it seems like a lot of fun. The 
 controls are exactly and the gameplay very much like Age of Empires II and it appears like a better 
 version of Empire Earth (a bad game) . It even, supposedly, mixes in a bit of turn based gameplay 
 with the trade routes and roads. At the end of the game the battle gets a little too insane with 
 everyone instantly producing thousands of infantry and tanks. You are running out of resources 
 and of ideas to beat back the enemy. The constant attacks make it very hard to micromanage dying 
 cities. Every one is being nuked. Ahhhhhh! I cant take this game anymore. Thats why it is good 
 that you can restrict the farthest age you may reach. There are, I believe (havent played this 
 game in a while) , 7 ages.
  One more thing about the game, there is something indescribable about it. It sounds and is so much 
 fun when you first play it, but eventually I lost interest. I kept coming back and playing the 
 game after months of leaving it on the shelf wondering why I wasnt playing it. The game just gets 
 boring very soon and I dont even know why.
  (The expansion adds very little to the game) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encimedes
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  The good:
  Perfect gameplay combining RTS with turn base combat, a lot of fun, the buldings and units look 
 nice and authentic, the tilt is percfect, large variety of civilizations.
  
  The bad:
  The sound is not high quality, the graphics are avrege, the game could be a little repetive (though 
 it's still great fun) .
  
  Don't let the dissapoiting graphics disturb you from buying this game- you'll miss one of the greatest 
 RTS games ever made to date! The developers created a game that will be remeberd in my heart for 
 a long time, after many other games shall be forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gla001b
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2005 4:41 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is a great strategy game for all of the advance gamers. Each nation has a unique 
 unit, and there is barely limitations of nations to choose from. The only thing I wish they put 
 in, was Italy or Vietnam. They basicly put every other nation of earth but those two. Also the 
 units that aren't unique will look different depending on which nation you have. Once you enter 
 the age that is like WWI and WWII mixed the generals look like a guy driving in a Kubler wagon 
 for Germany, Japan, Rome, Spain and a few more. The rest are like the Allied jeeps of WWII. I recomend 
 RIse of Nation for any of the Hardcore Strategy Gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3dRuM2k5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 17, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  -Overview-
  This Game Is Great Probly One Of The Best RTS Games Out I Mean Its Sad When This Game Gets Higher 
 Reviews Then New Games Such As Empier's If They Were To Give It BFME Graphics This Game Would Be 
 Such A Great Game And Playing It Only Is Like The Best Thing I Mean Being ABle To Create A World 
 And Then Destroy It Or Maybe Juts Live Happy Ever Afther This Game Is Really Great And A Must Have 
 For Sure You Cant Call Your Self A Gamer Until You Have Played This Game.
  
  -Battle-
  This Game Has Great Battles And Real Brings You Into The Eras Of The Game From Rome To WWII To 
 The Future And The Units Are Great And The A. I Isnt To Bad
  
  -Story-
  Well Its Really Just A History Lesson But Its Still Better Then Civilazation Games And Empier's
 
  
  Really A Great Game You Know What Go Get It Now You Fool If You Dont Got It. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: equuleus102
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 21, 2005 5:06 am PT
Review:  "Rise of Nations" has rekindled my interest in Real-Time Strategy games lately. Several years back, 
 I rather enjoyed games such as "Civilization" and "Age of Empires", but as of late I haven't been 
 playing RTS games. When "Rise of Nations" was first released, I read rave reviews about it, so 
 I decided to pick-up a copy. After playing it for the first time, I was very impressed. I am still 
 playing this game whenever I am in the mood for playing a RTS.
  
  Pros:
  -Excellent gameplay
  -Huge selection of nations with their own respective attributes
  -Good 
 graphics (for a RTS)
  -Good multiplayer
  -Large selection of maps to choose from
  -Support for "mods"
  -Takes you through 6000 years of civilization
  -Massive selection of units 
 and buildings
  -Multiple ways to conquer the world
  
  Cons:
  -Sound is a bit lacking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonywalthall
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2005 2:55 am PT
Review:  Exquisite graphics engine. Graphics are flawless, sound is superb, gameplay is off-the-charts. 
 If you love empire builders, and you love real-time combat simulations, then you will be in heaven 
 with this game. Build your empire, build wonders, train troops, evolve your empire through the 
 times of history, gather resources, and be diplomatic or aggressive with your enemies. This game 
 reminds me of RISK, but with no board and no dice. Amass your armies, control them separately, 
 but the AI will blow your mind. You give the orders to an army of say 10,20, or even 50 troops. 
 Then, they do the rest. Tell them to advance to a certain area, tell them to take a certain town, 
 or have them guars and hold their ground. It's up to you. Diversify your troops. Build armies with 
 foot soldiers, tanks, planes, artillery, and supply trucks all in the same, easy to command army 
 structure. But, building armies takes resources, and you have to find, aquire, and retain resources. 
 You can also buy and sell resources or use them to build more armies or even Wonders! Win the game 
 by conquering your enemies armies, holding their capital for a certain period of time, or by being 
 the biggest and most culturally advanced empire. Your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagacious_Tien
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2005 1:06 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is not from Sid Meier or Westwood studios - although at first glance it very well 
 could be. The brains behind Rise of Nations belongs to Brian Reynolds - who founded Big Huge Games 
 to work specifically on Rise of Nations. Before this, he was working with Sid Meier on games like 
 Alpha Centauri and Civilisation 2 - so you can see where it's roots lie. However - different from 
 the turn based structure of his previous games, Rise of Nations has the speed and playability of 
 a strategy title like Command and Conquer - as well as the technology trees and strategy of Civilisation. 
 Brian Reynolds has mixed and matched the concepts of two very popular game series - and came out 
 a winner.
  
  The game actually closely resembles Age of Empires - and they are even published by the same publisher, 
 Microsoft. But the similarities are only skin-deep. The game is very different - and plays expertly. 
 There are 18 civilisations, each with their own bonuses and a couple of unique units - as is the 
 norm. What is different to this title though is the introduction of features that gamers are used 
 to in turn based titles. Things like maintaining a city border - making trade routes between cities 
 and city assimilations are foreign to strategy titles like this. So this concept while new - is 
 already in play in a different genre. Brian Reynolds has stated that while gamers love Civilisation 
 2 - games could last days. He wanted to create a faster paced game that had the features of turn 
 based games - with the speed of strategy titles. He has suceeded in this marvelously.
  
  This concept isn't just a novel feature - it is the main focus of the game. National borders shift 
 according to the gameplay - and in real time. So while it would be easy to just create a few cities 
 quickly over a vast distance and connect them via trade routes - they would still be mostly empty 
 cities - and creating troops to go into enemy territory at this time would be more taxing - as 
 the troops sustain attrition damage. This forces the player to think strategically. You can only 
 build five farms in each of your cities - so you can only sustain a set number of civilians and 
 troops. Each of your cities you will get to know better - they are more than a base for your army 
 camps. Each of your cities can be fitted out with buildings like Libraries, Temples and Universities 
 - making them more unique, and also providing stat bonuses for your Civilisation.
  
  Also like turn based gaming - the player is forced to study the Techology Tree. You start out at 
 the very earliest time periods - but as your cities grow - so does time go by. Learning new technology 
 will give bonuses to your troops. It's a well implemented system which is greatly rewarding. Battle 
 tactics even come into play here. Things like flanking enemies - creating diversions and rear attacks, 
 placing an intelligence mole in the enemies outposts, Using General's to create suprise attacks 
 and more. There are so many tactical options - and you will get the chance to try them all out 
 in the game's epic Conquest mode.
  
  There are a number of ways you can win a battle - such as controlling 70% of the map, or taking 
 over the enemy's capital. Even building a Wonder of the World may help - and these stay on in the 
 battlefield long after you leave. In fact you may be drawn back in to just defend it - as it gives 
 a permanent bonus to your troops as well. The main complaint that could be laid against Rise of 
 Nations is it's lack of a story based single player adventure. Surely this could not have been 
 hard to implement - and its absence is noticeable. However - the Conquest "take over the world" 
 mode is much like the board game Risk - not an all too bad thing, and assigns you to different 
 parts around the world in an effort to take it over. Either by force or diplomatically.
  
  Despite all the depth of Rise of Nations - this is a very easy game to get into. Those not interested 
 in turn based titles - but want something more from their strategy titles will be happy here - 
 Rise of Nations strikes a good balance. Although there are 4 areas of technology to be upgraded 
 - over 8 stages for each - the game isn't bogged down with numbers or useless information. This 
 has more to do with it's interface than anything else. Big Huge Games have done their homework 
 on this - the interface and it's layout are excellent - everything is available at ease. Most of 
 the technology and upgrades all take place in the Library or the University - so there is no need 
 to scout around for different buildings for individual upgrades. This gives the feeling of a clean 
 and risk free game that knows it's players very well - and rewards them for playing strategically.
 
  
  Graphics are extremly well done. Detailed from the individual civilians - to the large cities - 
 everything looks clean and well done. The pace of the game can get hectic, but the game hums along 
 at a steady rate at all times - never pausing regardless of how many are on the screen (which can 
 number in the hundreds) . A 2D isometrical display is what you will find in Rise of Nations, and 
 while you may think this is holding the game back from titles such as Warcraft 3's graphical prowess, 
 Rise of Nations has a lot more going on in the background, and the game would have fallen short 
 if it had gone 3D. Remaining 2D has given Big Huge Games the ability to create convincing infantry 
 and buildings, and also, the minimum specs for the game are low enough that anyone should be able 
 to enjoy this.
  
  Sound is also suitably well done. An original soundtack has been provided - and while not especially 
 memorable - it does draw you into the game. It does tend to get a little grating after long play 
 sessions though. Effects are done effortlessly - with everything sounding as it should. From the 
 sound of the individual clicks when you assign a citizen a duty, to the sound of the Smelter and 
 Logging Camp, and even the units attacking and pillaging a Enemy city, small things make all the 
 difference, and the games sound effects have outdone themselves - it's all very well done.
  
  Overall - this is a brilliant game. Usually strategy titles and turn based titles have sat 
 at opposite ends - not sharing features even though they shared audiences. But Rise of Nations 
 has taken the best of both and collaborated together to create a fantastic game that shows just 
 how good a concept like this really is. Very highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PTYG
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2005 4:00 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations has a unique feel to it. Just the way everything is put together and works fine. 
 A word I just figured out this second to decribe it is crisp. It just has that type of goodness 
 that is... good. This game should last you a long time in the RTS world. 
  
  And now to the regular way i do things
  
  Gameplay - Great, it's too bad that RTS dont have 
 more of a sense of strategy to them, dont get me wrong, they do, but its just not that important 
 in some of the RTSSSSSSSSSSsSSSSSSSS
  
  Graphics - Good
  Sound - Good, you cant hear that many sounds at once in this game, which reveils another thing 
 that bothers me with RTSs, they dont capture the horridness of battle. Like screaming as a guy 
 gets cracked over the head with a blade
  
  Value - As said before this game should last you a long time
  
  Reviewers Tilt - What does 
 that mean?
  
  Thats it, Good-bye
  
  and screw you if you dont like X-Box 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEETDude
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2005 12:15 am PT
Review:  If I were to pick a game that is the most realistic real time strategy game out there, It is this 
 game. This game has an insane amount of detail and work put into it, which makes it nearly flawless.
 
  
  Gameplay - This game is a very well rounded real time strategy. Many RTS games you would find nowadays 
 are all out military based ,or are all out economic games. And unlike those games, this game has 
 a balanced amount of both concepts. Economicaly, your goals are to set up a steady flow of resources 
 and advance your technoligies via library. You start out in the ancient age. A
  
  As you would expect, you have no technologies, and all you can do is gather food and lumber. Now 
 the aspect of gathering in this game is what balances it out from being more economic and less 
 warfare. In many games you have played such as Warcraft 3, you send out gathering units to a resource, 
 and they go grab some and bring it back to your base. Eventually you run out of resources. But 
 in this game, once you establish a farm or a lumber mill, you recieve a steady flow of that resource. 
 Usually you may have to send out more civilians to gather more from larger lumber mills or larger 
 mines. Once you have enough of a certain resource, you can advance yourself into further ages by 
 researching your way to the top of 5 researching trees;  and your 
 Age. You need to research a bit of the first four before you can advance your age. And you can 
 research in any order, and research any amount of each up until you hit the 7th level.
  
  A very strong aspect to this game is expanding. That is the main way to win. Expand and gather 
 all resources you can, since your limited to a certain amount of resource gathering per city. This 
 will also increase your border size, which is your territory. You can see everything in your border 
 and if the enemy enters your border without a supply wagon, the enemy will recieve attrition damage 
 over time. As you expand and advance your borders, you can create military buildings closer to 
 their base.
  
  
  Now here is the other concept, warfare. Building units as fast as you can in mass quanties using 
 a good mix of units is the way to achieve victory. This game sort of uses a rock/paper/scissors 
 idea where one unit dominates this and that, but another unit dominates that unit. This prevents 
 massing out on a certain unit. There are many types of units you can build. There is infantry, 
 naval, air, and nuclear/missile. Those aren't all, but those are the basic combat units. Naval 
 as you would of guessed is making units out on the sea, while air units are built in an airbase. 
 While they may be powerful and can travel over any terrain, they are balanced out because they 
 have limited gas and ammo, in which they go back to their base to resupply and come back to carry 
 out your order.
  
  Nuclear weapons is why this game only gets a nine on the gameplay. I am not saying that it is a 
 bad idea, but I am not saying it is good either. Who ever first develops nukes can win easily, 
 by spotting out their enemies vital parts and nuking the hell out of them, which only takes one 
 nuke. Not only that, but if you are starting to lose a game, you can simply nuke everything and 
 after a certain amount of nukes, armageddon occurs and both of your lose, which I have done before 
 myself, which is all out lame. But this is an interesting concept and doesn't take away anything 
 from the game, nor does it add. 
  
  Graphically, this is breathtaking. Gamespot definitely has some bias or something strange going 
 on here when they gave this game a seven. This is definitely the best looking game artisticaly, 
 ever released. Wierd Gamespot gives WoW a 9 out of 10 for being "Artistic" when technically, it 
 gets a 7/10. Let me put it this way , this game has infinite amounts of detail. How many of the 
 nations look different completely, and how roads and buildings improve as you advance your age, 
 and all the amazing animation. It is hard to describe. The units are pretty much 3D looking, when 
 zoomed in, and the animation they all display is crazy good. This game has so many animations. 
 You can tell that they went with the 2d style with artistic look for a reason, because I couldn't 
 imagine the game looking better or different? They took this graphical concept and maxed it out.
 
  
  The sound gets a 10 out of 10 just for its soundtrack. I am simply in love with the soundtrack. 
 The ingame sounds themselves are great too. For example, when you advance ages, the sounds of citizens 
 harvesting wood changes showing the new tools they use. You can tell in the early ages they use 
 axes, and as they ages advance you can hear them start to use saws, which you can see for yourself. 
 Anyways, the soundtrack though is what I love about this game. It fits the mood of the game at 
 all times and pulls you in.
  
  The value isn't too high in this game. Since it lacks an actual singleplayer campaign, I have to 
 mark it down a point. But amazing skrimishing modes and a Risk type of game is avaliable, which 
 mostly makes up for it.
  
  Overall, this game is simply a masterpiece. It is how Real Time Strategies should be, and has little 
 to no flaws.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcxnickxcx
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2005 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Last week or so I posted a forum topic about good strategy games that dealt with Civil War times. 
 In less than 5 minutes I had at least 6 posts on this topic, and i was very interested in seeing 
 what other people thought on good strategy games for the computer. There were many game titles 
 that came up but one of them caught my eye, Rise of Nations. I had heard from a friend a while 
 ago that this was a good game but i had never thought to buy it. I downloaded the free demo of 
 the game and I thought it had great gameplay. I liked the idea that you started off with bow and 
 arrows and worked your way up to machine guns and tanks. It gave a different feeling than some 
 other good strategy games like Age of Empires had. After I played the demo for a little, I went 
 out the next day to buy it. It was only $30 for the original game with its expansion pack. I thought 
 this was quite a good deal. When i played the real game, it had much more than i thought it would 
 have. it had over 15 different sides to choose from and each had their own leaders such as Napoleon 
 for the French. Even though there are other games that are good like command & conquer, i especially 
 liked this game because for one the guys actually line up by rank and in formation. Overall, i 
 thought that this game was one of the best strategy games period. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadafeig
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2005 5:43 am PT
Review:  I have played many RTS games over the years, including Starcraft, Warcraft 3, Age of Mythology, 
 Command and Conquer series, and many others but no of them compare to Rise of Nations.
  
  What makes this game so great? Easy, First off it has many civilizations to choose from that are 
 all equally balanced and diversive. Foremore each has its own unique look to it's structures. Also 
 the technology tree that the game has implumented has yet to be surpassed by any game. I can not 
 tell you how many choices you will make when using it, to your civilizations strengths. Adding 
 more to the fun are just the sheer number are resources that appear as time progresses switching 
 your strategy. Maybe the best part about the game though is, is its amazing amount of deph when 
 it comes to choosing how you want to play the game. For example you can choose how many resources 
 to start with or maybe your not a rusher so you can make it where the enemy can't attack you for 
 a certain duration of time. You can also chos which age to start in and end in and how much time 
 and money it costs to advance. As you can see the game provides so many amount of choices ranging 
 from before the game to actual gameplay. 
  
  From a technical standpoint Rise of Nations is a mixed bag on one hand you have a game that almost 
 never almost never lags, or has any slowdowns what so ever, but you could say the game doesn't 
 have very god graphics, but who play an RTS for graphics?
  
  Just like almost everything else about the game the sound is also very good ranging from the in-game 
 music or the bombings of planes to infintry guns it all sounds excellent. The only sad thing about 
 the game is its lack of people online which is sad because it deserves better but you will still 
 be able t ofind a game.
  
  
  This is the game that RTS fans have been waiting for and if you don't enjoy I don't know why you 
 even bothered buying it because your not an RTS fan.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdancexyayxnayx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2005 11:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game with brilliant graphics, a great layout and great gameplay. This along with 
 age of empires 2 has to be my favorite RTS game ever. The conquer the world mode is brilliant and 
 has loads of different game types including taking over peoples territories and also defending 
 your own for a certain period of time. This is one of the best, if not the best, RTS game ever and 
 i only hope they decide to bring out a sequal. If you have not played/do not own this game and was 
 either considering it or want a great RTS game then i recommend this one. AAAAA+++++ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhatter_412
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 8, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  What do you get when you combine the best elements of Age of Empires, Empire Earth and Civilization 
 together? You come up with a game much like Big Huge Games' Rise of Nations. I have yet to come 
 across a RTS that is more historically accurate, diverse, realistic, and just plain fun.
  
  So what has Rise of Nations got that other RTS's don't? Well, for starters, the concept of the 
 city is one that most RTS's donnot have. In Rise of Nations expansion is everything and to expand 
 one has to build cities. Cities are sieged by enemies, not destroyed, and can be captured by enemy 
 ground forces. Cities (as well as fortresses) have an effect on your national boarder (another 
 rare concept in RTS games) . There is also a capitol city, which is the key to your survival or 
 destruction. Defend it and survive; lose your capitol and you lose the game. Along with the national 
 boarder comes the idea of attrition damage; your military units take damage just for entering enemy 
 territory unsupplied. This damage is boosted by certain wonders (such as the coloseum) and by some 
 nations attributes (like Russia's) .
  
  Much like Empire Earth, Rise of Nations covers a vast period of time; from ancient days up to modern 
 times (the information age) . But, unlike Empire Earth, these transitions are made in eight, managable 
 ages, not the difficult 15 that EE makes you wade through. Graphics are very Age of Empires-esque, 
 but the gameplay is much deeper than in the AoE series.
  
  Although my experience with Rise of Nations multiplayer has been very limited, I've liked what 
 I have seen. The fully customizable victory conditions and diplomacy settings make this a very 
 enjoyable game to play online or over a LAN. Differing victory conditions include full conquest 
 (must take all enemy cities) , capitol, territory, wonder, and economic. Each of these can be customized 
 fully to meet your gaming desires. Diplomacy in-game is very managable and makes it harder for 
 allies to sneak up and bite you in the backside (but not altogether impossible) .
  
  This is probably the best RTS out there to date. It's a must own for strategy lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2005 1:40 am PT
Review:  At first, I was a bit dissapointed because it seemed just like Age of Empires with a few improvements. 
 However, after playing a few more times, I found a much different and just as enjoyable experience 
 as Age of Empires. 
  
  The interface is much the same as Age of Empires (which most strategy games are anyways) . Graphics 
 are somewhat better, and includes 3 zoom levels. Music/Sound isn't that great, though there are 
 a few songs that are pretty good. 
  
  The amount of upgrades is nothing short of amazing. Of course this means you have to know what 
 your going to upgrade and when or else you'll be lost when advancing ages. 
  
  As said above, there are many improvements and additions in Rise of Nations. Random resources can 
 be controlled to give you random bonuses (cost reduction / resource gathering improved) . Wonders 
 now give their own unique bonuses, much like Empire Earth but with a greater effect. Instead of 
 building a base, you build a city which a limited amount of structures can be build around untill 
 you must build another city. The list goes on and on with many additions, and I must say I havn't 
 found one that truly has annoyed me yet. 
  
  The single player mode is really fun, especially if you like the board game Risk. The single player 
 campaign is much the same as the board game, with the exception of, instead of rolling a dice you 
 play a game for the land. There are a few other differences, but it's too much to explain. 
  
  As with all strategy games, there are many balancing issues (if you compare the game to the 
 realworld) . Mainly the fact that ages have little difference in combat. For instance, most cavalry 
 are good vs. infantry, but it doesn't matter if it's a spearman or a machine gunner. The result 
 is a single cavalry unit with a sword can take down 3 units of machine gunners. 
  
  When creating games, there are numerous options to customize your game to play just about however 
 you'd like. Options such as one that prevents rushing by not allowing anyone to attack untill a 
 certain age. Many new gametypes have been added as well. One such is called 'Assassin', in which 
 you are given a certain player to attack, and when defeated, you must attack the player the person 
 you just killed was supposed to attack etc... It is truly surprising how much has been done to 
 give you the gameplay you want. If you want a simple, quick, easy game, you can have it. I fyou 
 want a long, hard, and very strategic game, you can have that as well. 
  
  If you even have the slightest interest in strategy games, Rise of Nations is a great game to get. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warp_2567
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 27, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Besides Starcraft, Rise of Nations is my favorite RTS as of now. The campaigns are totally cool, 
 and the multiplayer and online makes the value and replayability infinite.
  
  Gameplay- This game is THE king of gameplay when it comes to RTS games. You can form HUGE armies 
 and there are so many different kinds of units and weapons that there are so many different strategies 
 you can do to defeat the enemy. There are five campaigns you can play, and they are all fairly 
 long.
  
  Graphics- Sweet but not perfect, however, the terrain, water, and effects look satisfying.
  
 
  Sound- One of its strongest points. The effects/explosions sound really cool and the music exactly 
 into this game. The music sets the mood for it.
  
  Value- Infinite. The story mode is long since there are five fairly long campaigns, and the skirmish 
 mode is a very great alternate if you can't go online.
  
  In conclusion, you should buy this game if you are an RTS fan. I doubt casual gamers would like 
 this game, so they should try the demo out first. Aw hell, just get the game anyway! Its friggin 
 sweet!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aerdt
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 4, 2005 6:13 am PT
Review:  I was pretty unimpressed by "Rise of Nations". Another AoE clone with more buildings and a few 
 enhancements without the micro-management. The "Rule the world" feature is merely a gameplay enhancement 
 that keeps track about your victory and losses and help you to decide your next scenario. It has 
 nothing to do with a Civ-like feature.
  
  The multiplayer is well implemented, but suffers from the "the one who clicks/builds/attacks the 
 fastest, wins" syndrom and has not so much to do with stragetic thinking.
  
  If you love the AoE series - this game is for you. It just didn't cut it for me, because of sub-par 
 graphics and animations and the less of depth compared to other strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inferno
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2004 7:45 am PT
Review:  Most interesting games seem to bend the rules a little bit, and Rise of Nations is no exception. 
 In an obvious nod to the popular board game Risk, Big Huge Games has woven elements of global-level 
 strategy with its efficient and exciting RTS keystone. Although the over-map portions seem to be 
 a little anemic, the gameplay options they represent are startling to say the least. From complex 
 diplomacy to "Give me what I want, or Ill pummel you," this is a title that has a little something 
 for everyone who loves good strategy coupled with solid gameplay.
  
  The story unfolds as you take the reigns of one of 18 different nations. From there, its your 
 job to shape and mold your peoples future through war, diplomacy, and whatever other means youre 
 able to come up with. In terms of sheer variety, having the luxury of such a varied array of nationalities 
 is a beautiful thing; but not all nations are created equal. Some have excellent bonuses incorporated 
 with them, and others are decidedly ho-hum. However, after conquering a nation, youre given its 
 specific ability in the form of a card, which can be used before any battle  but can only be used 
 once. Youll also gain other cards which will give you permanent bonuses throughout your game, 
 but choosing what nations to attack, and with which cards, is the kind of problem that strategy 
 gamers love solving. 
  
  In terms of nuts and bolts, advancing through civilizations assorted ages is interesting, but 
 the way these milestones affect your game is rather odd at times. Although the game does possess 
 an internal "clock" of sorts that advances through the highpoints in humanitys development (Classical 
 Age, Age of Enlightenment, Industrial Age, etc.) on its own, youre forced to re-research the different 
 components that make up the innovations leading to the next major checkpoint over and over again 
 until the games clock moves to the next age. I suppose its the nature of the RTS beast to have 
 this kind of technology discovery repetition, but there must be a more fulfilling way to do it. 
 As a pure real-time strategy title, Rise of Nations sizzles with excellent unit intelligence, intuitive 
 formation building, and a mess of ways to gain political and military advantages over your foes. 
 Each side seems to be well balanced, and if you play your cards right, some spectacular battles 
 are in store for you.
  
  All told, Rise of Nations is as solid as bedrock. Youre not throwing your money away on something 
 youll only enjoy for a scant few hours, and theres a lot of fun to be had here. And with the 
 addition of the expansion pack Thrones & Patriots adds more hours of fun and more bang for the 
 buck.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skull_kid2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2004 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This game is amazing. It takes a subject matter you wouldn't normally expect from an RTS game, 
 and brings it to life. Rise of Nations is the only game which lets you play world history over 
 lunch. In a typical game, you start as a small village in ancient times, but eventually work your 
 way to build a nation in modern day. That's right, not just a city, a nation. Whenever you build 
 a new city, your nation borders increase. This means that the territory you control on the map 
 increases. The more territory you control, the more resources are acessible, and the harder you 
 land becomes to defend, encouraging you to strategize. In this game, infantry units are built in 
 groups of 3, so you can end up fielding some incredibly massive armies. The resourcing system is 
 fairly basic. When you're in the final age, the resources include: Wealth, Lumber, Stone, Oil, 
 Metal, and Knowledge. They are all harvested as you expect, with the exception of knowledge, which 
 you gain by having scholars work at a university. The campaign is suprisingly addicting, considering 
 there is no story what-so-ever. In the beginning, you pick a nation to play as. When the map loads, 
 it resembles the board game "RISK". You move your armies across the map, one step at a time, attacking 
 and claiming territory from barbarians or rival nations, or defending against attack. You can have 
 2 armies attack at once to overwhelm a territory, but you must be careful if you see that the enemy 
 is capable of bringing in reinforcements. You can strengthen your territories to prevent attack. 
 The main purpose here is to capture the capitals of every nation. Once you capture a capital, the 
 nation will become entirely yours. After a few battles, the world will advance in an age, meaning 
 that the AI will advance with you. The main goal in the campaign is one so ambitious not many other 
 RTS games would consider it. You must conquer the world. All in all, Rise of Nations comes together 
 to be an extremely good game. I highly recommend this to any fan of real-time strategy in general. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsharkhunter
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2004 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9 - Wow, this game is fun! A very in-depth strategy that will get you hooked! A great 
 single player "Risk-type" game where you take over the world. This is better than Age of Empires 
 or Age of Mythology. I think it's up there with Starcraft and Warcraft 3! This game is pretty good 
 for people who have never played an RTS (Real time strategy) before, and veterans will love it 
 as well.
  
  Graphics 7 - Probably the down side of the game, but doesn't affect gameplay at all.
  
  Sound 
 7 - See Graphics.
  
  Value 10 - A lot of fun. You could play this for months and still learn things everyday. I still 
 play this, and I got it in March. I recommend this to anyone who has been looking for a good strategy 
 since Starcraft.
  
  Tilt 10 - Yes, this game is great. I love this game, and you will too, no matter what type of game 
 you're into.
  
  Pros: Gameplay, strategy, and just about everything except...
  
  Cons: Graphics and sound (doesn't matter anyway) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 17, 2004 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Yes, it has its faults. just about every game does. But serious credit is due for RoN for its succesful 
 combination of so many elements into a single game. Key to this games success is the fact that 
 it borrows from the best of both worlds, taking hints from Civlization of managing resources and 
 technologies while using great Command and Conquer style interface and gameplay.
  
  RoN mixes things up rather well, with a wide selection of cultures to play as, each with their 
 own unique abilities. You build up your nations towns, and army, and keep expanding, while claiming 
 valuable resources, establishing trade routes, engaging in diplomacy, and creating an army capable 
 of toppling the world. Its your standard conquer the world game, just with lots of bells and whistles 
 we dont usually get.
  
  The gameplay is smooth; zoom levels are wonderfully detailed, as you can see cracks in the street 
 or zoom out to see almost the entire map. Units react fairly intelligently to your commands, often 
 automatically forming a neat regiment that lets you easily see how many of each unit you have. 
 Action is great too; pretty explosions and intelligent units make it fun to watch and play.
  
  The only real downside to the whole game that i have found is its 200 unit cap, which seems 
 to be microsofts standard nowadays. Other than that the game suffers from few bugs, and is an all 
 around good choice for many gamers, so long as you dont mind doing a little more management than 
 most RTS games generally involve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfidsmarc
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 26, 2004 10:11 am PT
Review:  RoN does stand the test of time. It keeps getting better even after 15 months of play and has become 
 an utterly superb strategy/simulation game with the T&P Expansion. Designer Brian Reynolds has 
 cleverly melded and fine tuned familiar concepts (combining the best of the AOE and CIV/AC series) 
 to create a truly unique, addictive, and rewarding strategy game experience. My favorite features 
 include: the national borders with attrition damage (no game better simulates Russia!) , the numerous 
 historical civilizations with appropriate distinguishing attributes and units, the resources with 
 commerce caps (raised through research) that do not deplete, the really cool units (with logical 
 "countering" capabilities) from bowmen to elephants to tanks to aircraft carriers to cruise missiles 
 to nuclear ICBMs, the simple (linear) but deep technology trees, the wonders that impact play without 
 overwhelming it, the rare resources some of which are worth fighting for, the straight-forward 
 game interface with plenty of on-screen help, the enormity of options (including victory conditions, 
 difficulty, and maps) to vary and balance game play and/or challenge the player (s) , the smooth 
 transitions through a vast historical timeline, the "Risk"-like (but far superior) conquer the 
 world campaigns (greatly enhanced in the T&P Expansion) , and the ability to play real-time or virtual 
 turn-based (given the multiple speed controls and ability to make and implement decisions while 
 paused) . If the sound and graphics were just slightly more engaging, RoN would be a solid 10. RoN 
 is the perfect example of an accessible and fascinating strategy/simulation game that one can play 
 at almost any level and it demonstrates why computer strategy gaming will always be superior to 
 console strategy gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralPatton7
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2004 3:45 am PT
Review:  This game is quite possibly the best RTS you can buy. It takes elements from other superb RTS (Real 
 Time Strategy) games and creates one really good game. Although the graphics aren't top notch graphics 
 are not a very important factor when making a good RTS. Although when you first play you think 
 "Wow! This game is so great, I'll never get tired of this game." this feeling is gone after a few 
 days. The maps seem the same and the A. I. players aren't that smart. You can find easy ways of 
 quickly defeating your enemy. Although the game has an online option this also can get boring and 
 unless you have the exspansion pack there are only about 20 people logged on to play at a time. 
 If you love RTS this game is for you but if you aren't to familiar with the genre, stick with what 
 you know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MACMALLEON
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2004 9:19 am PT
Review:  PROS: Rise of nations is kind of something we have seen before, but still delivers more than civiliations 
 and age of empires. This is game that will have you hooked for more than just hours of your life.
 
  
  CONS: You will later find yourself doing the same thing in the begining of every mission. When 
 you get your army all set up and ready for war... AMAZING. Then you gotta do it all over again the 
 next time!
  
  BUY IT, RENT IT, WATCH IT ON GameSpot!?... BUY IT!!! This game is hot. Hour and Hours of Gameplay. 
 I give it a 9.6 because it is a future classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallipolican
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2004 4:07 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations has proved to be the dream of many CIV3 and AOK players. The reason is it combines 
 the favorite features of both games. When you start building your barracks or shipyard or market, you 
 want to give them a character. I sometimes wondered if it was really realistic to have a nuclear 
 powerplant in the middle of a battlefield. But with RON you have the chance to build your city, improve 
 it and name it. The idea about national borders is also cool because you have to plan your army 
 so that they dont get knocked off in hostile territory before fighting the enemy forces.
  
  The game is superb in terms of details. Try this, select some units and press ctrl and a number 
 you wish to have for those units. Depending on the type of units you have, the force either becomes 
 an artillery, armor or infantry force. For Example you select 10 infantry,5 machinegunners,1 supply 
 wagon and 2 artilleries you have "2nd Infantry". If you send this force away into enemy territory, that 
 force becomes "2nd Expeditionary Force".
  
  These are just small details. From the animation of artilleries loading their ammos to the massive 
 battles with different weapons, RON is for real strategists who dont want to stick to specific history 
 games such as AOK or Ground Control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CitizenKane-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2004 7:33 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is, hands down, the best Real-Time Startegy gmae I have ever played. Eveything 
 in the game is high quality. The controls are easy to learn and to master. The sound is very high 
 quality, especially when you are in a battle. The sound of the guns, the ships firing their cannons. 
 It feels that you are in control of a real war. The graphics are superb for a RTS game. But the 
 most important aspect of a Real-Time Strategy game is the gameplay. Trust me, Rise of Nations has 
 is down packed. I have never seen a more fluid RTS than Rise of Nations. For all of you RTS fans 
 out there, if you haven't gotten Rise of Nations yet, I highly suggest you do so. If you are not 
 a RTS fan, Rise of Nations will have you liking the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: askme1now
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 14, 2004 2:31 am PT
Review:  There are only two things about this game that make it unique from every other Age of Empires-style 
 RTS.
  
  One is the world map, which allows you to basically play Risk without dice. However, the computer 
 either plays with ruthless, predictable efficiency (alliances do little to delay the inevitable) 
 or with incredible stupidity (i. e., letting you buy all of its army-producing territories, then 
 invading its last few territories with its own armies) .
  
  The second relatively unique element is diplomacy. You can make and break treaties at the world 
 map level for a certain amount of tribute. This is handy mostly to prevent them from attacking 
 you, because while they will assist you in attacking adjacent territories, their help isn't always 
 very significant. It's also irritating that you can't help them attack in the same way. Diplomacy 
 is also available in some of the actual battles. The tactical diplomacy was the most fun element 
 of the game for me, juggling alliances and treaties while reinforcing and rebuilding. I was disappointed 
 that there wasn't more variety like this in the tactical missions during the World Campaign. The 
 first couple have interesting, original goals like using diplomacy to grow from a weak city into 
 the dominant force in the area. But after a few missions, you're just doing the typical  
 type missions.
  
  Big problems with the game for me were the weak enemy AI at the world map level, the predictable 
 AI (especially in diplomacy) at the tactical level, and the inevitable Armaggeddon if you leave 
 Information Age enabled with multiple AI players (nothing like having your allies reward your hour 
 of work by trading nukes with the enemy until the counter hits zero and everyone loses. I've also 
 avoided being the loser by just nuking everyone until the counter hits zero) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthius777
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2004 9:04 am PT
Review:  This game is a pretty good mybrid between Age of Empires II, Empire Earth and Civilization; however, 
 that being said, it was not the innovative RTS masterpiece that the reviews led me to expect.
 
  
  The game looks and feels much like the Age of Empires games. It has the same basic interface and 
 feel to it, right down to the tribyte and pilomacy fuctions. It adds many more advacements and 
 ages to progress to, seemingly borrowing concepts from Empire Earth. The tried and true formula 
 of classic RTS titles melds togather in a enjoyable, albeit less than perfect game.
  
  There are three new tweaks (somewhat innovative, but not breakthroughs) that affect the flow of 
 gameplay. The first is the nation boundry. This is something that keeps you from building up a 
 unit production facility (such as a barracks, etc.) deep in enemy territory. To increase your developable 
 real-estate you can found new towns, build castles/fortresses, or utilize the enhancements available 
 in your religion buildings. When units are in enemy territory, they will take dmamge unless there 
 is a supply truck/wagon/what-not with them. Same goes for enemy territory. 
  
  Also to mimic actual national development, there is a commerce cap. Even if you create a kajillion 
 citizens all collecting resources your cap is a set number that can be increased by civilizations 
 advancements, such as currency and whatnot. So this means that speed builders will have to upgrade 
 there nation to have the social capacity to utilize the amount of manpower. 
  
  The third is that citizens do not sit idle when there is an open job that they can see. 
  
 
  My personal opinion is that this limits you to a growth that is more in line with the growth of 
 a nation. This is a good step to a more realistic RTS based upon the nations of the world, and 
 is worth playing. 
  
  So in wrap up. 
  
  Is this better? Yes I do believe it is. 
  
  Is it what everybody was saying? No. It looks like somebody went back in time and perfected 
 Age of Empires with tweaks in boundries/unit management/resource caps to better reflect the concept 
 of developing nations. All in all, though, it is just a tweak in an old game. A good game... but 
 an old game.
  
  There is one part of the game that IS new and innovative, to bad it's not as seemless and fun as 
 the formula they were using for the rest of the game. This new addition is the replacement for 
 the solo campaign storyline. It is a game of RISK, where the success or otherwise of your turn 
 is based upon performance in a... usually 90 minute RTS against the platyer you are attacking or 
 defending from. This would be great exept it seems blocky and un-intuitive, confusing and over 
 simplified in parts and no real goals besides to Conquer the World! Lame comapred to the realistic 
 approach they are taking with the other stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fazz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2004 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is really amazing. Every time I play it, it blows me away. It does such an incredible 
 job in taking all the best ideas from Turn-Based Strategy games, adding its own new revolutionary 
 ideas, and putting it into the quick pace of Real-Time Strategy games. I have had this game since 
 it came out, and I am still playing it. Although the graphics aren't amazing, everything has intricate 
 detail. The cities and buildings have an extraordinary amount of detail in them, and the units 
 look good, too. The music in the game is interesting in that it matches the mood. An example of 
 this is that if you just went to attack an enemy's capital, but they beat you back and maybe captured 
 a city of yours, slow, sad music plays. However, if you just made a successful siege, triumphal, 
 glorious music plays. The creators of the game also do a good job in making the game span over 
 8 ages, from Ancient to Information, with new units, technologies, resources and other things for 
 each age. The online mode is great, too. You can complete an online game in less than an hour, 
 or it could last several hours. I was highly impressed with this game, and I recommend this game 
 to anyone interested in this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgalt
Rating: 4.6
Date: Mar 30, 2004 8:26 am PT
Review:  Is it me or does this game and many RTS games like simply degrade into click-click-click micromanagement. 
 The only time I really enjoy these games is when I'm building my first city or two. After that 
 managing your empire becomes a tedious and time consuming affair where you're clicking on building 
 after building and unit after unit to build one more widget, building, or soldier. 
  
  The only RTS's I've ever enjoyed are those that tell a good story and provide a great interface 
 and top that off with a balanced mix of units and combat that's more fun than it is hectic (most 
 RTS combat is too hectic for my taste) . The last RTS games that did all that and that I really 
 enjoyed was the Starcraft series of games and the early Myth games. I haven't played an RTS game 
 since that I've really enjoyed. 
  
  Granted my RTS tilt is low, but I do enjoy some RTS games, so it's not as if I cannot find entertainment 
 in the genre, but this game just left me flat. It's fun to look at for a while, the sound is great, 
 it's deep with a Civilization like tech and build tree, but at the end of the day, it's not fun 
 because I spend too much time with tedious clicking around the screen to micromanage resources. 
 Furthermore, if I want to maximize efficiency I have to pause the game to issue orders, and while 
 that improves how well I do against my computer opponent, it only serves to prolong the already 
 tedious process of micromanaging the game's many resources.
  
  I'd recommend Starcraft or the early Myth games before this one. The graphics aren't as pretty, 
 but the stories and combat are much more interesting, and those games are simply more fun to play.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaussGoat
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 20, 2004 4:30 pm PT
Review:  On paper, Rise of Nations looks to be a tour de force for strategy gamers everywhere. Ultimately 
 however, it's various elements fail to work together and it doesn't quite live up to the sum of 
 it's parts.
  
  RoN places you in command of one of over 20 different nationalities, in a Civilization-style quest 
 through the ages. The game has solid RTS roots with a "peon" based resource gathering scheme, tactical 
 combat, and a research tree broken into 6 or so paths. The game will take you from ancient times 
 to modern day technology, and covers the major periods of human civilization during this time.
 
  
  RoN definitely has some intersting innovations, and a decent amount of value for your dollar. The 
 game has many, many modes of play, and the multi-player options are well done. The post-game stat 
 breakdown is the most intensive I have ever seen, even tracking the total number of mouse-clicks 
 the players have in and out of the mini-map. The single player campaign is noticeably weaker, and 
 will only keep you entertained for a brief time. The risk-style campaign is a nice idea, but the 
 novelty wears out after the first or second time.
  
  The game also brings some nice tactical elements to the table, including supply lines (based on 
 attrition damage in enemy territories) , a "commerce cap" on resources, and a decent trade/economic 
 system.
  
  Graphically and sound-wise, RoN is winning no awards from this reviewer. It's graphics are simply 
 functional, and while they do a nice job of seperating buildings, nationalities, etc, the overall 
 effect is somewhat muddled. Sound is strictly average, and only the most basic saber-rattling, 
 machine gun chatter, and horse galloping is applied. Music is again passable, but nothing amazing.
 
  
  The first negative issue that I came across while playing RoN was it's breakneck pacing at the 
 default settings. Even avid RTS enthusiasts will be hard pressed to keep up with maintaining and 
 advancing multiple cities, armies, and tech trees while under almost constant siege from the human 
 and/or AI oppoinent. There are options to turn this down, but it is still an incredible amount 
 of information to handle. Even a small 2 player game can see each person mainting the better part 
 of 10 cities, each with it's own citizens, trade routes, and production qeues.
  
  Also at issue is the seemingly "deep" unit tree, which really only breaks down to about 12-15 units 
 per side. Essentially, each age has about 3-4 infantry, cavalry, and heavy weapons. These undergo 
 a cosmetic alteration when a new age is reached (ie, slingers to to archers, arqubusiers turn to 
 musketeers, etc.) but their basic function remains unchanged. The various nationalities all have 
 special units scattered throughout the tech tree, but these don't really add any "special" abbilities 
 other than increased stats or combat performance that goes largely unnotices. Combined arms encounters 
 typically degenerate into a chaotic melee that would seem to rely heavily on numbers vs unit management.
 
  
  This last issue brings me to my major issue with the game; it simply isn't that much fun. Playing 
 the game is almost a chore with the amount of data to handle on a persistant basis, and the grinding 
 attrition stlye of it's combat engine ensures a slugfest every game. While it is possible to win 
 through "peaceful means" by building wonders or controlling enough territory, it is pracitcally 
 impossible to achieve these ends without grinding into enemy territory. The cookie-cutter approach 
 to the different cultures also ensures that, no matter who you are playing, your basic tactics 
 will remain un-changes. Needless to say, this eats into the game's replay considerably.
  
  All in all, RoN is not a bad game, especially when looking at multi-player games of 4 or more people. 
 It simply lacks a considerable amount of polish, fun factor, and tactical depth which keep it from 
 ataining the status of other RTS greats.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dommer2029
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jan 11, 2004 1:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is promising, but doesn't quite deliver. An RTS version of Civilization? Sounds great! 
 But the game has serious multiplayer issues. My home network is three PCs, ranging from 700MHz 
 to 2.4GHz, and even with the two faster machines, the game began to experience more and more lag 
 as it went along. Checking out the Rise of Nations tech support site shows that the game is very 
 hardware picky. It doesn't like all video cards, has problems with some motherboards, etc. Nothing 
 on their site explained my problems, but it would suck to pay for a game and find out that it doesn't 
 like your hardware.
  
  If you're looking for a decent single-player RTS, then go for Rise of Nations, by all means. There 
 is a good variety of units, and a large number of different nations to play. The special abilities 
 of each nation have a real impact on how you play, so there's a lot of depth here. But if you enjoy 
 multiplayer gaming, forget it. Move on to something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezek
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 11, 2004 1:18 am PT
Review:  This game was awesome! Ive been waiting for another good RTS game for a long time now, AOE was 
 getting a little bit boring. Rise of Nations is the game that finally ends my wait. The fact that 
 resources never deplete is a little bit odd, but it makes the game play that much better. And the 
 way in which technologies are researched make technology easy to follow. The "Risk" like single 
 player mode is a great idea, although it would have been nice to have a story driven campaign. 
 Neither the graphics nor the sounds are anything special, but none the game has a very nice look 
 and feel to it. All in all, I would recommend this game to anyone who has a computer that will 
 run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spencerlink
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 31, 2003 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This is like crack cocaine. It has no redeeming social value, but it's addictive.
  
  The only real innovation is the shifting borders as you play, which is actually a very nice 'heads-up' 
 alert for the single-minded player. Otherwise, it's very much like an Age of Empires clone, but 
 it is a very nice one. I've played it on several systems, including one with just a 450MHz K6-2. 
 It is smoothest and most visually rewarding on a good monster-gamer, but it played even on the 
 K6-2 at acceptable frame rates (with lots of RAM and GeForce2 MX-400 video card) except when there 
 was lots of on-screen action. Even then, you are just watching a war movie in slow (er) motion. 
 It wasn't frustrating, just not as smooth and satisfying. Even the tiny character animations are 
 well-executed.
  
  Four difficulty settings make it work fine for the novice to the hardened gamer.
  
  If you're 
 not familiar with this type of RTS, then you should just skip ahead to this one and forget the 
 others. If you've played any of the Age of Empires or Empire Earth series, you will find yourself 
 wanting to criticize this for lack of original appearance, but you just can't hate it because the 
 execution is so darn good.
  
  It's not so innovative that it changes the landscape forever, but it's just almost impossible to 
 find a Big Huge fault in it. The development team can be justifiably proud of the game appearance 
 and gameplay. On the other hand, to quote from Microsoft in the game readme file "Intel 740, 810, 
 and 815 Chipsets: Attempting to launch Rise of Nations on these chipsets results in a black screen 
 followed by a crash to the desktop. There is no known solution." 'Shame on you, Microsoft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheesySnax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2003 1:44 am PT
Review:  Well, just when I think the RTS genre is losing steam, Rise of Nations comes out and kicks me straight 
 in the face.
  
  Rise of Nations is simply put one of the best games I've played this year. It mixes Risk with Age 
 of Empires and throws in some INCREDIBLE graphics to boot. If you're done with the single player 
 mode, just get online and play some incredibly fun multiplayer. Nothing is more fun than demanding 
 tribute from a weak nation. Pay up or die, France!
  
  I simply fell in love with the territory system. Research attrition damage, and other hostile nations 
 take damage for walking on your territory. Sound awesome? It is. I also love the idea of taking 
 a city over, instead of blowing it up. Take their city and watch your borders grow. It's a beautiful 
 thing.
  
  The graphics are great. They're so detailed that you need a VERY good computer to run this. The 
 minimum specs will not work. I run this game smoothly on an AMD Xp 1700 (1100 mhz) computer with 
 1 gig of Kingston Hyper-X ram (Pc 3200, 400 mhz) and a 256 MB GeForce FX 5200 card. I do experience 
 some slow down in multiplayer mode, but nothing so bad that I can't play the game. Units change 
 drastically as you advance from age to age. Buildings change, cities grow as you build near them, 
 and the wonders are spectacular.
  
  The sound is very good. The music got a little annoying after awhile, but the sounds of war are 
 great. From rifles to cannons, the battles sound intense and lifelike.
  
  I would recommend this game to any strategy player. Rise of Nations is an incredibly polished game 
 with some of the best RTS gameplay since Starcraft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 26, 2003 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This Game is somewhat addictive. Though there is no real main quest to this game no real point. 
 They have a conquer the world game but is very long and very hard as you are put against the odds. 
 They obviously did this on purpose since you can use cheats in the conquer the world game. This 
 game is quite excellent online and you will enjoy ours of fun. But single quick battle are really 
 all you can do thats actually fun. With many ages and technologys to get your armys and nation 
 ahead this game all in all is worth playing. Espicially with unique nation units based on reality 
 so its not fiction at all really for you history game players this is a very historically accurate 
 game units wise. From the romans Caesars legions to Germanys Tiger tanks and mg-42s this game is 
 very much worth playing but dont look to be playing for a long time as it gets old in about 2 days 
 or after you tried all the nations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuelKB
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 5, 2003 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say that when I first heard about this game, I was a bit skeptical. I mean, an RTS 
 game that covered all the ages from the Ancient Age all the way to the Information age, sounded 
 nearly unfeasible to me. I was afraid that if I bought this game, my expectations would be too 
 high. Be it a lack of units for each age, or a limited scope in each age, I was afraid that I would 
 find something major to be critical of and would thereby reduce my enjoyment of the game. But, 
 I was wrong. This game turned out to be incredible! 
  
  Gameplay: Easy user interface, smooth running, and definitely quite enjoyable. My only complaint 
 is of the incredible fast pace of the game. I am the kind of player who likes to build up a solid 
 economic base with only a token defensive force, and then build up an army to invade. However, 
 I find that by the time, I have built up a solid economic base, too many ages have passed by, eliminating 
 some of the enjoyment from those early ages. This is especially true for nations where their unique 
 units are from the classical age, etc, because it makes them feel wasted in a way.
  
  Graphics: I love the fact that the non-unique units from different civilizations look unique from 
 each other giving you more of that feeling that you are controlling units from different nations. 
 That was a very nice touch. The graphics were certainly quite good.
  
  Sound: Pretty good. Not enthralling, but still a pleasure to listen to.
  
  Value: With so many 
 different nations, there's always more strategies to consider, and more cool units to look at. 
 Definitely adds to the replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rapidlear
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 22, 2003 8:00 am PT
Review:  What an utter disappointment. I'm in shock that GameSpot gave this game such rave reviews. Firstly, 
 the pace of this game is ridiculous, this game is simply a "click fest". This game does not even 
 compare to games like AOE, AOM, the Red Alerts, Warcrafts and the other mainstays of RTS gaming. 
 I played this game online for 3 evenings before sending it to the dustbin. 
  
  This game is better suited to younger children, who like the action and don't yet have the skills 
 for the management of real strategy games. If you like the balance of games like the ones I've 
 mentioned above, then click your mouse a few hundreds times and curse at your monitor, after a 
 few hours of this, you will have the full experience of RoN, without spending any money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikest21
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 3, 2003 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This is an outstanding game. However The Frozen Throne is better. The main reasons I think so consist 
 of (if these don't apply to you than this review is pretty much void to you) :
  
  1. More variety in FT with 4 different races.
  
  2. While the graphics on RON are outstanding 
 they don't really get showcased using anything (such as the magic effects in FT) .
  
  3. This is my biggest factor in thinking FT is better. Heroes in FT for me just make the game hard 
 for anything to touch. I'm not talking about the "heroes" in Age of Mythology that can do extra 
 damage to myth units, I'm talking about adding an RPG element to the game. If this doesn't bother 
 you then you'll probably enjoy RON just as much or even more then FT.
  
  Thx for reading my review
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wyld
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 23, 2003 12:47 am PT
Review:  welll i have nuthing other to say but this is definately one of the best RTS games i have played. 
 
  wether the graohics may not be the greatest the amazing gameplay quoickly covers this up. the way 
 that tha computer auotmatically builds up your empire and maintains it when entering the later 
 ages gives this game the greatest benefit and helps you take control of other issues in dealing 
 with the game.
  this is definately worht buying and however i do not recommend buying this game if u have not enough 
 time to fully enjoyu it due to its extremely addictive abilities.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asdfpoiu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 18, 2003 9:40 am PT
Review:  Rise of nations takes an interesting view of the combination of Real-Time Strategy (RTS) and Turn-Based 
 Strategy (TBS) genres. The TBS plays like Risk with bonus cards and the way the continents are 
 divided up. Also like Risk, you get bonuses for completely controlling continents. What makes Rise 
 of Nations different is the use of Tribute points to purchase items like bonus cards and defensive 
 upgrades for your territories. Another neat feature of the Turn-based part of the game is the ability 
 to overrun an enemy territory if you have enough armies in connected territories to assist in the 
 attack. Even if an overrun is not possible, those extra armies can be used as reinforcements in 
 the RTS battle.
  The RTS part of the game plays much like Age of Empires, with the exception that the individual 
 cities actually feel more like cities instead of suburbs of the first city. Each city can have 
 only a certain number of facilities, so in order to support a lerge military force you need a certain 
 number of cities. In addition, each territory in the Conquer the World camapign mode will have 
 a different mission, ranging from withstand the barbarian assault over a certain amount of time 
 to finding the enemy HQ with a fixed army without support form friendly cities. The gathering of 
 resources is nothing new, but graphically it is different from AoE in that as resources are gathered 
 the resources are not shown dissappearing. Also, the resources to be gathered have been simplified 
 down to Food, Wood, and Oil. Stone has been replaced with Metal, and Gold is now wealth and is 
 generated by caravans between your cities. Added is the idea of generating Research at Universities 
 with Researchers. The one building type I miss the most, though, are the walls from AoE, though 
 this does preclude a turtling defence.
  The military units are also much improved. Kept from Age of Empires are the barracks, stables, 
 and assault engineers facility (I forget the real name for it) . Gone, though, are the archery barracks; 
 those have been folded into the barracks. Added to the castles are the ability to train generals 
 to lead armies and engage in battlefield dirty tricks, as well as research more tricks. As the 
 ages progress and research is completed, the design of these buildings and the units they produce 
 is changed. It ranges from stone-age buildings to moden factories and barracks. The units are updated 
 based on three types of units in each category (cavalry, infantry, and artillery) , with each nation 
 having certain unique units (such as Bantu Impi and Russian cossacks) . Cavalry and infantry are 
 further subdivided into light, heavy, and ranged units, while artillery is divided into light and 
 heavy artillery. Ships are divided into light and heavy warships, cargo vessels, and fishing vessels. 
 One big naval innovation for would-be MacArthurs is that dedicated transport vessels are not necessary; 
 the Units will automatically turn into transport barges until they get to the target shore where 
 they will turn back into the units transported.
  In my opinion, Rise of Nations is one of the most innovative crossover strategy games around, but 
 does not pass the master of the hgenre, the Total War series. Rather, Rise of Nations carves out 
 its own niche with its innovative mix of RTS and TBS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WilOTheWisp
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 17, 2003 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Best RTS since Chris Taylor's Total Annihilation in 1997. Rise of Nations even blows away Empire 
 Earth, which I felt was much better done than the AOE series. There are many, many reasons why 
 this game is worth picking up.
  
  Customization. There isn't a setting that can't be changed. Don't feel winning by building Wonders 
 cuts it? Remove the option. Every possible winning scenario can be altered or removed. This is 
 nice since it allows you to create the game you want to play the most. Do you like building perfect 
 little cities before the war? Force your opponents to not invade until the age you choose.
  
  The Risk-like World Domination mode. If you really enjoy the strategy behind the classic board 
 game of Risk, then the price of admission alone justifies this mode. Enough can't be said about 
 how unique and well done this aspect of the game is when you play it.
  
  The way the war unfolds is the greatest factor. I was tired of having to find that one peasant 
 who ran off into the woods before winning in past RTS's. You have the option of determining victory 
 based on map percentage you control. This is a great feature and a nice improvement. You don't 
 have to destroy an entire town and rebuild. You "assimilate" your opponents capitol by weakening 
 it to the point where you need troops to finish the deal. Even then, your opponent has a time period 
 where it can be retaken, forcing you to defend your new conquest. What is nice about this feature, 
 is the controlled territory is constantly changing hands. You might be excited about taking a town 
 and watching your borders move to realize you just lost control somewhere else on the map and your 
 border has actually shrunk. The ebb and flow of dominated territory makes the game challenging 
 and a lot more fun than prior RTSs.
  
  Portability. It runs as smooth on my wife's Intel P3 933mhz machine with 384 MB of PC133 RAM as 
 it does on my AMD 1800+ XP machine. Granted, she has to turn down the graphics, but I was surprised 
 to see her not slowing down with large forces of 250 troops. The fact that she hasn't been hooked 
 on a RTS since Warcraft II, says a lot about how well done this game is. We have yet to experience 
 one crash or bug since purchase and patching the game on both systems. Both systems run Windows 
 XP Pro.
  
  Everyone has their favorite style of RTS. Rise of Nations is the first to take the best parts of 
 all prior accomplishments and make it better. Not make it another clone in a long line of the same 
 old game we have been playing for years now. Try the demo, you might find yourself hooked too. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScholarInDisguise
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 13, 2003 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Not even a close second to CIVIII, CIVCTP, or Age of Empires: p
  
  The Good:
  
  * Very easy to learn
  * Great interface (you won't get lost trying to find your way around in 
 this game)
  * Good game for the casual gamer that doesn't like micro-management and just wants to pound the 
 mouse button.
  * Good sound for a game in this genre (whatever that might be)
  
  The Bad:
  
  * Strategy plays little part in this game because of the incredibly fast gameplay. 
 It basically comes down to who can click thier mouse the fastest.
  
  * Way too simple. A ten year old could probably squeeze a "little" challange out of this game.
 
  
  * Doesn't even come close to thier CIV Call To Power game when it comes to the complexity and depth 
 of gameplay.
  
  The Ugly:
  
  * The value for this game is horrible. I might expect to pay 20 dollars tops. If you must buy it, 
 wait for the prices to drop drastically!
  
  * My first impression when I fired up the game was.... What the f**K!!
  I felt like someone just 
 stole my wallet and as a parting gift they gave me this game. The graphics are no better that year 
 1998 strategy games! And I'm not blowing that comment out of proportion by any meens. So don't 
 expect to be visually enthralled with this game.
  
  In closing:
  
  Don't buy this game if you are a fan of turn-based strategy micromanagement games. I can't stress 
 this enough! You aren't buying a CIV or AOE game. This is for a person who spends little time playing 
 strategy pc-games and just want's to kill a few minutes. You would spend less and get the same 
 enjoyment from a MONOPOLY pc game. No joke guys!
  
  TWO THUMBS DOWN!! This is the first game that I have purchased with a gamespot review of 9+ that 
 wasn't worth buying (and I buy on average 4 games per month) . It should have been rated somewere 
 around 5 to 7. With a rating of 9 this game should appeal to just about anyone who enjoys games. 
 Which is far from the case with RISE OF NATIONS! It will only appeal to a small group of consumers. 
 Needless to say, I will definatelly be double checking my pc-gamers magazine before buying a game 
 based on gamespot's reviews! Very, very, very poor review by gamespot! BAD GAMESPOT! BAD GAMESPOT! 
 Just when we thought we could trust you with decient unbiased reviews you go and give us this crap!!!!! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 12, 2003 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest -- I feel like a moron for plunking down full retail price for a game that's essentially 
 just a polished up version of Age of Empires II. I truly tried to hold off on this one -- I convinced 
 myself over and over: "I don't need this. I HAVE CIV III. I HAVE AGE II. RISE OF NATIONS IS NOT 
 NECESSARY."
  
  But just like a tobacco addict, I eventually broke down and fiended out in pure delight on this 
 sweetly familiar, *extremely* polished game. The nicest compliment I can say about it is that you 
 can really throw away your copies of Age/C&C/etc, once you have RoN. No, there's not much explicitly 
 *new* here. (I mean, c'mon, "city borders" only nominally innovates the RTS genre ... all RTS games 
 have used "border pushing" as a gameplay concept, they just never visually demarked your official 
 "national border" on the map. And "wealth" and "oil" are just yesteryear's "stone" or "mana" in 
 new clothes.)
  
  But what makes this so addictive and worthwhile is how easy Brian Reynolds makes playing a RTS 
 ... before I played RoN, I read all the previews and wasn't convinced there was enough innovation 
 to justify this game's existence. But seriously, you can't underestimate how all the subtle interface 
 massaging makes for such a better gameplay experience. Just like life, it's all about the little 
 things. And this one has little improvements in spades. And it makes the juicy part of playing 
 RTS games easier to enjoy -- the actual execution of strategy, trying to wrap your brain around 
 your opponent's strategy, without getting bogged down in the details of micro-managing your empire.
 
  
  What I DON'T think RoN will succeed in, is converting Civ III fanatics to the RTS genre. This game 
 is way too fast-paced (which is perfect for experienced RTS gamers looking for a rush) . But for 
 all those builders who love staring at their huge, sprawling Civ III empires and pouring through 
 all the minutiae data in individual cities and improvements? Forget it. RoN's even faster than 
 Age of Mythology/Empires, where games could be over within 15 minutes.
  
  (But not as fast as C&C: Generals, where a game can be done within 8 minutes. American Humvee rush, 
 baby...)
  
  Overall:
  
  Graphics -- Just fine for this genre. Buildings look pretty and unit animations look cool.
  
 
  Sound -- Gunfire, plane propellers, oil rigging stations, it all sounds cool.
  
  Interface -- Frigging fantastic. This is as smooth and user-friendly as an RTS can get.
  
  
 Gameplay -- Don't fix it if it ain't broke. The best of the Age series, but faster.
  
  Value -- Get this cheap (under $35) or used if you can. I still feel a little robbed paying full 
 price for this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larryp911
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 10, 2003 3:49 pm PT
Review:  After reading the other reviews of this game, I decided to put my two-cents in. First off, this 
 is just another of the same type game of AOE, Civilization, and the like but with a Risk board 
 game style. In this respect I mean that you gather basically the same resources, build your troops, 
 and fight the enemy off while they have more advantage than you do. No matter how you adjust the 
 speed of the game or the level of play, it is unbalanced. Even on the slowest setting, you do not 
 have enough time to manage your resources and effectively fight to defend it. You had better be 
 extremely good at hotkeys or you REALLY wont have time. The level of play at the easiest setting 
 is still far above easy in my opinion.
  
  There are however other options that are different from the norm. The help system is extensive, 
 the explanations of upgrades are done very well, the path controlling is better, and setup options 
 are many. Still it is the same type game for me. Gather, build, hurry and wait. Oh, and defend 
 while the other sides have more troops than you can ever build at the same level.
  
  My advice is to download the demo (demo will not play the Risk board campaign) and try it out. 
 You may find it a better value than I do, which is not much. I played the demo and still bought 
 it but I thought the Campaign would be better than the solo games. It wasnt.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_DZA
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2003 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Rise Of Nations is another great game in a genre full of great games. The Real time stratagy genre 
 has been host to several very good, even great games in the past few years and Rise of Nations 
 is the latest. The game actually manages to take the genre in a few new directions, but nothing 
 that is comepletly groundbreaking or revolutionary. The biggest strides are more evolutionary, 
 and make Rise of Nations a polished culmination of what other RTS games have set out to do. I fair 
 comparision would be to say that Rise of Nations is to RTS, as Dungeon siege is to action RPGs. 
 I disagree slightly with the gamespot review in regards to graphics and sound, I actually think 
 they are much better then the review gives them credit for. However I am discounting the score 
 some in tilt and gameplay because no matter how good they have brought the total package of the 
 game together it still ends up feeling like something that has been done before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnuffDaddyNZ
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2003 12:13 pm PT
Review:  The game does work on 815 chipset because it's working for me. I dont think MOST people would be 
 using the motherboard gfx despite what some negative reviewers have stated. If the game isnt working 
 on 815 then buy a graphics card, it's a simple solution to the problem and it costs less than the 
 cost of the game to buy a second hand one.
  
  And it's worth it as this is obviously going to be the best game released this year. It's the kind 
 of game that will introduce people to it's genre that are normally scared away.
  
  Has this game been done before? Yes, and I'm not referring to Empire Earth which WAS just an Age 
 of Empires clone. No, I'm referring to an 80's game called Mega-lo-mania which was basically a 
 light hearted version of Rise of Nations - and that's a very very good thing.
  
  But it sure FEELS like a new game. It's obviously a RTS game, there's no getting past that, but 
 it does something that goes against what RTS games are usually about. That is, that in Rise of 
 Nations it is very hard to achieve a military victory. Usually there's safety in numbers but you 
 are in for a shock if you think you are just going to rush in with a 15 man army and win easily. 
 This is partly due to the fact that the PC will already have a similar sized army and a bigger 
 one by the time you reach his base. It's the same when you advance a tech-level, the pc will follow 
 soon after if not beat you too it. There's nothing more addicting than building and upgrading a 
 sizeable army to try and gain an advantage only to hear the familiar sound of the PC reaching the 
 same level as you.
  
  Of course then there are the cruise missiles, NUCLEAR missles, attack helicopters and lancaster 
 bombers. It's really cool to see a bomber take off, fly to it's enemy base and drop it's massive 
 payload a few times before returning to base because it's out of fuel. It's also surprisingly neat 
 to see one of your own bombers being shot down by enemy F-16's.
  
  Which brings me to the aspects of the game borrowed from Civiliation. I've already mentioned planes 
 needing to refuel. Remember when you built your first nuke in Civilization and you couldnt wait 
 to unleash it on a size 20 enemy city? Remember when you did release said bomb and the city remained 
 behind and needed to be invaded by ground forces? Same thing here. Even though it's an RTS dont 
 think like I did that you can just build a nuke, drop it on an enemy city in the hope it would 
 destroy it and win you the game. Not here.
  
  Here's the great part. Nukes can only be used so many times, their cost increases with each purchase 
 of a nuke, after the first launch an ARMAGEDDON timer begins. The killer is that if this timer 
 reaches 0 then all players lose. I'm sure this is going to cause much hair-tearing in multiplayer 
 games for obvious reasons - basically if all players have nukes then it's quite possible that there 
 will be no winners, like real life.
  
  Then there is the flucuating market prices. You think that you need oil, and you want to get it 
 by selling off your stock of 20000 trees? Afraid not. Wont work here. If you sell a lot of trees 
 the market floods and prices per unit drops to 1. Prices tend to go up and down too and in a game 
 where it's essentially a race to see who can get to AI these small changes could prove crucial 
 against a similarly matched opponent.
  
  Then there is the resource you cant buy, namely knowledge. To aquire knowledge you need to build 
 universities and then fill them with scholars, and each university holds 7 scholars. But you can 
 only have 1 university per city which means expansion is crucial against real live opponents. There 
 are also wonders of the world of which can only be 1 per city. My personal favourite is the wonder 
 that automatically generates 1 military unit every 30 seconds for each unit you control. In other 
 words it doubles the size of your army over time. Of course when the AI research is completed this 
 wonder will be useless. But in the early going it is very useful.
  
  This game has to be played to really be appreciated, theres just so much to it that I wouldn't 
 be able to do it justice, so download the demo, it's large but worth it and contains plenty of 
 playtime. It's quite fitting that Microsoft has upstaged their major title, namely Age of Mythology 
 with this absolute gem. If I were giving out game of the year awards, Rise of Nations is what you 
 would call a bolter. It's got my pick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madsucktion
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 4, 2003 8:22 am PT
Review:  In short, this game had great potential, but a few glaring issues really limit its success.
  I always enjoy the game's initial stages of buildup, spreading your territory, and minor skirmishes 
 with enemy explorers and raiding parties, this portion of the game is well done. However, with 
 the onset of the Industrial age, everything hits the fan. The units lose their classic feel, and 
 more importantly, those little raiding parties become invading armies.
  This could have been done well, but unfortunately, the game immediately renders tactics a very 
 minor part of battle, because the pacing of the game is way off. It takes far too long for battles 
 to play out, and most often, by the time you have destroyed one army, another is waiting. This 
 awkward pacing only continues as the tech tree develops, and reaches its peak with Artificial Intelligence, 
 one of the final techs. At this point, the enemy can build units tens of times faster than you 
 can destroy them, and it will. This is simply poor game design in this area, it simply becomes 
 a battle of attrition until one side runs out of resources. There are no tactics, all you have 
 to know how to do is click on the tank icon at the factory, set a rally point, and you're set.
 
  The other facets of the game are beautiful though, but the pacing of the game just utterly destroys 
 any silver lining they could have had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moonshadow167
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 3, 2003 12:37 am PT
Review:  If you like war games this is a must buy. I realise there are more ways to win than just battle, 
 but to me it's the most rewarding. the battles are absolutly astounding. Especialy in the modern 
 age in wich most heated battles occor anyway. Stealt bombers, tactacle and nukes missles, submarines, 
 missle boats, aircraft carriers, every modern (and earlier) weapons one could dream for. The visuals 
 and sound will have your jaw drop in fasination without eaven realising it. And the enemy AI is 
 great, and without cheating! One of my wonder was continualy being bombed so I put several sams 
 around it. So they changed to stealth fighters to continue bombing backed up with a dozen fighters 
 for protection. In another game I reasearched ICBM's, and had several, so I started blasting away 
 cities and it's very impressive army. So they started building several wonders and each very well 
 protected. Now this was a game I KNEW I was going to win, however they won through the wonder victory. 
 And this was set at the easy setting! I know I went though a lot of details on my battles but I 
 just wanted to stress how great this game is and how the AI changes to other tacticts when needed. 
 At least download the demo and give it a try. One cannot over rate this game. And I am a very picky 
 gamer. I have been playing pc games since '86 and have bought hundreds and hundreds over the years, 
 this is not an exaggeration, and I have had much experience.
  sorry for the spelling
  Moonshadow167@yahoo. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xyre
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 1, 2003 3:55 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is a truely unique experience. Unlike other strategy games, you are forced to play 
 on a much broader scale inwhich you have to manage lots of things at once (technologies, cities, 
 forces, etc.) . At the same time, you don't have to be a strategy expert to play this game. The 
 tutorial scenerios give you a lot of basic information to get you started right away.
  
  The graphics aren't something to bow down to, though. Using a 2D engine, on the other hand, gives 
 you the ability to have lots and lots of units on the screen at any time without major framerate 
 decrease. Another thing that makes this game well worth the purchase is the military you can build. 
 Each unit has its strengths and weaknesses, so you must build your forces based on what you know 
 about the opponent, which makes for a pretty cool effect when you watch the game again. The music 
 in the game is wonderful, immersing you in the game, and it changes as you progress through the 
 ages, which is nice.
  
  Rise of Nations is definatly worth buying, there is noone other like it, and it provides hours 
 of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 1, 2003 8:32 am PT
Review:  Terrain doesn't matter as a tactical consideration, which is very disappointing. So putting archers 
 on the crest of a hill doesn't give them any bonus that I can see. It feels like you are playing 
 the game on a flat 2D plain with the illusion that there are hills and valleys. Troops do need 
 to maneuver around trees and water but that is about all you have to consider regarding terrain. 
 
  
  Then there is the alarming fact that are no walls that you can build. You can build towers and 
 later on fortesses, but that is it -- no walls or gates. What this means is that you are forced 
 to play an offensive game at all times since there are so very few defensive options.
  
  The game is fine as a real-time strategy game I suppose, but as a tactical game it 100% lacks. 
 The technology tree looks interesting but in practice there are very few technologies that are 
 truly different between the different nations, so all nations tend to use the same technologies. 
 
  
  The game would have been much better if the nations were more unique and if there was terrain that 
 figured in combat. I still can't believe you can't set up walls in this game!!
  
  Anyone who is looking for a faster-paced Civilization will be sorely disappointed by this RTS game. 
 That's all that this game is -- another RTS game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 1, 2003 4:12 am PT
Review:  This is the best RTS game that I have played to date. The game play is challenging, enjoyable and 
 well thought about by the designers of the game. The graphics and sound are both excellent. I like 
 the fact that there are silly cinematics before going into a single player game. There are however 
 a lot of statistics and the game very extremely customizable. The ability to control the speed 
 at which the CPU operates is nice when learning the game and would be an aid to those new to RTS. 
 There are multiple difficulty levels that allow you to learn the game and then progress to more 
 challenging games later. Overall this is an awesome game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ackbar
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2003 5:01 am PT
Review:  Technically, this game is far from being inventive, but also far from being too demanding. The 
 game takes place in highly detailed 2D environments. This also makes it possible to have huge number 
 of units on the field. The developers obviously wanted to make the battles look as spectacular 
 as possible (given the technology) . When you produce an infantry unit, three soldiers will appear 
 in stead of one. They will act as a single soldier, but their number will improve the very appearance 
 of a battle. The precise representations of all objects and the several levels of zoom convinced 
 me that this game doesn't need 3D at all.
  
  Rise of Nations takes the best solutions from all of its predecessors and merges them into a great 
 game. Good economy model - complex yet not too demanding; 
  
  The sound is just as excellent as the rest of the game. Airplane engines sound better than in some 
 simulations I played, and the rich background music will adapt to the situation on field.
  
  The computer controlled citizens and soldiers act pretty good. The enemy won't simply rush 
 at you; he will rather try to surround you and tend to use the most efficient of his units at it. 
 As soon as you relax for a moment, you know you can expect to see its counter attack which can 
 often turn the tides of war. As for controlling your citizens, you can freely set the controls 
 to automatic.
  
  The game has all the characteristics of a commercially successful title of the genre: unit versatility, 
 a good combat system, and adaptability will be a reward to anyone who takes his time to get into 
 this game's ropes. Still, the popularity of a certain title is influenced by a number of things 
 out of the developer's scope; only time can tell how successful this title will be on the market, 
 and thus fully use its potentials.
  
  As for me, I fully enjoyed the game, and even my criticism wouldn't be this harsh if I hadn't had 
 overly high expectations for the game in the first place. In any case there is still room for improvement 
 in the turn-based segment, and I sure hope the guys at Big Huge Games realize this and make Rise 
 of Nations 2 a true classic and role model for future games.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trust_No_One
Rating: 1
Date: May 28, 2003 7:23 pm PT
Review:  If the game worked it might be a good game. However, the game does not work with a number of chip 
 sets found on many mother boards. Quote from Microsoft in the game readme file "Intel 740, 810, 
 and 815 Chipsets: Attempting to launch Rise of Nations on these chipsets results in a black screen 
 followed by a crash to the desktop. There is no known solution." Really great Microsoft. How many 
 mother boards are out there using the 815 chipset - thousands. Yet this game was released for sale 
 with this known defect for which there is no solution and of course not printed on the box where 
 one could see the problem prior to purchase. Beside the above problem there are problems with many 
 of the best know vidio cards. Shame on Microsoft for placing such a game with said know problems 
 and no know fix on sale. Also shame on gamespot who made no mention of this problem with such a 
 wide spread impact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kael
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 28, 2003 4:54 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this game is the latest evolution of the Age of Empires/Mythology series. The graphics 
 are decent and seem to improve after downloading the latest patch by connecting to multiplayer 
 within the game. The gameplay continues where the rest leave off, allowing the player to keep upgrading 
 all the way to the 20th century including tanks, jets, and nuclear missles. The concept of national 
 borders and attrition damage in the game are fun, and there are multiple victory conditions possible.
 
  
  Overall the game is still a typical RTS race to destroy the other players by building as many units 
 and upgrades as possible, without much emphasis put on strategy. I personally would have liked 
 to seen more strategic options where it would be possible to sit back and think about your next 
 plan of action without having to worry about massing units faster than the other guy. Unfortunately 
 it's not possible to go for a completely civic, economical, or scientific society in a standard 
 game because in the end it all comes down to your opponent destroying all your hard work with their 
 military units.
  
  An unfortunate aspect of the game is that units don't have any particular special abilities as 
 they progress in technology. For example, an archer in the early ages can upgrade to a rifleman/machine 
 gunner in the later ages, but the only difference between the two is how much damage they cause. 
 In "real" life, a machine gunner could probably take down a whole army of sword-wielding infantry 
 and even a decent size of cavalry all on his own, but in Rise of Nations a machine gunner has to 
 shoot a single cavalry for quite a while before it finally dies, and in the mean time the cavalry 
 can be damaging the machine gunner with his sword or lance. Swords can somehow damage tanks, too. 
 Unfortunately this eliminates what could have been a fun and interesting strategy to out-tech your 
 opponent and fight his army of 1000 swordsmen with a handful of tanks or missle launchers.
  
  To sum it all up, if you like the Age of Empires/Mythology games then you'll probably like 
 the improvements that come with Rise of Nations and it will be worth the money. But if you've been 
 unhappy with the limited focus (i. e. mass units) of modern RTS games then you'll be dissapointed 
 with Rise of Nations as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adlerson
Rating: 3.2
Date: May 28, 2003 9:31 am PT
Review:  It's somewhat pretty, but that's about it. The thing is, it's all been done before. There is nothing 
 new here, nothing that we haven't seen a million times before, be it Age of Empires, WarCraft, 
 Civilization, Command & Conquer, etc. etc. etc.
  And what is so typical of games like these they're overly hyped even before they're released. Makes 
 you wonder just how much MS spends buying reviewers lunch.. 
  If you want to follow the flock and drool on command by all means go for this game, but if you 
 want a truly good game I suggest you spend your money on something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montana
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2003 2:00 am PT
Review:  Played the demo for about an hour and was hooked. Went out and plunked down my moola for the full 
 retail version.
  
  The game has many enhancements that take to boredom and tedious aspects out of the typical strategy 
 game. You dont run out of resources and your scout actually scouts out the map not getting killed 
 every time he wanders to close to an enemy unit. Your scout will tell you when he runs across a 
 resource and then pin points it on the map. There are many of these little things that makes 
 RoN really rise not just above nations but rise above just about any other RTS/TBS the I have played.
 
  
  Not bragging but I have played just about all of them.
  
  Great game  way to go Big Huge Games!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIEnTEEZ
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 27, 2003 8:43 am PT
Review:  There are some really good and interesting new concepts here that are definately worthwhile. The 
 national borders in particular are a great way to beat the problem of rushers. 
  But this game seems to have extremely limited reply value. Every battle is essentially the same. 
 There are lots of different options to choose from in the game, like which civilization to play 
 and the box boasts hundreds of units, but the reality is that they are all pretty much the same. 
 They all look the same, they all do the same things. Which civ you play gives you some minor bonuses 
 and some unique units, but even the unique units are basically just slightly upgraded versions 
 of the same old units that everyone else has. Even advancing through the ages doesn't really change 
 much. the units appear different, but they don't really DO anything fun or interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowmark
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 26, 2003 4:29 pm PT
Review:  If you are only buying this game to use it mutliplayer than it deserves an eight rating but the 
 single player games are horrible. The "Conquer the World" campaign is one of the most poorly written 
 games I have ever seen. It is possible to do on the easiest setting but on the even setting you 
 are outnumbered in battle 17 to 1 with the max resources you can build. Really a bad bit of programming. 
 On the plus side, graphics are nice and the game is free from bugs but it certainly makes you play 
 at its pace and not your own whether that is slow or fast. Overall definitly not a 9.3 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neoscang
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 24, 2003 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I got the Beta test for this game. When i opened it I found a treasure. this game captures the 
 escence of age of empires but blends it with almost a generals sort of feel. now i really didn't 
 care for generals but where that game failed, this game triumphs. the Wonders dont just look cool 
 anymore, you actually get stuff from them, like the training camp, every two minutes you get a 
 new set of army. the thing that is so cool though, is that you can fight the primative species 
 with tanks and nukes all at the same time taking on the Shogun warriors! this game is a fun experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davideo
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 23, 2003 8:36 pm PT
Review:  If there was one thing negative I could say about this fantastic title is that the maps seem just 
 a tad too small. Other than that I think it's one of the best RTS games ever released. The resource 
 collection/use system is top shelf. It throws a little Civ, a little AOM, and a little AOE's into 
 the whole mix. I really like how the knowledge system works. Another very cool feature is how you 
 capture a city and have to assimilate it, opposed to just marching in and it's yours. Very similar 
 in nature to Civ how you have civil disorder for a while and then gradually things quiet down. 
 Kudos to Brian Reynolds and the gang. Put more stuff like this out... soon!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fish007
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2003 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best RTS that I have ever played. It completely blows away Age of Empires, 
 Age of Empirs 2 and Empire Earth. I also think its better than the recent civilization games. Also 
 the low system requirements are great, the game runs perfectly on my AMD 900 with a Ge Force 2 
 video card. I would totally recomend this game to anyone who like RTS or to anyone who is looking 
 for a game to try out RTS. Its great interface and skimming down on micromanaging are also big 
 pluses. There are a couble of thing that i dont like the first is the story driven campaignes, 
 I would have really like them because they give purposes to what you are doing. The other thing 
 is that I fell the enemy and ally AI can sometimes not be up to par.
  But hopefully there will be some new maps and hopefully scenarios created soon that will add for 
 value to this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macenthe
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 22, 2003 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is a game I heard about in passing just a month or two ago, and didnt think much 
 of it until I decided to research a little into the game. I was immediately intrigued but also 
 skeptical how blending two strategy concepts into one would work.
  
  I am happy to say Big Huge Games got it with near perfection. While the one player pick up games 
 are RTS only they are steal a breath of fresh air. RoN takes different approaches on almost every 
 aspect of the RTS conventions. For example, all technology upgrades are handled at your library, 
 and unlike AoE/AoM where you only advanced ages you are also required to advance specific technology 
 groups such as military, civics, economy, and science. 
  
  Naturally only certain upgrades become available depending on the age and amount of technology 
 you have researched. What is especially nice is that if you have multiple libraries you can research 
 multiple technologies. Also rampant resource gathering and advancement is curbed by the fact that 
 wealth and knowledge are not the easiest resource to gather. 
  
  The solo player conquer the world campaign is also a refreshing change. It is the turned based 
 component, but is mainly a strategic map for you to move armies, engage diplomacy, and other high 
 level decisions. Only when you invade or are invaded does the campaign go into RTS.
  
  One of my largest complaints about the game is the lack luster graphics. While the game does not 
 look bad and the individual unit animations are nice; the overall look of the game seems a little 
 dated. Unlike its cousin Age of Mythology the environment is not 3D rendered, nor are the units. 
 I believe it might have been more of a technical issue since the game can be very big, as can the 
 number units.
  
  The multiplayer is fantastic as well. Direct IP connect, along with GameSpy ladder games work great 
 and with little to no problem. If youve played and enjoyed either the Civilization or Age of Empires 
 series then you will like this game. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MxM
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 21, 2003 9:21 pm PT
Review:  RON reinvented the RTS games. Right now I can say that there is RON, and there are other RTS games 
 (like AOM, Warcraft, C&C Generals) . But we have played those standard RTS many times, and it becomes 
 boring for me. RON gives a fresh feel to the old formula of RTS.
  
  What I especially like about this game is that due to its civilization roots, the game can be played 
 in many ways. This is the first RTS game that I know, where booming is a very valuable option. 
 In fact if you make a game of AI boom vs. AI rush, AI boom wins most of the time on normal difficulty 
 setting!
  
  Yes, it is still RTS game and speed does matter in multiplayer, but the game, in addition to the 
 normal tactical RTS element, has a lot of strategic depth, which gives traditional TBS feeling.
 
  
  As for graphics, I think they are quite well. Even though the initial impression is that there 
 are games with better graphics, but, for example, modern age battles look even better than in C&C 
 Generals!
  
  It is a jewel of the RTS gaming!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wytefang
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 21, 2003 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Crummy, crummy, crummy graphics... ugh. That's my first impression. I have no idea how Elliot Chin 
 can call the graphics good at the end of his official gamespot review, it's beyond me. Perhaps 
 it's a definition of 'good' that was previously unheard of among the general populace but which 
 means "almost good but not really". LOL It reminds me of Age of Empires 2 with a few tweaks. That's 
 my second impression. 
  
  Overall I'm not terribly impressed. Gameplay is the main thing, and it's important to keep 'the 
 main thing, the main thing' but really this isn't all that novel or innovative. Don't be duped 
 by Chin's glowing review when this game doesn't have all that much going for it...
  
  Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiki-DK
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 21, 2003 11:28 am PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is definitely a classic. It's the best RTS of all time.
  
  What makes this game so unique and fun to play? There is one main reason for this; Rise of Nations 
 revitalizes this genre because it blends the mechanics of real time and turn based strategy games 
 into one. As weird as this may sound, the game does this flawlessly and expounds the gameplay a 
 hundred fold. 
  The gameplay has some really good ideas behind it, the research tree for example is really well 
 incorporated. 
  
  Another thing that is great about Rise of Nations is the AI of the citizens. One of the most annoying 
 things in any RTS is when your grunt workers just sitting there doing nothing. If players assign 
 a citizen to build a building than forget about builder, after they finish they will automatically 
 go help chop wood, mine, farm or repair any building. If all of those assignments are filled, they 
 will remain idle until you tell them to do something.
  
  Nations : Each of the 18 different countries have their strengths and weaknesses. Big Huge worked 
 very hard to make each country different and they did an excellent job. I have already found out 
 that some strategies for one country do not work for another. Nor have I found any huge imbalances 
 with the countries.
  
  The game is easy to get into. There are six tutorials that cover the whole gamut of history that 
 teach you the various units and how to do things.
  
  Multiplayer game : Up to eight people can participate in a multiplayer game with over thirteen 
 different game types to choose from.
  
  Is the game perfect ? Almost. The normal game speed seems just a bit to fast, they really need 
 to just slow down the game just a bit on the normal setting. The slow setting right below normal 
 is well just a bit to slow. And, I can not recommend the game, if you do not have a lot of time 
 to play, because of its highly addictive nature.
  
  Rise of Nations is awesome! There are no other words to describe it. The developers have created 
 a fresh twist to this stale genre and players will enjoy it immensely. Go out to your nearest retail 
 store and pick it up. This is one purchase you will not regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VeXeN
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 20, 2003 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Rise of Nations is a great game but with some major faults, I have been playing the game since 
 the beta and got the marketing gold, I have beat the "conquer the world" on moderate and have played 
 around 40 online games (35W 5L) . First off the music in the game is just plan bad and the unit 
 sounds are just adequate. The gameplay has some really good ideas behind it, the research tree 
 for example is really well incorporated, the waypoint system they use was a really smart idea where 
 your peons will automatically go and gather resources. The normal game speed also seems just a 
 bit to fast, they really need to just slow down the game just a bit on the normal setting. The 
 slow setting right below normal is well just a bit to slow. The other major thing I found is with 
 siege units, if you build 5 of them you can reduce a city with 5 shots which takes about 5 seconds. 
 I don't know where in history you could actually move Trebuchets in the first place, the only reason 
 they have wheels is for the recoil, I guess someone failed history. Since games like AoE and WC 
 lets you move them it's not right, you could move catapults but very slowly they don't move half 
 the speed of your knights come on.. The fact is for a game that's trying to be realistic, it's 
 just way off. It used to take 40 well skilled engineers and about 2-4 weeks to even build 1 Trebuchet 
 the expense for a project like that was unbelievable. The other thing that's very frustrating is 
 someone online can just build like 30 spies and bribe your entire army then turn them on you. I 
 like to know where in history something like this has ever happened?? The fact a spy can even bribe 
 units is just ridiculous. You can use explores to fine spies but the fact is a normal army will 
 have 1 or 2 in a army but if you build a small army and take them out first then you can use the 
 spy tactic you basically you just won the game. In the later ages the game starts moving really 
 fast, you really don't have time to think, who ever gets nukes first pretty much wins the game, 
 I would have liked a feature to ban them from the game. On a good note the game does have some 
 nice multiplayer features like being able to set the age you start in and end in. You can also 
 change how fast or slow, expensive, cheap you research techs. Even on the slowest setting the research 
 is still to fast. The reason I say this is because it seems that you pretty much only fight once 
 in each age.. I would have liked to see some time before you went to the industrial age like the 
 100 year war. 
  
  Overall Rise of Nations is good but not great and defiantly not a classic, it's a fun game, that 
 will have you playing for hours but the fact is with a few smart choices this could have been the 
 best RTS of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AoR_Wraith
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 20, 2003 10:11 am PT
Review:  The depth of this game is its strong point. BHG took a long time looking at their history books! 
 In addition, it appears to me that BHG also did their homework looking at other RTS games and listening 
 to RTS players from expert to rookies and picked up on the features that gamers were looking for.
 
  
  The graphics aren't quite as good as AoM or some of the other titles out right now- this seems 
 to be about its only shortcoming. But the true test will be in its multiplayer. So far the interface 
 looks pretty user friendly and the servers seem stable, but we'll see what happens when the servers 
 get loaded with players (anyone else have Empire Earth collecting dust on their shelf?) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
