-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Risk II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/risk2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  4, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 625 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hasbro Interactive
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Feb 29, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Risk II not only stays faithful to the original gameplay, but it also presents some pleasant new 
 spins on the classic Risk formula. 

 When it comes to computer versions of board games, you'll almost always get a compromise. Either 
 the computerized version no longer plays anything like the original board game, or there's not 
 enough difference to even warrant a computerized release. Fortunately, the sequel to the strategist's 
 strategy game is something of an exception to the rule, as it not only stays faithful to the original 
 gameplay, but it also presents some pleasant new spins on the classic Risk formula.  

 Risk II now comes in three different variations of Parker Brother's classic board game. There's 
 the classic mode, which you play using the rulebook of the board game; the same-time mode, which 
 eliminates individual player turns and instead determines the results of all players' attacks simultaneously; 
 and a tournament mode, which is a series of both classic and same-time games that awards points 
 for completing certain objectives.   

 The same-time mode is essentially a brand-new game. While the mode uses only a slightly different 
 map and set of rules, its differences and subtle nuances are enough to throw off even the most 
 brilliant of Risk strategists. Instead of having individual player turns, same-time Risk is now 
 split into phases. Each phase lets you set up your armies and attacks, then the conflict begins 
 once everyone has submitted their battle orders. During this period of time, armies on the offensive 
 that have yet to attack are considered en route to the country they will be invading and cannot 
 defend their home country. Thus, attacking armies have to be considered carefully, as sending your 
 whole army on an attack leaves your country vulnerable to an attack from a neighbor. In addition, 
 multiple neighbors can now attack one country, giving an advantage to the player who owns the most 
 of any country.  

 Same-time Risk doesn't use the classic six-sided dice; instead, it uses a completely new die rule 
 - the attacker and defender each gets one 12-sided die that has a certain amount of number values 
 on it, depending on the size of the army. There are five ranks of the 12-sided dice, called "battle 
 dice", from white to black. The white die rolls an average of 2.6, while the black die rolls an 
 average of 4.5, making it easier for larger armies to destroy smaller ones. Not only does the color 
 of the battle dice determine how strong your roll will probably be, but it also determines how 
 many armies you'll lose upon the outcome of the roll. While this new system is certainly interesting, 
 it's somewhat one-sided, and it completely eliminates the infamous "Rambo" scenario in which your 
 single defending army successfully repels an attack, even though it's hopelessly outnumbered. The 
 advantage is now definitely with the attacker, as the defender no longer wins a tie in same-time 
 Risk. To make up for this, same-time Risk sports a rule that limits exactly how many armies you 
 can use to fortify certain territories. Unfortunately, this rule is frustrating, as you'll often 
 find yourself with more reinforcements than you can spend on your border territories, making you 
 waste those armies on a country that's not at immediate risk. With all these variables, same-time 
 Risk is a quicker, more ruthless game than the classic version, and it couldn't possibly exist 
 without the assistance of a computer to keep track of all the details. Each of the game's different 
 play modes contains a good amount of options that can dramatically change the play style. You can 
 decide what objective wins the game - from world domination to individual missions. There's also 
 a brand-new winning objective that is reminiscent of the short-lived Castle Risk game: Capital 
 Risk has you designate one of your countries as your capital. To win the game, you must occupy 
 your capital as well as those of at least two other players. There are also three different ways 
 to determine starting positions: You can either go by the book and take turns selecting countries, 
 or you can use "house rules" and deal all the territory cards out at the beginning of the game, 
 randomly assigning countries to players. The third way is a completely new and somewhat painstaking 
 method of distributing the territories. Each player starts the game with a certain number of influence 
 points, which you use to bid on each territory as it's auctioned off. When a final bid is placed, 
 the player spends the points and gains the territory.  

 If you can't find any local players to share the hot seat with you, you can always play Risk II 
 over a LAN or over the Internet. You'll also be able to play against any of the game's 16 computer-controlled 
 generals, each of whom has a different play style. Unfortunately, the generals aren't really that 
 proficient, and a typical game against the computer is easily won.  

 Besides the new modes, there's a definite advantage to playing Risk II on your PC than on an actual 
 game board, as Risk II is filled with great visual effects. There are plenty of helpful views to 
 choose from, such as the globe view or a view that categorizes boarder threats and colors them 
 relative to the degree of the threat. In addition, when you're one of the armies engaged in an 
 attack, the map quickly zooms in to the actual geographical representation of the territory being 
 fought over, complete with mountains, beaches, and actual troops that represent the size of your 
 army. The zooming effect is excellent and never gets old. Little graphical touches such as men 
 who fall off their horses when they're shot, exploding dice, and actual shadowing go a long way 
 to make Risk II more than just another boring computer board game.  

 There's not a whole lot of sound in the game. A godlike announcer will fill you in on certain details, 
 such as when the attack phase is occurring, but there's not much more than that. When you're engaged 
 in a battle, the dice roll will sound like a shot being fired, and if a horse or cannon are involved, 
 you'll hear the appropriate noise. There's no background music, making the game unnaturally quiet 
 at times.  

 Risk II does a great job of bringing new options to the table without compromising the original 
 game. Same-time Risk is different enough to be refreshingly new to those bored with classic Risk, 
 and the classic mode is a great representation of the original board game. It would have been nice 
 to see Hasbro integrate Castle Risk into Risk II, but without it the game still stands strong. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bad_Boyl2
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  The board game was an instant classic among baord game players, who seeked war with their enemies. 
 Supporting up to 8 players, conquering continents, fullfiling objectives, and winning. Great fun 
 at a party. Although normally these games can take quite a while, that is if you play well.
  
  All of this is brought to the game, plus some extras. I'll note if they're good - or bad extras. 
 Risk ll is more than the board game it was before....
  
  Gameplay:
  You would get this to play this agaisnt people, test their skills. You can play this on LAN, but 
 you will need two copies of the disc. Or use a special software which I won't be releasing its 
 name. Also an online feature I beleive, but I wouldn't do that. Same units except the flagman, 
 which is meant to represent REALLY large forces. Same objectives/goals, same map. You can view 
 a map or globe, make alliances, and break 'em.
  
  Graphics/Sound
  The lack of music left me bored, I had to play my own from my music player. Few sound effects, 
 very few. Most them took place in the battle animation if you had it on. These are one of the reasons 
 it bored me fast. The graphics are, of course, outdated at the time of the writing. But back then 
 this was great, so I'll say the graphics WERE great...
  
  The campign was pretty boring though, just fighting harder and harder enemies per tournament. Never 
 completed it at all. Buy this if you plan on playing this with someone else, or forget it. Great 
 party game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liverpoolmania7
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 3:38 am PT
Review:  Risk II
  
  I was expecting much more from this game. The concept of world domination is perfection in the 
 world of stategy gaming but the way in which this game was constructed left far too much to be 
 desired.
  
  Classic mode: Same as the board game with some customisable sections, such as there being a link 
 between new zealand and south america, or the inclusion of certain territories. But thats it really, 
 and after a while you can really feel the lack of diversity. It also doesnt help the situation 
 when there are only a handful of strategies that can be used when playing the game, and after a 
 few games or so, you also feel the lack of diversity in tactical approaches.
  
  Another very very bad feature is that armies of 1, 2 or 3 soldiers can defeat armies much larger. 
 many times have i attacked a territory with 8-10 soldiers only to lose to a string of lucky dice 
 rolls by the AI, that is to say, the AI rolling the dice 5 times, and getting a six on all the 
 rolls, is not as unlikely as it sounds. This for me was the biggest flaw as in reality these kinds 
 of events would never occur, and if they did occur, they would not occur again so but a few turns 
 later.
  
  CPU alliances are also quite weak. you can form the strongest type of alliance between an AI opponent 
 only for them to attack you a few seconds later, which leads one to believe that the alliances 
 are merely there for the players benefit, while not affecting AI actions at all.
  
  There is an alternative to classic, that is same time mode. This is an improvement as it allows 
 for you to invade with more than 1 army at a time, very realistic. futhermore armies that are larger 
 and stronger get advantages in the form of dice. D&D type dice are introduced with weak armies 
 using a white coloured die that has many "1" and "2" sides with few "5" and "6" sides while the 
 strongest armies have a black die that is the exact opposite, with many high roles and few low 
 roles. this very much reflects reality in war and an significant improvement on classic risk. There 
 are also boarder clashes and the whole concept of each player moving at the same time, and not 
 knowing what the other is doing until they have done it, is also a large and very good improvement 
 on classic risk.
  
  overall the game is not overly great, not bad if you can get it for a bargain, but i wouldnt go 
 out and and buy this game and expect to be playing it a week later. its ok at first but after a 
 few sittings the flaws overwhelm the good aspects of the game and you come to see it is really 
 more of a game to be played with friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted to conquer the world without getting in trouble, Then this is the game for you. The 
 graphics are decent for a board game adaptation. The ability to speed up the game speed means you 
 can enjoy this usually lengthy game and be done before you know it. The game has new game modes 
 that had a new spin on how to win. You can play against a huge number of opponents but i usually 
 make it a 3 player game. You can also save your game and continue at the same point later. You 
 can probably get this game from a bargain bin so if your tight on cash then this is a cheap option 
 to keep yourself occupied. This game delivers exactly what you expect. Simple fun if you enjoy 
 playing risk. Im gonna give this a 7.5 just on the fact of its simplicity, but if i rated this 
 on board games turned video game i'd give it a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  I am still playing this game today on windows vista its awesome.
  
  its so much fun playign aginst computer only thing that sucks is that when playing lan game you 
 cant have AI computers in the game, you can only have AI computers when you play hot seat its really 
 wired.
  
  othere then that its great game I mean its risk its RISK lol
  
  risk was awesome if only they make axis and allies like this and few othere old table top games 
 like CLUE remake orginal monpoly then remake RISK agin, and maybe axis and allies, and warhamemr 
 40,000 or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCgamer4000BC
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for a very bargain-bin price, and I shure was suprised how good it was. This 
 game is, of course, adapted from a board game, so it is not extremely deep. But the AI is chalanging, 
 and I will admit it is actualy pretty adicting.
  The best part of the game for me is when you kill an oponent's last teritory, you get *ALL* his 
 cards, so it makes for some interesting situations where you abandon all your defences to kill 
 the one last weaklings country so you can get 60 men for two turns straight. The tournament is 
 also very good, where every game gets tougher as you go. (If you lose you do go all the way to 
 square one, but if you copy the program files you can revert to the state you were at before you 
 lost)
  
  This game is a pretty adicting fun game that everyone should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shystr3
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  There's not much to say about this game, its your average board game to video transfer. I like 
 Risk a lot so I enjoy it as well as anyone who plays, or has played Risk. The AI is well rounded, 
 although it can be dumb at times and over time, can easily be figured out by those who have the 
 ability. There are a couple of game types: hotseat, LAN, and straight up playing; you can also 
 play a tourney ladder or head for a quick game. Your able to change aspects of army count for held 
 continents, add the extra areas/ connections, play at single turn rate or all at once. Graphics 
 are no Halo, but are your run of the mill. Control is point and click so there is no obvious problems 
 there. Sound is a bit lame but its what you would expect, when you enter a battle theres some 
 ambient gun fire as well as when you have a larger army (cannon) theres some explosions. The big 
 downfall is like any game of this type, the dice roll; put me at a craps table and I'll walk home 
 a millionaire doesn't apply here, and the whole tension of a choke roll between players is all 
 up to mathematical probability based on statistics.
  
  At ten bucks or less, its a buy. The game can be really fun when you have multiple human players 
 just like the board version so, the more you have the better. Not much replay value against the 
 computer, if it becomes too hard you will just put the game down or once you figure the AI out 
 you can just conquer the world fairly easily, so its one of those well I got an hour to waste and 
 I bored so ummmRisk II sounds good games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  This game was a God send when I got it. It really was a lot of fun to play for the very short time 
 that I was able to play it. It was a revolutionary advancement over the original game and lended 
 itself very well to more advanced RTS gamers like myself.
  
  Unfortunetly the game wasn't very well supported and the bugs were never adiquitely addressed. 
 The game crashing bug, related to my GeForce 4 card was never fixed and thus the game would regularly 
 crash to windows or the feared BSOD.
  
  I eventually had to unistall the game. While I was able to play it I enjoyed it very much. It is 
 a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathmageMokey
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 11, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is good. Much easier than the board game, because you don't have to move the pieces yourself.
 
  
  Same time mode is a great feature. I always wanted something like that. And it makes the game much 
 harder, and puts a totally new spin on the good old game.
  
  The computer is too easy, but you can (thankfully) play against human opponents, either through 
 LAN or on the same computer. It makes playing the game so much easier, because you don't have to 
 take a lot of time to set up or put away the game, there is no way to cheat, and no trying to move 
 those little pieces.
  
  Overall this game is fun, and enjoyable, but the graphics aren't that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilan94
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 2, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Risk II is a good game, I got it for my birthday. To tell you the truth, I didn't even know how 
 to play the game and the manual wasw to long... eyes i'm lazy. But Risk II taught me to play the 
 game without reading a manual!
  
  The gameplay on Risk II is great, as I said, I always lose and get angry at the game. But for some 
 reason I am aiddcted to the game. While i'm writing this game I wanna play it .... Uh Oh. I ahve 
 the urges to play it... 2 hours later.... I lost!
  
  The graphics on this game are good. Risk for GBA graphics are horrbile. When I first got the game 
 I never knew there would be battle sqenses wheree you right at the country and you battle there. 
 I though It would always stay on the map. Also how the mapped out the world was great!
  
  The sound on this game was awesome! There might have not been no music during the game, but the 
 main page has 4 diffrent musics. Also during the game, there is a person voice that says sutff 
 like "next turn" and such.
  
  The value on this game was awesome! I liked this game alot it was cool and the value is great!
 
  
  My end to this game is that gameplay was great, but it was hard for more, the graphics were awesome 
 but I would have really prefered if that the world look liked it did from real world space. The 
 sound was good but they should have some music during the game and the value was okay.
  
  I say that for $9.99 this game is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mijjim23
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 3, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  Risk II features everything that made risk great, while adding a couple of new gameplay features 
 that play out very well.
  
  I'll cut to the chase,
  If you like risk ,buy this game.
  If you don't like risk, don't buy this game.
  
  The nice battle animations and good choice 
 of music really add to the fell of the game, but don't really change any part of the base game. 
 The new game types, while very well put together, still feel like the core game tweaked. If you 
 don't like it don't buy it.
  
  If you do like it, the cpu is very well put together along with the customization and gameplay 
 modes. Battle animations in the game are very cool and the music fits in very well.
  
  If you have never played Risk before, just think of it as battleship on steroids meets stratego 
 to the 12th power. That may not make very much sense, but that would be how I would describe it.
 
  
  While Risk II is no substitute to the board game, it's as close as you can get and you don't have 
 to have 5 friends there to enjoy it. But you still can enjoy it with 5 friends over the internet 
 or even on the same computer.
  
  If you like Risk or might like Risk, buy this and love it. 
  It really is superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invisiblejim
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 1, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  Well, it's risk and a damn pretty version too.
  
  It's one of those games when you have half an hour free and you want a nice simple little play 
 before going out down the shops that kind of thing.
  
  The graphics are nice during the battling... seeing your army of soldiers loading muskets and firing... every 
 now and again you'll even see a cannon blow up some enemy. Nice. The overall controls are simple 
 and in no way taxing to the grey matter.
  
  The AI controlled players are a little bit stupid at the earlier levels and it seems that certain 
 AI can hold a grudge against you. Most of the time a slow build up and expansion kills these off.
 
  
  One of the best things about this game is the simultaneous risk, it takes the game to another level 
 and takes some thinking to become successful. Getting your personal score above Napoleon and Wellington 
 is always in the back of your mind.
  
  All in all a good game. The only downside for me is I can't get the damn thing to work online, 
 which is available. Thats probably an exception rather than the rule. This game is with a doubt 
 in bargain bucket land and is well worth a fiver of anyones money if you can find that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kreig_jones
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 28, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  Well Ill be frank I hated strategy games. This game overnight turned me into a strategy 
 fanatic. Its not about the whole concept the real drive is its game play .
  Its FUN above all things. I didnt know how to play and didnt want to go through 
 boring texts to play it efficiently I just wanted to have fun and I had.
  So much fun i had only when I played q3dm17 for the first time
  I was playing in demo so it didnt 
 had much choice of modes. But the one that i had was really nice.
  Well it would have better to make the game less professional and add some fun elements like allowing 
 the players to have more solders to play with. I havent played much to write any further 
 but have bought it recently. I will go now and play it incessantly until i die :-)
  One word to the devolopers though. I had a heck of a time finding the game in the stands of INDIA. Had 
 to get it from secondary sources (no not pirated CD) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkBelthasar
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2005 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Unlike many other board game-video game screw-ups, this one passed my test. Once you start playing, 
 you get immersed in it's strategy and difficulty. It has enough new and exciting twists that you 
 won't want to revert back to the old board game after playing it. 
  
  The gameplay is great. There are many new options including computer players, who are actually 
 quite intelligent, single-player as well as multiplayer modes, about seven new territories added 
 to continents, and new paths between territories like Hawaii and Japan. All of these are customizable 
 of course so you can play the original version of do whatever you like. There is also a whole new 
 simultaneous game mode that takes just as long to master as the original. In this mode, all players 
 decide where they are going to attack with their armies all at once without knowing of each others 
 plans. This means you could be attacked by four different players all at once in the same territory, 
 and likewise attack four different players with the same territory. It may seem impossible but 
 they are able to do this with hotseat multiplayer mode. In multiplayer and simultaneous modes at 
 the same time, each played takes turn deciding what their armies are going to do. To make it more 
 realistic, people shouldn't be watching. After everyone's turn is over, the whole world war happens. 
 Once every attack is finished, it goes through the turns again. It's a whole new challenge. 
  
  The graphics are better than would be expected and good enough to keep your eyes on the screen 
 as you play. There are also plenty of visual effects and "don't show me this again" checkboxes 
 so that you don't get bored or annoyed. They also have globe map option and, though it's hard to 
 maneuver, makes a realistic globe of the planet that you can rotate and go through the game with.
 
  
  The music is good but might get annoying after running through multiple times. Then, it's best 
 to either turn the computer on mute and listen to your own music. 
  
  The value is great. With multiplayer and all of the new customization aspects, you'll never get 
 tired of this game. If you don't have the board game version, I recommend you get this game, because 
 it's classic and in my opinion, better than all of it's kind. There is also a multipack of this 
 game and two others that is definitely worth the cost.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
