-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Riven: The Sequel to Myst
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/riventhesequeltomyst/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  3, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.5, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 947 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Red Orb Entertainment
Developer: Cyan Worlds
Genre: Adventure
Date:     1997 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a leisurely paced, all-encompassing, mentally challenging experience. If you enjoyed Myst, 
 you'll thoroughly enjoy Riven. 

 Myst, at more than 3.5 million units sold, is the world's most popular PC entertainment title, and 
 after four years is still riding the top of the charts. This fact remains, despite a significant 
 number of players who never get past the game's first tough puzzle: the rotating lighthouse.  

 
 For whatever reasons that Myst was such a success, Riven has a lot of the same. You'll see the 
 same click/move/slide-show interface, along with similar mechanical and navigational puzzles and 
 the now familiar wander and wonder gameplay. Riven's markedly improved graphics and sound further 
 enhance the ambiance and make Riven even more immersive than its predecessor. The puzzles and problems 
 are more cohesive, and there is more of a storyline, but in the end, Riven is only an evolutionary 
 improvement over Myst.  

 You begin where Myst left off. Atrus (played once again by Rand Miller) , the father of the two feuding 
 sons in Myst, has another task for you: Rescue his wife from the evil clutches of Atrus's father 
 Gehn, then permanently imprison Gehn in one of those "trap" books from Myst.  

 Your quest takes place in Riven, a fanciful world created by Gehn in the tradition of his ancestors 
 - by simply imagining it and writing about it. Riven (from the ancient English word "rive," which 
 means "to rip apart") is a collection of small islands connected with catwalks, aerial trams, and 
 a minisubmarine. You will expend much of your effort just figuring out how to get around. In many 
 instances you'll find a switch in an obscure location, then take a circuitous route to the gate 
 it opens.  

 Unlike Myst, these islands have human inhabitants, although you'll be hard-pressed to actually see 
 any. There are plenty of spherical, earthen huts and occasional fleeting human encounters, but 
 there is no interaction or dialogue. The oblique storyline is played out in the islands' objects 
 and the implications you can draw from them, such as a disturbing kid's toy, a Wizard of Oz-like 
 throne, and a frog trap. And if these are too obtuse you can always arduously pore through the 
 voluminous journals you'll acquire.  

 Riven's two major puzzles require solving several miniproblems that in turn require close observation 
 of Riven's denizens, colors, and unique numbering system. Gathering those elements becomes routine 
 but just as you get comfortable with the concept there is a clever extra challenge tossed in - 
 a missing color, a broken device, an obtusely revealed animal. Much of Riven's prerelease PR emphasized 
 the environment as a source of clues and puzzle solutions. It is, but not to the large extent and 
 subtle degree you may expect.  

 There are no technological breakthroughs but plenty of high-quality production values. The QuickTime 
 animations - doors opening, levers moving, drawbridges dropping - are larger and blend well with 
 the backgrounds, but that's principally a reflection of improvements in that display method. The 
 sound effects are perfect and worth the price of high-end speakers, but there is no support of 
 newer 3D audio technology. The graphics are superbly, even fanatically, detailed but that's more 
 an aesthetic decision than a technical achievement.  

 For a game that has low-tech system demands, it consumes an inordinate amount of hard drive space 
 - 140MB. Plus, if you play it for an extended period of time, you may encounter audio lapses. I 
 missed a critical end-game aural clue, but after rebooting, and replaying that scene, it played 
 just fine. Riven ships on five discs, but you can start saved games with only one of them and must 
 click slowly through four animations before you can load a game .  

 With a walk-through in hand, Riven took only about four hours. Without it, I'd still be at it, doing 
 a lot of wandering, mapping, and recording of my observations. And just like Myst, that's what 
 Riven is all about: exploring a new world full of unique beings, organic machines, and family intrigue. 
 There is no inventory, no need to combine mysterious potions, and no board game puzzles with little 
 connection to Riven's world. Rather, it's a leisurely paced, all-encompassing, mentally challenging 
 experience. If you enjoyed Myst, you'll thoroughly enjoy Riven.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: OpratorHunter
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  This game is really good. Graphics are nice and smooth, sound is just right and the plot is fantastic. 
 With all that said, the only thing missing is for me to tell you that this adventure and puzzle 
 sequel is just very hard.
  Like the first game Myst, Riven is an adventure game that doesn't test your game skills, but your 
 observation skills. You will have to watch, listen and remember curtain facts on the island to 
 beat this game. (I recommend a note book.) Again, like Myst, you must observe what is going on 
 around you because you are going to have to make choices in the game that ultimately decide if 
 you win or lose.
  The game gives you as much time as you would like to play. There is no rush. You simply move across 
 the island, looking for clues that will give you a push in the next direction.
  I recommend Riven to adventure puzzle gamers. But take caution, the game is HARD to beat. It had 
 taken me a few walkthroughs to get through this game. It is much harder then Myst, and if not for 
 the difficulty, it would be better then the original.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubbabvi
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best in the myst series, and certainly the prettiest. This game centers 
 around mind boggling puzzels and amazing landscapes. A must buy! Although ten years old, it can 
 be compared to third gen graphics. One of the best adventure games ever made! It also has a great 
 storyline, just as all of the myst games. At the start you are ported to a mysterios island and 
 have to find you way back to the real world. That is about as much as I can say without giving 
 away anything.~Trust me though this game is a winner and would fit perfectly into any game collection.~The 
 only other myst game that compairs is Exile. Which is equally beautyful and has just as good puzzels. 
 So if your looking to save some money I would buy the myst trilogy and get the first three for 
 just 30$ insted of getting the one for 20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SophinaK
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  The hushed sound of a busily scratching pen fills the crumbling library. A grey-haired man in simple 
 clothes looks up at your approach. He greets you with obvious relief, hands you his journal, and 
 charges you with a seemingly impossible task: enter a dying world, save a captured heroine, and 
 imprison someone named Gehn. With no further instructions he holds up a thick, leather-bound book. 
 On the pages you see grainy flashing images. You touch your hand to the page, the world blurs for 
 a moment, and you find yourself in an unknown place: Riven.
  
  Those players familiar with Riven's predecessor, Myst, will recognize many of these elements immediately. 
 The man in the library is Atrus, the behind-the-scenes protagonist of Myst. The captive is Catherine, 
 his wife; and the once grand library you just left is part of the fallen civilization of D'ni, 
 a society that used the art of descriptive writing to form "links" with other worlds-frequently 
 referred to as "Ages". Gehn is Atrus's father, a madman who is obsessed with resurrecting the D'ni 
 culture, and delusionally convinced that he is a god, creating worlds through his written words. 
 The player soon learns that Atrus and Catherine trapped Gehn on Riven over thirty years ago, in 
 an attempt to prevent him from causing further mayhem.
  
  Riven is a world on the verge of collapse. As its name implies, the land is literally tearing itself 
 asunder. Once one large island, it has separated itself into five fragments loosely connected by 
 rope bridges and magnetically powered trams. Frequent tremors shake the ground, and the depths 
 of once shady glades are pierced by the crimson glow of molten lava seeping out of the ground. 
 This is the world you will explore in Riven. Despite the progressing decay of the landscape, Riven 
 is still stunningly beautiful. Giant ancient trees carpet one of the islands, sheltering multicolored 
 luminescent fungus and bright tropical fruits. Gleaming blue water fills a small rocky lagoon in 
 which large penguin-like animals languidly sun themselves. 
  
  It is through this lush but damaged landscape that you must travel to unravel the puzzles of Riven. 
 Throughout the entire game, the player will have very little contact with the locals, a few quick 
 glimpses here and there will be the extent of your interaction with others until the game nears 
 its end. For the vast majority of the adventure, the only adversary will be the landscape itself 
 and the various constructions and devices that have been built to harvest and control the resources 
 of the islands.
  
  From your first obstacle, navigating a complex rotating room, to using children's toys to decipher 
 foreign number systems and ultimately opening the vast golden dome that dominates the landscape, 
 Riven produces challenge after challenge. Many of the puzzles require only basic observation skills 
 to complete, such as negotiating a maze of underwater railroad tracks, but others will have you 
 reaching for a pen and paper as you jot down suspicious symbols and runes. The ability to make 
 connections between items shown in different locations is crucial to your progress in the game, 
 and some of the challenges are obscure enough that it will take a very sharp eye and well-honed 
 mind to unravel them.
  
  While the intense difficulty of the game may become frustrating at certain points, it never fails 
 to provide a tangible sense of reward for solving one of the myriad riddles of the islands. With 
 each successful solution new areas open up to explore, or bits of storyline information are recovered 
 that help the player piece together the story of Catherine's return to Riven. 
  
  That story, ultimately, is what binds the experience together. Riven is a sensory feast of lush 
 landscapes, a subtle tapestry of natural sounds, and a graphical precision that could only have 
 been possible during the age of still backgrounds and FMV cutscenes, but it is the characters that 
 make you really care about their world. It never ceases to amaze how characters with whom you have 
 so little interaction can evoke such deep sympathy that they player longs, like Catherine, to save 
 her people from their homeland's destruction, and worries, like Atrus, for the safety of his soulmate.
 
  
  Spanning five full CDs, Riven is a long lasting and leisurely experience that the player can savor 
 for many hours. Its beautiful presentation, challenging adventure gameplay, and a wealth of easter 
 eggs and secrets make it a game that adventure fans will love to return to. All in all, Riven is 
 a masterpiece of the PC adventure genre that takes its luminous predecessor, Myst, one step farther 
 in nearly every area, and the result is a game that is a true and indisputable classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majorflyswat
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  Whether you've played Myst or not, Riven is a game you should definitely consider playing. With 
 an engaging storyline, multiple endings, and some of the most inspired, involving puzzles, this 
 game will test both your logic and your patience.
  
  On the surface, the game seems simple enough, just your average Adventure/Puzzler, but it is so 
 much deeper. The game featured incredible graphics and mechanics for its time, and you could interact 
 with almost any object in the game.
  
  As the story progresses, you learn more and more about your character, like most games, but there 
 is almost no character interaction, since the only person who speaks to you is a pre-recorded hologram.
 
  
  Apart from this hologram, the only other times you see people are when you catch glimpses of the 
 island's natives, but they swiftly run away before you get anywhere near them. Now for some games, 
 the lack of other characters might make it seem hollow and boring, but in Riven it just increases 
 the suspense and mystery of the island you are trapped on, and the fleeting glances you get just 
 confirm whatever suspicions you have that you are being watched.
  
  The game gives you great replay value as well, because each time you play it, doing something slightly 
 different, or in a different order, will completely affect your future on the island. Some puzzles 
 do not allow you to go back once you get past them, so you are committed to whatever course of 
 action you have chosen. The multiple endings are unique and involving, but will leave you wanting 
 to go back and find out what could have been done differently.
  
  The downsides of the game are few, and are not all bad. One annoying thing is that certain problems 
 leave you no option but to solve them, and they can get mighty hard at times, and may have you 
 searching for a game guide. Also, the fact that you get forced to to continue once you pass certain 
 points can be frustrating, because you can sometimes leave things that you want to come back and 
 do later. This is why it pays to save often in Riven, so you don't get trapped by the island's 
 tricks.
  
  For those trigger-happy, all action types out there, I would advise you to steer clear. But for 
 those more intellectual souls out there, this game will put all of your logic and lateral thinking 
 to the test, and the suspense and atmosphere will leave you guessing.
  
  So, all up the game is fantastic, and leaves you with a feeling of satisfaction and fulfillment 
 when finished, and the experience will have you going back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I want to make an initial note here. I have the DVD edition, but since it isn't available for review, 
 I will be reviewing the original. That being said, the aesthetic differences, as far as I am aware, 
 are minor between the two versions. The DVD edition looks slightly better, sounds a bit better 
 and doesn't suffer from the cumbersome disc swapping, but it has problems of its own, balancing 
 out these issues.
  
  The main issue is its ability to run on XP. It suffers from the same problems that Myst Masterpiece 
 Editions suffers (by the way, the 5 disc edition runs absolutely fine on XP) . I will begin by explaining 
 how I was able to get the game to work on my PC, and this will apply to Myst Masterpiece Edition 
 as well.
  
  1. Uninstall Quicktime and restart computer.
  2. Install the version of Quicktime included with game (6.3) . Restart computer.
  3. Set compatibility 
 mode to Windows 98 (right-click the .exe file- click properties- click the compatibility tab- check 
 the 'run in compatibility mode' box- choose the Windows 98 option (95 should work too) ) .
  4. Right-click on desktop then click Properties. Click the Settings tab, then Advanced. 
  5. 
 Click the Troubleshoot tab, then scroll Hardware Acceleration all the way to 'None'. Apply then 
 close all boxes and error messages.
  
  Be warned that you won't be able to do much with your computer during this phase, and after you 
 are done playing the game you'll have to turn Hardware Acceleration back on. An error message will 
 pop up when you start the game, let it be open and then maximize the game. It should work absolutely 
 fine at this point, with minor messages popping up in the normal disc swapping areas, but the game 
 will not suffer from this.
  
  Now that that is cleared up, onto the review.
  
  First and foremost, this IS a sequel to Myst, and therefore it is HIGHLY suggested you play that 
 first, since the stories are intertwined. That being said, the story in this game is significantly 
 better than Myst, though still mediocre when not including the knowledge gained from the novels. 
 It definately is much more interesting, though. This is mostly due to the added population in the 
 game and good actors, along with subtle hints in journals that give you a much larger insight as 
 to what is going on than Myst did. 
  
  The game itself plays just as beautifully as Myst. The controls are the same, but the puzzles are 
 not. Myst depended more on Ages that were independent of eachother, and therefore isolated each 
 puzzle set, making it much easier to figure out. Riven on the other hand, has most puzzles intertwined 
 with eachother, lending the 5 island Age more character and continuity. You will likely be able 
 to fit all of your notes on one two-sided piece of paper for this game as well, which is interesting 
 considering the game is a bit larger than Myst. The main draw here is that about half of the puzzles 
 do not require blatant memorization of clues, but rather require problem solving skills on the 
 spot. That does not mean that the puzzles are not ingenious. The puzzles are brilliantly blended 
 in with Riven, making them seem natural and realistic. The puzzles are a bit more obvious this 
 time around, but their simplicity also makes them a bit more difficult, if that makes any sense. 
 The one problem with keeping all the islands of Riven related to eachother, is that sometimes it 
 can get confusing when trying to connect puzzles together, rather than being organized like Myst 
 was with its isolated Ages. This is a minor gripe though, because all it does is make the sequel 
 a bit more challenging and gives your brain more room for thought. Also, I should mention that 
 overall each island is distinct and therefore easy to navigate. The game feels a little smaller 
 than Myst for some reason, but after playing around a bit I discovered that it is actually quite 
 a bite larger.
  
  The game also looks significantly better than Myst (4 years in the making, shouldn't come as a 
 surprise) . At this point though, the game does not flaunt amazingly top-of-the-line graphics. The 
 3D rendering is acceptable though, and the FMV sequences for all the acting and all the object 
 movement is done absolutely beautifully, loads better than the original. Another big thing that 
 makes the not-so-perfect graphics great is the immense attention to detail, which makes every locaiton 
 feel alive, real, and very much interesting. Riven is, for lack of a better descriptor, stunningly 
 beautiful. You will find no reason not to gape in awe at the expanse of the 5 islands.
  
  As it was immensely important in Myst, so is the sound immensely important in Riven. Luckily, the 
 sound effects in the game are nothing short of amazing. Each sounds very well done, and that is 
 good considering how much this game (successfully) tries to immerse you in its world. As for the 
 voice acting, well the voice acting when involving the Rivenese or D'ni languages oftentimes sounds 
 tacky, since there weren't any accents applied to them. When spoken in English though, the acting 
 is very well done. Overall, the game sounds just as blissfuly amazing as its predecessor.
  
  The game can take you up to 20 hours, depending on how much help you seek. The game is definately 
 beatable in 20 minutes if you know the islands inside and out. That being said, games full of puzzles 
 tend to shorten in length significantly in multiple playthroughs, due to the lack of the need to 
 figure out solutions. That being said, you will likely get a good amount of time out of your first 
 playthrough, and with (at least) 3 endings, you may end up coming back to play again. Still, like 
 Myst, you will most likely never come back to this game unless you want a refresher before starting 
 later games in the series, due to the lack of fun of playing the game with all solutions known. 
 An added improvement, though I don't know how they did it, is that this game will not leave you 
 feeling quite as empty as Myst did by the end, which makes it feel like more worth your money in 
 the end.
  
  Regardless of complaints and gripes, this game improves upon Myst in many ways, while still retaining 
 its own brand of unique flavor. This is a must play sequel to one of the best adventure games of 
 its time.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Value: 8/10 
  
  OVERALL: 9/10 (8.75/10.0) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BSirum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Riven the sequel to myst came out in 1998 and is still a very good looking game and has alot of 
 potential and is very adventures.
  First of all the graphics are great even today and they are 3d and stand out well. Sense the game 
 is old the objects that move have small quicktime boxes around the objects that are moving whitch 
 can be disturbing at times.
  The story in riven is exiting in a few ways and the puzzle solving can be difficult at times but 
 can be rewarding also. The person who does Atrus is your guide in the game and is playd by rand 
 miller again.
  Rand miller does a good job for his role in the game and plays Atrus very well.
  In the game 
 you have to go to this made up world that Atrus evil father created and you have to go through 
 it to save atrus wife from his father.
  The sound in riven is good with neat sound effects but after awhile the game mutes after playing 
 for about 3 hours, you may be thinking it might be because of the computer but it is built into 
 riven and you just have to start the game again to that scene.
  I would recemmend riven to anybody who likes adventure games and you have to at least try this 
 game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globenstein
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  As the sequel of a grand game like Myst, one might have expected from Riven nothing but a copy 
 of its predecessor, an identical concept to obtain the same fame. Fortunately, Cyan did not choose 
 to do such as mistake, and Riven remains unique and distinct from the other games of the series.
 
  
  The story is intricate and several plot twists, revealed through reading scattered journals, adds 
 an interesting dimension to the game. This time you meet with the father of Atrus, Gehn, revered 
 as a demi-god in a world that is slowly falling in pieces.
  
  The graphics are as astonishing as ever and their realism, combined with the fantastic creatures 
 and landscapes, give the player an extraordinary feel of another world. The filmed actors have 
 been nicely integrated to this world. The music and sounds also participates in creating the mystical 
 atmosphere the Myst games are so renowned for.
  
  The puzzles don't take as much place as in Myst but rather leave more place to exploration with 
 a nice set of islands and transportations to ride across them. It took me a long time to truly 
 enjoy playing Riven because of the long distances (you often need to travel back and forth) and 
 the difficulty of the puzzles (without a guide) but it only gave me a greater feeling of achievement.
 
  
  So I really recommend this game to all those who enjoy laborious puzzle solving and fabulous worlds 
 of imagination. Just make sure you're patient enough unless you don't mind relying on walkthroughs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotiXTME
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Riven is, obviously, the first sequel to Myst. It follows the same overall line, but have had major 
 improvements graphics and sound-wise.
  
  Gameplay: Riven plays almost exactly as Myst: the mouse is used to navigate through the scenery, 
 which is composed by beautiful stills. When movement is needed, movies come into play. Riven's 
 gameplay is extremely intuitive, as it's based only in pointing and clicking, and still is satisfactory. 
 An usual movement type, like nowadays' FPSs, would be somehow more comfortable, but it'd sacrifice 
 the beautiful graphics and immersion granted by the stills. For being adequate but not perfect, 
 Riven's gameplay deserves a 9.
  
  Graphics: The game's graphics are far away from it's time. Even today, they can be considered great 
 - not only technologically, but artistically. The world is beautiful and unique, and all the NPCs 
 in the game are real actors. Considering it's launch date, Riven's graphics deserve a 10.
  
  Sounds: Perfect. I was astonished by the sounds' quality and variety. They add a lot to the 
 immersion - you'll immensely profit with a surround speaker system. The game's sounds are basically 
 perfect, and for that they'll have a 10.
  
  Overall: Riven is amazing. The immersion is huge, the puzzles are hard, extremely clever and fit 
 right into the world, not being there just because - there is a logical explanation and solution 
 for everything. They're even better than Myst's, as everything connects somehow. I got hooked from 
 the beginning, and caught myself drawing maps and taking notes of all I thought was important. 
 It didn't last long, but, at least for a while, I was in Riven, exploring and discovering a magnificent 
 new world... and saving it from destruction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdgross
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 31, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  This game drew me in right from the start --- a great intro to a great game!
  
  The highlight for me was Riven's story. Everything revolved around the story --- the puzzles, the 
 setting &amp; the characters. I've never played a game before where the puzzles were so integrated 
 into the story that even if I was left stumped (which happened a few times --- these puzzles are 
 HARD!) , when eventually I either looked the solution up or figured it out, I thought: Yeah, I can 
 see how that works in this fantasy Age .
  
  As always in the Myst genre (except the first game) , great graphics and sound. And great dynamics 
 in the environment (e. g. riding the tramway from island to island) . Also, the Gehn character was 
 well played &amp; left me feeling some semblance of pity for this villain who succumbs to pride 
 &amp; chooses a demi-god lifestyle.
  
  My biggest complaint w/ Riven was its uniformity. All the islands felt similar, and I didn't get 
 that sense of immersion in the Age (s) as in later Myst games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeEhEiK
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 8, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  Though it's been 8 years since I first played this game, I still enjoy it the same...
  
  Myst revolutionized the puzzle adventure genre and Riven is able to capitalize upon that. With 
 exciting puzzles, an intuitive story and beautifully engineered ages, this game is truly the "Sequel 
 to Myst".
  
  After saving Atrus from his sons, you must journey again into the ages. With little time to explain 
 Atrus sends you forth to the fifth age, Riven. The story is slow, with little action, but that's 
 what I like about it. From island to island you must respect detail and concentrate on what it 
 has to offer. The ages themselves are breathtaking. From whizzing along in a mag-lev tram car to 
 standing above an entire village built on a cliff, there is much to see. 
  
  Unfortunately at time it's a bit hard to figure what exactly you are supposed to do... beyond that, 
 they game is seamless.
  
  Also, the puzzels presented are relatively easy to understand, and many require logical thought. 
 Throughout your journey you must decode an entire number system, map the islands, and break the 
 fissure that Atrus had fallen down once before...
  
  Again, Riven did very well continuing Myst. Above all, there is just so much to see and understand 
 about Riven and its connecting ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llama89
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I played Myst and I thought that it was pretty good but not that note worthy. But I did get the 
 sequel and I it is really weird. Like, I don't understand the plot at all. Where am I? What in 
 the hell am I supposed to be doing? Why is there a person that seals my book at the beginning but 
 no other soul anywhere! ? Why is there a golden domed building and a cable car that leads to nowhere? 
 are questions that I was asking myself throughout the whole game. Oh and did I mention that there 
 is no action. You don't fight anything, shoot anything, or do anything actiony at all. All you 
 do is walk around aimlessly and try to solve puzzles that you are impossible and you will have 
 to look on the Internet on how to solve them. I didn't finish this game . . . . and don't plan 
 to. It needs a plot and some action. It isn't that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Where to start... This game is by far one of the best games on the face of the planet, especially 
 within its genre. Riven was and still is a masterpiece, a work of art. I dream of playing this 
 game years after beating it, wishing to jump back into the immensly difficult worlds that Cyan 
 produced.
  The gameplay is simple and effective. Point and click and solve puzzles to unravel the secrets 
 to the D'ni civilizations. (just writing this is making me want to play it so bad...) The graphics 
 were amazing for its time and the sound was no different. I was amazed by every single aspect of 
 this game and I almost guarantee that any puzzle loving gamer would too. The story is solid and 
 gripping and makes you anticipate playing Myst 3. I cant even tell you how much fun this game is 
 to finally beat after years of playing. You'll find yourself writing journals, pages upon pages 
 of notes, and thinking of it day and night.
  So everyone thats even slightly interested in a challenging puzzle game should not hesistate to 
 pick this up. It is a masterpiece that should have a name in history forever-more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  Myst was an excellent adventure game, but it definitely wasn't for everyone. A few years later 
 Cyan released Riven an interesting sequel to their previous adventure game Myst. Does it live up 
 to its predecessor? Yes and no.
  
  Riven is set some time after Myst. After growing bored of wandering Myst and the other ages you 
 return to Atrus who is grateful to see you and sends you to an age called Riven with several tools. 
 Your quest is to rescue Catherine and capture Ghen. My problem with this setup is it lacks the 
 mystery that I loved about the original Myst's plot, but Riven still contains an interesting, and 
 well thought out story.
  
  Riven's gameplay is the same as the original Myst's. You'll need to solve puzzles to progress through 
 the plot, and read journals to understand more about it as well as get clues. The thing about Riven 
 is that it is a lot more difficult than Myst; a good portion of the puzzles are extremely frustrating 
 and can often leave you with less hair than you had. If you like difficult puzzles then you'll 
 love Riven.
  
  The graphics are a mixed bag for me. While they are photo realistic the lack of variety turned 
 me off. Most of Riven consists of staring at rock and sand for hours on end, and quite frankly 
 I don't find rock and sand very beautiful to look at. Riven does get praise from me in this area 
 from looking so real, however.
  
  The audio is excellent just like in the original game. The game pulls you in with its ambient sound 
 effects, and sound effects in general. Unfortunately the music while ambient doesn't really excel 
 at anything other than being quiet. Some people like the music's quiet nature, however; I for one 
 think it makes the soundtrack quite forgettable. I still remember the music from Myst; I can barely 
 remember anything from Riven's score.
  
  Riven is a good sequel to Myst. It has photo realistic graphics, challenging puzzles, and an interesting 
 story. If Myst was too hard for you then stay away from Riven. Fans of the series tend to praise 
 Riven as being the best, and while I respectfully disagree I can see why they may think so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WoMan711
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 27, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I simply love wandering the Islands that comprise the world of Riven. 
  
  The puzzles are quite challenging but rewarding if you solve them. I played this game with my mom 
 as we took turns exploring while the other took notes. It made the experience much more enjoyable, 
 instead of frustrating as it may be if play alone.
  
  My favorite part of the Myst series is the mysterious and creepyness of the whole adventure. The 
 bizzare, the weird, the enlightening, the touching, the disturbing; what qualities are not found 
 in other games.
  
  As you play the game, you will often get stuck, in which case online guides will be in order. 
 
  
  The ending is also quite spectacular as you face the "bad guy" and help Atrus find his wife. As 
 you see the end in sight, you become spurred on to finish the game and finally bring peace to Riven. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2005 11:48 am PT
Review:  Riven was one such world ,Gehn's Fifth Age, and it was there that Atrus met is wife Catherine, 
 a native of Riven. Eventually they both realixed that they had no choice but to try to stop Gehn. 
 And so,30 years ago, they tricked him: they left him on Riven without a Linking Book to use for 
 escape, and without the materials to make one. But Catherine became concerned for the welfare of 
 the doomed people and so returned to Riven to try to relocate them. Captured by Gehn, now she is 
 his prisoner held to lure Atrus there so that he can escape.
  But A trus dares not go: he must write feverishly to try to forstall Riven's imminent collapse. And 
 so he has asked you to do this one final thing for him before he sends you back home: to find and 
 rescue his beloved Catherine and capture Gehn permanently in a trap Book ....... a Linking Book 
 in which certain links have been cut, allowing no escape unless the prisoner can convince someone 
 to take his place. And he has given you his own personal journal of Riven to help you succeed.
 
  Riven is a 1st person, point and click game with a full screen, stunning graphics and great music 
 and sound effects, wonderful machinery, and fantastic, bizarre wildlife. This game you will enjoy playing 
 Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s3ank1ms
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 14, 2005 7:46 pm PT
Review:  in my opinion this is one of the best games ive ever played its also seems like its better then 
 the first game myst. this geme isnt for everyone though if your the type of person who likes shooting 
 the crap out of people in games then this is not for you, but if you like ouzzle games and is very 
 patient then this is a great game that you'll love. also you should always rememeber that that 
 this game is hard i mean really hard you wont get through this game in like 5 hours itll most likly 
 take you 15 hours or more if your a nnovice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dygel
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 13, 2005 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I just finished Riven: The Sequel To Myst after starting it two days ago. I already owned the game 
 prior to purchasing the 10th anniversary collection, I didn't get terribly far. That's why I got 
 to talking about disc swapping in my last entry. While it's true that I've played it some before, 
 however, that didn't really have an impact on how fast I finished it. I never got far and my interest 
 waned fast thanks to the tedious swapping. There's a lot of exploration and re-exploration in a 
 game like this, and that's a real pain when returning to an area involves a swap every time.
  
  Anyway, I'm very pleased with the game. This is where the Millers took the game from something 
 that could have simply been a one-off phenomenon and really energized it with an engaging plot. 
 Now, I'm sure most casual gamer-folk who have ever even looked at a game like this is thinking, 
 "Engaging? Are you high?" I stand by it. Perhaps I felt more directly immersed in it, having read 
 the books prior to this. Going into the game, I never had to question who Gehn was and why he was 
 a problem - I already knew. But even if you haven't read the books, I still believe my proposition 
 to be true. Myst had absolutely no impetus - you were completely lost without a clue to your name. 
 Riven, however, starts you off with a concrete objective, which is how a linear (and therefore 
 accessible) plot path is rooted.
  
  The game's a lot more pretty than Myst, too. To be honest, I was underwhelmed by the graphics of 
 Myst. Of course, I'm coming at it from having worked at a digital art web site some 7 years ahead 
 of when it was made. Back then, POV-RAY was pretty neat stuff. Riven was more what I'm accustomed 
 to, having been spoiled on the eye candy of the modern age. I am looking forward to starting Myst 
 III - Exile though. I much prefer the 360 look format to the fixed-slides format. It's just a 
 lot easier to maintain spatial relationships that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bypedd
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 29, 2004 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Not a whole lot can be said about the graphics: They are astounding, even 7 years after its release, 
 and the attention to detail is epic. They are consistently well-done, and there's no suprising 
 change in presentation at any point. In a few cases, the immense detail is used to obscure a clue 
 to the detriment of gameplay, but overall, it's handled quite nicely. Certainly, the gameplay as 
 simple as it is, the graphics add another, relatively rare gameplay element: Your common sense 
 works here. Visual and aural cues are used to convey functional information, like the way a lever 
 works, or the purpose of a room.
  
  An obligatory note: Being several years old, Riven's creators decided to use CDs to store what 
 I understand to be most of the movies and such of the game (which are played during the interactions 
 with the world) . As such, there are five CDs, each with a section of the game's movies on it. During 
 the beginning, loading times are only significant when switching between worlds, which is infrequent. 
 As the game progresses, shortcuts are revealed and the player must cross between worlds on different 
 CDs about every 10 minutes. It's a pain, but well worth the space saved and the visual effects. 
 It didn't detract from the gameplay, if you ask me.
  
  Riven's overall feel, and the ability to convey a definite feel to the game - and even a distinct 
 feel to several of the smaller cultures - is impressive. It is indeed a leisurely paced game, but 
 it is by no means for the casual player to play an hour and leave for a week, unless extensive 
 notes are used.
  
  Which brings me to a slight frustration with the style: In taking notes, I dutifully picked up 
 on chance encounters with a few villagers (which are unintentionally terrifying, since it's so 
 unexpected to see anything moving without you on Riven) , the placement of rooms, etc. But in some 
 cases, the necessary information was a one time only deal (*endlessly* frustrating) , or it is rather 
 loosely connected with the obvious clues. Much of the interaction is coherent and just obtuse enough 
 to challenge the player, but in a few cases, particularly with aural cues, it seemed like something 
 of a stretch. A walkthrough was infinitely helpful in the handful of baffling moments.
  
  The major achievements from finding solutions in Riven are humble, even for the puzzle adventure 
 genre. Three major journals are your main source of narrative, but the two that are found in game 
 (the first you start with) are entirely too far into the game to serve for a newcomer as compelling 
 incentive to discover more of the island.
  
  In terms of history, some of the story was too vague, since I'd first played Myst from start to 
 finish almost 8 years ago. More backstory, more insightful writings, and perhaps even its own backstory 
 included in an introduction would be nice. Even having played Myst, I was confused on more than 
 one occasion what or who, exactly, I was trying to find/help/defeat. After reading the later journals, 
 much was cleared up, as the journals in game are fascinating and incredibly illuminating. Their 
 acquisition is such a rush for the player that I'm surprised Cyan didn't recognize that and add 
 some more, or space them out into smaller volumes to give more consistent positive feedback.
  
  A note on the learning curve: Gameplay is unbelievably simple: You click in one place, or you 
 click in another. But much of the achievement in the game is based on discovering how things work 
 in the world. In a sense, this is the learning curve of the game because it because more natural 
 as the story progresses. This takes much longer than a half hour, but it also depends on whether 
 you pay attention and take the results into account the next time you are learning about the world. 
 As in many puzzle adventure games, the learning curve is slightly shorter than the entire game, 
 because it's about discovery, not repitition.
  
  Overall, I enjoyed the game more than I expected. I don't like puzzle arcade games, but I do like 
 adventure games. As an adventure game, it gives the player a realistic world to explore, and the 
 discoveries are indeed thrilling. As a puzzle adventure, however, it gives a logical viewpoint 
 on the world, which is as much about remembering the facts as it is about trying to think like 
 the inhabitants of the world. The game is a great experience, and well worth the effort for the 
 creative and original narrative, as well as the stunning world designs. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
