-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Road to India: Between Hell and Nirvana
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/roadtoindiabetweenhan/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 13, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.0, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 45 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microids
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Sep 16, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Road to India is a fine example of old-school adventure gaming with a modern presentation. 

 
  Every time the pundits declare adventure games dead, a new game appears to prove them wrong. Microids' 
 graphic adventure, Road to India, weaves fact and fiction into a colorful tapestry that offers 
 solid entertainment. To many in the West, India has for centuries seemed a mysterious land that's 
 beckoned to travelers, adventurers, and seekers. Road to India builds on that mystique to craft 
 an engaging tale filled with enjoyable challenges that put the focus on exploration and story over 
 excessive, frustrating puzzles.           Road to India is good looking and easy to play...    
 

  You play as Fred Reynolds, an American who meets a beautiful young Indian woman, Anusha, at Yale. 
 Not long after the happy couple gets engaged, Anusha returns to India and then suddenly and inexplicably 
 sends Fred a letter saying she's leaving him. Naturally, Fred jets after her, only to find her 
 kidnapped. Evidence quickly points to the infamous Thugs, a cult of brutal murderers who venerate 
 the Hindu goddess Kali, or "the black one," frequently portrayed in her destructive aspect with 
 a necklace of skulls and a belt of severed arms. Centering the story on the Thugs, probably best 
 known in the West from the film  Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom , won't win points for originality, 
 but you can't beat it for instant drama and intrigue.   

  To find Anusha, you'll hit the streets of New Delhi, but not before a detour into Fred's dreams, 
 where you'll visit the glorious Taj Mahal. In fact, the game has you play through a number of dream 
 sequences in addition to solving puzzles and dilemmas in the "real world." That's a fitting storytelling 
 choice since events and locations in the dreaming and the waking worlds mirror each other, and 
 the dream segments allow the exotic side of India to show through.   

  To explore the gameworld, you'll move from one discrete zone or section to the next with a simple 
 mouse click, though you can pan the camera freely and fluidly in any direction in each area to 
 simulate a 3D experience. Road to India's interface on the whole couldn't be more intuitive and 
 unobtrusive, thanks to a contextual cursor. The cursor changes from a standard dot to a footprint 
 icon when moved in a direction in which you can travel. The cursor similarly assumes a new shape 
 when you're able to talk with someone, manipulate an object, and so forth. It's a logical, elegant 
 scheme that keeps you from guessing where you're allowed to go or what items you can use.   

  When you do pick up an object, you'll see it listed visually in a PDA that Fred carries. Here 
 you'll also find the text of his diary, any documents or photos he's picked up, dialogue response 
 choices, and access to previous cutscenes. When you're not using it, the PDA conveniently disappears 
 from sight for future use. Its only real problem is that it doesn't describe the items you pick 
 up. Based on their looks alone, you'll sometimes wonder what on earth you just added to your inventory. 
   

  To solve Road to India's mysteries, you'll of course need to solve plenty of puzzles. Instead of 
 lots of logic puzzles, you get puzzles that are refreshingly logical. In other words, you won't 
 have to laboriously figure out countless patterns and codes that would seem equally at home on 
 an IQ test, as in the recent Myst III: Exile. Instead, you simply apply common sense to the inventory 
 items you've picked up. If you should spot the proverbial sacred cow in the middle of a road, and 
 you've already picked up a handful of grass, it's pretty easy to put two and two together.   

 
  While many of the puzzles may seem rather easy to adventure game veterans, they may seem refreshingly 
 sensible too. They have the advantage of letting you uncover bits of the story and explore interesting 
 new areas in a rational fashion at a reasonable pace. While there are a few arbitrary pattern-recognition 
 puzzles and the obligatory mazes, you probably won't find yourself banging your head against the 
 wall too often in Road to India, as long as you don't overlook items. Unfortunately, that's easy 
 to do in a few sections of the game that are set at night.           ... and offers an interesting 
 story and plenty of places to explore.    

  Even if you do get stuck for a while, Road to India's fine presentation gives you plenty to enjoy 
 while you're thinking. The visuals are realistic and colorful, as befits the setting. You can almost 
 reach out and touch the Taj Mahal's massive stones and fine latticework in the opening dream sequence. 
 However, during the game's waking sequences, you'll notice that the teeming populace of India seems 
 to have vanished. The streets are almost entirely devoid of life, other than a few select characters 
 with whom you interact. This makes a really odd impression and has nothing to do with the story; 
 presumably it's due to technical limitations. Still, decent character animations and nicely directed 
 cutscenes add some life to a game that, true to its genre, is fundamentally static and cerebral. 
   

  Minimal but effective sound effects help add a little ambience, as does the Indian-tinged electronic 
 score, though the latter grows repetitious quickly. Voice-over quality varies, though on the whole, 
 the actors do a credible job and avoid easy Indian-accent stereotypes. Unfortunately, the weakest 
 voice-over is that of Fred, who always sounds like he's overenunciating, as if trying to make things 
 clear to a little child.   

  Road to India has its share of ruts and potholes, but it will take you to truly memorable places. 
 The story won't win a Pulitzer Prize, especially with its melodramatic ending, but for a game it's 
 entertaining, thanks to its exotic setting and the emotional "hook" of trying to rescue a lover. 
 The puzzles usually provide plausible challenges without becoming frustrating, though some may 
 seem a bit too simple. While the game isn't very long (somewhere around 10 hours) and doesn't offer 
 much replay value thanks to its essentially linear progression, it's a fine example of old-school 
 adventure gaming with a modern presentation.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jeevenbasu
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Every time the pundits declare adventure games dead, a new game appears to prove them wrong. Microids' 
 graphic adventure, Road to India, weaves fact and fiction into a colorful tapestry that offers 
 solid entertainment. To many in the West, India has for centuries seemed a mysterious land that's 
 beckoned to travelers, adventurers, and seekers. Road to India builds on that mystique to craft 
 an engaging tale filled with enjoyable challenges that put the focus on exploration and story over 
 excessive, frustrating puzzles.
  
  ou play as Fred Reynolds, an American who meets a beautiful young Indian woman, Anusha, at Yale. 
 Not long after the happy couple gets engaged, Anusha returns to India and then suddenly and inexplicably 
 sends Fred a letter saying she's leaving him. Naturally, Fred jets after her, only to find her 
 kidnapped. Evidence quickly points to the infamous Thugs, a cult of brutal murderers who venerate 
 the Hindu goddess Kali, or "the black one," frequently portrayed in her destructive aspect with 
 a necklace of skulls and a belt of severed arms. Centering the story on the Thugs, probably best 
 known in the West from the film Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, won't win points for originality, 
 but you can't beat it for instant drama and intrigue.
  
  To find Anusha, you'll hit the streets of New Delhi, but not before a detour into Fred's dreams, 
 where you'll visit the glorious Taj Mahal. In fact, the game has you play through a number of dream 
 sequences in addition to solving puzzles and dilemmas in the "real world." That's a fitting storytelling 
 choice since events and locations in the dreaming and the waking worlds mirror each other, and 
 the dream segments allow the exotic side of India to show through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globenstein
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I was looking for an average puzzle game a while ago. Nothing expensive, nothing too challenging, 
 just something interesting enough to spend a few days playing it. I eventually came across Road 
 and (unfortunately perhaps) , it was what I expected it to be.
  
  The game is set in today's India, even though the scenery and people make it look like how it was 
 a few hundred years ago. You're there to rescue your fiance from the clutches of a bunch of thugs 
 and some evil cult dedicated to sacrificing victims for their evil goddess.
  
  The intricate plot is all there really is. The graphics and sounds are nice but not top-notch. 
 You'll spend most of your time looking around in empty streets for hints and keys. Yes, empty streets 
 in India, all the time. In fact, to avoid making the game too complicated, the creators of the 
 game made it impossible for you to go to populated areas (trying to do so leads in a brief cutscene 
 where your character seems afraid of ppl and goes back to his empty alleys) .
  
  An interesting aspect of the gameplay is that you're either walking around in real life or you're 
 in your dreams (because you're asleep or unconscious) . It makes a nice change but it's not enough 
 to call it innovative.
  
  In overall, a short game made only for short entertainment. If you're looking for something more 
 challenging, go look in the Myst series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegan_cannibal
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This game has potential but the stupidity of the developers is that they should have visited India 
 before attemptiing to make a game out of it. India does not look like this you idiot! Totally stereotyped 
 and totally bs. In the game, India looks like a **** 17 century village, even Delhi the capital. 
 The people are shown hungry and naked, which the game developers are going to be when they lose 
 their jobs because no one will buy their game. Overall, this game is too short and boring. Graphics 
 are okay, and the gameplay is good. This game has potential but the stupidity of the developers 
 is that they should have visited India before attemptiing to make a game out of it. India does 
 not look like this you idiot! Totally stereotyped and totally bs. In the game, India looks like 
 a **** 17 century village, even Delhi the capital. The people are shown hungry and naked, which 
 the game developers are going to be when they lose their jobs because no one will buy their game. 
 Overall, this game is too short and boring. Graphics are okay, and the gameplay is good. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
