-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Robin Hood: The Legend of Sherwood
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/robinhoodthelegendos/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 12, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.0, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 509 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Spellbound
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Nov 14, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An entertaining story, an impressive mission design, and a lively combat system have been brought 
 together in such a way that the complete game works on nearly every level. 

 Even though he's one of the most colorful figures of Western European legend, Robin Hood hasn't 
 had much luck making his way to the PC. Fortunately, German developer Spellbound Studios has just 
 released Robin Hood: The Legend of Sherwood, a clever new take on the old English tale that blends 
 elements of the Kevin Costner and Errol Flynn movies with real-time gameplay in the style of Pyro 
 Studios' tactical strategy game Commandos. An entertaining and well-written storyline, an impressive 
 mission design that includes diverse objectives, and a lively combat system that involves more 
 than simple mouse-clicking have been brought together in such a way that the complete game works 
 on nearly every level. In fact, the only significant arguments you could raise against the game 
 would be that it has no multiplayer play and that its production values are a bit out of date. 
           Scenic Sherwood Forest, Robin Hood's base of operations.    

  Robin Hood is a third-person, isometric-perspective game, and, like Commandos, the game is all 
 about guiding a team of units through missions by avoiding the watchful eyes of sentries. The leader 
 of these groups is Robin of Locksley, who joins up with a group of rebels after returning from 
 the Crusades to find his properties seized by the Sheriff of Nottingham. After two opening missions 
 on your own that get you acquainted with the game engine and introduce the first of many allies 
 who become the famed Merry Men, the scene shifts to Sherwood Forest. In the woods, you have a  
 Swiss Family Robinson -style home in the trees that serves as your headquarters for the remainder 
 of the lengthy campaign. It functions in a similar way to bases in traditional real-time strategy 
 games, with structures operating as small factories.   

  But resource production in Robin Hood isn't simply a matter of erecting a building and watching 
 numbers increase. Everything must be manually created by assigning Merry Men to workshops set aside 
 for the production of specific items. If you want to make arrows, or leather for coin purses, you 
 send somebody to the designated hut to begin work. Every action available in Sherwood Forest is 
 accessed this way. You can train in combat and archery by visiting an area with a drill instructor 
 and tree-mounted targets, gather apples (helpful when you need to distract guards) by walking under 
 a nearby tree, hunt for food by visiting the spit, or dig into the feasting table to recover health. 
   

  Missions are accessed through a map, which you can consult in Sherwood Forest. The map itself details 
 the forest and the five surrounding districts of Lincoln, Nottingham, Derby, York, and Leicester. 
 Then you decide on a mission, gather the Merry Men you want to take along -- you get to select renowned 
 figures like Will Scarlet, Little John, and Friar Tuck, along with fictional nobodies who fill 
 out the ranks -- and get started. Multiple mission choices are typically available, so you can pick 
 and choose based on whatever strikes your fancy. There are many types of missions as well, although 
 they fall into two general categories -- cash-generating ambushes of convoys on the forest roads 
 and major town expeditions that advance the plot. The former involves set-piece engagements with 
 preset traps you trigger by shooting arrows at targets in the trees, pits that you can lure enemies 
 into, and Merry Men hidden under leaves. The latter missions are more traditional. In them, you're 
 given explicit goals such as finding out where Maid Marian is or contacting Prince John and then 
 navigating through a horde of the sheriff's men to get there. And as you might expect from a game 
 about medieval England, you'll get additional information from beggars who will exchange valuable 
 hints for alms.           Hit targets above forest paths to trigger ambush traps.    

  Later on in Robin Hood, you'll have to lay siege to enemy castles. Castle sieges are more involved 
 than standard missions in that you have to earn 12 shields before bringing the fortress down. Shields 
 are acquired prior to battle by giving money to allies, sending groups of Merry Men out on spying 
 patrols, or looting a convoy. This lends greater importance to the major objectives in the game 
 and also gives you a reason to continue with the less-important robberies of merchant and tax collector 
 convoys. During the actual engagement you can earn additional shields toward completing your goal 
 by accomplishing important tasks like lowering the drawbridge.   

  No matter what sort of mission you're engaged in, all of Robin Hood's maps are puzzles that require 
 you to avoid groups of enemy soldiers. These enemies come in various types, ranging from low-level 
 lancers to powerful knights on horseback and officers skilled at organizing troops. Each has a 
 field of vision that can be displayed onscreen as a glowing cone on the ground by pressing the 
 Alt key. However, this option is limited to one soldier at a time, so you'll be able to see only 
 one enemy's field of vision at a time. Like the enemy soldiers in Commandos, your enemies in Robin 
 Hood will turn to your units if they catch sight of them, then approach and finally attack if they 
 clearly spot your troops. Your enemies' level of awareness is clearly color-coded -- green for no 
 sighting, yellow for a sighting, and red when they attack.    

 Enemies in Robin Hood are also keen to alert others of your presence. If a battle isn't going well, 
 or if they're obviously outnumbered, they run for reinforcements or alert an officer, who usually 
 organizes a group of men and begins a search. They'll also do this if they see a dead or unconscious 
 body. You also have to watch out for civilians, who often panic when they see you and alert guards. 
 It can be frustrating when peasants sound the alarm, especially since, as Robin Hood, you're trying 
 to  help  these people, but with a little care, you can usually avoid being spotted.           
 You can fight all of your enemies and leave a pile of bodies behind you, but it's not a good idea. 
    

  All of this can make Robin Hood remarkably challenging at times, even if you set the difficulty 
 to "easy." In addition to the tough opposition, developer Spellbound has designed some intricate 
 maps in which you'll have trouble determining which path should be followed to your goal. In these, 
 you find groups of soldiers all over the place, looking in all different directions, which means 
 you must crawl past them or come up with some sort of distraction. Merry Men have individual skills 
 that come in handy in such situations. Each of the main characters has distinct abilities. Robin, 
 for example, can toss coin purses to distract enemies or simply knock them out, while Will Scarlet 
 can strangle foes to death with his bare hands, and Stutely is an expert at tying up unconscious 
 soldiers. Generic Merry Men come in aggressive, strong, and mustachioed varieties. Aggressive Merry 
 Men are essentially fighters, specializing in close combat and healing. Strong Merry Men are patterned 
 after Little John, brutes who can carry bodies and whistle loudly to attract enemies. And mustachioed 
 Merry Men are archers, good with a bow but lousy in melee combat. Forming teams where these abilities 
 complement each other is essential to success.   

  Combat is an alternative to sneaking around. Each Merry Man has a skill rating with a melee weapon 
 or a bow and sometimes with both. The implementation of these abilities during gameplay is handled 
 very well. Fighting with melee weapons is done by clicking on an opponent to attack, clicking on 
 yourself to block, or clicking and moving the mouse to launch special attacks. The latter adds 
 an Errol Flynn flourish to battles -- essentially, the edge of your sword follows the movement of 
 your mouse, so you can slide the mouse back and forth for a quick sideways thrust or draw a figure 
 eight. In contrast, using a bow is automatic, since you just set your sights on an enemy and let 
 fly. But as fun as it can be to slice up the sheriff's men, you can't leave too many corpses in 
 your wake. Merry Men are recruited based on the number of lives you spare, and since manpower is 
 crucial to mission success -- not to mention resource production and committing groups to spying 
 missions -- you can't murder your way to victory.   

  Unfortunately, Robin Hood doesn't have much in the way of extras or other modes of play. The game 
 has no multiplayer option, no skirmish mode, and no way to edit existing missions. But graphically, 
 Robin Hood looks good, albeit unremarkable. The game's graphics consist of hand-drawn 2D sprites 
 and backgrounds, and these are both brought to life with lifelike character animations and highly 
 detailed backgrounds, including swaying foliage, running water, smoke rising from chimneys, and 
 animated clothing. Battles on staircases often feature combatants sliding down the stairs, one 
 step at a time, when they're knocked out or killed.           You'll need to carefully avoid your 
 enemies.    

  Robin Hood's sound is of slightly better quality. The game has a great many atmospheric sound samples 
 that change each time you walk to a different part of the screen. In Sherwood Forest, for instance, 
 you hear birds in one part of the camp and bees buzzing in another. Different actors voice the 
 Merry Men parts and do a good job of granting them a modicum of individuality, but the number of 
 these comments is limited. You can count on Robin saying "I'll send your widow a purse" one out 
 of every three times he kills an opponent. Otherwise, the game's musical score is so slight that 
 you often forget about it while playing.   

  Robin Hood: The Legend of Sherwood's romantic depiction of Robin and his Merry Men and its clever 
 game design really help bring the swashbuckling legend to life, much like the classic Errol Flynn 
 movie. It's a bit of a shame that the game is so lacking in the way of extras, such as multiplayer 
 options or an editor of any kind, but the campaign itself is presented extremely well. Games such 
 as these, which are based on classic themes or stories, often tend to fall short of the mark, but 
 Robin Hood gets its subject matter right, and with plenty of playability, storytelling, and atmosphere. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Descalabro
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2009 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Mixing the theme of Robin Hood with the basic idea of Commandos isn't something we would think 
 of easily, but this game takes the best of both and adds enough to be worth on its own.
  
  Plot (4/5) :
  Taking the basic story from Robin Hood, game designers have managed to keep things 
 interesting during the entire game. So much we forget we're playing a game based on missions. All 
 the important things are here: from the return of Robin from the Crusades to the return of king 
 Richard, going through the rescue of Robin's allies and the un-concluded marriage of Maid Marian. 
 It all flows quite well and you get that feel of a plot going always at the right pace.
  
  Game-play (4/5) :
  There are 3 types of missions: missions with specific objectives concerning 
 the plot, robbery missions to raise money, and castle defense/assault missions. The first type 
 is the one where new main areas will be shown to you, even though later you'll be playing missions 
 of the 3rd type at those sites. There will always be something important concerning the plot during 
 these missions; the robbery missions are usually short, played at small portions of the forest, 
 where you will be able to use traps made of logs and ground nets to capture passing carts loaded 
 with gold or supplies, and also call allies hidden in the trees by firing an arrow at the right 
 targets. You won't be setting these traps yourself, they are already there when the mission begins; 
 in the defense/assault missions you basically have to defend or (re) conquer a castle (and its surrounding 
 village) . There will be allied units to rescue and several important enemy units which you'll have 
 to kill/arrest in order to complete the mission.
  During the game you'll have to kill the less enemies possible (surprisingly, you'll won't miss 
 the blood) if you want many merry-men to join you at Sherwood and produce all the items you'll 
 need during the missions: arrows, bags of money, hunting nets, food, etc.
  The game covers 5 large areas and several smaller ones including your hideout at the center of 
 Sherwood. This is perhaps my only relevant complain about the game: you play over 30 missions all 
 of them in the same locations, and even if there are weather and daytime changes, it gets repetitive 
 on this aspect, specially considering how beautiful and catchy these locations look. During the 
 game you alternate between all these locations, going back to Sherwood every time to restore your 
 character's health and items, and also to train them so they can get more skilled at combat.
  
  Combat and Interaction (5/5) :
  This is one of the best elements of the game.
  All your 
 main characters have their own way of fighting and this is perhaps the only isometric game out 
 there on which you can control your weapon using the mouse. You can use it to swing at enemy soldiers, 
 push them back, knock them out, etc, and all will depend on how strong your character (and the 
 enemy character) is. All characters have both a life bar and an energy bar, so when fighting against 
 strong opponents you'll have to be careful not to tire yours too much.
  The interaction factor is really great both in combat and during normal game-play: you'll be able 
 to climb walls, jump over rooftops, unlock doors, open draw bridges, push enemy soldiers against 
 each other as they run towards you making most of them fall on the floor, throw objects and make 
 them ricochet on house walls and much more. The physics in this game are so accurate that some 
 punches might miss the target if he moves, the actual length of the weapon you're using will count 
 when you swing it with your mouse, and sleeping soldiers will wake up if you bump into them.
  Of course, following similar games' tradition, your characters can run, walk, move quietly, knock 
 enemies out by their back and distract them in all sorts of ways depending on the special abilities 
 they have.
  
  Artificial Intelligence (4/5) :
  Enemy soldiers' reaction is always difficult to predict. they may call the captain or run away 
 until danger is over, the captain may try to find you or simply tell his soldiers to run the entire 
 village on review to find you hiding in some house or they may look for you and give up rather 
 quickly; they may fight for the bag of gold you thrown at the floor or they may say "that's not 
 my money!..." or simply stop fighting if the captain sees them. Even though you can feel their 
 actions are triggered by specific events, there is still the right amount of randomness on their 
 attitudes.
  As for your soldiers, they will usually hold the enemy alive for as long as possible until you 
 pick and control them, and they usually have good enough path-finding.
  
  Visuals (4/5) :
  I simply love the visuals on this game. Everything is done at the right scale and the pre-rendered 
 graphics look like a mix of 18th/19th century landscape paintings and those didactic coloured books 
 where you could see the interior of castles through a cut on the walls. Yet, they don't kook static 
 at all: there will always be birds flying from roof to roof, small rivers running, windmills rotating, 
 etc. This is why the lack of more areas to explore is so noticeable.
  
  Music and Sound Effects (4/5) :
  The music on this game isn't the best out there but it sets the 
 right mood and isn't annoying, so that's enough for me. The sound effects are all good, going from 
 the animals to the fights, and you'll notice how detailed they are if you listen to the several 
 footstep sounds used depending if the characters are going through grass, wood, stone or water.
 
  The voice acting is also good enough: without trying to be too serious, every character has the 
 right tone and accent and they are the best vehicle for the good dose of humour this game provides.
 
  
  Bugs (4/5) :
  Except the fact that sometimes your characters will stop when they reach the lying enemy soldier 
 instead of tiding him up, there isn't any bug worth mentioning.
  
  Conclusion:
  This is a rich strategy/adventure game with lots of possibilities where all important factors were 
 taken into account, and I wonder why this game and specially this graphic engine hasn't been used 
 since (to do a great isometric RPG perhaps?...) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamal_maj
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 14, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  Really Goes Like it's name The Legend .
  1 of the best games ever made. The 3D engine really makes everything look real as if you're living 
 the game. Overall it is really cool like ICE and hot like FIRE all at the same time, know what 
 I mean. It Has great gameplay, and the sounds along with dialogues really make it good. The graphics 
 are immersive and thus this game is all about what it's cracked up to be. Yup Really Great Work 
 Done by SpellBound. It really astounds me that the work of SpellBound is really like any studios 
 wants it to be.
  Caution: This game is addictive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  After the impressive intro-sequence, you will face a well-known screen which will first make you 
 go: Hey, this looks like Commandos , and then: But it sure looks great . The first two missions 
 are more of a tutorial, and you should go through them step by step, especially if you don't have 
 any experience with the games I mentioned (and the specific sub-genre they represent) . When you 
 start the game, you will only command Robin Hood. As soon as you finish the tutorial missions, 
 you will already have a small coterie, consisting of a number of different characters with different 
 capabilities, including Will Scarlet, Little John, Friar Tuck, and a plethora of other characters 
 who will want to join you as you progress through the game. The number of recruits will directly 
 depend on your methods - the less blood you spill, the more people will respect you, and in turn, 
 the more supporters you will get.
  
  Each of your Merry Men has a unique set of abilities, which make him more or less appropriate for 
 a particular mission. One you get to know the members of your party well, it will be far easier 
 for you to decide which of them you want to include in the team for a certain mission. Robin, for 
 instance, has the ability to distract enemy soldiers by throwing gold-pouches, Will Scarlet can 
 strangle enemy soldiers silently, and Little John has enough strength to remove dead and unconscious 
 bodies from the scene of the crime.
  
  The third, or should I say the first real mission, will start in the Sherwood Forest which is something 
 like your headquarters in the game. It is here that you will choose your assignments, form teams 
 and start missions. The missions are versatile and each mission has a set of minor goals which 
 can be anything from robbing passengers to besieging an enemy castle.
  
  Whichever mission you play, and whatever goals it may have, your success will depend on carefully 
 planning your moves and staying out of enemy's sight. If the enemy does spot you, their excellent 
 AI will take over, trying to alarm the head of the watch, or summon reinforcements, or even attack 
 you if it assesses it is in a batter position than you. This is when the fight starts, and you 
 better have click-happy fingers if you intend to win (not even this helps if you are severely outnumbered) . 
 The enemy troops will also be alert if they find a dead or unconscious body. Still, the most irritating 
 of all are the stupid peasants (who you practically work for in the first place) that tend to reveal 
 your positions to the enemy every chance they get. Enemy soldiers have a defined sight range that 
 you can check like in Commandos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gentazo
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  In Robin Hood - The Legend of Sherwood you get to take part in one of the oldest and still most 
 popular stories of all. Only a hairs breadth from the action, you share in all the excitement 
 and adventures of your heroes: Robin Hood, Little John, Will Scarlet, Stutely the Owl, Friar Tuck 
 and the lovely Lady Marian.
  
  
  You can penetrate the mighty walls of Nottingham Castle, York, Leicester, Derby and Lincoln, and 
 attack heavily guarded convoys in Sherwood Forest. The Princes lightly-armed guardsmen and heavily 
 armoured knights will challenge you to a duel on staircases lit by flaming torches. Or they might 
 try and fool you with beer, hornets nests or a well-aimed money-pouch.
  
  
  Whenever you want, you can go to the outlaws camp and practise the basic and advanced game functions; 
 whether hand-to-hand combat with swords or staffs, target practice with the bow or the skilful 
 use of the many implements Robins followers have at their disposal.
  
  
  Easy mouse control and a system of icons you can understand intuitively will aid both beginners 
 and experts in getting into the game quickly and helping you towards your first successful results. 
 Movements and battles can be controlled problem-free using the mouse. The Robin Hood - The Legend 
 Of Sherwood battle system enables you to have exciting duels with swords, staffs and other typical 
 mediaeval weapons.
  
  
  But in the end it is having the right tactics which decides on victory or defeat. Whether you sneak 
 into a castle and avoid the sentries or whether you take the direct route with sword and bow, is 
 up to you. For example you can use the reduced visibility during the hours of darkness to your 
 advantage. Or you can deploy the numerous abilities and special objects your men have, in order 
 to distract the Princes henchmen. Or then again you could try to fight your way through to your 
 goal using well-aimed bowshots and skilfully deployed weapons. A lot of different possibilities 
 present themselves; you just need to use them wisely.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmwamala
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Robin Hood: The Legend of Sherwood is an awesome game that gives you the chance of using the famous 
 character Robin aswell as other famous characters like: Lady Marian, John and the Friar. You get 
 to use them all as you atempt to save the day. It is an original game that any fan of the Robin 
 Hood genre would enjoy playing. This game also introduces Robin's cousin who by using him you get 
 to decide how Robin's reputation is. Overall a fun game to play, easy to pick up and enjoy. Absolutely 
 recomend it for people to come, buy and check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightmareseh
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Many people think this is just an other robin hood game whit a few things that can be done.
  At the beginning i was surprised by the things you can do..
  Like wall climbing or shooting or 
 what so ever..
  This was really a nice surprise.
  In the game you shall learn how to knock down enemies fast or on a stealthy way.
  But the further 
 you come in the game the more persons you'll get..
  After getting the basic crew of Robin Hood you'll get annoying people who are only standing in 
 your way.
  Is you use cheats in the game or trainers to make the game easy. It sucks if you do that...
  There 
 is not any more fun on it..
  So i recomend to play without cheats and trainers.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloppelop2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 8:27 am PT
Review:  Robin Hood: Legend of Sherwood, is a very impressive game where you control the legendary Robin 
 Hood, and his path to fame and glory.
  
  The Gameplay:
  The way you control you characters are amazing, where each has special skills. You are to play 
 a lot of missions, from sneaking in to castle and free prisoners, to ambushes in the forrest.
 
  You feel like you have a lot of possibities to play, and that you can choose different pathes. 
 Its just brilliant...
  It is amazingly fun to play just as you want to. Knocking down guards and tie them up, as well 
 you can decide to lay traps for your enemies... There are SO MUCH to do...
  The game is easy enough, but still gives you a challenge...
  The AI is also intelligent and VERY 
 realistic. Like if a guard hears a noise, he will run and find the closest commander, which he 
 will talk to, as you also can listen to... Then the commander will talk to some other soldiers, 
 and order them to check it out. Then they can try and find out, and if they see that there lies 
 a dead man, they will report back and tell about their discovories. Then more guards will be put 
 into action...
  Very cool, nicely done...
  Perfect gameplay...
  
  The Graphics:
  It is beautifully created scenarios, with great great details, and with many variations, like day/night.
 
  Really impressive to sit and control your merry men to storm the gretest and most detailed castles, 
 like they were spies in a CIA headquarter...
  Great maps with many nice things.
  Though, a very very few bugs, which doesnt really annoy, is the only thing that seperate the game 
 from getting 10 points.
  
  Sounds:
  Not much to say about the music and sound. It's ok, and though you sneak around, there is barely 
 little noises, though guards can stand and talk together. Sometimes however, the talking is the 
 same and same, and you can get a little tired...
  
  All in All:
  It is really a great game, which I love a lot...
  Even though I have completed the game a couple 
 of times, I can still fell like I wanna play it again... 
  A gerat game, which I hope, someday will be a rolemodel for future games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 15, 2005 8:46 am PT
Review:  I've never really played strategy games. I played this before dungeon siege, which is a real strategy 
 game.
  Considering, this is a really suprising game, very good and direct. You are free to roam around 
 and kill in the various castles, but only once you've done enough small missions. The smaller missions 
 get a bit repetetive, and you'll end up playing the same mini mission twenty times over. The aim 
 of the game, basically, is to earn 100'000.
  The graphics, as with most strategy games, go fuzzy when you zoom in, but at a distance, they are 
 very good. Prerendered backgrounds, yes, but attention has been payed to a lot of the smaller things, 
 like bees swarming round a hive, or fish in the water. Even the horses look real!
  The sound isn't really much cop, and doesn't exactly add atmosphere, but it's alright. It is quite 
 quiet, and sometimes can be drowned out by the smallest of the things like a man falling in a pit.
 
  The gameplay is your basic strategy game, based on an English legend. It is easy to pick up and 
 play, even though the loading screens can take a while. The gameplay could be better, like the 
 odd 'boss' fight every so often. Not swinging swords at a man in tights, but actually having a 
 proper sword fight with spectators and your team are held back or something. 
  A good game despite the flaws I have mentioned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racho
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 5, 2005 7:55 pm PT
Review:  At first I wasn't expecting much from this game, probably I just got it to kill time.. but then 
 when you've played for the first few minutes, the game justmanages to grab you. It has a very unique 
 graphic style, and I love how they've managed to put in the amount of detail into the game. It 
 just gets you easily engaged and addicted to the game instantly. It follows through the story of 
 Robin Hood, and if you've read the story you'd know pretty much what happens, but the quests that 
 are set out for you to do are very fun, and sometimes you can do side-quests, where you can rob 
 money from the sheriff and save a nearby village from being raided. So it doesnt make the gameplay 
 seem boring at all. 
  The sounds are really good, and the voice-overs aren't bad either.
  You can also send different characters off to the quests ( but some of them you have to include 
 certain main characters) , and this makes the gameplay less repetive, since you get to choose which 
 men to send off and fight along-side with you, you can always experiment different tactics to use 
 on your enemies. 
  
  Overall I think this game is really good, and worth playing, you get to decide whether you want 
 to kill all your enemies or spare their lives and life your reputation. And controlling your characters 
 to move around and fight isn't much of a fuss either. 
  I love how the game has different maps and castles, and each one of them has tremendous detail 
 put into them, which makes it more interesting. Its also made me want to play more than just once 
 or twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sammmyboy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2005 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Everybody knows the story of Robin Hood. But The Legend Of Sherwood puts the story for the first 
 time in a beautifully designed strategy game. The Legend of Sherwood is divided in a high number 
 of missions, some during the day, others at night. Before every mission starts, you must choose 
 your companions, each one with his special abilities, in Sherwood Forest. From there, you can enter 
 the mission. But the special abilities vary from character to character. You may need a character 
 that is able to tie up unconscious enemies, maybe one that is able to carry them, and so on.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay uses the RTS method of selecting a character, and then click on the 
 place where it should go to. At the bottom of the screen, there are a few buttons under every character's 
 picture, which you can use to perform special actions, like carrying, tying up, throwing apples, 
 healing, shooting arrows, and so on. In any case, the gameplay in this game couldn't have been 
 better.
  
  GRAPHICS: The Legend of Sherwood proves that not every strategy game nowadays must be completely 
 rendered in full 3D. The highly detailed and beautifully coloured backgrounds and characters are 
 almost equal to a fully rendered 3D strategy game.
  
  SOUND: This might be the best sound I've heard in a strategy game. I mean, you can even hear the 
 birds chirping, the water splashing and the footsteps as if they were right next to you !
  
  CONCLUSION: Robin Hood - The Legend of Sherwood is a beautifully designed and fun to play strategy 
 game for almost everyone. This might also be the strategy game with the highest replay value I've 
 ever played. 
  
  And I've played a lot of them. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
