-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Robin Hood: Defender of the Crown
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/robinhooddefenderoftc/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  3, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.8, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 88 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Developer: Atomic Planet Ent.
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 6, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Diehard fans of the original might enjoy Robin Hood: Defender of the Crown, but if you don't have 
 any such emotional attachment, there are better alternatives. 

  Released on various computer platforms in the late 1980s, the original Defender of the Crown put 
 you in the role of one of four Saxon knights struggling for control over England. Robin Hood played 
 a supporting role in that game as you led armies, dueled in daring raids, and jousted in tournaments 
 for fame. More than a decade later, Defender of the Crown has been remade for the PC and major 
 consoles. While the themes and even general gameplay mechanics remain largely intact, the legendary 
 Robin Hood and his merry band of outlaws (Little John, Wil Scarlett, Friar Tuck, and Maid Marian) 
 step prominently into the starring roles. At its core, the new Robin Hood: Defender of the Crown 
 is essentially a turn-based series of minigames. It's deeper and more enjoyable than you might 
 expect from that description, but ultimately it gets somewhat repetitive and can be completed rather 
 quickly and easily.  

          You'll play as the legendary bandit Robin Hood.     

  You play as Robin Hood; as you start the game, you'll be defending Sherwood Forest from the Sheriff 
 of Nottingham. This first portion effectively serves as a tutorial before you take over the entire 
 region of Nottingham and eventually go to war with the lords in the other areas of England. The 
 reason the entire island is in turmoil is that King Richard has been abducted and is up for ransom 
 in Austria. Richard's evil brother, Prince John, has declared Richard dead and seized the throne 
 of England for himself. You are tasked with gathering up enough money to pay Richard's ransom, 
 raising armies of your own to fight for control of each of England's counties, and eventually attacking 
 Prince John and overthrowing him from his seat of power in southern England. At the start of every 
 turn, you'll collect taxes from your counties; the more counties you control, the more money you 
 bring in. The gold you collect you can use to raise armies for your campaign forces or county garrisons, 
 to build strongholds on your provinces, or to partially pay off King Richard's ransom. If Maid 
 Marian is around, you can send her to spy on an enemy province, which will give you a permanent 
 look at the troop strength in that territory. Once you're done reinforcing your army or your defenses, 
 you will have a few basic choices. You can go on a raid in one of your enemy's provinces, you can 
 hold a jousting tournament with Sir Ivanhoe serving as your proxy, or you can attack a neighboring 
 province with your army to bring it under your control. Each choice opens up a different minigame. 

          Raiding castles is more profitable, in general.     

  There are two different types of raids. The archery raid is basically a shooting-gallery minigame 
 where you fire arrows at passing horsemen and carriages as they travel along a forest road or through 
 a clearing. With every rider you kill, you earn gold from an enemy's coffers and add it to your 
 own. Enemy archers will be part of the train, however, so if you get shot three times, you're forced 
 to retreat, and you won't get any money. Raiding castles opens up a sword-dueling minigame. Here 
 you'll move through various portions of a castle, fighting against footmen and knights until you 
 eventually reach the castle's treasury. The dueling mechanics are pretty simple, and generally 
 you can earn more money from a castle raid than an ambush. The danger is that if you lose all your 
 health while dueling through a castle, you'll be captured and thrown into that castle's dungeon. 
 You'll lose precious turns in the world map as you try to ransom your way out or escape.    

  Jousting tournaments are an entirely different minigame. There are three rounds in the tournament, 
 and each round is played for higher and higher stakes. The first round affords you extra fame if 
 you win. The second round is a wager for gold with an enemy lord, while the winner of the championship 
 round will actually be able to take a county of his choice from the loser. The actual jousting 
 is separated into two portions. The first part is done much like the sprinting in the old Track 
 &amp; Field arcade game; you pound two buttons alternately as fast as you can to build up the speed 
 of your horse. In the second portion, you get a first-person view from Ivanhoe's perspective as 
 you try to aim your lance at the opponent's torso or head to score points.  

          It looks like playing chess. But it's not as deep or interesting.     

  The battle 
 command portion of Defender of the Crown is probably the most boring minigame of all, which is 
 disappointing because you'll be spending so much time doing it. Your army consists of five different 
 types of troops: peasants, footmen, knights, archers, and catapults. The battle minigame happens 
 in real time -- you use your foot soldiers to basically run interference and attack across the screen 
 as your ranged units fire from the back. You attack and protect down three channels on the battlefield, 
 and the battle continues until one army is totally destroyed or retreats. Though each of the units 
 gains some special abilities as you proceed along the campaign, the interface for doing battle 
 is clunky and limited, and watching a battle unfold is as exciting as seeing chess pieces slide 
 across a board and knock each other over. If you have an excess of one type of unit, there's no 
 way of splitting them into two smaller groups to cover more channels. So in the later stages of 
 the game you're essentially required to have all three types of foot soldiers to cover all the 
 channels, even if you have the money to field an army entirely of the stronger footmen and knights. 

  If you attack a county with a stronghold built upon it, the battle game is preceded by a catapult 
 sequence, which proves to be far better looking and more interesting than the real battles. Over 
 four turns of siege combat, you'll be able to choose which wall of the castle you'd like to attack 
 and knock down with your catapults. If you fire over the wall you have a chance of killing part 
 of the standing army inside and whittling down its numbers. In the meantime, the enemy archers 
 are firing down on you from the castle and thinning out your attacking force. The more walls you 
 knock down prior to the battle minigame, the easier the ensuing battle will be.  

          Jousting tournaments can earn you money and land.     

  Though Robin Hood: Defender 
 of the Crown intersperses a lot of story-based missions and cutscenes into the campaign, the game 
 ultimately comes down to a lot of repetition. You'll play these minigames over and over again as 
 you try to build up money, take over counties, and advance toward Prince John's castle for the 
 final showdown. On the plus side, the graphics of the cutscenes are decent, and the quality and 
 quantity of voice acting throughout the game are pretty good as well. Unfortunately the game proves 
 to be all too brief -- experienced strategy-game players can beat the campaign in one extended sitting 
 of about six or seven hours. The PC version of the game also suffers from a couple of minor bugs. 
 For instance, when you try to purchase a keep or another weak stronghold, the game will sometimes 
 award you with the next more-expensive type of fort, even if you don't have enough gold to purchase 
 that version. None of the quirks we observed are showstopping bugs, but we recommend that you save 
 frequently to avoid wasted effort.  

  Overall, Robin Hood: Defender of the Crown proves to be a faithful re-creation of its predecessor; 
 the jousting interface and castle raid scenes in particular bear strong resemblance to the original. 
 Unfortunately, though, the strategy genre has advanced greatly over the years, and the additions 
 made to Defender of the Crown still don't allow it to stand up very well to other strategy games, 
 particularly in the PC market. Diehard fans of the original might enjoy Robin Hood: Defender of 
 the Crown, but if you don't have any such emotional attachment, there are better alternatives. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Manoflesh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  This game gets only better after the whole mess after the cut-scene of where King Richard gets 
 captured and thrown into a foreign cell, awaiting ransom for his release. This comes to conclude 
 that his evil tyrant brother, Prince John, conquered the throne and became King John, thus, being 
 able to do whatever he pleases. You start out as Robin Hood, a well known thief and outlaw that 
 has been raiding his enemy, the Sheriff Of Nottingham, to a point of extension that has lead to 
 a full blown-out war with the kings of other lands. As you try to kill the other lords, at the 
 same time, you have to pay ransom to the people to get King Richard out of the cell he is in. In 
 that case, a well known guard, called Ivanhoe, joins you to make a good figure of yourself, by 
 not only jousting, but also laying siege to your enemies castles. This game has been brought by 
 a masterpiece, and i would suggest that you play it as this is a good and very well planned out 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 9, 2005 1:34 am PT
Review:  As many of you know if you've read my past reviews, I've always felt that games need to go back 
 to the roots and find what it was that made the classics the great games that they still are today.
 
  
  So I'm sure you can well imagine my anticipation when Cinemaware announced they were making Robin 
 Hood: DoTC. I had it on pre-order that day in fact. After a long wait, which in a sense was worth 
 it, and in a sense not, I found the new DoTC to be an enjoyable experience.
  
  The first thing you must understand, is that DoTC, both the new and original, are not games with 
 a campaign that will take you weeks of gaming hours to beat. DoTC is best played in 'sessions' 
 as its predecessor was. Its meant to be a game that you can start a campaign, devote a good 5-6 
 hours to, and be done. 
  
  Robin Hood stays true to the past product in this sense, which disappointed many newcomers to the 
 genre, however this is not where I feel the game fell short. Cinemaware promised a more dynamic 
 game during development. Every time you played the old Defender of the Crown, something would always 
 be different from one game to the next. However you don't have this same feeling with RH: DoTC. 
 In fact most of the game is repetitive when you play a second time through, which really kills 
 its replay value. 
  
  However, it is still a game that you will dig out 6 months after beating it, just to see if you're 
 as good an archer as you were before :)
  
  On to the brass tacks:
  
  Graphics: Nothing too spectacular, but of course a great improvement upon the original. When it 
 was released the graphics were decent. What it has in graphics, it executes well, and you will 
 find most of the game to indeed be visually pleasurable, depending on your standards.
  
  Sound: Perhaps the department where RH: DoTC shines most in. The musical score throughout the game 
 is fantastic and a real treat throughout your experience. Sound effects are good as well. My favorite 
 thing here though, is the voice acting, its all very well done and really makes you feel like you're 
 watching the Errol Flynn version of Robin Hood. I found this area to be perhaps the most enjoyable.
 
  
  
  Gameplay: Well, the new DoTC manages to keep the same gameplay as its forefather, which is both 
 good and bad. The campaign falls far short of the dynamic, randomness filled (different every time) 
 experience that Cinemaware promised. All the minigames are entertaining, except perhaps the army 
 battle one. Granted, it flat out sucked in the original, but I guess thats why I didn't expect 
 much here. DoTC's fun was in the raid minigames and jousting minigames, and the same holds true 
 for the new version.
  
  However... I found all the minigames (except perhaps the archery one) to be way too easy. Raiding 
 could get tough pending the circumstances, but Jousting is a flatout cakewalk compared to the original. 
 I was hoping for a patch that would boost the difficulty of this, but it never happened. With minimal 
 effort, I have never lost a match (and i've done about 50) , and every opponent i faced I unhorsed 
 the first time. Its way too easy to do this, and this will cause you to win against your opponent 
 straight out. I was really hoping for a more difficult experience (as the original was hard as 
 hell, and those that could joust well really did have a reputation back in the "old days.") , something 
 along the lines that would provide the intensity of something you might have seen in "A Knight's 
 Tale" with Heath Ledger. That came out around the same time, and i think many fans were looking 
 for that.
  
  Overall the game is just too easy. The campaign map AI can either be really smart (aka cheap) and 
 stop you in your tracks and seriously force you to rethink some strategy, or dumb as a freaking 
 post as you march through its lands with little trouble.
  
  RH: DoTC stays true to its ancestor, but it was "dressed up" too much, pre-release by the developers. 
 
  
  Is it worth a look? Sure, I doubt you'll pay more than $10 for it at this point, and its worth 
 that, I will say that much. I think fans of the original will enjoy the tip of the hat nostalgia... 
 but its just going to leave you wanting more, wondering if Cinemaware is going to make a comeback 
 and become the gaming gods they once were. Try it, you will at least get a good 6-7 hours enjoyment 
 out of it, and you may pull it out a few months later, because the minigames are indeed fun.
  
  That's my take, take it or leave it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leecy1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 1, 2004 8:02 am PT
Review:  This is a real pleasant surprise. When I read the GS review, it really deterred me at frist. However, 
 when I acutally saw the box in the shop and reading about the game from the backover of the box, 
 I decided to give it a go. 
  
  The is essentially at cocktail of arcade shooting/swordfight game, mixed in with strategy. However, 
 the arcade bits are really optional but the bonuses gained from winning the arcade sections can 
 assist you in the grand strategies by giving extra resources.
  
  The story is decent and is advanced by converstions that intersperse the gameplay. The cinimatic 
 bits are well integrated into the gameplay and there is seemless transition form the cinematic 
 parts and the arcade action.
  
  The only downside is that the game is quite short, but this may be exagerrated for my case as I 
 am a seasoned strategy game player, and I guess some less experienced strategy gemer will spend 
 much longer completing the game.
  
  The major upside of the game is the atmosphere. It is lighthearted, humourous and heartwarming 
 but at the same time feel natural and spontaneous, and is a very pleasant and welcomed diversion 
 from the increasingly oppressive and occasionally disturbing themes that now dominates the gaming 
 market. 
  
  I would highly recommend this game to any less experienced and younger gamer. It encompasses a 
 nice intergrated mix of genres, non of which are very difficult but does add up to more than the 
 sum of its parts. The game play is forgiving and comes with good in-game tutorials that can be 
 skipped by more experienced players. (the castle siege took me a while to work out, but turned 
 out to be very simple, the further back you wind the catapult, the farther and higher up the payload 
 strikes - simple physics acutally !) . As for the more experienced punter, I think this is still 
 a good buy but you may complete this game quite quickly like myself. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KhanIndustries
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 11, 2003 5:43 pm PT
Review:  A nice surprise. I didn't have many expectations for this game but it turned out to be a nice refreshing 
 change from the same old stuff out there. I absolutely love the diversity in the game and the strategy 
 elements are great. 
  
  I gave gameplay, graphics, and sound 10's because I feel the game is very fun, looks great, and 
 sounds really good. I gave value a score of 7 because unlike the original where you could play 
 1 of 4 lords I believe, this one only allows for only one and I don't see much replayability in 
 the long run. My tilt is 8 because I didn't like the difficulty of the forced sword fights (I found 
 Guy Gisborne impossible for the longest time) but overall I really enjoy the game. 
  
  Overall, a very good game that was produced well. I would recommend this game to anybody who enjoyed 
 the original or anybody who is looking for something diffrent. I really hope Cinemaware continues 
 to do additional remakes. 
  
  
  Tip:
  BTW, if you find yourself having a hard time with sword fights.. Invade the castle located at Norfolk 
 and obtain the "Lion Sword" within the castle's treasury. This will make sword fighting MUCH easier. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
