-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: RoboBlitz
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/roboblitz/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good mix of action adventure puzzles and shooting.
 Great visuals and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some issues with physics and controls.
 No multiplayer at present .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  8, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.0, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 126 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Naked Sky Entertainment
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date:     Nov 6, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
RoboBlitz may be short, but it's also one great-looking, catchy grab bag of classic 3D platform 
 challenges. 

  With a title like RoboBlitz, you would expect this Naked Sky Entertainment game to be some kind 
 of amalgamation of an Isaac Asimov story and a futuristic Dallas Cowboys. But sorry, football fans, 
 there isn't a pigskin in sight in this Steam-distributed action adventure about a good robot battling 
 evil robots attempting to take over a space station. That's no loss, however, because the cutesy 
 premise is the foundation for a catchy arcade experience blending puzzle-solving with action. Some 
 irritating control problems and abbreviated length remind you that this isn't quite a full game, 
 although it's hard to complain too much due to the $14.95 price tag and gorgeous looks derived 
 from the Unreal 3 engine.  

          It's not too difficult to tell the good guys from the bad guys here.     

  It's certainly 
 unique, too. You play Blitz, the robot guard of a space station under attack by a pirate gang called 
 the MegaNOED. Your only hope at keeping your circuits in place and sending these dastardly villains 
 away without any booty is the space cannon, a gun emplacement that has to be fired up by visiting 
 the station's six sections and solving 19 levels of puzzles. The bad-guy robots of MegaNOED also 
 battle your attempts to get the big gun readied and fired every step of the way, so this isn't 
 simply a case of plugging in power cords and pulling a trigger.  

  Nothing here is revolutionary, although the game does a nice job of mixing puzzles with blasting 
 bad guys. Most of the puzzles are straightforward and always involve either getting something for 
 the cannon or fussing with gears, electronics, and the like to power it up and ready it to go bang. 
 So you collect metal junk and enemy robots to toss into a grinder that recycles scrap into ammo. 
 You realign mirrors to reflect lasers and open doors. You dodge pistoning pillars that can crush 
 Blitz as flat as a circuit board. You jump from one whirling gear to another over spike-filled 
 pits. You fire up conveyer belts and move boxes around. All in all, the game plays like a grab 
 bag of classic 3D platform challenges.  

  Some of this is vaguely irritating busywork, and it's just ridiculous that a space station's sole 
 means of defending itself is reliant on a robot jumping through hoops for a few hours. But the 
 puzzles are interesting if not inventive and generally not too difficult, and you're kept hopping 
 by flying and rolling pirate-scout robots. At times the game goes into full-blown third-person 
 shooter mode, with brief stretches where you gun down baddies with the EMP rifle, plasma gun, and 
 other weapons that your robotic buddy Karl makes for you when you give him enough of the upgradium 
 power-ups lying around levels. Most of the shooting is basic have-at-'em stuff, although the bosses 
 at the end of each section of the ship are very tough and require a gimmick or two to defeat.  
 

  Control problems and a general awkwardness take some of the shine off the gameplay. Although a 
 certain amount of mechanical clumsiness is to be expected -- after all, you're playing sort of a 
 cross between R2-D2 and Tom Servo from  Mystery Science Theater 3000 --the controls really remind 
 you that you're playing a ham-fisted robot, not the supercommando with the agility of a Romanian 
 gymnast typically found in action games. Although Naked Sky has obviously taken pains to make the 
 in-game physics as realistic as possible with use of Ageia's PhysX technology, you frequently run 
 into ramps that you can't get up without a flying start, or junk that is so heavy to carry when 
 moving forward that you have to drag it in reverse. These moments do make RoboBlitz feel more authentic, 
 but they also seem too true-to-life for a game that's otherwise very simple.  

  Also, there are some rough spots when it comes to getting around. Corridors often seem too narrow, 
 so you spend a fair bit of time bouncing Blitz into walls. A fair number of objects are just a 
 smidgen too big to be carried through doorways and halls, which at first seems kind of funny but 
 soon gets aggravating. The camera too often and too quickly defaults to first-person mode when 
 shoved into a corner, which can cause you to lose your equilibrium (and maybe even your lunch) . 
 Most of all, though, Blitz's arms are too damned short, making it tricky to pick up objects without 
 slamming into them and pushing them further away. As you have to pick up a lot of objects over 
 the course of the game, this gets frustrating fast.  

  But at least you get to gawk at a lot of pretty scenery while you're booting junk around. Even 
 though RoboBlitz is a short budget game, it was built with the Unreal 3 engine and is quite pleasing 
 to look at. All surfaces have great detail and depth, apparently due to the new engine's use of 
 procedural texture technology. There isn't a great deal of variety here in the space station's 
 rooms and corridors, although every setting has an authentic, industrial sci-fi look and different-colored 
 lighting effects. Yet despite these good looks, the game runs great on a midrange system.  

          Note to self -- remember to incapacitate flying enemies with EMP rifle before grabbing 
 them.     

  Robots are nifty and distinct, too. Both Blitz and Karl have a lot of personality, largely because 
 they look both high-tech and like something that a kid might make out of egg cartons and Styrofoam 
 cups. Enemy bots are cartoonish as well, and most come with jack-o'-lantern-style grimaces that 
 leave you no doubt that they're the bad guys. Music is on the lighter side and can best be described 
 as sort of a techno take on old-time platform soundtracks. It's deeply derivative, but it's perfect 
 for this style of game and somewhat evocative of the great tunes in the original Sonic the Hedgehog 
 games.  

  The one big catch is that RoboBlitz is short. You can zip through the solo game in four or five 
 hours over one or two sittings (give or take an hour or two, depending on how you fare against 
 the bosses) . And when you're done, you're done, unless you want to try the tougher Master Technician 
 difficulty setting, as there are no multiplayer options and no extra goodies beyond a level editor 
 (although Naked Sky is planning to add multiplayer support in the near future) . Still, this is 
 a catchy old-fashioned arcade game with a fresh new look, and for $15, it's worth a try.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: spongebob361
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  The game play has kind of a super Nintendo game era feel to it. Anyone who played super Nintendo 
 into the wee hours of the night should appreciate RoboBlitz. The sounds are really basic, and I 
 think the ominous 'your life energy is just about out' sound is borrowed from a super Nintendo 
 game most of us have played the heck out of. A light hearted game that 100% is a blast to play 
 and more than justifies the 15 bucks.
  
  Ok, a little bit more since reviews must have 100 words. whatever. Played the game to check out 
 the new unreal engine, very nice. Bought the game because its a blast and it gave me a pretty real 
 world benchmark for how my current hardware will play most of the 2007 titles coming out.
  
  -cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfx69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This game, in development for years, is well worth the wait. Thanks to the Unreal 3 Engine, the 
 graphics are top notch next gen, akin to some of the late 90's animated Disney movies. The sounds 
 and voices are very well done, fitting the game perfectly. The gameplay is engaging and cute, without 
 being too lightweight.
  
  Another thing to note is this game is profanity-free, and there's no gruesome violence, making 
 it perfect for all ages. It's one of the best family games to come out in a while. The budget price 
 makes it a no-brainer to purchase.
  
  This game is highly recommended for action, third person and platformer fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  After having read the Ign review of this game I decided to try the demo and it was quite good. 
 So i decided to download the full game off of steam for 14.95 and i would say its worth it although 
 the game is very very short. I really like the way the game was set up though with you being able 
 to choose whichever level you want to complete in any order most of the time. The game has about 
 15 levels which are fairly short but some do take a bit. The levels are comprised of different 
 areas of the base you are at and each area you need to complete to activate a different part of 
 the large gun to destroy the invading threat. The game is a mix of puzzles and combat but problary 
 with more emphasis on puzzles. The game uses some unique physics based weapons like the gun that 
 has you link too objects then they will fly into one another. Also later the gun is used as a tractor 
 beam which is needed to beat one of the areas. The way you acquire new weapons is u collect upgradium 
 in the levels you are at then you spend them at the main area. The gameplay is fairly simple but 
 fun and is done well. Some of the boss fights in this game are very well done even though they 
 are not very difficult and all the bosses are the same but need to be defeated in different ways. 
 The graphics on this game are very good, not quite great because they do seem to be not very detailed 
 in some areas. The lighting effects are really cool in some areas also. The lava in the game is 
 the only part that looks pretty bad. The sound effects are nothing really special but they do get 
 the job done fairly well. Overall its only 15 dollars and i would say its worth it for the quality 
 of this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
