-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Robot Arena
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/robotarena/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  7, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.9
Critic Score: 4.4, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 5.7, 81 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: WizardWorks
Developer: Gabriel Int.
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Apr 1, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The most disappointing problem with Robot Arena is the very poor artificial intelligence of the 
 computer-controlled robots. 

  The recent success of Comedy Central's Battlebots television show, in which homemade remote-control 
 robots engage in one-on-one duels within closed arenas, would lend itself well as a concept for 
 a game. The TV show can often be disappointing from a spectator's standpoint, as oftentimes robots 
 take a few hits and run out of steam, and the matches end. The robots' owners are probably thankful 
 for this, as their handiwork is expensive to build and maintain -- but the fans much prefer to see 
 shreds of metal fly in the air. Robot Arena from Infogrames attempts to satisfy this bloodlust 
 by offering you the chance to construct a robot and pit it against others. Starting with a chassis, 
 you add weapons, a mobility system, and other parts. Unfortunately, while it might have been inevitable 
 that a game like Robot Arena was made, you'll need to keep waiting if you're hoping to play a good 
 one.           The computer opponent poses no challenge whatsoever.    

  You can take any of your robots into a single-player practice bout and a tournament, or into a 
 multiplayer match against a friend. Robot Arena offers two modes of competition. One mode is a 
 simple fight to the finish, and the other is called a flag match. The objective in this mode is 
 to destroy a flag placed on the other robot. Matches are fought in seven different arenas. These 
 arenas are populated with hazards that will damage a robot if it strays too close, much like in 
 the Battlebots TV show.   

  Robots are constructed in the bot lab. The interface is easy to use and features an intuitive drag-and-drop 
 control scheme. Parts are listed in five categories and are added to the robot by attaching them 
 to special slots on the chassis. There are a fair number of parts with which to construct your 
 robot, but unfortunately there aren't any new parts to unlock as you progress through the game. 
 That's strange because a text file in the game's directory describes a few components that apparently 
 aren't included in the game.   

  Designing your first robot can be a challenge because you are limited to $1000 to purchase parts. 
 However, that's the only time you'll feel constricted by a budget. Once you win a few matches, 
 you'll be able to customize the robot freely thanks to the large cash prizes. There's no sense 
 of loss when your robot gets damaged in combat because you can afford to replace anything once 
 the match is over. In fact, if your robot sustains even moderate damage, you may find yourself 
 building a new one from scratch rather than take the time to repair your existing robot. You'll 
 end up saving time this way, because though the bot lab is well suited for making robots from scratch, 
 it's tedious for conducting repairs.   

  In theory, some weapons in Robot Arena are more effective in certain situations, which should force 
 you to make some tactical decisions in designing your robot. For example, the air harpoon is strong 
 against titanium armor, while the hammer might suit you better in other situations. Unfortunately, 
 in practice, you'll find you might as well just spend a few extra moments using a less effective 
 weapon in battle, as the bot lab can make it cumbersome to exchange parts.   

  In spite of all this, the most disappointing problem with Robot Arena is the very poor artificial 
 intelligence of the computer-controlled robots. Simply put, the computer is horribly inadequate 
 as a challenge. You can bet on matches, and the game claims that opponents will get tougher as 
 the bet is increased. In reality, if you bet the maximum amount, you'll find that the computer 
 is only slightly less dumb instead of really dumb. Sometimes you'll wonder if the computer is actually 
 trying to lose: It'll drive the robot a few inches forward, turn so its weak side is pointed to 
 you, and stop completely. You can even put a hazard between you and the computer, and it will happily 
 drive right into the trap and end up destroying itself. It's entirely possible to go through the 
 tournament mode without ever needing to upgrade or even repair your robot.   

  The sound in the game is also lacking. You'll hear three main sounds during battles -- a clink sound, 
 a clank sound, and tires spinning. If you're lucky, you'll also hear buzz saws running. The graphics 
 are mediocre, but they aren't unpleasant. Each weapons leaves a different type of mark on the chassis 
 it hits. The harpoon will leave a puncture hole, and the hammer makes a dent.           Your options 
 in the bot lab are limited.    

  If you suspect that the game's multiplayer mode will make up for the pathetic AI, you're unfortunately 
 mistaken. What should be the best part of the game ends up being so frustrating that you'll vow 
 not to force this experience on your friends. First of all, LAN games consistently failed to work 
 on our test systems. Whenever we chose this option, we got an error message saying the service 
 wasn't available, followed by a crash to the desktop. Internet games fare only marginally better, 
 as selecting this option caused the game to crash at random. And once you finally get to the join-game 
 screen, you'll find that there isn't a way to search for Internet games. You'll have to manually 
 enter in the IP address of the person you're trying to play. If you finally do get a multiplayer 
 game going, the matches can be fairly enjoyable if only because you'll be so frustrated by that 
 time that you'll probably be wanting to smash something up.   

  Robot Arena may look like a childhood dream come true: It lets you build your own robot and use 
 it to destroy others. Instead, the game turns out to be a nightmare. The multiplayer mode could 
 have been the saving grace for the game, but the broken LAN support and the lack of a server search 
 function ruin even that. The single-player has even more problems. Even at the low retail cost 
 of $19.99, Robot Arena isn't worth it. You'd end up getting more entertainment if you randomly 
 chose two movies at an over-priced movie theater.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Darth-Revan45
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 26, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Story
  
  You just build robots and have them beat the hell out of eachother.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Well, it starts off leting you build a robot which was nice, but then you enter 
 the Arena. And the AI puts up almost no fight. I swear they just turn their side to you and let 
 you beat the hell put of em. The last one is theo nly one thta put up an actual fight and that 
 is because of all of the weapons that were on it. Also there is no Physics Engine, I thought that 
 if a robot was moving 110 miles an hour [that is possible O. o] and ran into another robot it would 
 push it or atleast slide under it with a wedge. Nope, you can wind up stuck aginst a wall because 
 the opponets AI wont move.
  
  Controls
  
  You cant change em so you need to be content with what you have. All of the weapons of the same 
 type share a button, if you have 3 overhead saws they will move when you hit the button. It is 
 easy to learn.
  
  Graphics
  
  The best part, it does look nice, but the damage dosent look very good, it just scrapes the armor 
 and if you ram a robot with spikes long enough it will explode [how the hell?] .
  
  Sound
  
  There is a nice rock song, but it just plays the same sounds and music over and over again.
 
  
  Replayability
  
  If you arent laughing at the pathetic AI you might play again.
  
  Pros Nice Graphics, Battle Bots like Game, Cheap
  
  Cons
  
  Terrible AI, No Physics.
 
  
  Overall
  
  If there was more work put into designing the game it would of been more fun. But it wound up like 
 this... sad.
  
  Rent or Buy
  
  Buy if you need a laugh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chocoholic_Jedi
Rating: 2.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is a graphical nightmare, along with the horrible AI. The gameplay is terrible; you just 
 keep fighting random people in random tournaments. The whole idea is stupid. The customization 
 has much to be desired as well. This game is a total, complete waste of time, whatsoever. Use the 
 money to buy a game that is actually worthwhile... don't waste your time with this game. It is a 
 disgrace to put this game in my collection. If they re-modeled the game to current standards, it 
 may then be a game to look into. As of now, this is one of the worst games I have ever played in 
 my entire life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sangeili
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Robot Arena is basically a robot combat game for people who have the IQ of a baby. The graphics 
 aren't great, gameplay is TERRIBLE, the robots cannot wedge underneath each other, weapon physics 
 are extremely weak, and there are very, very, very few choices to choose from when making a robot. 
 The sound is very lame, you end up listening to the same songs over and over and over again, and 
 when in battle, you listen to crappy sounds of weapons dullily thudding against robots. You also 
 have few arenas to choose from, which also have a very lame environment and terrible mix of hazards. 
 Never buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avpget
Rating: 3.9
Date: Nov 3, 2005 5:35 am PT
Review:  I've played many games and most turned out good and some were bad, but this is really horrible. 
 The AI is laughable; it only took me 30 minutes to beat every opponent. What really is bad about 
 the game is the work shop. You have to pick from a small number of chaises and weapons making my 
 robot look like my opponents. There also unrealism in it too. You ram a robot you stop and pound 
 away. You destroy your opponent he blows up. The only good thing about the game was the graphics 
 and thats it. So dont waste your money on this game it isnt worth the hard drive space. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
