-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rogue Trooper
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/roguetrooper/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Varied missions and fun, intense battles.
 Interesting story with compelling characters and fairly good voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Short single-player campaign.
 Minimal multiplayer modes, although there's nobody online to play against anyway.
 Controls can be unnecessarily awkward at times.
 Inventory management takes all of the excitement out of the battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 25, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.2, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 542 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Rebellion
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date:     May 23, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rogue Trooper is at times a very exciting and enjoyable shooter, which makes it all the more disappointing 
 that it's over so soon. 

  Rogue Trooper is a third-person shooter based on the 2000AD comic of the same name. In case you 
 don't follow British comic books,  Rogue Trooper  is a gritty sci-fi strip about a genetically 
 engineered soldier named Rogue who fights in the perpetual war that wages on the planet of Nu Earth. 
 It's an interesting premise, and the story translates well into a video game, allowing for some 
 unique gameplay mechanics. Unfortunately, the standout features in the game are negated by a stunted 
 single-player campaign, limited multiplayer, and a handful of annoying design flaws.  

          He's more than just a Smurf on steroids, he's a Smurf on steroids with a gun.     

 
  The story in the game of Rogue Trooper sticks close to the comic. You play the game as Rogue, 
 a genetic infantryman, or GI. Rogue is a special kind of soldier cloned and bred to survive the 
 harsh conditions on the planet of Nu Earth, where two powerful factions are locked in conflict. 
 It seems that all of the chemical weapons used in the war have taken their toll on the planet, 
 turning it into a barren, toxic, uninhabitable wasteland. Regular soldiers have to use respirators 
 and wear special suits just to stay alive, but Rogue and his fellow blue-skinned infantrymen are 
 immune to the toxins, making them perfect ground troops. Rogue works for the Southers, the more 
 affable of the two factions. His mission is to eliminate the Norts, who are the oppressive and 
 underhanded enemy of the Southers. Although Rogue technically works for the Southers, his allegiance 
 is to himself and his three closest squadmates.  

  The game starts out by dropping Rogue and his fellow soldiers right into the heart of the war zone. 
 As they go about killing the Norts and advancing their position, Rogue's squadmates get wasted 
 one by one. The instant before death, each soldier's personality is encoded to a biochip that Rogue 
 collects and installs into various slots on his equipment. Gunner is a weapons expert, so his chip 
 goes in Rogue's gun and helps him out with new firing and targeting functions, and it can also 
 be deployed as a sentry gun. Bagman is in charge of supplies, so his chip goes in Rogue's backpack. 
 By collecting salvage from fallen enemies, allies, and machines on the battlefield, you can order 
 Bagman to manufacture ammo, health packs, and weapon upgrades. Helm is a technology expert, and 
 his chip gets installed into Rogue's helmet. Helm can hack computer systems, unlock doors, and 
 power your radar system so you can see where your enemies are. Helm can also project a holographic 
 image of you anywhere on the battlefield as a decoy to draw enemy fire.  

  The net effect of the four-characters-in-one design is a wide variety of options for dealing with 
 the challenges you face on the battlefield. In any given battle you'll be sniping enemies, planting 
 explosives, tossing grenades, using mounted weapons, setting minesand purchasing ammo. That's 
 right, you have to purchase all of your ammo through an inventory screen. It might not sound like 
 a big deal, but when you're in the middle of an intense firefight trying to deal with snipers, 
 dropships, bombers, ground troops, turrets, and mechs all at the same time, the last thing you 
 want to do is pause the game and manage your inventory. It's nice to have the option to equip yourself 
 on the fly as you see fit, but it's also a quick way to completely remove the fun and intensity 
 of a great battle. Even if you try to strategically manage your supplies between battles, you can't 
 carry much, so you'll invariably end up running out of ammo during the frequent and extended combat 
 sequences in the game.  

  When you aren't managing your supplies, you're involved in the battles, which do a great job of 
 blending tactical action with intense run-and-gun shooting. Most missions start you off at one 
 point and just require you to fight your way through a linear environment, completing one objective 
 after another. Since there's a whole army of Norts who want your head, you encounter opposition 
 at each and every turn. Sometimes you'll be fighting dozens of enemies, and other times you'll 
 be stealthily creeping through corridors to sneak up and stab your enemies in the neck. For the 
 most part, though, the battles are all-out firefights, which have you running around or diving 
 from cover to cover and occasionally popping out to pick off enemies. You can crouch behind any 
 wall and toss grenades or just fire blindly to force your enemies to take cover.  

  But as much as you can play the game as a tactical shooter by methodically choosing your cover 
 and planning your route across the battlefield, there's really no need to. Sometimes you'll be 
 overpowered and you'll have to take cover, but in most situations you can just pick off enemies 
 from afar with a sniper rifle, toss a couple of grenades, or just run in guns blazing and circle-strafe 
 to avoid fire. On the normal difficulty setting you can absorb a lot of damage, while the enemies 
 you face will go down in a couple of shots. So while the game isn't especially difficult, it can 
 be quite gratifying to be a lone gunner mowing down an entire army of enemies.  

  There are also some nice rail-shooting missions in the single-player campaign. In one mission you're 
 on a speeding train and you have to use a cannon to shoot down enemy aircraft, while simultaneously 
 picking off ground troops who try to board the train. These missions are a good break from the 
 run-and-gun action, and they actually manage to provide a decent challenge as well.  

  In fact, the entire game suffers from the opposite problem. The action is always on, which makes 
 the game move quickly. But, unfortunately, it moves much too quickly and it's all over before you 
 know it. You can complete the single-player campaign in less than five hours on the normal difficulty 
 setting. By finishing the game you unlock an extra difficulty setting and a few cheat modes, but 
 nothing that will make you really want to play the game again.  

  The multiplayer is also disappointing in Rogue Trooper. You can play offline co-op with one other 
 player, or you can play online with up to three other players. The online play was relatively lag-free 
 across all platforms, but finding someone to play against could take you awhile. In our experience, 
 the Xbox version of the game had the most players online at any given time, but even then there 
 were never more than three or four people online at once. There are only two modes of play in multiplayer: 
 progressive and stronghold, both of which are played cooperatively. In progressive mode, you have 
 to fight your way from one end of a map to the other before the time is up or before you run out 
 of lives. In stronghold mode you simply have to defend an area or ally against wave after wave 
 of enemies until time runs out. In both modes, you're awarded points at the end of each round based 
 on how many kills you get and how many lives you have remaining. The multiplayer is also limited 
 by the fact that there are only five different maps. The maps are plenty of fun, but with nobody 
 to play against and such a limited list of gameplay options, the multiplayer ends up being pretty 
 worthless.  

          The multiplayer can be fun, but with few modes and even fewer people online to play against, 
 it doesn't do much to prolong the life of this game.     

  All three versions of the game play pretty much the same save for the different control schemes. 
 The PlayStation 2 controller is best suited to juggling several different actions, although control 
 in all of the versions feels cumbersome. There are context-sensitive commands you can perform when 
 you approach a wall or other object, but there are often several different commands to choose from. 
 So rather than having a catch-all button for doing what you want to do, you have to approach an 
 object and figure out which button is assigned to the action you want to perform. Switching weapons 
 is also somewhat inconvenient on the consoles, because you have to use the D pad to scroll through 
 a list of the weapons you have, and then press a button to confirm your selection. It's slightly 
 easier on the PC, because each weapon is assigned to a number key on the keyboard. Also, as you 
 might expect, aiming is more precise with a mouse than with the dual analog control scheme on the 
 Xbox and PlayStation 2. Graphically, the three versions are comparable. The PC version does look 
 a bit sharper if you turn up the resolution, but each version handles the copious amounts of explosions, 
 bullets, and characters well. The graphics aren't especially impressive in any version of the game, 
 but the character and level design are faithfully representative of the comic book license.  

 
  Rogue Trooper provides a unique and mostly enjoyable shooter experience regardless of which version 
 you play. Unfortunately, the battle is over far too quickly, and the multiplayer isn't nearly enough 
 to sustain interest in this game. The result is a game that is a short-lived and disappointing 
 experience, even at its relatively cheap price.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (31 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2009 9:50 am PT
Review:  Rogue Trooper is the sort of game that you enjoy while it lasts, but you're glad when its over, 
 because you know if it went on for any longer you'd be bored of it.
  
  Was Rogue Trooper one of the first TPS games to use the "Gears Of War" type cover mechanics? I 
 don't remember any others from the PS2/XBOX era. Either way, it does it fairly well, and its always 
 fun to pop in and out of cover shooting enemies this way. For some reason though, when you snipe 
 enemies this way they dont even notice you, like you're invisible while sniping or something - 
 even though you'd obviously need to get your head and rifle over your cover to aim and fire.
  
  You generally need to use cover, and just standing in the middle of the battlefield shooting 
 things gets you diced to bits fairly quickly. So its sometimes quite intense running from cover 
 to cover and gratifying killing enemies this way.
  
  Seemingly the only effective way to kill people is with headshots, seeing as most of them dont 
 even flinch when you pummel them with bullets in the torso, despite all the blood spewing out of 
 them when you do this. But one well-aimed shot to the head is able to off most enemies with ease. 
 The AI isn't very impressive, as they just tend to rush you a lot, and when you throw a grenade 
 at their feet they just stand there.
  
  You will have access to a couple of weapons during the course of the game, but you will always 
 keep going back to your Gunnar, because its simply the most effective. The shotgun can also be 
 good for close quarters and taking out robots. The beam rifle is useless.
  
  Overall the gameplay is quite fun while it lasts but you really will be relieved when the game 
 is over because it ends on a high note and you're left without feeling that the game got too repetitive.
 
  
  The story is your bog-standard action game story with a few little twists - Its nothing very exciting.
 
  
  If you're looking for something refreshingly different or highly entertaining then look elsewhere, 
 but if you just want something mildly enjoyable from the bargain bin to tie you over until the 
 next big game release, then you could do a lot worse than Rogue Trooper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drain7089
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  This game has some obvious problems. First, what is with everyone not wearing a shirt? Is there 
 a reason for that? Secondly, theres a serious lack of group fighting that you'd expect to see in 
 a war environment. Sure, there are a few moments where you'll be fighting alongside some allies, 
 but they either don't follow you, or die very quickly. This results in you spending about 90% of 
 the game fighting alone, feeling overpowered as ever just in the ability that you can do this.
 
  
  But the biggest problem is how short this game is. Any decent shooter player can clear it in just 
 a few hours. They should have taken the time to add more dialogue or cutscenes, and missions for 
 that matter. It just cuts off at the end, setting up for a sequel. But the game is so short, what 
 was the point? Its like the designers just got bored near the end and wanted to get it over with 
 as quickly as possible.
  
  Multiplayer? Why is this even here? With such limited options, its completely useless. Even 2000 
 games have more options. Look at Halo or Unreal Tournament. Aliens vs Predator 2? What do we get 
 here? A 4 player cap that has us on same team, with a grant total of 2 modes and 4 maps. Trash. 
 If you aren't going to put any effort into it, why bother at all? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Rogue Trooper is by no means a bad game but it never quite reaches the heights of other shooters.
 
  
  Graphically the the game is nice but nothing special. The in-game videos are also done well but 
 there are plenty of better looking games out there and not all of them came out after Rogue Trooper.
 
  
  Sound-wise the game is again nothing special, which quickly becomes the story of this game as I 
 review it. I suppose the game sounds like a comic book should but it could of done much better.
 
  
  Gameplay again is fairly good but doesn't take any chances and plays it safe for the game though 
 sneak attacks on the enemy are really cool and are not hard to pull off. The AI is not really challenging 
 and the game is too easy, though it makes the game good to play when your bored.
  
  The game has no real value in terms of replay and nobody plays it online either so once your done 
 with the short and easy single player, thats about it for the game.
  
  The game does offer an enjoyment experience with no real major bugs but with nothing special to 
 offer and also being very short and too easy, the game never lives up to what it could of been. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface_u2
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 30, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  awefull game nuff said i will now just fill in the rest of this review with text does game-spot 
 rock or suck you decide ill run apoll have your say in pc forum.
  
  who said singing........ what a good idea their la la la la la la la la la la 2nd verse same as 
 the 1st la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la how come is it that developers cant 
 look at games like james bond made years ago an yet they put this modern stuff (would have used 
 stronger language but it is a family site)
  
  games like metal gear solid put games like this too shame.
  When oh when will developers learn 
 to UPGRADE or ship-out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 12, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  Story: The everlasting war between the Nord and GI's is raging on and you must defeat the Nord.
 
  
  Graphics: Not the best seeing as this was released in 2006.
  
  Audio: Lower than average voice overs.
  
  Missions: Kill Nord, Blow up this, Kill Nord.
  
 
  Controls: Easy to use.
  
  Features: Cover system, different use of futuristic weapons, can buy ammo, etc while on the field.
 
  
  A. I.: Not stupid but not smart, Average.
  
  Loading Times: Slim to None.
  
  Multiplayer: Yes, No fun.
  
  Requirements: Low.
  
  Weapons: Main gun can be upgraded, many 
 others.
  
  The Good: A good adaptation of the comic
  
  The Bad: Doesn't rank against other shooters.
  
  The Ugly: War.
  
  Replay Ability: Low. 
 The Bottom Line: A decent game for the comic but doesn't rank to much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DISCONTI
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Maybe ordinary for people unaware to the fact that Rogue is a fictional character in the sci-fi 
 2000AD, it becomes a must-have for fans of the comic, due to its story-telling (even if its short) , 
 its frantic action pace, and the chance to soldier on as an all-time 2000AD favorite.
  As of the gameplay, it offers the chance to face the challenges thrown at you head-on, as a gun-toting, 
 trigger happy grunt, to snipe your way through enemy infested locations, or to silently fall on 
 your unaware enemies as the proverbial death-from-above. It can be said, nevertheless, that the 
 game requieres a blend of all those gameplay styles, and that everyone of them serves the main 
 story development.
  It was not an easy task to accomplish, but the game fits well the unusual character&acute; s background. 
 SOUTHSIDE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 6, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  Rogue Trooper is just a shooter. It has nothing new, but it is an intense &amp; pleasant experience.
 
  
  Graphics:8/10 The graphics do not exceed in everything, they are fair. I would have given them a 
 7 if the sky texture &amp; landscapes weren't breathtaking.
  
  Sound:9/10 The sound is again OK, but the annoying music (after a while, that's how it gets) &amp; 
 the relatively poor voice acting bring it's quality down.
  
  Gameplay:8/10 Mostly kill all the enamies, destroy some objects or simply get there. Simple. But you 
 have some nice  can be used. To be honest, I never did. Some weapon/suit/health/grenade 
 upgrades, some new items to be manufactured. But you can acomplish a mission in two ways: Rambo style, or 
 stealth style. The stealth one gives more pleasure.
  
  Value:7/10 It doesen't last long, it ain't very special.
  
  Tilt:7/10 The story is OK &amp; 
 continued in each level. But I never liked blue soldiers fighting russians. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  Rogue Trooper is a great 3rd person shooter with great tactical stuff &amp; plendy of gadgets that 
 will improve evan more the gameplay .. the graphics are great the voice acting is perfect &amp; 
 story quite cool . On NU Earth a poluted planet a new breed of soldier is born 1one who can be 
 imune to al the polution you are 1one of them &amp; wit your brothers you are part of a full scale 
 assault .. but your troops are betrayed by your own general so you are the last survivor of this 
 new breed of troopers ... the gameplay is alll around you &amp; your gadgets practicly you have 
 3 more brothers with you HELM, BAGMAN &amp; GUNRAR who are allways fighting but allways helping 
 you the main weapon is modifiable you can attach to it mortar, shoutgun etc. but olso you can use 
 it as turet on the battlefield controlled by gunrar .. the most interesting thing is that you have 
 to collect enemy remains for bagman to create ammo &amp; other new gadgets .. HELM is the 1one who 
 will open doors for you he is the haker so practicly its a whole team of 4 in 1 person :D the animations 
 are great by the way ROGUE will move just like a real marine does the level design is very well 
 made providing a rich expirience when it comes to tactics &amp; 1one of them ost enterteining things 
 are the ways that you cna kill your enemies .. headshoot or shoot their air canister &amp; w8 for 
 them to pop up or put mines under them .. the A. I. isn't that great but in large numbers it could 
 be a problem because finaly they will sarround you &amp; the main focuse of the game is to get 
 bihind a wall a w8 for the right momment to fire ... so pls don't listen to the gamespot rewiew 
 the game is very very well made &amp; you will enjoy it if you are a 3rd person shooter fan &amp; 
 DC comics fan ;) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macker33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I usually dont go for third person shooters but decided to go for this because rogue was in it. Makes 
 you wonder how long more we'll have to wait for the next 2000AD based title to come out.
  
  What was important for me was how well the comic transfered to a game,
  it did a really good 
 job and brought some of the impact the strip first made on me when it first came out.
  
  Good game, good conversion, seemed short because it was a lot of fun, contrary to the official review 
 i thought item management worked well.
  Tough in places but not too tough and the makers made a convincing warzone,
  In a nutshell the 
 atmosphere was right and the challenge was right.
  
  C'mon, Gotta have the A. B. C. warriors next.
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arc_salvo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Rogue Trooper was a pleasant surprise when I bought it and downloaded it for $26 on steam recently. 
 This third person (behind the back) shooter is very entertaining, and has a lot of good things 
 going for it that a lot of people might not expect if they were given a cursory description of 
 what it's features are.
  
  For a game that wasn't given much critical attention or hype, it's quite fun to play, and has a 
 surprisingly large amount of ways to fight the enemy in every level.
  
  Stealth and sneak kills, setting up traps with mines and/or a sentry gun, running in with guns 
 blazing, going from cover to cover and using suppressive fire, using grenades to flush enemies 
 out of cover or to clear bunkers, sniping from afar, or just flat out smacking people in the head 
 really hard are all very viable options, and you can have Rogue (the main character you play) fight 
 the way you want him to, and most of the time there aren't any wrong choices.
  
  It's this wide variety of ways to play that makes Rogue Trooper such a thrill to play. You never 
 get tired of the gameplay because there's just so many ways to fight. If you feel like sniping, 
 you can snipe. If you feeling like run and gun, you can do that too. If you wanna play the stealthy 
 Rambo type who sneaks around knifing people in the back, that's doable as well (and you get a salvage 
 bonus for doing it; more on that later) and this smorgasbord of options goes a long way in keeping 
 you entertained.
  
  Also, adding an extra layer of depth and some roleplaying elements so to speak (stat-building really, 
 which isn't really roleplaying, but I digress) is Salvage in this game, basically bits and pieces 
 of scrap and equipment components you can pick of from scrap heaps and from fallen enemies that 
 you can use to build things like ammo and health packs and grenades, and even upgrades to make 
 new equipment or make your existing equipment more powerful.
  
  It's a very fun system and adds an extra layer of depth to the regular run and gun, as depending 
 on which upgrades you build and when, you can get better at a particular kind of playstyle. You 
 can upgrade your sniping and trap-laying abilities for example to be a finesse sort of guerilla 
 warrior, or just up the power of your grenades and the size of your bullet magazines and the power 
 of each bullet so you can run and gun better, or any number of things in between.
  
  The storyline of this game is surprisingly good, if somewhat underdeveloped, and actually follows 
 the main points of the comic book series of the same name that it's based on. I wish it'd been 
 fleshed out a little more, but what's there was still interesting, but actually caused me to buy 
 the Trade Paperback version of the first 2 volumes of comics on Amazon so I could learn more about 
 the background.
  
  The only complaint I have is that the game is a bit short, and although you have a lot of fun palying 
 it, you can finish it in a day or two of involved play, and then all you have left to do is to 
 play the multiplayer game, or browse through the encyclopedia of information about Nu-Earth (the 
 game's setting) and the characters, equipment, and enemies and such. Also, although I found the 
 difficulty to be just right , some might find it too easy, especially on the Normal setting. As 
 this game was made for consoles, the mouse and keyboard setup on PC's just makes you into a titan 
 among cockroaches if you know how to play FPS's well. That said, if you up the difficulty, this 
 isn't as much of a problem, and the last few levels are still quite challenging All in all, I'd 
 say that Rogue Trooper is a worthy buy (it's available on Steam for an online download if that's 
 your thing) and quite fun for the price, although I wish it had been made a bit longer (the last 
 level sneaks up on you, and it actually feels more like the second or third to last level in other 
 games) or that an expansion pack or sequel had been released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6dutch_man6
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Review - Rogue Trooper - 2006 - (PS2)
  
  Rogue Trooper is based on the comic book of the same title thou personally I haven't read many 
 comic books since I find it way more economical to purchase a video game for $20 bucks than say 
 a comic book, they really got to lower the prices back to say $1.00 or something, they're crazy 
 to charge the kind of money they do nowadays. Rogue Trooper comic has the same feel as Judge Dread 
 kinda (I'm going by the movie more so) .
  
  Rogue Trooper is a must buy or at least rent, however it's short but it's surreal comic world feel 
 draws you into it. The setting in Rogue Trooper is Nu Earth which is a planet that is right beside 
 a crucial worm hole an humans in the usual stupidity can't seem to share so they shot the hell 
 outtah the planet to the ruined state it's in an it's still going on. Nords are the Northerners 
 an they're against the Southerners (your army formally before you went renegade.)
  
  You play Rogue who is the only survivor of a betrayel by one of your generals, all your fellow 
 GI's got wiped out but you salvaged your 3 buddies, throughout the first few levels of the story. 
 One on your rifle, one on your backpack known as Pack, an then finally Helm on your helmut.
  
  Rifle boy allows your rifle to be set down to engage the enemy by himself
  Pack auto reloads 
 an manufactures stuff you get from salvagables (dead enemies &amp; such) .
  Helm gives you radar (much like Metal Gear Solid Series) an hacks computers.
  
  Take into mind 
 to always ignore logic cause it's a game based on a comic book so yah I know, you can't have war 
 in the future between two space faring industrialized nations without total annihilation with nukes 
 N stuff so just have fun. It's a comic book world don't-cha yknow : P
  
  PROS
  1. Cool stealth kills available however Rogue has some eagle eye Nords an that's fine because it's 
 nice to have some realism, keep hidden.
  2. Lots of weapons to choose from. 3. The manufacturing an upgrading adds a spice of life to a 
 shooter.
  4. Great animation an character design.
  5. Level design is top notch since it's replicating the comic universe. The most eye catching levels 
 are the Nord Naval Base when you see the battleship and the the level with the spaceship which 
 is so real feeling when you gaze on it's massive size, for some reason I had a Alien movie flashback, 
 i wish they could make more games on comics because most games just have a narrow environment feel 
 that you just subliminally ignore.
  6. Decent extras to play with however I wish they would show more of the comic version.
  7. Voice 
 acting superb and I love the comments like FEAR THE GI NORDS when you waste a nord.
  8. Hot babes, the G. I Dolls (Venus) an lil miss evil torture witch Navy Queen have some nice twins, 
 thou in the comic book they're rather realistically drawn, leave it to some nerdy game programmers 
 to put some heavy duty silicon stripper fun bags on them.
  
  CONS
  1. There is a bit of crazy camera action only in tight enclosed areas but since most levels are 
 wide open areas you won't have a problem. Only the last levels are in buildings which is where 
 you'll find the annoying crazy camera antics.
  
  2. GRENADE throwing can be you own worst enemy. I can't count how many times Rogue was hiding behind 
 something an when I threw the grenade it got caught on something right beside me forcing me to 
 run like a lil b*tch. You'll hate your allies in the last levels who have a really bad habit of 
 snuggling right up beside you while your hiding behind something an tossing a grenade right beside 
 your head. This is a glitch that are in many games with the same throwing thing, how many times 
 has a gamer out there been wasted by his own grenade or rocket launcher.
  
  3. Sniper cam fun, I think they do this on purpose but sometimes that sniper camera is just going 
 all over the place an it's a real pain if your up against another sniper an you got 2-4 seconds 
 to get that darn thing on bead. Now don't get me wrong, you can still snipe melons of Nords all 
 day but it takes patience, not something to do in a rush.
  
  4. You don't get to see enough of the GI dolls (ladies, you get to eye ripped GI's all day in this 
 one so us guys can whine this time aight) . You can zoom in on Venus in the level with the final 
 confrontation with Morgon the sniper but that's your only good look so live it up.
  
  5. Another minor gripe. This is a glitch, when you use the Level Select, certain messages will 
 not leave the screen because you can't do what it wants you do to because you already did it (example, 
 you already have the Shotgun but the message manufacture shotgun reminder won't leave the screen 
 on the level you first acquired the shotgun.
  
  6. Finally, it's short but hey............ the best games are short games because game designers 
 are just like the corporate movie &amp; music industry, they make games that are bland an done 
 like a million others before because they know what the majority of numb nuts out there will buy 
 over N over again so they don't invest a lot of time making games that require a lot of custom 
 work and originality, that costs lotsa moolah! SO ALWAYS BUY THE GAMES YOU REALLY LIKE NEW so they 
 know you like them so they'll make more of what you like, buy the ones you don't like used.
  
  Both CON &amp; PRO
  1. It's set up for a sequel, I say pro but if you didn't like it then 
 it's a con kinda. I just hope they do make a sequel, I'm still waiting on games that set themselves 
 up for a sequel but have been out for about 3 years now an still no sequel (example Beyond Good 
 &amp; Evil) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir-Dark-Raiden
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Amaizing. Simply amaizing. That is what i can say about this game. Probably one of the best 3D 
 Shooter this year. At the start of this year i have discovered an amaizing game called Rogue Trooper. 
 You play the role of Rogue, a soldier that has to confront an entire army with the help of his 
 frieds. After they will loose their life everyone of them will be saved by Rogue, their life chip 
 will be introduced in the machine gun, helmet and backpack. The action of the game is very captivating, 
 the story very good, but most of all the best is the way that the characters acts on the battlefield 
 and the awesome moves. Very original on some ways this game has made me a wonderfull impression 
 and really deserves to have a sequel. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I had been interested in trying this game for awhile and finally got it when it was really cheap. 
 The game is a pretty good third person shooter style game where you play as a blue skinned genetically 
 modified soldier made only to be used in combat. Near the beginning of the game some of your friend 
 allies are killed and you remove a chip and place them in your gun, backpack, and helmet. Now each 
 of those talks to you during the game gives advice and does special functions. I wasnt sure of 
 the whole backstory since this game is based off a comic book i believe but the cutscenes are pretty 
 well done in the game. One problem with the game is its very easy on hard mode which i played it 
 at.. and the Ai is really dumb.. like i shot a guy in the shoulder 3 times then he goes.. is someone 
 there lol. and alot of the time if you shoot a guy right next to another they wont even notice. 
 also the snipeing weapon is what i used throughout almost the whole game which worked very well. 
 A unique thing about the game is that you collect salvage from fallen enemies and scraps you find 
 and putting them in your backpack to create ammo, grenades, new weapons, health packs and so on. 
 It is a good idea but I never ran into a time when i had any chance of running out of supplies. 
 The graphics on this game are pretty good with the sky being the most impressive, usually seeing 
 different colored black holes i think they are swirling above you. The graphics are nothing really 
 special though. The sound effects are alright and the voice acting is somewhat average. Eh the 
 game is pretty short as well. Overall i would get this game if you can find it under 20 dollars. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johndempsey
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  Rogue Trooper is an good fun game with elements from all categories. It is a little bit too easy 
 on normal. You wont die, but the amount of ways you can kill your enemy are quite funny and the 
 weapons range from pistol to Rocket Launcher. Very easy to pick up and put down when you want and 
 it uses checkpoints as save points which are not annoyingly spread out so you have to replay the 
 whole area again when you occasionally get killed. Very few puzzles to solve, but the action is 
 fun and stealth is used well. Holograms and one of the guns can be used as a sentry whilst you 
 sneak round behind them and cripple them silently. All said and done it was enjoyable and if they 
 release a second one (which is a good bet because it's left wide open for it) then I would buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4mek
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 5, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  Buy the CD-ROMs don't digital download it like me unless you like to waste 4 hrs of your time. 
 I have high speed cable modem with 7 Mb/s download speed and I have AMD 4800+ cpu. The digtial 
 download remind me of AOL where you download one program and them it has to update itself over 
 and over again. Once you start the download you have no control. 
  
  The biggest annoyance in the PC game is that there is NO save in progress. Apparently the game 
 was designed with a game console system in mind and the PC version was an after thought.
  
  Overall the game is good but like other reviews very short. If you are any good at all with shooter 
 games you will have no trouble with this game. If you are like me and play til you drop you can 
 easily finish the entire game on the weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  Really good game... 
  
  Specially liked the way how you survive. You need to collect trophy points which allow to your 
 kit produce required armor and make an upgrades for known weapons or in a matter if you found a 
 sketches of the new weapons to make them. Really nice feature, makes game more interesting an allow 
 you to see whole wonderfull envirnoment of the New Earth. Good stuff.
  
  What about graphic of the game well, it is not that much brilliant but same time it is not that 
 much bad. Fairly adequate. Environment is very cool with its whole range obstractions and lifes, 
 etc.
  
  From first look it might seems a bit hard to control your personage, but it is I would said same 
 as Freedom Fighters. After some time spent in game you will easly control the Gunner. 
  
  Different range of the AI personages makes game really brilliant and colser you go to end of the 
 mission worse become the situations you are in. 
  
  Also by using diff. range of the weapons like HellMachine and etc makes really good effort in game.
 
  
  I would definitely say that you will enjoy this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkfox101
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 3:15 am PT
Review:  Rogue Trooper (PC) Review
  
  Rogue Trooper is a third person shooter set in a sci-fi world. You are a soldier, but not an ordinary 
 soldier. You are G. I rogue that is immune to all types of poisons, does not need air and you are 
 just meant for eliminating the enemy. A chip is inside you, which pretty much is you (find out 
 later in the story) .
  
  So, first you are launched from a pod and landing on this planet in the middle of a battlefield. 
 While trying to meet with your buddies it shows you all the controls from, taking cover, shooting 
 from cover, melee, stealth approaches etc. There are many moves you can do, making the game very 
 fun. 
  
  The weapons are all in one. Your rifle has everything, from your basic rifle from sniper to shotgun 
 to mortar a rocket launcher and a gun that creates a chain killing all the enemies in that lighting 
 chain. Not only that, but your backpack that you carry around allows you to lay mines on the ground 
 setting traps.
  
  Throughout the game you may run and gun threw or do stealthy approaches. Obviously you know how 
 run and gun works. There are a few options on stealth kills. For example, you can use a hologram 
 of yourself that lasts for maybe 15 seconds. Enemies will shoot at it while you can come from behind 
 and slit there throat or whatever random move he does. Traps work nicely too. Placing mines is 
 a trap although loud alerting any enemies near by. Also set your rifle down attaching a bipod to 
 the bottom. Once the enemy is close enough you can activate it and it will unload on your enemies. 
 Unfortunately there are no vehicles in the game, but there are stationary guns allowing you to 
 mow down enemies and shoot down flying bombers, which isnt amazing, just a nice touch.
  
  The A. I is pretty decent. They know how to take cover although sometimes you can toss a grenade 
 next to them and none of them run away. Enemies range from regular soldiers, snipers, mechs, and 
 machines that release robots that blow up if close enough and turrets with sensors on them. Even 
 though they have a decent amount of opponents only a few enemies can be easily taken out.
  
  The single player portion of the game is very short and can be beaten in 1 or 2 days depending 
 on how long you play it. I am guessing about 5 hours to beat the game entirely. At least there 
 is a multiplayer option including a few maps. All of them are co-op missions up to four players. 
 You can ethier do progressive missions or defend the G. I mission. Progressive missions are going 
 through the map reaching a certain point, which isnt very challenging. Defending the G. I is a 
 bit more challenging with two people, but having more than that especially up to four people is 
 domination. What I mean by that is while playing with three other people we killed them off so 
 bad it took around 3-5 minutes for a few more men to come. Enemies come from the air, the ground, 
 snipers will be in the mountains, turrets will drop from the sky. Very chaotic and fun if only 
 with two people. The game features in-game voice support, but oddly you cannot type? The multiplayer 
 community is very small hardly seeing anyone online.
  
  Graphics are obviously not a huge thing in rogue trooper, but they are decent graphics. This also 
 could be a good thing. Many PCs will be able to run it and while gameplay is very fun you wont 
 worry about them. Overall Rogue Trooper is a very good game, gameplay is fun and exciting, but 
 unfortunately short. Along with a few multiplayer maps hoping to soon be a map editor. So I will 
 give Rogue Trooper for the PC a 7.8.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZX1234R
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 7, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Very well designed and interesting game. It's plot is amazing. The writers must have done some 
 thinking. You can actually feel the story while playing. Yes it doesn't have the outrageous graphics 
 like other games (Oblivion) but it can excite you from the very beginning with it's game play. 
 The controls are very easy to get used to. There are stealth elements as well and you can do everything 
 you want with your only weapon (it can be transformed from a shotgun to a missile launcher) . The 
 sound is very well positioned into the game and the music is quite nice. At last Eidos published 
 a good game other than Tomb Raider. Definitely worth buying and playing many times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rejected777
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 5, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  When I sat down to try this game, I did so with a fair amount of scepticism.
  I've seen the screen shots, and the game play movies and to tell the truth, I wasn't overly impressed.
 
  
  This however all changed the moment I started to play. Personally, I enjoy these games a lot more 
 single player due to my love for a good story. This game delivered. The story is well thought through, 
 and it could just been taken from some military movie actually. I won't disclose any of the story 
 for those who wants to play the game.
  
  The sound and voice acting was a-ok as well. The dialogue was good, and it kept close to the characters 
 from the comic, when they constantly bickered, mostly for fun, among themselves.
  
  Weapon wise, you get a lot of options. Sadly, you really only need a handful of them. For example, 
 I never once throughout the entire game use any other grenade than frag and err... the haywire 
 one. Same goes for guns. I found myself sticking to switching between auto and sniping, to fit 
 90% of all my needs throughout the game, which was sad. I was hoping for more diverse enemies.
 
  
  Graphics wise, it was not impressive. It was ok, but that's it, it was ok. The graphics felt aging, 
 as in these graphics were new and hot maybe a year ago. I played it on the highest settings on 
 1280x960 and never once did it glitch, so the engine can handle anything the game throws at you.
 
  
  Overall however, I enjoyed the single player campaign immensely. My biggest beef with this game, 
 is that it is too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abbnormmal
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 2, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid game, even for being on the short side (maybe 4-5 hours) . No one plays the multplayer 
 so its only good for the campaign, but the busget price evens things out. 
  
  My laptop with an ATI X600 ran this game with all settings on max, and everything looked great. 
 
  
  Turn the "Voices" from "All" to "Essential" setting and that takes care of there being too much 
 chatter from your bio-chip buddies. 
  
  Weopons upgrades help keep the run-and-gun style combat more interesting. Good variety in the weopons 
 too. 
  
  All the gameplay mechanics work well which makes this game FUN to play, diving away from grenades 
 and from cover to cover, hugging walls and using blind fire, and peeking out for aimed fire, plus 
 some slower paced tactical areas, AND the option to try to use a little stealth with some bonus 
 salvage incentives, plus some ride-along turret areas. All this together with all the action going 
 on around you and it actually feels like a chaotic battlefield. 
  
  All and all, if you are like me and "they" dont make good games fast enough for you and it seems 
 like everythings release date it Q4 2006 or TBA 2007, this is worth buying. It might suprise you 
 like it suprised me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Re_Das_7
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  Great game from rebellion and eidos
  it is a little difficult on hard mode 
  adv
  1- coll character 
  2- coll wepons
  3- i liked the idea of joining Rogue with his comrades 
 chips and also the great team work between 'em i could swear it is the frist time i saw in a game 
 that i could use my machine gun for distraction or rubricing fire
  
  dis
  1- no costumes
  2- traditional story
  3- Frags more important than other booms ( i don't remember 
 that i have used another boom )
  4- there is no upgreades on pistol or there is no other new wepons also ther is no knifes or other 
 bloody wepons
  
  But
  Mainly the game is cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoloJon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 28, 2006 1:59 am PT
Review:  I have a special soft-spot for the comics in the 2000AD 'verse, like Judge Dredd and Rogue Trooper. 
 Oddly enough, my first experience with the Rogue Trooper universe was the Games Workshop boardgame, 
 because the art style reminded me so much of another favourite boardgame, Chainsaw Warrior.
  
  In any case, I think the setting had a nice bit of semi-familiar nostalgia for me, so that 
 may colour this review. Having played through the game I have to say first that some may find it 
 relatively easy to play through. It took me probably the better part of 10 or 12 hours to get through 
 the first time. I myself am in the camp that believes a game should err on the side of being slightly 
 easier rather than too challenging, as repeating a sequence more than 10 times generally tends 
 to be more of an exercise in frustration than anything else. That being said, there are a few challenging 
 battles in the game, but there are so many options to approach those battles that you generally 
 are focused on changing one's tactics rather than doing the same thing over and over again.
  
  A large part of the beginning of Rogue Trooper is somewhat tutorial in nature, although the 
 veneer of being led through and instructed on the game mechanics disappears quickly and you feel 
 immersed in the world after the first few areas. The game works surprisingly well, and the faithfulness 
 to the source material seems extremely strong (although I will admit to not being a Rogue Trooper 
 expert) . 
  
  Interactivity
  Most of the interaction with the environment involves hugging up against walls, vaulting over low 
 cover or climbing up to higher spots. Like Gears of War for the X360, you can fire blind from cover, 
 chuck grenades (via precision or just a quick toss) or use melee attacks if you're in close. Most 
 of the fun begins in using your weapons, which have multiple functions. Your fallen comrades have 
 rejoined the fight, implanted as chips into your Backpack (Bagman) , Helmet (Helm) and Rifle (Gunnar) . 
 I'll take it as not much of a spoiler as these are their names before they become relegated to 
 equipment (although having personalities, there's a fair amount of banter from each of them) , and 
 move one by saying that it's an innovative system for the game that works from the get-go. You 
 can salvage raw materials from downed enemies or hidden (mostly not-so-hidden) caches, so that 
 Bagman can manufacture more ammo, grenades, or upgrades. Gunnar can be left on his own on a tripod 
 to provide cover support (and gives lots of support in the form of comments 'Oooh, headshot!' "Nice 
 shooting, Rogue!". Helm can eventually be useful for providing a decoy that you can use to scout 
 or distract your enemies. Indeed one of the best aspects of the game is to decide whether to go 
 stealthy or guns blazing. In most other games of this type, these mechanics rarely end up being 
 fun -- as soon as the alarm is tripped, usually all hell breaks loose and you're left with only 
 one other alternative. This is less the case in Rogue Trooper, however. There's a war going on, 
 so it feels less like you're breaking the suspension of disbelief when you go and hide someplace 
 and they lose your scent.
  
  In fact, some of the fun is that there IS a war being fought, and on a place much different from 
 Earth. Nu Earth has a poisonous atmosphere (to all but you, Genetically enhanced Infantry that 
 you are) , so most of the foes you fight are wearing some sort of breathing apparatus -- which can 
 be shot off, or punctured in some way so as to provide explosive satisfaction.
  
  Plot
  Well, it IS a comic book. That being said, the plot is fairly straightforward, and about what you'd 
 expect for a game of this type.
  
  Characters
  The only really memorable characters are Rogue and his weapon-bound buddies, and your arch-nemesis, 
 and even then, he's pretty much a 1-dimensional character. But the whole thing fits within the 
 milieu and works surprisingly well.
  
  Immersiveness
  Level design is good, making Nu Earth feel like a war torn planet in some far flung galaxy. A few 
 of the areas are predictable, but for me, they worked really well and I didn't see many of the 
 "seams" of the world that I've noticed in other games.
  The graphics are actually quite good, and don't suffer from most of the aspects of console ports. 
 There's actually a fair bit of detail, and they seem to work well within the confines of a graphic 
 novel to video game adaptation. There are swirls of smoke and the war going on in the distance 
 add to the atmosphere of a world under siege. A constant presence in the sky is a strange wormhole-like 
 phenomenon, with some nice detail. Voice work is well done, without being too hammy or flat, like 
 someone just reading from a script. It /works/ and feels like comic book dialogue ripped straight 
 from the page (and this is a good thing) . Speaking of the comic book, there are nice touches like 
 a reward system that lets you unlock comic book art and other info based upon how much salvage 
 you've acquired throughout the game. The rest of the sounds are good, with great weapon sounds, 
 and the music moves things along without drawing too much attention to itself.
  
  The Big Question
  Is it fun? If you haven't guessed from my review so far, I found Rogue Trooper 
 to be extremely fun, and found it a delightful romp through that corner of the 2000 AD multiverse. 
 In fact it's one of the few games in recent memory that I feel compelled to replay immediately 
 afterward, just to try out some different tactics or see what else I can unlock/find. It's also 
 fun to approach some of the battles from a different perspective, or see how many silent kills 
 you can achieve. There are lots of fun toys to play with, even though there's a finite number, 
 I never felt like I was out of options playing through the game. I recommend it, but perhaps wouldn't 
 pay overmuch as it did feel like kind of a short but sweet experience.
  9.0 Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonanza35
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  Very good shooter. Gameplay is good and stable.
  Although retreating backwards, the player turns around facing you instead of just back trading, 
 the aimming rectile remains forward, making it playable to shoot while retreating. Of the recent 
 releases after Episode One, this is the best game out! Player can take lots of damage without getting 
 killed from enemies first shots on Easy Level. Good storyline. Learning to click into Digi Pad 
 and manufacture ammo and select weapon upgrades with points accumulated from picking up soldiers 
 killed and finding discarded weapons is good feature giving player choice to resupply whatever 
 is more needed by player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deyyhayederaned
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 19, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  When I first played rogue trooper I though it was a very innovative game, the liberty of choice 
 in advancing through the missions coupled with various side challenges proved to be very addictive. 
 In gameplay I have observed that the performance of the player is often enhanced by preferred items 
 weapons or equipment. In Rogue trooper I found that through trial and error I worked lethally with 
 the shotgun, almost immediately my performance in combat rose to Commando level from guy who dies 
 all the time level. 
  I have noticed with many other games where you are a one man army, that after you have exhausted 
 all combat scenarios it becomes a back shelf game. Reason being if you make an interesting world 
 and only allow a small part to be played, people wonder whats out there and in effect wished it 
 was a free-roam game. So you could instead of being bound by linear gameplay go and have fun, explore 
 the world in the way you want and be completely independant in choosing where you go and what you 
 most want to do. 
  Heralding to the campaign, much to short it feels like the events of a short day. Even though your 
 a one man army with the input of your four dead friends memory chips, you have even against the 
 strongest opponents an edge both physically as the character and psychologically as the player. 
 This possibly makes the exception of main battle tanks and the local wild life, where its a case 
 of kill quickly or run away and reassume your high ground position something I have had to do all 
 to often but I enjoy the challenge. 
  In my opinion an all together very gripping game with some of the most hilarious enemies you have 
 ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minaruulin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 1, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I love this game I really do, it isn't the best i have played but it's really fun. I like the way 
 you can use tactics like sentry gun and those mines etc. It isn't short when you play on the hard 
 setting
  
  Gameplay: This ise the best part the tactics and sneaking has been really well done and it is one 
 of the funnest games I have played
  
  Graphics: Well, they are good but not the best i have seen the character models are nice
  
 
  Sound: The sounds are awesome
  
  Value: It isn't short when you play it on hard and when you use tactics and it's so fun that you 
 can just play it through or 100 times 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  I was chocked by this unfair evaluation of Rogue! In fact, this game is worth more than 6.7 !! 
 Comon !!! can't you see the good sides of the game , I actually played the game and was satisfied 
 with its good graphics and nice game-play. what is wrong with it? anyways, for me this game is 
 a full time of fun although it is not long enough , however, this would not exclude the fun time 
 being spent playing the game. I wish I could see the flaws in this game, but i cannot because it 
 is a cool game that deserves more than what game-spot has given to it ... I loved it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thug_angel123
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 25, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  well actually i had low expectations with this game but when I played it it was really enjoyable 
 n the gameplay didn't let me down well there wasn't anything extra ordinary to do in it but still 
 it had a pretty solid gameplay there aren't that many weapons n the story isn't as solid as the 
 gameplay but it still stasify if u have read the comic of rogue trooper u also have two one special 
 power its called hollo gram u can upgrade ur weapons the difficulty isn't tht hard and there are 
 checkpoints which is a good thing system requirements aren't tht high for the pc ver well as the 
 price tag is low n if u like the comic or u want a decent shooting game u should look forward for 
 it or maybe you can play the demo and if the demo statisfy's you the game will also if it doesn't 
 there are more good tps games in the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Markie200
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 24, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  The story line was really good for this game, but I would imagine that was taken from the comic 
 so you can make your own mind up about that, as for the graphics, they where ok, nothing amazing 
 and shouldnt put any pressure on most low end cards out there. 
  Going through the game was entertaining but very repetitive and sometimes boring, I felt there 
 was not enough verity in the bad guys or the terrain even, thankfully the game itself was very 
 short
  
  The GI chips made the game more interesting with them speaking to you every now and then and with 
 there special abilities. Good use of helm and bagman, but I thought gunner was let down, having 
 an option for using him as a sentry gun was a good idea, but dont expect too much from him, as 
 he seemed to have trouble hitting anything and seemed to just shoot in the enemies general direction 
 which does work after a while.. I found myself getting bored waiting for him to kill off the bad 
 guys so Id do it myself with the pistol.. Oh! and pare of glasses would be useful for him, as 
 he couldnt see further than my granny!
  
  The controls were a little awkward and I didnt like the way rogue needed to turn before moving 
 back in the direction you came from this also wasnt good when trying to jump away from an incoming 
 grenade, sometimes I found myself jumping at them or into a nearby wall because rogue was facing 
 that way (even while pressing the opposite direction key) Jumping and shooting at nords at the 
 same time looked really good though.
  
  I liked the idea of peeping around the corner of a wall or pillar and using the blind fire option.. 
 It looked really cool, but was pretty useless as you couldnt hit anything (even with the GI chip) 
 one thing I didnt like about this was sniping from this mode.. It left me wondering who took the 
 shot or how I took it
  
  Stealth kills where a nice feature in the game and I liked the different ways rogue took out the 
 nords. Very entertaining
  I also liked shooting nords air tanks which was sometimes more interesting than shooting them in 
 the head or anywhere else
  
  The AI in the game was very basic, with most enemy just running or walking up to you or hiding 
 behind a wall or something else in wait for you, or pretty much firing on you when your visible, 
 never did they try to flank me.
  
  All in all the game is ok and if your not looking for anything too taxing or long I suppose this 
 is it, lots of aspects of the game where very repetitive but I found myself coming back for more, 
 mostly to see if anything new was around the corner.
  I do feel this game had lots of potential but the game didnt stand up to the comic book its 
 worth a look but dont expect a whole lot from it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rb80
Rating: 7
Date: May 7, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  All round a good 3rd person shooter with nice graphics and smooth gameplay. Only problem game too 
 short. I got through this, even on Massacre level pretty quickly. 
  The blue dude is pretty cool and I did enjoy playing this which was a surprise, as 3rd person shooter 
 in general tend to have problems with the viewing angle. In this game I found that most of the 
 time I could see where I was going, where I needed to go and what I need to do.
  Weapons were relatively standard for this type of game but the biochips had a nice feel to it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwcjackal
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 6, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Iv been a fan of 2000ad and rogue trooper for meny years so i hoped that they would do a good job 
 on this game and i have to admit i think they did. The storyline was great if only a bit short. 
 The graphics have that cartoon feel to it which just adds to the game and the game play is just 
 about right. The only bad points is the cam can be a bit annoying sometimes but its always the 
 way with 3rd person games. The other thing is there dose not seem to be any chat in the mutiplayer 
 which is a bit odd and very few maps. If your thinking of getting this game id advise you too hold 
 on until the price comes down a bit , it may be a good game but its not worth full price :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PirateMonkey
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2006 1:34 am PT
Review:  As ive said before in previous reviews i've written, i love video cards. They're great things. 
 The higher the better, just ask my Bank Manager. The thing i can't figure out and maybe someone 
 might agree with me is....... Rogue Trooper is possibly the BEST looking video game i've ever played. 
 The framing is Supersmooth and Rogue kills Nords like he's on rails. Definition and Depth is amazing. 
 Saying that i think cos i grew up with Rogue Trooper and 2000AD maybe im looking through Retro 
 Blinkers. The game itself is your standard 3rd Person Shooter, with all the usual bells and whistles, 
 but on the whole its average. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
