-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: RollerCoaster Tycoon 2: Wacky Worlds
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/rollercoastertycoon2wacky/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 29, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.7
Critic Score: 4.9, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 334 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Frontier Dev.
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     May 8, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Wacky Worlds' scenarios, and the ideas behind them, seem tired and overused, and the expansion itself 
 is overpriced. 

  If nothing else, the latest expansion pack for RollerCoaster Tycoon 2, Wacky Worlds, remains true 
 to designer Chris Sawyer's amusement-park simulator sequel. In fact, the expansion is exactly like 
 that disappointing sequel, since it too gives fans of the series almost nothing new. Instead, the 
 expansion sticks to the formula apparently carved in stone when the first RollerCoaster Tycoon 
 became a surprise hit in 1999 -- Wacky Worlds offers the same old gameplay and the same old rides. 
 The expansion's scenarios, and the ideas behind them, seem tired and overused, and the expansion 
 itself is overpriced.  

          Wacky Worlds lets you turn the majestic Great Wall of China into a tacky tourist trap. 
     

  The few enhancements that Wacky Worlds does make are mostly cosmetic. The series' fans have put 
 together a long list of requests for features such as a proper map editor and a sandbox mode, and 
 these requests have largely been ignored in favor of including 17 park-building scenarios in every 
 corner of the globe. The developers' idea of "wacky" apparently involves letting you build parks 
 in and around various national landmarks. For instance, scenarios set in Africa let you construct 
 coasters alongside Victoria Falls and around an abandoned diamond mine. In Asia, the Chinese have 
 decided to desecrate their cultural heritage by hiring you to put up a theme park around the Great 
 Wall. The Japanese have run out of room for attractions, so they're expanding into the sea.  

 
  These scenarios sound a lot more interesting than they actually are. Although the idea of traveling 
 the world while building regional theme parks near cultural monuments is interesting, it ends up 
 being more of a gimmick than anything else. Essentially, the level designers seem to have approached 
 each scenario with only a single guideline: "Wouldn't it be cool if we could let players build 
 roller coasters near things like the Great Wall of China?" Unfortunately, that's about as far as 
 they seem to have gotten, since Wacky Worlds doesn't really offer any new features or gameplay 
 options aside from having world-famous landmarks in the backdrop of each map. Like in the original 
 game, your goals are restrictive. You need to attract a certain number of guests, increase your 
 park's rating, make big bucks in a short period of time, increase the value of your park, and so 
 on. Although these objectives are related to the different regions -- land is restricted in one South 
 American setting because of environmental regulations protecting the rainforest, you have to repay 
 European Union loans in the scenarios set in the Old World, you can't modify land around the Great 
 Wall, and so forth -- you're still trying to meet the same demands you were dealing with in the original 
 RollerCoaster Tycoon almost four years ago.  

  And unfortunately, you're limited in how you can go about doing so. While Wacky Worlds features 
 about 50 additional rides and lots of new scenery, almost everything has been grouped into theme 
 packs that are available only in the region for which they were intended, so if you had hoped to 
 do something truly "wacky," such as building Chinese restaurants in a European theme park, or dropping 
 some North American cowboy statues next to your rides in Australia, forget it.  

          What better way to commemorate the launch of Sputnik than with a roller coaster?     

 
  And even if swapping around restaurants, attractions, and other fixtures from other countries 
 were possible, it still wouldn't be anything new, since all the expansion's new rides are nothing 
 more than renovated versions of those in the original game. The Chinese junk, for instance, is 
 a remodeled pirate ship. The Sputnik Commemoration is just a roller coaster with cars that look 
 like the fabled Russian satellite. And so on. This face-lift may seem interesting for a few hours 
 or so, though experienced RollerCoaster Tycoon players will quickly realize that there's nothing 
 new under the surface.  

  Finally, Wacky Worlds is extremely overpriced. The current suggested retail price of $29.99 for 
 a skimpy add-on almost seems like highway robbery, especially when you consider that RollerCoaster 
 Tycoon 2 itself is selling for about the same price at the moment. Some of the revamped rides and 
 scenery items will no doubt be useful tools in the hands of serious fans who are interested in 
 building their own scenarios, but if all you want to do is build new roller coasters and concession 
 stands, you probably won't get your money's worth.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: doubleajunkie
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 22, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  This expansion pack is beyond stupid. It's ridiciously stupid. It's definitely a waste of money. 
 Even though it adds cool scenery, its not worth it. You won't be missing out on anything. Who cares 
 about having different countries to place your park in; the point is to succeed in running the 
 park, not making it look good. Yeah, the park rating can go up when you have good scenery that 
 pleases the guests, but you can still accomplish that without this expansion, and with just the 
 regular scenery. 
  Some people might fun this is kinda cool, but it seriously is really pointless. So what about having 
 your park in Africa or China, no one really cares about that! The additional national rides are 
 the same thing as the old ones, just renovated with different designs and a name that pertains 
 to the country. Whoop dee do. So what. And you can only add these additions if you play in the 
 country's park. You can only add the Chinese food booths to the park in China, or add North American 
 scenery and attractions to the American parks. It seriously is a waste of an expansion pack. 
 
  It may seem fun at the beginning and when you're new to it, but after a few hours, it's just boring 
 and nothing exciting. The expansion pack itself is even overpriced; who wants to pay 30 bucks for 
 nothing when you can buy so many other interesting and worthwhile games instead?
  So save 30 bucks and buy some game that you can have fun with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koopatroopa1015
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  RCT2's first expansion pack offers new scenarios, scenery, and rides themed from different areas 
 of the world. You can play scenarios in the frozen land of Antarctica, in the parks of U. S. cities, 
 or on the Asian-themed coastline of Japan. As well, you've got new coaster cars and additional 
 rides to put into your parks. The scenarios are okay, the new rides are decent, the graphics and 
 sound are just like the first one, so what's wrong with it?
  
  Well this isn't the big problem: it doesn't fix anything from the base game. The REAL problem is 
 that you have to pay for it. There's simply not enough value in the expansion pack to have to purchase 
 it. It would easily be better in a download. I suggest that everyone avoid this. Although it's 
 got some nice stuff, it's a complete rip-off to go out and spend money on it. Personally, I enjoyed 
 the scenarios, the new rides, and such, but I think it would have been more worth it to get this 
 as a free download.
  
  The point is, if you don't mind going out and wasting money on some nice little extra scenarios 
 and rides, be my guest. If not, then save your money and skip this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  If your a fan of the original game this sequel offers even more parks/missions and even more sim 
 items/coasters to fill that addictive need. The graphics are the same as they were in the original 
 as is the sound.. but what this game gives is even more gameplay, more sim building.. and even 
 more addictive fun for the entire family.
  
  Gameplay: is exactly like the original game and will not deter newcomers. As such the game plays 
 very well and without errors. Value: endless play possibilities limited only to your imagination 
 with the ability to terraform land and build your own coasters.
  
  I give this game a solid 9 for being a superb game with great great replay value. Something that 
 means you will spend less money on shallow non-replayable games.
  
  The added bonus of this pack is with even more possible sim development. The challenge level has 
 increased as well as the overall fun.
  
  The expansion of both add even more endless play and gives the user more options in which to increase 
 their imaginative powers.
  
  A must have pack!
  
  Wacky worlds may not give THAT much more possibilities but it is extremely welcome to a game that 
 offers endless enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 16, 2005 3:47 am PT
Review:  Compared to Rollercoaster Tycoon 2, this expansion is a disgrace! RCT 1 recieved well renowned 
 expansions, but this game is pretty sad... not one new rollercoaster, the only thing new is trains 
 themed to crappy animals and other stupid "wacky" things, pun intended.
  
  There is no realism in this pack either, with the exception of a few new scenery pieces that I 
 use, almost every item in this meaningless game is crap, I use maybe three trees and some of the 
 new walls. 
  
  I really am disappointed with the way this turned out, as well as Time Twister. This expansion 
 features new scenarios, all lame and new scenerey, once again all lame. There isn't one new ride 
 of any kind, there are new "themes" of rides, but they are all LAME!
  
  This expansion pack is completely and utterly pathetic... RCT 2 conquers it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexia_rain_69
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 1, 2003 4:33 am PT
Review:  It's been a while since the original Rollercoaster Tycoon surprised the gaming community with it's 
 highly entertaining gameplay. To build a coaster and to await the screams of your Sims having a 
 ride in them was a cool thing, and you had a lot of freedom to develop the coasters and the parks 
 the way you wanted. To turn the landscapes into flourishing amu****t parks was really nice, despite 
 the somewhat poor graphics. The game therefore was a commercial success. It all lead to two expansion 
 packs, and last year the hungry gaming community couldn't wait to play the sequel Rollercoaster 
 Tycoon 2. And there it went wrong.
  
  The "new" game wasn't really new. It had the same graphics, the same gameplay, the same menu and 
 all it did was bringing you new scenario's, some new rides and the ability to decorate your park 
 with more scenery. Then you also had the chance to create your own scenario's, but that was in 
 no way able to stop you from getting disappointed. And the disappointment is going to return with 
 this new expansion, called Wacky World's. Even so, it's the most disappointing sequel ever to be 
 released.
  
  First of all, this expansion pretty much does what an expansion is all about. You need to have 
 the original game installed to run this one, and it adds new things to the game. But given the 
 price ($ 29.95) one should expect more than lots of new scenery, some new scenario's linked to 
 that scenery and some new rides. With this expansion you basically only buy the opportunity to 
 build around the world and give the park the character of the land. All seven continents are represented 
 in this game, for example offering you scenario's in Africa, near the Great Wall in China, and 
 the icy field of the South Pole. Then you are still somewhat limited, since in some scenario's 
 you can't change the landscape at all. Then the new rides aren't completely new at all, but based 
 on allready excisting rides.
  
  Even if you completely enjoyed playing Rollercoaster Tycoon 2, don't buy this expansion. Not only 
 Wacky World's doesn't give you enough new things to make this expansion worthwhile, it's also way 
 too expensive for what it is offering.
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
