-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: RollerCoaster Tycoon: Loopy Landscapes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/rollercoastertycoonll/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 12, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.0, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 872 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Chris Sawyer
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Sep 30, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Loopy Landscapes features additional rides, themes, and scenarios - and it makes RollerCoaster Tycoon 
 even more fun. 

 Loopy Landscapes is the second expansion pack for Hasbro Interactive's enormously popular theme 
 park simulation, RollerCoaster Tycoon. This new expansion features additional rides, themes, and 
 scenarios - and it makes RollerCoaster Tycoon even more fun.   

  RollerCoaster Tycoon has remained a bestseller for well over a year. To anyone who hasn't played 
 the game before, its success can seem surprising. It doesn't look like much at first because its 
 graphics and sound effects aren't very impressive, and the entire game seems like it could have 
 been released in the mid-'90s. Even if it had, it would have run fine on most available computers 
 at the time: The minimum system required is only a Pentium 90 with 16MB of RAM. But RollerCoaster 
 Tycoon doesn't need to take advantage of today's high-end systems. The game is complex, fun, and 
 addictive. And the additions in Loopy Landscapes enhance all these elements.   

  As in RollerCoaster Tycoon and the first expansion pack, Corkscrew Follies (also included with 
 Loopy Landscapes) , your goal is to build an amusement park and fill it with rides and people. Each 
 scenario gives you a new set of goals to achieve, and the variety of new goals in Loopy Landscapes 
 is great. While you'll still have some abstract goals, like having to earn certain park ratings 
 and park values, you'll also have to meet some more straightforward goals as well. Most often, 
 these goals will deal with roller coasters, and scenarios in which you must build a certain number 
 of coasters with certain excitement ratings are common. Early on, you'll find a park with five 
 complex, and incomplete, coasters that you'll need to finish. And these aren't simple single-revolution 
 coasters either: The park is on a volcano, and the majority of these tracks are underground.   
 

  As in the previous example, the majority of scenarios in Loopy Landscapes are based around a particular 
 locale. You'll need to build parks on huge lakes, in arctic ice floes and barren deserts, and more. 
 The new landscapes add a bit of visual flair to the parks, and the new entrance and exit styles 
 for your rides makes personalizing your park much easier. There are also new decorative themes, 
 so you can place your dinosaur-themed area next to your medieval castle, your horror-themed area 
 next to your ice castle, and you can generally just mix and match at will.   

  In addition to the cosmetic additions, there are new types of rides in Loopy Landscapes: inverted 
 coasters, suspended coasters, water coasters, hyper coasters, raft rides, and much more. And there 
 are new enhancements available for rides as well. You will also see new shops, like a fried-chicken 
 stand, a T-shirt shop, game stands, and others. There's a great deal of variety, and while many 
 of the new shops and rides are little more than cosmetically altered but otherwise identical versions 
 of old shops and rides, it's still good to have a greater variety of things to build in your park. 
   

  The only real problem with Loopy Landscapes is that it doesn't add two much-needed elements to 
 RollerCoaster Tycoon: a free-for-all mode in which you're not constrained by scenario objectives, 
 and a means of controlling the game speed. It would have been great to be able to just build and 
 run a park without concerns about reaching scenario goals. Without this option, you'll have to 
 settle for Arid Heights, a scenario with a good amount of space and no financial constraints (since 
 everything is free) , in which your only goal is to get 2000 people into your park. As for the game 
 speed, you still have to sit and wait while your park accumulates money. At least the game is fun 
 to watch.   

  In fact, RollerCoaster Tycoon is still fun to watch despite the fact that its technical elements 
 aren't up to current standards. The graphics and sound still have a lot of character, so after 
 a few minutes of watching the crowds mill about your park, you'll like the way the game looks. 
 But you'll also have a lot of fun playing it, and thanks to the additional themes and scenarios 
 in Loopy Landscapes, you'll enjoy many more hours with RollerCoaster Tycoon.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Nascarulz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I've loved roller coasters. I've loved them since I started riding that kiddie one thats at your 
 local county fair (Ususally dragon themed) . This probably is the closest I've gotten to actually 
 owning, and building what I've loved. There are amy different things that can be done in this game. 
 You can hire employees, build rides, raise prices, and start marketing campaigns. And its all very 
 user friendly. You'll be making that 10 looper you've always dreamed of in no time. The scenarios 
 keep you playing and wanting more as you advance. Who cares obout the sound or graphics? This game 
 is on my all-time favorite list. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 20, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Loopy Lanscapes allows you to expand the universe of Roller Coaster Tycoon to new heights. The 
 additional roller coasters and rides improve the selection of additions to make to your parks. 
 The new scenarioes provide new challenges to take on related to publicity and limitations on space 
 and money.
  
  I love the addition of the snow and water rides. These and the new special coasters are fun to 
 try to build and get to a level that the nausia doesn't cause people to back away or that the intensity 
 doesn't cause people to steer clear or perish while on the ride.
  
  Great addition to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beefwad27455
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 27, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon: Loopy Landscapes is an instant classic, regarding its great gameplay in 
 particular. New rides, track designs, scenery, and scenarios were added to improve an already great 
 game. The gameplay is simple, but it still will take a while to master it. There are over 80 scenarios 
 in total, offering great replay value because each scenario seems different. The new options to 
 offer music for rides helps the old theme of just fairground music playing all the time. There 
 are several types of music themes. The only thing that is a problem in RCT is the graphics, but 
 the gameplay balances the small problem out. RCT is a great game in conclusion, and will always 
 be a favorite to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holadrim
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 13, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved to build up things, specially in games that have a very long play-length like 
 Roller Coaster Tycoon and its expansion Loopy Landscapes that makes it even better. There's approximately 
 60 different parks you can choose from (or not really you must clear the easier ones first) and 
 that is a lot. One park should take, lets say, 20 hours... that gives us 20 * 60 = 1 200 hours! 
 Twelve hundred hours of game-play! Isn't that amazing... okay my "20- hours-per-park" may be a little 
 to much but it at least feels like it ^^. And to add to that, you must not always clear the park 
 in one try... but okay lets go over to the "bad" things about the game. Firstly; Why isn't there 
 a map editor in the game? and secondly; some parks is almost impossible to clear, there's to little 
 space... but they are not impossible, really... its just that if you have build your park like a 
 crazy tycoon for 20 hours, would you like to clear the level? That's the not perfect stuff about 
 the game, but I can't really bother complaining about the graphics. The graphics could be a little 
 better maybe... and okay nowadays we have the third game in the series, with absolutely stunning 
 graphics. It's just the game-play those new games can't beat. This game, and the one you probably 
 had before (the original, this is an expansion) , is one of my absolute favourites in this genre... hopefully 
 they'll make a fourth edition in this series, only the future can tell...
  
  Nearly flawless (9.9) , but there's few games I would give a perfect 10 (look at my scores in my 
 profile) . One last thing; I love Roller Coaster Tycoon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordof_therings
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  A great game for all you people that like to build rollercoasters. Build Cedar point the way you 
 like it. Build disney land without all the queer rides just the good ones. or just build any thing 
 you like. way better than rollercoaster tycoon 2 and three. if you dont agree than go play with 
 yourself because those games suck! anyway if your sick and twisted you can kill people by drowning 
 them or making them fall off a rollercoaster but if you do that we all know what you'll grow up 
 to be. anyway the game is great and i highly reccomend it for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  RollerCoaster Tycoon : Loopy Landscapes in graphics wise is as much the same as the first game 
 but that is okay because this is also an expansion. There is a lot more to be added to the original 
 rollercoaster tycoon which this expansion provides. There are more levels and there are even real 
 parks that have been made and you can explore. There are also missions so that just adds length. 
 The Sandbox mode is when you think you have completed most or when you just want to have fun and 
 you don't want to complete any objective. This mode allows you to have as much money as you like 
 and a huge space to build your park and you can just build away.
  
  Creating the rollercoaster is great fun and there a lot of neat features that I think are unappericated 
 that you make use to create an exciting, intense or nausiating. Defiently one of the better expansions 
 out in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  In one scenario, you have to earn a monthly income from ride tickets of at least $10,000. In another, 
 you have to repay a bank loan and build your park's value to at least $500,000. And in another 
 scenario, you have to erect 10 different roller coasters, each more than 3,937 feet in length and 
 with excitement ratings of 7.00 or more. And so on. If you've never played RollerCoaster Tycoon 
 before, you may indeed find these objectives enjoyable, even challenging -- but if you're a fan of 
 the series, you've seen them before. Fortunately, the developer at least had the foresight to let 
 you play any of the scenarios at any time.
  
  Also, RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 offers a bit more variety in terms of the parks you can build. A number 
 of the game's more challenging scenarios involve theme parks, which gives them a unique character 
 that isn't provided by the traditional objectives. Alpine Adventures, for example, is set on an 
 icy mountain that is more hospitable to skis than roller coasters, while Infernal Views seems to 
 overlook the tourist-trap ring of Dante's Inferno. Also, RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 features the official 
 Six Flags license. You can try your hand at running five official Six Flags parks, including such 
 popular family destinations as Great Adventure and Magic Mountain. These locations can be played 
 as formal scenarios starting with parks that resemble their real-world counterparts or as part 
 of a build mode that lets you put together a park from the ground up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerDeutscher
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2005 5:21 am PT
Review:  This expansion is a fantastic add on for RollerCoaster Tycoon. It contains over 60 new and very 
 challenging scenarios and also includes many more more rides, rollercoasters, and scenary. If you 
 are beginning to get tired of your RCT game, buy this expansion and you'll be just as obsessed 
 as you were when you first played. When you purchase the expansion you no longer need your orignal 
 disk so you can pass it on to a friend or trade it in for a couple bucks at your local videogame 
 store. If you want more rides and more challenge in RCT, this is the expansion for you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
