-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: RollerCoaster Tycoon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/rollercoastertycoon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 13, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.8, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 3,717 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Chris Sawyer
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
RollerCoaster Tycoon has the potential to capture a pretty good niche market - and for the most 
 part, it succeeds. 

 MicroProse's RollerCoaster Tycoon is a combination of two somewhat popular PC games: Coaster, an 
 older game from Disney in which you design roller coasters, and Bullfrog's Theme Park, about the 
 trials and tribulations of running an amusement park. Now, Chris Sawyer, the developer behind the 
 very addictive and somewhat zany Transport Tycoon, has developed a brand-new amusement park simulation, 
 with an emphasis on creating funky new roller coasters. Since Theme Park is pretty much the only 
 real competition, RollerCoaster Tycoon has the potential to capture a pretty good niche market 
 - and for the most part, it succeeds.  

 The premise is pretty simple: You must run a successful amusement park. RollerCoaster Tycoon offers 
 a selection of 21 different scenarios, as well as a tutorial, for building your empire. In actuality, 
 only five of the 21 scenarios are available at start-up - as you complete a portion of the initial 
 scenarios more will become open to you. The scenarios typically involve either open or prebuilt 
 amusement parks, challenging you to accomplish an objective, like achieving a certain attendance 
 or profit goal.   

 Like many games of its ilk - Sim City 3000, Transport Tycoon, even Theme Park - RollerCoaster Tycoon 
 uses an isometric angle to view the overall map. The map has multiple zoom levels and can be rotated 
 90 degrees in either direction. A grid is superimposed on the terrain to provide a structured area 
 to determine definite sizes of buildings, sidewalks, lakes, and so on. Manipulating the terrain 
 and building or destroying structures costs money; these costs, along with other amusement park-related 
 costs, are balanced against the revenues brought in by customers.  

 You have the option of building a number of different structures to please your customers: thrill 
 rides, roller coasters, mild rides, water rides, food vendors, souvenir stands, and even bathrooms. 
 The big rides are the most interesting, and of course, most players will probably go straight for 
 the roller coaster. Laying out the rides and concourses requires some skillful planning - you must 
 place not only the rides, but the queuing area and entry gates as well. Lines for rides that spill 
 out onto the concourse are not good for the moving traffic, and vomit-inducing rides (should you 
 choose to keep them) might need a few strategic stalls nearby. At the outset, you only have access 
 to the basic rides and vendors, but money and time put into research will earn you new types of 
 amusements and technologies.  

 As mentioned above, roller coasters are a big part of the game, and would-be designers will not 
 be disappointed. You can custom-build your own coasters - including your own twists, turns, dips, 
 runs, and so forth - to your heart's desire. Well, almost to your heart's desire. The problem, 
 if you can call it that, is physics. RollerCoaster Tycoon uses a real-world physics algorithm to 
 model its coasters accurately. If you build an all-wooden coaster track, with an 80-foot drop and 
 a hairpin turn to the left, without angling the track properly, the cars will go flying off the 
 track, and you can expect a reduction in attendance in the near future. Of course you can prevent 
 all that by testing the tracks, which provides all sorts of statistical goodies.   

 Like similar games, RollerCoaster Tycoon lets you access any number of the attendees wandering throughout 
 the park. With this feature, you can tell if your arrangements and layouts are working or if a 
 ride is just too much or just plain boring. All sorts of employees are available for hire. Rides 
 will break down, requiring handymen. People hate standing in line, so you must hire entertainers. 
 Crowds typically bring petty crime, requiring security. Another nice little feature is customization, 
 which lets you name practically everything in the park to your liking. The sound effects are really 
 good: People scream on roller coasters, and little motor cars sound like little motor cars. The 
 sound is even positional, so when coaster passengers go from the left to the right side of the 
 screen, their screams go from the left to the right speaker.  

 Unfortunately, such a big and somewhat complex simulation doesn't come without problems. Graphically, 
 RollerCoaster Tycoon is pretty good, with only a few clipping problems between animated objects 
 and the terrain behind them. Some may find the depiction of elevation hard to cope with, and strangely 
 enough, the game only runs at two speeds - stop and go - so when you're trying to manage your newest 
 amusement park, time is ticking by, perhaps faster than you'd like. The roller coaster physics 
 model is nice, but you must have a completed track to test it out properly. Finally, there are 
 only 21 scenarios and no way to make more, and there's no generic "start from scratch and build 
 till you drop" scenario either.  

 RollerCoaster Tycoon is another fun management simulation from the mind of Chris Sawyer. One can 
 only hope he continues to make games in the future - and with less time between them.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (98 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: IonBlaster4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game, of them all. It is such a classic awesome game. Before my review (you may 
 want to skip this) I have started playing this game since i was 4 (11 now) and, it is the best 
 game i have ever played. Its been 7 years now, and i still play it! I know the game inside and 
 out. I tend not to play as much anymore, but every now and then i just hit this spree where i dominate 
 like 4 parks in about 2 weeks, because i always make my parks super good. The game is a highly 
 addictive for about a few months, you stop playing for like a month or two, and the next month 
 you are on a spree playing it again. I have played this game for over 1000 hours in my life, and 
 it has been the best. That RCT2 and RCT3 crap is crap. Dont buy it. RCT1 is the best, RCT2 is the 
 second, and RCT3 is by FAR 3rd, and last, because it sucks. Chris Sawyer made the best, and frontier 
 may have brought the blasting, real good game , to a real quick, unfortunate, stop.
  
  Onto the Review, i will start off with the Graphics. You may be surprised, but for a game like 
 this, i dont give a crap about graphics, one reason i dont like RTC3. If i had to rate the graphics, 
 i would give a 6.5. Yes, they are bad, but they arent like smeared, hard to see and stuff. They 
 stand out, dont blend in, and give a greate expierience!
  
  Gameplay, a automatic 9.9/10. Controls are simple, sqaures make it so much easier to build on, 
 and simple. RCT3 has a ton of diffrent features that i havent played it for more then 10 hours 
 its that bad! RCT, is the best, of the best of the series, and the game. It is a classic! 
  
  Sound is pretty good, sometimes its kinda weird, so 9.5 with that!
  
  FPS is outstanding, 
 10/10, but for a game like that, you always will.
  
  The features, 10/10! Its outstanding! All the rides, terrain, its great!
  
  Overall 9.8 out 
 of 10.
  
  Hope you buy it, without torrentz, of course. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crash_ash
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Oh the joys of rollercoaster tycoon, sure it may be a little outdated but truly is a game of exuberating 
 theme parks or dreary kiddie lands, whatever your style you'll be able to customizeyour very own 
 theme park, (while beating objectives and scenarios of course) you build (place) everything in 
 this game, to the beautiful gardens, the sandy foot paths, shops and stalls and of course the neccesities. 
 you build such rides as water slides/log flumes, haunted houses, carousels, swinging ships (only 
 to name a few) , and of course, the rollercoasters! you can pick from pre built tracks, to building 
 your very own custom design right down to the top speed and how many g forces it may have. a very 
 fun game that requires quite some strategy, this game may not be all too easy, keep in mind the 
 cleanliess and maintenance of your park as you are able to hire and manage your parks staff to 
 make sure everything keeps running smoothly, and be sure to watch those finances, loans get a little 
 pricey! accomplish a perfect park in only months or rack up the number of visitors to the thousands. 
 this is a very fantastic strategy/simulation that kept me hooked for hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munchlax99
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This game came out ten years ago and i still love it! There are tons of maps, rides and venues!!! 
 10/10 ( ( (oh man i need a hundred words!) ) ) I was kept busy for hours with waiting for that next 
 ride to be built, remodeling, and playing with ride prices to watch the effects. It will only become 
 dull if you let it. You don't have to love fairs or theme parks to love this game. It's a game 
 for all ages to play. Kids will love it, and for adults it may bring back some memories. It's a 
 great game to give a friend you are trying to get into simulation games. The game ran smoothly, 
 and doesn't appear to have any major bugs. If you want a game that will keep your attention, and 
 not get tired of after 10 hours of gameplay, try "RollerCoaster Tycoon."
  Roller coaster tycoon is a great game. zoo tycoon 2 is not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expansive
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2009 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Truthfully this game can be played possibly even 10 years from today and will still be fun. This 
 game is innovative and in my opinion ahead of its time. I still remember playing this when i was 
 a kid and got in trouble quite a bit from playing it for so long. There wasnt any RTS business 
 game that accomplished what Atari did with Roller Coaster Tycoon. The graphics are something that 
 needs work. The music is very appropriate to the theme of the game a la theme park music, yet can 
 get a bit annoying after a while. Also the amount of rides are good and Chris Sawyer could have 
 put a little bit more rides but perhaps that would have been overkill. There are many different 
 roller coasters to choose from including the option to make your own roller coaster. So therefore 
 there really wasnt any repetitiveness as far as rides go. Although overall, this game has good 
 replay value and it teaches you how to use analytical and reasonable thinking. Just as long as 
 you dont cheat ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharathvasudev
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 9:48 am PT
Review:  oh yes my first game in my gaming career
  this is the first ever game i played after playing asteroids in school
  even in todays standards 
 its good , better than RCT3 also
  
  the reason i hv become a pro gamer is coz of this game, like i mentioned got me into gaming
  
 
  i hv played the best games since then, all the way to games like CRYSIS
  but still i luv this game , kinda respect it
  i hv played thru the campaign mode abt 6 times 
 and never got bored
  (well in those days i didnt know tat saved games where stored in my docs :) so played all over 
 again)
  
  this comes 1st on my list followed by NFS: MW then crysis for best lighting in any game
  
  i 
 still play it and my 4870 gets insulted :) and also i need to change the monitor, as the game cant 
 do more than 1024*768 
  
  gr8 work chris sawyer and team 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bad_Boyl2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  Highly addictive Theme Park builder. Build the theme park of your dreams with many choices of rides, 
 toys, stalls, de-cos, becoam a tycoon. Charge admission fees, charge reide fees, charge stall fees, 
 become rich. Build the most popular rides, open the best parks, win awards, become famous.
  
  Gameplay:
  Simple objectives to your levels, but not as easy to reach as it sounds. Spend 
 hours in free lay mode building the best parks for fun. Or play the caqmpaign to become a strategical 
 theme park building tycoon. You play from above constructing titans of rides and constructs of 
 parks. Funds are always needed of, unless you know how to run a park properly. Find out how to 
 economize and strategize in the tycoon's theme park building world.
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  One of the best 2-D games I've ever played since Age of Empires ll, graphics were just fine back 
 then of course. But nowadays this is poor. But that doesn't stop it from being a great game! You 
 can still understand what it is you're looking at, even at a high resolution. Sound, the game is 
 chuck load of sound effects. Not much music though, the music if from the rides themselves. Just 
 play your own in the background :) Get it if you like building simulators like SimCity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfly360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome. there is nothing bad about the game other than guests puking all the time 
 but since its easy to get super rich you can higher a bunch of handymen or assign them to the area. 
 there is no reason to not like this game. In fact there is no reason to like it either. you will 
 love it. the graphics may not be perfect but they are still good. this game is pretty hard nut 
 ill give you a few tips if your stuck. make the steel rollercoaster "shuttle loop.'its cheep and 
 guests will pay around $2.50 to ride it. on trinity islands use shuttle loop since there isnt alot 
 of space. also delete a path at the end of the first island and build a small park and then fill 
 up the second island once you get money and so on. for dinky park buy land, buy construction rights, 
 and make shuttle loops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RushMetallica
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This game has got to be a keeper. I got this game in a cereal box and boy was it worth it (the 
 cereal too!) . 
  
  There are many scenarios with many different objectives and terrain. You can play in a desert, 
 and abandoned pier, some cool mountains, and many other interesting places. There can be objectives 
 like obtain a certain number of guests, cash, park value, park rating, and loan amount. My favourites 
 are Pacific Pyramids, Mel's World, and Evergreem Gardens.
  There are many roller coasters, thrill rides, gentle rides, shops & stalls, water rides, and transport 
 rides. You can choose already built designs or your own custom creations, but beware! If your ride 
 is too thrilling, or not enough, guests will not go on it, I have learned that the hard way! Eventually 
 though, you get the hang of how to make killer coasters. Here's a tip, make a Shuttle Loop with 
 a on-ride photo section, and you will make over $10 000 by the end of the scenario, almost every 
 time! It is a steel-roller coaster. 
  
  You have to hire park staff such as janitors, security guards, and mechanics. Don't just hire as 
 many as want though, as they can cost a fortune. I recommend keeping a screen of one handyman in 
 the corner of your screen and picking him and dropping him if you see garbage.
  
  Some downsides is you don't have a sandbox mode like in the 3rd game and not even a ride designer, 
 but you can just beat a game, take a huge loan, sell everything, and build it in the park, and 
 save the design. Also, it can be difficult at the beginning if you don't understand basic economics, 
 so it may take awhile for some.
  
  Overall the game is a huge entertainer, and I recommend it to anyone, but try to get it in a cereal 
 box. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvereye13x
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  If you were to bring up this game even in this day, people will nostaglically recall with fondness 
 the charming, unexpected hit of the late 90s. That alone is a testament to the finely tuned mechanics 
 and executed ideas, which we can attach the title of a masterpiece - in terms of a modern day video 
 games. From the onset, when the game was in production, the gameplay was the central key on which 
 the core (and success) of the game was dependent upon. That is not to say graphics and sounds had 
 to take a backseat, but rather, they came only to enhance the polished product at heart. 
  
  I've owned the game, and its two subsequent expansion packs, since 2000. I was almost immediately 
 drawn to the game. Though it appeared simple - for its graphics were average at best even back 
 then - there was substance and depth with the myriad of options, customizations, and and almost 
 limitless room for creativity that you can't help but "overlook" some of its less standout features. 
 Even with that said, the graphics were adequate (in the positive sense) and quite appropriate. 
 With so much action and movement on the screen, I think it almost begged for a simpler and distinctive 
 look. The accompanying sound effects are necessarily placed where appropriate to help usher the 
 feel and atmosphere of the amusement park, right in your own home. There is nothing pretentious 
 or over the top. Rollercoaster Tycoon does what is necessary to translate the vision of Chris Sawyer 
 into realty (while still maintaining it a profitable product for the publishers!) . 
  
  Examining to the present, the fact that the game itself is still being circulated regularly and 
 sold in general stores shows that Rollercoaster Tycoon is something lasting. Like a good piece 
 of literature, the message and value transcends time itself. Often times, newer games focus more 
 on the stunning visual details, instead of the overall playability. We don't play games simply 
 for the looks alone. Of course, a well made game is certainly more welcoming with great graphical 
 presentation too. Anyhow, I just want give praise to Rollercoaster Tycoon for providing those fond 
 childhood memories and most importantly, fun. I was just playing it the other day after many years 
 of hiatus, and it still brings out the same enthusiasm out of me as I erect the roller coasters 
 and attempt to keep my park guests content and satisfied. 
  
  Lastly, I just want to say that I hope that there will be a 4th iteration of the Rollercoaster 
 Tycoon franchise. The rumors seems to be that the plug has been pulled recently by Atari because 
 of less than spectacular sales. However things turn out, I hope there will be a publisher that 
 will pick up the pieces and renew the series. I like where they were heading with the full blown 
 3D rendition of the game with the second sequel, Rollercoaster Tycoon 3, but there is obviously 
 still room for improvements. Perhaps there will be one, in the near future, that is as well-rounded 
 gameplay-wise as it is visual-wise. In other words, a near flawless, even more exceptional presentation 
 of Chris Sawyer's idea of the ultimate amusement park simulation. And let's hope my computer will 
 be able to run it, too... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Roller tycoon is a game so amazingly addicting you will be tire and blue eyed for weeks. But its 
 all worth it. Building a theme park is a very tough thing but its fun to do. You have to balance 
 many things when building a ride. Including Fun, how sick it will make people, number of people 
 that can ride how big it is and where to put it and cost. There are more things you have to watch 
 out for but those are the basics. After its built you have to get you mechanics to keep in working 
 order or you might have a catastrophic accident that kills a lot of people. Thats not good for 
 the popularity of your park. You even get to determine how much everything costs in your park, 
 from how much it cost to enter the park to how much a meal at your food stores are. Another crazing 
 thing is each and every person in your park has money and mood. When you look on the list of guest 
 and see a bunch of sick faces than you know you might need to install some more "peacefull" rides. 
 Or if you look at everybody and they are angry you might need to lower prices or make the park 
 more presentable. You can even design your own roller coasters. But be warned sometimes you might 
 get a little to over your head and make a ramp a little to insane and it makes the cars fly off 
 the rail. So you have to think about things like that when building. If your park is really big 
 than you might need to develop a transportation system such as a train or lift. I hope i have explained 
 many of the features well enough to warrent a puchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImpSlayer
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  I first got this game for my birthday from an aunt. At the time, I didn't care for rollercoasters. 
 But, just to see what the game was like, I set the colorful disk in the hard-drive and sent it 
 inside. I've been playing it ever since.
  
  The graphics may seem dated for the time, but they are a fantastic way to show you your work. The 
 people are fun to watch get sick, eat, and ride your death machines - er, I mean rides. The actual 
 mechanics to build rollercoasters is simple enough to pick up and build a masterpiece. The scenarios 
 are unique and can be challenging. The freedom of turning the barren acres into a wonderland is 
 simply amazing. You can even theme rides into fantastic adventures. Even if you don't like management 
 sims like this, I can tell you that management takes a back seat to building rides. All these amazing 
 traits, coupled with an easy-to-master mouse control system, lead to one of the most addictive 
 and fun games ever created.
  
  Last Words: It doesn't require a lot of space, a lot of money, or even a lot of searching. But 
 it will want a lot of time. A personal favorite computer game (plays like a dream on my Vista) . 
 BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insomniorange
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  You remember those monotonous days where you just can't quite put your finger on how BORED you 
 are? Chances are, you have NEVER, yes, never quite played the game that is RollerCoaster tycoon. 
 Oh yes. And all those designs, parks, things like Forest Frontiers, and legendary parks at most. 
 But best of all was just having a laugh at deathly rollercoasters. You know, when you bought a 
 Shuttle Loop, that steel rollercoaster, and set the speed to about 60 miles per hour and watched 
 all those guests die? Time of my life. Anyway, all in all, this game is like the god of all tycoon 
 games. It deserves a decent score, so here's a TEN! Oh, and also, I like the downloadable stuff 
 you can get for this game. You can even download other people's really bad parks and laugh at them. 
 Or their really bad tracks. Seriously, Chris Sawyer is a mastermind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon is a fantastic game, although there isnt that much to write about really. 
 
  Anyway, the best feature of this game - hands down - is the Roller Coaster editor, where you design 
 a roller coaster from the ground up.
  And they can go up a long way. One of my favourite creations, a Giga Coaster, was 365ft high, but 
 apparently it would have killed any occupant that went on it, so i never used it in a Theme Park.
 
  The title sends you off course a bit really, because it isnt just a roller coasted game, its a 
 complete theme park game. 
  You can make just about any type of ride, a water slide, a roller coaster, a merry go round, whatever 
 you fancy really. 
  There are many theme parks that you have to take over in the game, and they are of varying difficulty. 
 Once you have taken over one of these you will be set a challenge to do in a certain time limit. 
 Whether that is "have a theme park worth 300000 is 2 years" or "Win the safest theme park award 
 in 6 months". 
  They are all challenging and the whole game is a complete treat to play. 
  I still play it today, 9 years after release, and i own a PS3. 
  Now if that isn't saying something, 
 i dont know what is.
  Inspired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 85 % This game is well made for a business Strategy game i think this is a game for every 
 one even if you dont like this type of game. This game delivers allot of action and almost every 
 thing you need for a good game. You have allot of options for creating your park you can even create 
 your own ride that can go all around the park but it costs more money $$$. I think this game his 
 well made if you like PC game this is a game that you have to buy !!!! The Frustrating part of 
 the game is that when it freeze's because you loose every thing so when you're park is good you 
 should save it just in case it freeze's and the you loose everything you've made for that park.
 
  
  
  Graphics 86 % This game has good graphics him just surprised for a 1999 game if you play this game 
 you'll be surprised how the graphics are realistic.
  
  
  Sound 92 % The sound is good it sounds like a real park with allot of people. And the roller coaster's 
 sound's pretty realistic.
  
  I reccomend this game for every one this isn't the type of game that i like but i got into this 
 game so fast and i still play it almost every day. If you like PC games this is the one you should 
 buy.
  
  8.5 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie_Q
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon is a theme park sim in which you will do everything from managing admission 
 prices to changing the colour of your concessions to building your own hair-raising coasters. It 
 might not be a graphical wonder, but it is highly addictive and lots of fun to play.
  
  RCT consists of a few dozen scenarios, in which you are given an amusement park and an objective. 
 Sometimes, you'll have a small park with only a few rides in it, sometimes a massive expanse of 
 land, filled with dozens of rides and stalls already. The objectives range from easy (have 250 
 guests in your park within three months) to moderate (have 1500 guests in your park within 4 months) 
 but overall, the game is relatively simple to play through, and it is rare that you will fail a 
 scenario. You will also have a park rating between 0-1000, and your objectives will sometimes refer 
 to that as well. It commonly seems that your rating is falling for no apparent reason, and the 
 game will notify you that your guests are getting lost or a roller coaster has crashed. However, 
 I've found that there is little you can do when your guests are too stupid to find their way out 
 of your park, especially if it is a large park.
  
  Building Roller Coasters is probably one of the most fun parts of the game. You can implement split 
 second turns or series of consecutive loops, but be careful- upon it's first test run, your coaster 
 will be given a rating in Excitement, Intensity, and Nausea, and if either of the latter two are 
 too high, your new ride will not be very popular. There are also pre-built tracks that you can 
 place in your park if you don't have the time or energy to build your own, but if the land is not 
 level it can be finnicky to place them.
  
  In addition to Roller Coasters, there are your regular amusement park rides such as merry-go-rounds, 
 bumper cars, sight-seeing towers, or train rides that you can build. Transport rides (such as monorails 
 or chairlifts) can be built to ferry guests around the park. You can also place food stalls, bathrooms, 
 and information kiosks around your park. These will affect guests' moods and actions, For example, 
 if a guest eats some popcorn, the salt will make him thirsty, which will make him want something 
 to drink from the beverage stand, which will, in turn, lead him to a bathroom.
  
  Guests are all pretty much unique. They all prefer different levels of intensity in their rides, 
 they all come in different moods (ranging from happy to tired to sad to mad) , and they all come 
 with different amounts of money. You can name your guests, read their thoughts, and even track 
 their actions if you so choose.
  
  Roller Coaster Tycoon just has so much detail, is so full-to-bursting with life, that it is hard 
 to organize it all into one review. Things such as clicking on flying ducks to make them quack, 
 seeing the water shimmer in the sunlight, or hearing guests scream as they fall over a drop on 
 your newest coaster just give the game an amazingly polished feel. You are sucked right into your 
 park. You'll find yourself frowning if your park rating drops even a mere ten points, or grumbling 
 to yourself if Guest 563 seems to be unhappy no matter what you do for him. You'll be building 
 fountains and food courts amid secluded groves in an attempt to create a peaceful setting for your 
 guests. And, when you've finally finished the last park, you'll scroll back up the list of scenarios 
 and replay your favourites. You'll spend hours trying to build the perfect coaster, or just have 
 fun messing around, building tall towers with winding paths leading to a burger stand on top. All-in-all, 
 you'll play RCT over and over and over again, simply because it is a damn fun game!
  
  This is an instant classic, and any self-respecting PC owner should have it in their collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Rollercoaster Tycoon is truely an awesome game. I say even today this game stands out to the tycoon 
 francizes. This game is total a classic. There is a large amount of levels you can do. The levels 
 don't get boring becuase there long enough to keep you occupied. The game also let's you build 
 rollercoasters which is very awesome. The rollercoasters you can build are pretty realist and it's 
 fun to seem em' crash. The game has a good amount of stalls like restrooms, food stalls, and drink 
 places where you can set the money the guest have to pay to buy the snacks. The game is very addicting 
 and takes time to beat. There is not much more I can say about this game though. But, the fact 
 this a true masterpiece and classic of all tycoon games and RCT sets the example to this game and 
 all other tycoon games out to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordan_owns
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, from build own attractions, and rollercoasters. I love it. 
  
  So many games have been based on simulating various topics, that often, the word ''Sim'' becomes 
 a well known prefix. Unlike other games which focus on building a city, or developing a planet, 
 Rollercoaster Tycoon is a game based strictly on developing your own theme park. Don't let the 
 title fool you. This is one of the most fun filled games that provides a great hybrid combination 
 of managing a theme park, while being able to build exciting rides. Rollercoaster Tycoon is not 
 your basic game designed on building just rollercoasters. Normal rides like merry-go-rounds, monorails, 
 and tourist attractions are a common site. Maybe you're looking for a thrilling ride? Perhaps the 
 swinging boat, or go karts will capture your attention? If those aren't exciting for you enough, 
 then you can ride the biggest, and boldest rollercoasters in the park. This is the basic storyline 
 of Rollercoaster Tycoon. Each mission has objectives that must be attained, and in the process, 
 you must develop a well-planned theme park that will provide excitement, entertainment, and satisfaction 
 to all your visitors. Prepare for the ride of a lifetime.
  
  Graphics [8/10]
  To get you started, a majority of the graphics in Rollercoaster Tycoon are minute, yet large enough 
 to notice detailing. The game is played mainly from an isometric view, similar to that of an elevated 
 diagonal camera. You practically look down on the entire park, but from an angle which shows some 
 very unique things. If something's in the way, you can shift the view clockwise to help you see 
 better. The game is basically a 3D environment, although most of the in-game graphics are 2D sprites 
 that simulate the 3D-like look. Every visitor, worker, and ride in your park is small, sort of 
 like Micro Machines from a human perspective. Visitors trot along like little pogo sticks, and 
 most of your rides have distinguishing features. The detail is what makes the game so appealing 
 to the eyes. From the second you view your park entrance, you'll understand what I mean. Scenery 
 objects such as trees, bushes, shrubs, fencing, light poles, garbage cans, and even themed objects 
 literally fill each map. Not only that, but the actual in-game levels are composed of real ground.
 
  
  Since the game is played from an isometric view, you can shift the ground into different angles. 
 Maybe you need to lower the ground a few feet to build a roller coaster, well that's exactly what 
 you can do. Each environment fits realistically to the scenario, such as an archipelago of islands, 
 or a condensed forest. Puke from a person's body, cotton candy, and even umbrellas are visible 
 based on the situation at hand. Animations are extremely good. Often, you can see visitors checking 
 their watches, or smoothly enjoy your exciting rollercoasters. The cartoonish appearance takes 
 away from the realism, but realistic proportions is what makes Rollercoaster Tycoon an appealing 
 game. Of course, pixilated graphics are a somewhat common site, since the game is mainly designed 
 from sprites and what not. While framerate slowdowns are slightly rare, they will occur if you 
 have hundreds of people on a map on several rides. But by far, the interface is overwhelmingly 
 organized, that even the most obsessive-compulsive gamers will enjoy its appearance. For the somewhat 
 outdated graphics from 1999, Hasbro did a brilliant job in altering them to fit the game's style.
 
  
  Sound/Music [7/10]
  The first feature that most people hear when they enter an entertainment park is noise - plenty 
 of it. Not only does Rollercoaster Tycoon do an excellent job at emulating it, but it does it with 
 perfection. The sound effects in the game are so well detailed for each type of ride, that eventually 
 you can become accustomed to a certain ride based on the sounds alone. For example, when you build 
 a Merry-Go-Round, you can hear the patronizing circus music in the distance. As you scroll closer 
 and closer with the mouse, the sound gets louder and louder. Depth perception on the sound effects 
 is great as it scrolls from speaker to speaker with ease. Your visitors make plenty of noise. Whether 
 it be the screams of going on a joyful rollercoaster ride, or flushing the toilets in your bathroom 
 stalls. For once, the environment seems like a true, and real theme park.
  
  Music is somewhat prevalent in Rollercoaster Tycoon, but not to the extent that most gamers would 
 appreciate. Most of the in-game music is simply that of circus music, or carnival sounds. There 
 really isn't any inspiring songs that will make you howl in the distance. For the most part, you're 
 going to hear your basic entertainment music that most mini-games would play. While it sets well 
 for the building and development of your own theme park, it doesn't always mix together at the 
 best pace. You will not be disappointed from either of these departments.
  
  Gameplay [10/10]
  This is what sets Rollercoaster Tycoon apart from your typical strategy or 
 simulation game. The gameplay is absolutely close to perfection. The goal is to slowly develop 
 a theme park that provides an entertaining experience to visitors, WHILE being able to manage a 
 positive cash flow. This seems easy at first, but everything costs a price in Rollercoaster Tycoon. 
 To start off, your basic gameplay consists of a toolbar at the top of the screen, with your view 
 visible filling most of the screen. Each map usually has objectives which must completed. Sometimes 
 you need so many visitors in the park by a certain month, and a park rating above a certain number. 
 Anyhow, most maps will start you off with a designated lot of land, or some rides partially built. 
 You can do numerous things to the environment. First, you can level, abolish previous structure/scenery, 
 and add water to most maps. Secondly, you can build rides, which are separated into different categories. 
 The idea of the game is to build an organized theme park complete with a navigable traveling system 
 that lets you juice the most money out of each visitor.
  
  Building a certain ride, such as a simple haunted house, or tour train costs a low price. However, 
 you're more exciting rides can be expensive (in the thousands) , and require some innovation. Rollercoaster 
 Tycoon allows you to customize certain rides, by building them track by track. Not only can you 
 elevate tracks, but you can have them weave in and out, place braking/elevation meters, and even 
 make insane drops. Each ride can be designated as a certain price, including your theme park's 
 entry fee. Not only that, but if you get low on money, you can take out loans to compensate, and 
 give you a headstart. Of course, paying back loans is a must since interest will bite you in the 
 butt after a couple years. Rollercoaster Tycoon takes the innovation of other strategy games, and 
 lets you customize every aspect of your park. Maybe you want cheap hot dogs, then set the price. 
 Increasing funding towards your research will bring out bigger, and better improvements. You can 
 even send out advertising campaigns if the situation gets desperate.
  
  Rollercoaster Tycoon takes the fun aspects of gaming, and combines them into a strategy genre. 
 No longer are we focusing on simple cities to control, but rather we are the people entertaining 
 visitors. It's our duty to provide a wide range of rides, for the exciting and dull people of the 
 world. Plus, financial responsibilities come into play. Paying off previous debts, and earning 
 a gross profit is important to the success of your theme park. There's so much you can do. The 
 game has extended options such as being able to read people's feedback of your park, and you even 
 have to hire handymen, mechanics, security guards, and entertainers to keep your park in order. 
 If machines don't get inspected at a normal basis, often they'll break down, and require repairs.
 
  
  Fun [9/10]
  While you are the sole owner and responsible manager of the park, it seems like the average gamer 
 has more fun entertaining other people. Building your own complex rollercoaster with huge drops 
 can cause heart-attack symptoms. Every single detail and pricing can make a difference between 
 a profit, and a loss. This is by far the closest you can get to pure and controllable management 
 of your own entertainment center. Not only that, but with complex, and gradually progressive difficult 
 scenarios, the fun becomes even greater. Some maps will start you out with jaw-dropping rollercoasters 
 that only extend the amount of potential in the park. Extra land can be purchased on certain maps, 
 which can help expand your park. Even upgrades and improvements like reinforced steel rollercoasters 
 can go to higher heights, which means better ride ratings. This is one of the more fun strategy 
 games out there that also combines good humor in the process.
  
  Replayability [7/10]
  Unfortunately, the gameplay modes in Rollercoaster Tycoon are simply limited to single player. 
 Besides that, you can only play off of the scenarios that the game provides. While there are some 
 expansion packs, that's a whole different story. Creating your own rollercoaster designs, and figuring 
 out new ways of expanding your park can always bring you back for some more gameplay. The biggest 
 factor that makes Rollercoaster Tycoon an addicting game is the amount of time you have to dedicate. 
 Some maps can take up to excess of two hours to complete, which is both an advantage and disadvantage 
 for the gamer. Some people who are time stricken may not find this to be their breakfast deluxe 
 of the day. Others will have a field trip with this one. However, the lack of extra game modes 
 or free building mode takes a bite out of how much you can expand the game to cover.
  
  Difficulty [5/10]
  Most of your levels in Rollercoaster Tycoon each have different themes. One 
 may be based in the desert with plenty of expansive space, while others will have beautiful layouts 
 complete with trees, water, and flower gardens. Of course, the environment is the biggest deterrent 
 in how well you can build a park. Knocking down trees is a constant activity, and managing your 
 finances is crucial in the beginning part of the game. Stages will progressively get harder as 
 you beat each one. Rides will break down if you don't have enough mechanics making regular inspections. 
 Parks can get polluted with garbage and barf spammed everywhere on the ground. Your ability to 
 manage a park really comes down to the dedication you're willing to put into the game. Just about 
 any person could beat the entire game as long as they stay focused, and have the free time to manage 
 a park for a solid two hours.
  
  Final Factor [8/10]
  Even in the modern library of games, Rollercoaster Tycoon is an addicting and innovative classic. 
 Rarely do we see strategy games that combine such entertaining aspects ranging from pricing, to 
 enjoyment on rides. There are tons of statistics you can examine. Maybe a rollercoaster isn't exciting 
 enough; then maybe you need to tune it up. The entire game focuses on how well you can improve 
 the weak points of your park. Rollercoaster Tycoon will provide you with plenty of enjoyable gaming 
 hours, but not everyone will enjoy it to a full extent. People who lack the time and dedication 
 to manage a park in full detail will probably find this game too laborious. This would make an 
 excellent addition to anyone's collection, even someone just looking for a chance of pace. If you 
 see it anywhere, try to buy it. You're going to have fun watching the poor visitors go into loop 
 upon loop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aquabfan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon is a super fun game that you can play for hours and stilll not tire of it 
 becuase you want to build the perfect amusement park. You start out with only a few scenarios and 
 when you complete one you will be one step closer to unlocking another. It is so fun to build a 
 park on your own and you put the rides that you want in the park and have guests come in. You choose 
 everthing from the cost to enter the park to the exact place where you want your ride built. You 
 caneverything it takes to run an amusement park in real in this game, you can hire security guards, 
 workers, mechanics and entertainers. You can send out advertisements for the park or coupons for 
 discounts on rides and more. But the most fun comes when you get to build your own custom roller 
 coaster. It is so much fun to put those twists and turns into your roller coaster but a lot of 
 the time what made me upset was after you built the most wicked roller coaster in the park the 
 guests don't ride it because they think it looks to intense so what you are forced to do is take 
 most of those twists and turns out until it looks like a kiddie ride. But it is fun to put those 
 great drops in and not complete the track and see the coaster crash.
  
  A great thing about this game is that you can look at each of your guests statistics and thoughts 
 to see what the guests think about your park and your rides, thats why I try to create to sections 
 in the park the kiddie section where I will build Gentle Rides and maybe throw in a couple of thrill 
 rides and the coaster section with some intense rides. It's just fun to do this because you can, 
 it is also easy to keep track of where everything is. The sound f/x are good in this game also, 
 you can hear the screams of guests riding the roller coasters and the occasional talking amongst 
 each other, if you build the merry-go-round you will also be able to hear that in your park also.
 
  
  I would reccomend this game for anyone who likes to things thereselfs and like to build things, 
 if they do they will have a blast with this game. It definately beats the sequels of Roller Coaster 
 Tycoon by a long shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basangicu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  I was a little kid when I first played RCT (Roller Coaster Tycoon) I was a noob in every game ( 
 no, real - n00b! ) but now I can see what is this game able to do. Researching new rides, loaning 
 money, building your won roller coaster - this is cool stuff!
  Land Editor is was pretty wow when I saw the prices. Water is also very expensive - one wrong move 
 with the mouse and your budget is KABOOM!!!. This is one of the bad parts of the game - no undo 
 button.
  Building your own roller coasters is probably the best thing in RCT. I tried to make a whole park 
 based on a 'MEGA ROLLER COASTER' (the size of a park) and some shops and it actually worked! they 
 were paying 45$ to enter the roller coaster!
  If you want to know how cool is it try it yourself - Roller Coaster Tycoon - a tycoon revolution... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Im_bettr_than_u
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Roller coaster tycoon is like really fun!.. U build rollercoasters and manage ur own theme park!.. u 
 charge the guests money, make them happy and make toilets wich makes them extra happy!......
  to be successful in this buissness world u need money!.. and the only way u can do that is to build 
 urself a massive theme park! (thats all u can do)
  and build rides, food, drink stores, attractions and toilets...
  oftern how well u do depends 
 on how ur guests feel!... each guest has happy stats and other stuff like hunger, thirst and bladder 
 (if they need to go to the toilet!) and somtimes if ur not carful they get angry.. usally due to 
 the expensive rides and getting lost and somtimes tired!....
  and somtimes they get angry when they want to go to the toilet!.. like once i demolished all the 
 toilets! and most of the guests were running around busting!..... and some left!..= [... HAHAHAHA... THAT 
 WAS SO FUNNY!
  but if ur a serious person.... dont do that!.. they can get angry!
  So anyway if u want a good strategy game... i recommend this game and age of mythology!...... these 
 r like the best strategy games EVER!......
  oh.. if u want.. add me on myspace my url is:
  
  i accept all friend requests!!!!!... this isnt the last 
 time uve heard from ME!!!...=] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyran87
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  I really do not know where to start with this game. Looking at the banner for this page sends chills 
 down the spine; the queue lines u made for the Slide or the Twist. The toilets that your punters 
 would walk into straight after a white-knuckle ride. The Info Kiosks u would create for sales of 
 umbrellas and maps. The paths, the staff, the guests, the prices, the shops (i have to admit, making 
 a Pizza Stall always somehow made me hungry) , watching guests, tagging guests, naming guests, crashes, 
 advertising - there were just TOO many great things about this game...
  
  It's a game that, if u asked anybody who has played it religiously, would tell u straight away 
 who made it. Chris Sawyer - a gaming God in my eyes. TRULY a success and TRULY a magnificent creation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasper061992
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 2:47 am PT
Review:  I first got this game back in 2001, and when i started playing, i was hooked for hours on end.
 
  
  The gameplay is really addictive and time consuming.
  
  You must carefully design and build the coasters so the speed, intensity etc are just right before 
 opening it to the guests.
  
  You need to hire cleaners to clean up the barfing , cleaning litter, mow the grass, water the flowers 
 and empty the bins to keep your park clean and tidy, Hire mechanics to fix and inspect rides, Hire 
 entertainers to keep guests happy and hire security guards to prevent havoc.
  
  The game starts off with like 5 scenarios when you first launch the game, but there are more to 
 unlock by completing the objectives on the existing opened ones. Get the expansions and you gain 
 something like 64 more scenarios.
  
  The 256 colour graphics are pretty standard for the time the game was released, but they get the 
 job done as it is very detailed.
  
  The sound in the game really fits the coasters whirring on the tracks, the music is nice for the 
 game from the rides and the title music itself.
  
  This game has a massive replay value even if you clear all the goals, you can always play them 
 again, or continue improving on the park you are on, but there are times you can get bored on being 
 on it for too long, but don't worry, it's not permanent ;) .
  
  So all in all this classic gem is well worth the purchase and time so i recommend this game to 
 all simulation/strategy fans out there ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a9l8e7n
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  this gotta be the best tyccon game. and is this the first. i mean this game is so addicting and 
 it makes you want to be again and again. it is better than number 2 or 3 for sure. even though 
 there graphics is not as great as 2 or 3 the gameplay is awsome. wow, i had the game for so many 
 years and yet i still don't get bored of it. a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a, the as is because i have nothing else to say and i need to have at 
 least a certain amount of words. a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  First thing i would like to say before i start my review is that this new rating system is about 
 100 times worse then the old one.. Also i want to say that the number on the bottom is not the 
 score i would have given it had it been the old system... Petition to get the old reviews back! 
 the rating system is not any better.. i don't understand... Now to the review..
  
  Roller Coaster Tycoon is one of those games where you can do anything. The main goal is to build 
 a Theme park that kicks ass! there are all kinds of tools and rides you can bulid.. from many types 
 of roller coasters to Pirate Ships to the Merry Go Round this game has so many cool rides you can 
 bulid and each one is different. The Roller Coaster Customization in this game is the best i have 
 ever seen in a game better then Roller Coaster Tycoon 3. The game mixes the Complexity of bulding 
 the coasters and making them unique and great and advanced but the game also is simple enough when 
 you first play the game you can bulid a decent coaster. So both Hardcore and Casual gamers should 
 check this out.
  
  The game also requires you to hire employers, Use money, Advertise, fund for researching, check 
 park ratings and much more.. the game also allows you to do the little things like Coloring you 
 coasters or rides, Having Music for rides, make theme based rides like ice or jungle, and even 
 being able to name everything in the entire park from guest to coaster to the park's name. This 
 game really gives you the control to bulid and do whatever you want and you really have all the 
 power..
  Another Cool part of this game is The differt Challanges you need to complete to get more Parks. 
 it causes you to try out different things that you would not do if there was no challanges.
  
  Overall This game is Revolutionary and i want this game for the DS :)
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: 
 Great very fun and very good. You have full controler of everything and this game is so eddicting 
 and fun
  Graphics: Standard graphics.. its not too complex but it gets the job done.
  Sound: Lots of different Sound Bytes and Music can get a little noisy while playing but theme parks 
 are noisy
  Value: I still play it today.. you can pick it up for like 5 bucks today prob. and its worth it 
 def. worth it
  Overall: REAL Score 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom4567
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon was an excellent game for the PC with organize controls, you can set up a 
 roller coaster with really awesome graphics by paying with your own money or by money borrowed 
 from the bank, but DON't borrow too much money, because you know that you got to give it back.
 
  
  You can even make your own roller coaster, there are no obstacles, build it to whatever formed 
 you want and the karts will go all the way!
  
  Theres also some entertaining and classic attractions you can build like the merry-go-round, star 
 wheel, haunted house and everything, and once you open up your park, people will come.... with money!
 
  
  I was impressed by their attitudes, they won't go inside an attraction if its expensive, or its 
 raining or that they just ated, of course some are risk-takers that they go inside an intense roller 
 coaster and when they get out, they jump of exictement and then they feel nauseous and ''puke'' 
 on the floor.
  
  Of course, the attractions can break down, so you'll need to hire mechanics, janitors for cleaning 
 the garbage and barf, people in costumes to entertain the people, security guards to maintain order 
 and not commit vandalism, etc.
  
  They also have to go the restroom every now and then, so you'll also need restrooms build up.
 
  
  Also, time will passed and you'll get some new attractions that you can build, plus you can also 
 buy off private land and extend the land of your theme park so you'll have as many attractions 
 as you like.
  
  Never slack off maintaining active your them rpark, because then you'll receive a lot of complaints 
 from people that maybe your park is too expensive, too disgusting because of the barf and/or garbage, 
 or because is too cheap and they'll recommend to up a little bit the prices.
  
  With amazing attractions, really smart people, and money, this game is very entertaining and has 
 a long replay value, if never too late for you to get a copy of this. Its worth checking it out... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JcDent
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  Back then I was just a small kid and I had such a crappy PC that this game ran slow on it, not 
 to mention a hard drive no big enough for Heroes 3. But this game was awesome, the legend. Many 
 a person played it back then. It was a source of utmost enjoyment. Since not everyone had a PC, 
 we would play it in groups at a friend's house. ah, the memories.
  Anyway, this game gives you the control of an amusement park. You get to build rides, kiosks, paths 
 scenery, form the terrain, name the visitors and buildings, set up fees, marketing campaigns and 
 what not. The most basic mission would give you an empty area where you shall build the park, some 
 money and a timed goal, like having a certain amount of visitors on a set day. Boundaries of the 
 park can be changed, but it's costly. At first you may choose to rename the park and set up entrance 
 fee. Then there's the path building: up, down, underground, over the rides, etc. One special type 
 of path is used to make lines of people that wait for a ride. Without it there will be no people 
 waiting for a go and that is bad for business. The paths can be decorated with garbage bins, lamp 
 posts, benches. Then comes the time to place food and gift kiosks. A vise strategy is to rise the 
 price of umbrellas up to 50.00 bucks/pounds/whatever just before rain. Don't forget the toilets. 
 And now - the rides. Some of them are fixed: you can only choose the place of exit and entrance. 
 Of course, you may change their colour, speed, name, fee and other variables. Other rides can be 
 custom-build, although there are pre-made versions for the lazy and the unimaginative. It's realy 
 fun to make tracks by yourself. Especialy for Roller Coasters, whom are the star of the game. building 
 them can be tiresome, but it's enjoyable. Then, as I've said, you can change colour of the tracks, 
 number of cars, speed, price and many other things. For a creative person this is paradise. Just 
 don't forget to hore personnel.
  Today we have games with pixel shaders, rag dolls, ageya phisics engines (to hell with this satanic 
 contraption) , but none can stand up to the quality of the ol' good Roller Coaster Tycoon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: missonrs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 23, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  This is truly the best game for pc. I love it you get to build and a run a park, build rides, charge 
 people to go on rides and to enter park, Watch and laugh at people throwing up lol, and yes make 
 money on a park. This game is where you build a park with rides and stalls to try to be a tycoon 
 and it does a great job doing that. The game has some good graphics and wonderful game play. It 
 may not be like a real where people don't pay money to go on rides and entrance, and also rides 
 are built in one day with the click of a button but its nice not having to wait. In the game you 
 hire staff to do various jobs like fix broken down rides, entertain people, inspect rides to see 
 if there safe, clean up trash, and yes clean up puke. The sound of the game is alright but some 
 rides have music that go with them like merry go round. One and only problem with the game is how 
 people refuse to go on certain rides after some years. The game will have you trying to build a 
 perfect park or trying to unlock the mega park. The value of the game (10$ at certain stores) is 
 worth your money. In the game you decide where rides, path ways, benches, and trash cans will be. 
 The first park shows you the and how good it right away. The parks are fun to build and interesting 
 locations like pier 39, Big thunder rock, and mega park. So overall the game rocks and is worth 
 buying. Now than get up and buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goosebumpsfreak
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon brings back a lot of memories when I play it. I love that game and I have 
 for years. My cousin gave it to me a long time ago and I played and I played and I still played. 
 Trust me once you start you can't stop. I have spent hours building up Thrill USA my park I have 
 had for nearly two years. And out of all of the sims and tycoon games I've played, this one is 
 the best. Sim Theme Park can't live up to it. The amazing gameplay, graphics (for its time) , and 
 sound was absolutely the best out of any PC game I have had. Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 may be 3D 
 but will not be as realistic as this one. However, I conclude and I give this fun, amazing, addictive, 
 wonderful, #1 tycoon game a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazlofan098
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  When my sister showed me this game when I was around eight years old, I was amazed. I got hooked 
 to the game automatically, and I still play the series right up to this day. It has been my favorite 
 game overall ever since then. Roller Coaster Tycoon is a highly addictive strategy game where you 
 try to build the best theme park. Over time, you try to achieve objectives on different scenarios 
 in the game. Challenges are faced when trying to achieve these goals, such as park maintenance, 
 ride safety, finances, and guest happiness. After all scenarios are completed, you get a very special 
 award. I rate this game a perfect ten since it deserves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklundin
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 23, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This game covers a large range of features of an in-depth business simulation; with purchasing 
 of land and rides; research for many aspects of a theme park, like attractions, scenery, shops, 
 amusements and ride improvements; and offers options to monitor your guests's moods and opinions. 
 Overall, this is a very simple to master simulation of running your own theme park on your p. c. 
 which can offer many, many hours of busy gameplay. Whether you always fancied making a business 
 on your p. c., or just want to design the track for your super own roller-coaster, this sim has 
 it all. I would definitely recommend this game to anybody who is interested in theme park simulations 
 as it covers all aspects of this business simulation. I also am pleased with the variety of levels 
 which all provide a fun challenge and can while away many hours at a time on the p. c! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexlips
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 10, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  The original rollercoaster tycoon was my favourite game. The first year I had it, when I was much 
 younger, I loved it. In the years after that, I played it for a bit and then stropped for months 
 and months. These days, I don't like it as much because of the older graphics and I wIll be finally 
 getting the 3rd game in the series which has much moderner graphics. This is a great game and I 
 am ratings it based on what I used to think of it. I am rating this as Hard because I think that 
 it is stuid that you have to unlock maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clone_commando_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  Alright here's my review of Rollercoaster Tycoon
  This game has been one of my favorite on the PC since I got it. I enjoyed doing campaigns and sandbox 
 types.
  Gameplay 8/10
  The gameplay was great there was little room for improvement yet i wish upon more campaign levels.
 
  Graphics 9/10
  The graphics portion of the game was almost shockingly good for when it was released. I do admit 
 that it has room for improvement in many places such as guests or weather.
  Sound 10/10
  Sound was very good you could tell it isn't flawless but it is highly efficient.
  
  My summary 
 is that I would strongly recommend this game to all especially those into strategy or tycoon games 
 if you like this game you would probably like the sequals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: degtop
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  A great game containing loads of rollercoasters and other great and useful game play stuff. The 
 expansions make the game better as they add more objects to the game. Loopy land Scapes was the 
 best expansion. Great maps and scenarios and easy to play. Great graphics and game play. Awesome 
 price and value. A treasure like no other. Love it. If you like this game get the other ones because 
 they are smoking and even better than this one. A chip off the old block. The others have everything 
 #1 has and even more including more maps, rollercoasters and build your own park. Like I said a 
 really great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vapor188
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This game touches all our fantasies by creating a world where you can create the roller coasters 
 you have always wanted to ride. Your ability to create theme parks to your every whim is the idea 
 behind this game. It is not bogged down by weak attempts at a story line like other games of its 
 type. It is just a game to let you build to your heart's content and more. And believe me when 
 I say and more. While, roller coaster tycoon does not let you actually ride your own rides, it 
 lets you do anything you want. You can create a part with completely gentle rides, rides designed 
 to make you vomit just by looking at it, rides meant to kill (though I doubt too many people would 
 ride them) , or a wide variety of all of those. You start with a choice of 5 scenarios to begin 
 your masterpieces or disasters. Everytime you complete a level, you open another level, each level 
 becoming more and more difficult. The game is provided with a tutorial that runs you quickly through 
 the roller coaster design process and the management of your park, but the game is pretty easy 
 to grasp, and you'll find yourself building your dreams in minutes, even if your dreams are a bit... 
 weird. This game offers little as far as music goes, and the graphics are basically average. If 
 you go for the expansion packs, they add much to the game as far as scenery objects and coaster 
 types go. They also add music to your rides, but each song is very simple and repetitive, though 
 I have to admit, the organ music of the Merry-go-round (which is available without the expansion 
 packs) can be easily stuck in your memory to travel with you all day. The only set back to this 
 game is the inability to create a wide variety of track pieces. You are only given a limited set 
 of turns, inclines, and banks you can add, and again, you gain more with the expansion packs. Somehow, 
 even with the limited freedom on track design, you will find that you can basically do whatever 
 you want. Those coaster designs can still get pretty exciting. Roller Coaster Tycoon is definitely 
 a great game to get into if you like simulation games or if you have a slight desire to play them, 
 or if you are a little patient, or if you have always wanted to design your own roller coaster. 
 When it is all said and done, this game rounds out nicely and can become quickly addicting, but 
 with all of the scenarios offered to you to play, you will find more than your fill of roller coaster 
 building action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica_fan42
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon is basically you building a theme park. There are lots of rides to choose 
 from from all different categories. You need to hire staff to maintain your park for instance: janitor's 
 to pick up garbage, and sweep up puke (thats right virtual puke) , you need handymen to fix and broken 
 rides that occur, of course what's an amusement park without mascot's to cheer everyone up. In this 
 game you control everything, how much admission is, when you build food stalls, how much the food 
 costs, how much the rides will be. All of that contributes to you having the difference between 
 a thriving park, or a flop. The cool thing is you can click on people to get feedback. If for instance 
 you see a person walk up to the ride then walk away, click on them, and they might tell you that, 
 it's too expensive, or they are too scared. Each person that come's into your park has thier own 
 personality, some like scary rides, while others stick to the bumper cars and rides like that. 
 This game lets you take control of pretty much every aspect of running a park. You can look at 
 your yearly finances as well as income. For what it is this game is an exciting thrill ride that 
 will have you playing for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChiefSUB0
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Gone are the days when you could only dream of designing your own amusment park because the Rollercoaster 
 Tycoon series kicks off with a bang in this excellent game. You begin with an optional tutorial 
 but it seemed easy enough to just get started right away with the simplistic controls and building 
 options. The game primarily revolves around completing certain objectives in an alloted time given. 
 Most often it revolves around having a high park attendence as well as rating by a certain year 
 but sometimes a more difficult task is assigned. Whatever the objective may be, the main focus 
 of this game is to expand your imagination as much as you can believe by building the best park 
 you can dream of.
  
  You build pathways, concession stands, park benches, scenery, and most importantly rides. The rides 
 offer a lot of customization options including the color of the ride as well as how fast it goes 
 and how many cars it can run at a time. Its up to you in Rollercoaster Tycoon. As it says in the 
 name, an excellent part of the game also revolves around the construction of many different types 
 of rollercoasters including the classic wooden types to the thrilling and gravity-defying steel 
 coasters. You can build a premade model but what's the fun in that when you can build whatever 
 kind of track you so please as long as it runs properly and you can afford it. Its not difficult 
 to understand how to construct one at all and making sure that it doesn't crash is much easier 
 than it seems. Just make sure it has enough speed to make it over those hills and around those 
 loops. You can customize the colors as well as the speed of the lifts and even how many cars to 
 a train. The landscaping is great as well for those with a sense of style and decor and allows 
 you multiple types of gardening tools such as raising and lowering land and adding water. Flowers 
 can be planted as well as trees and don't worry about watering them so long as you higher a few 
 handmen. Don't forget to hire a few security guards as well as mechanics. Maintaining your park 
 is actually easier than it may seem as long as you hire employees to do much of the dirty work 
 for you.
  
  I highly recommend Rollercoaster Tycoon to anyone looking to express their ideas and dreams into 
 an amusement park. Its very easy to pick up and once you get rolling its hard to stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gambit_Fun234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I was really skeptical about the fact that this game was a roller coaster 
 sim. At first it seemed stupid but when I started playing, it became clear that this game deserved 
 a great review. This game is long and has a lot of content but sometimes it gets too repetitive 
 for me. This game really has great graphics and the sound effects make you really feel in a theme 
 park from the roller coaster screams to the merry-go-round to the combat music that plays in the 
 bumper cars. This game can get a little complicated though so I highly recommend not to do park 
 that are too big or else everybody will get lost and your park rating will go down very quickly. 
 This game also has a great value but you really have to like the game and the real life sims to 
 like it. In the end, you should only buy this game if you know you will like it or if you already 
 played and loved another tycoon game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArkansasBoy91
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  this game is very fun. You start off with a park you build rides or just buy rides thats already 
 put together. You have to make so muh money in a few years if so you beat the level and move on 
 to another level. The graphics ofcourse suck because ity came out in 1999. but thats not the thing 
 to look at in this game. Its fun building up rides and seeing how well you can do. ver addictive 
 and wort 10$ which in most stores thats how much it cost. I can almost guarantee you will spend 
 the first month of getting this game you will play for hours and hours straight. go out and buy 
 this game you will not regret it... but this game does not work well at all on XP Computers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormRaider31
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 20, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I played it when it came out back in 1999. I played if for a long time so I still remember it well 
 enough to write a review so here goes.
  
  This review includes its expansions packs. 
  
  Bottomline, a fun game. The scenrios were great but my favorite mode is sandbox, where with 
 out any monetary restrictions you can build the park of your dreams. I did not like roller coaster 
 accidents. I would imagine they happen in real life but being that I've never heard of any resulting 
 in death in the big parks and it's a game for crying out loud and it really didn't seem to make 
 much of difference any way, people got back on it, I thought that was one aspect they could have 
 left out. People hacking up there guts was amusing. I also enjoyed the importance they placed on 
 clean up, maintenance, and security with out over doing it. It was unrealistic but amusing and 
 fun to be able to pick up a lost patron and put them in the right direction. 
  Again, a fun game, well executed, and the reward for completing a scenrio was cute and enjoyable. 
 
  
  I enjoy the game, and it has substantial replay value because of the sandbox mode. It's like tetris 
 or solitare, it never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakotan
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 18, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I have played this and Sim Theam. Sim does have better graphics but this is a lil easier to play. It 
 can get very annoying and If your the type who likes cheats there really are none for this one. I 
 would say play it and play it again after you get mega park but it will ware its welcome soon.
 
  A good buy too right now this and its exspansion packs are being sold in walmart and staples for 
 10.00. If you want something to play at lunch time get this if you want more graphics dont get 
 this same thing if you want harder game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 14, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  I played this game a few years ago at my cousins house and immediately got hooked. I went down 
 to my local games store the next day and bought this game. This game is really fun and contains 
 some depth to it. Its always a challenge to keep your very own theme park well kept and interesting 
 for the customers. Some of the levels of the game are a little tough for some gamers which may 
 put them off from finishing every level in the game. The game offers a good amount of coasters 
 and concession stands to go along with your park. This game is highly addictive to many players, 
 be prepared to distance yourself from your friends and family when you a Roller Coaster Tycoon 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaxter342
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  I thought the original roller tycoon was really fun and addicting even though it did not have as 
 good as graphics as the newer one. It was still fun to build rides and manage the park I liked 
 the big selection of ride in the original roller coaster tycoon. I also liked the fact you could 
 buy more land for your park. I think there should be tour guides in the ones in the future there 
 also should be V. I. P. passes. Then you can make more money. There also should be a fast pass line. 
 I thought the game was really fun. I probably played this game 60 hours in the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00Joseph00
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is very addictive and you will find yourself spending many long hours fixing up your 
 park and upgrading it as best as you can. The AI is very impressive and there's plenty of variables 
 thrown at you to add great variety to the mix.
  
  If you can picture a rollercoaster theme park in your head, you will understand that it depends 
 on the number of people you can attract, the money you can get, seeing if people in the area actually 
 like the rides, policing your park, maintaining the rides, feeding the customers, having a good 
 janitorial staff to clean up litter, empty trash bins, sweep vomit, water gardens, and mow lawns... 
 among other things. The way these are all implemented is very intelligent and fun to use.
  
  The graphics aren't top notch, but are good for the type of game it is. The sounds aren't very 
 diverse, but every object and ride seems accounted for. And there's many different things to do 
 to your park; you can make it have lots of beautiful gardens and scenery, getting awards for a 
 beautiful park, or you can have lots of intense rollercoasters, and other things.
  
  Plus, you can make your own rides. But they are measured on several variables... for instance, 
 making too many loops in the ride will make the customer sick and not give him a good time. You 
 want plenty of variety and probably not too long of a ride.
  
  This game is worth a try. There's plenty of quantity to be had, but the micromanagement elements 
 may seem more like "work" instead of fun for some people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matsonpp
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  Roller coaster Tycoon is the most amazing theme park game of it's time. You are immediately immersed 
 in a huge expanse of land, being able to start construction on your theme park immediately.
  When building rides, you get to have feedback from the customers riding it which is really cool, 
 because if they don't like it, your theme park is going to flop.
  You get to build anywhere from traditional coasters, to coasters that loop de loop, to even water 
 slides. Not to mention the sleuth of Sidewalk food buildings.
  The funnest part is raking in the cash. You have a full line of tools to help you manage your money 
 as well as take out loans for those expensive, I need them right now! rides.
  This game gets addictive really quickly. It'd really fun once you've built your base theme park 
 to go back and start putting in nice scenery from the many scenic themes available.
  Oh, and don't worry about people throwing up, littering, or your flowers dieing. They have custodians 
 that you can hire, along with police officers and clowns of all sorts. 
  All in all, this games rocks and I will continue to play it for ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steeljosh36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  This game started the tycoon series and we all know how successful that was! And still is!! This 
 game is the easiest of them all but with less features. 
  
  This game is the easiest because the people in the game ride on everything!! In the second one, 
 it is so hard to build a ride and make it so it is a main attraction. This game may not have all 
 the cool features as 2 and 3 but I still think it is the best! Basically, you make your own theme 
 park including the names, the rides, the cost, the weekly discounts, etc. They set goals for you 
 to meet by the end of a year or something and they get higher as you progress through theme parks. 
 But they are all easy as I keep telling you. The fun things start when you get the park going. 
 You can charge people to go to the bathroom, make weird mascots, and track people on what rides 
 they go on and stuff. You can name them too!! LOL! Anyways, you can hire security guards and mechanics 
 and handymen to keep the park in tip top shape. The people do vomit and it gets a mess. The rides 
 break down occasionally. Also, people do steal from your stores. The rides contain water rides, 
 coasters, slides, etc. All that you can imagine!! The setting you are in change the way your park 
 is too. You can build in a desert, a forest, whatever. Scenary is also open to you in the game 
 like flower beds, staues, fountains, benches, trash cans, tables, trees, etc. So, you have a big 
 responsibility!!!
  
  The quality is not as good as the gameplay because the game is older and the graaphics arent as 
 good but they are not horrible. The sound is a little etchy but you get used to it. If your computer 
 is not as good, or since the game is old, there may be some sudden pauses but no glitches. The 
 game works out awesome and overall its amazing. So have fun!!!! Thanks!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRUSHER88
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Well i just started playing this game again and it is very enjoyable. This game is very easy to 
 pick up and learn to play. The graphics very smooth for its time. Now as for all the things in 
 the game. You are ALWAYS busy. So many things happen during the game so that you cant really dick 
 around at any point of the game. You can hire people to clean your park, and people to fix your 
 park and much more.
  
  The only downside to this game is that it is VERY LONG! The first level is very quick but then 
 right after that, each one takes a long time when you could probably beat the mission within the 
 first year. 
  
  Great game for anyone who loves these building games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danman21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Wow.
  
  Talk about a fun game. Rollercoaster Tycoon is so much fun. I spend countless hours playing it 
 all day and night. I know that this is an old game. I used to play this a long time ago on my old 
 computer. When my family got a new computer i seemed to put it down for a while. Recently I picked 
 it up and could not put it back down. This game is possibly the best computer game ever. I mean 
 you will not get addicted to it like you would if you start to play something like WOW (World of 
 Warcraft) . That is definitly a plus in my book. You could be playing it all day then go out during 
 the night and have your head in the right place, thinking about what you are doing. You wont be 
 thinking about Rollercoaster Tycoon like you would be for World of Warcraft. Even now i believe 
 this is a must buy for anyone who owns a PC. Don't buy it if you dont like to play games on the 
 PC but if you do i think you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tvloverduh
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon is the best PC game ever. It makes you want to play for hours and hours and 
 not stop playing until your park is perfect. The game play isn't exactly real life (because your 
 rides are built in one day with the click of a button) but it makes the game funner to not have 
 to wait to build your rides. Although, you do have to wait to unlock new rides. The graphics are 
 beautiful and colorful and so is the scenery (flowers, statues, trees) you can add to your park. 
 The music that some of the rides have is very catchy and very cool. The Merry-Go-Round I always 
 try to keep running so I can hear it's pleasing music. Another part of the game is employees. You 
 can hire janitors, mechanics, security guards, and even entertainers. The value is very good for 
 this game because there are many different parks you can choose from and some parks have different 
 rides. This game is really fun and is great for anyone who wished you could own an amusement park. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostyGoat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  Hire custodians, entertainers, repair men, install bathrooms and charge a dollar per visit (lol) , 
 throw down new rides, design your own rollar coasters, watch guest throw up after getting off the 
 most insane roller coaster ever, pick up the guest and relocate them in the back four hundred yards 
 of nothing in your park, this game has it all. The game is without a doubt one of the most fun 
 times I've ever had. 
  
  In the game you start with a fairly small amusement park (typically) and you most work your way 
 up to the top and have the park drawing in a certain number of people by a certain date. Sometimes 
 though the objectives will be different however obtaining those X number of people is what you 
 normally worry about. Your imagination is your limits.
  
  Most often you will probarly find yourself like me building your empire many years after you have 
 already cleared that stage just to see it thrive like none other. I really have no concerns/negative 
 feelings about this game what so ever. The game is "the game" and thats that. Theres not much more 
 I ca say about this game over then it truely is a beautiful piece of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan8494
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Rollercoaster tycoon is a great game for the PC. You can make your own park and add your own rides 
 to it. You can play in many different modes and parks. Some parks include forest frontiers, leafy 
 lake, and diamond heights. The point of this game is to get a lot of costumers and make a lot of 
 money with your rides and food stalls. There are different objectives in each park. If you beat 
 a park you unlock a different park to work on. This game is fun with its great rides and other 
 features. This game is a great game to make your own amusement park. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgon_9
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Rollercoaster Tycoon is such a great game that I'm still playing today. The great thing about this 
 game is that you can have a good time playing it and it's not too hard to play. Just design a park, 
 create some rides and manage them. The interface in the game is just right, allowing you to customize 
 everything from colors to decorations and landscape. While the graphics are dated, it is not a 
 big deal. One of the great things I love about this game is that I can play it in a window and 
 browser the web or watch a DVD while playing.
  
  With Rollercoaster Tycoon, there are many different parks that you play in with different goals 
 required to successfully complete the map. When you successfully complete your goals more parks 
 become available to play. With each park you'll be given a set of different rides and decorations 
 you can use in the park. You'll be able to get new items by researching them, depending on how 
 much money you spend for the research team. For the rides you will be able to design most of them, 
 like roller coasters and go kart tracks, although some rides don't allow for changes such as the 
 haunted house or merry-go-round. For the actual land, you will have complete control on the height 
 of land, type of land, mountains, rivers, lakes you can pretty much create it all.
  
  The scenarios themselves are fairly challenging, with different goals such as achieving a specific 
 park value within a specific amount of time or having a certain amount of guests. Creating a park 
 with different rides and organized correctly will allow you to pass most scenarios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mp3_bk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  Seven years ago, RollerCoaster Tycoon was released. It was one of the best selling games for the 
 PC and many people thought it was the most addictive game ever made. Even today, many people still 
 play RollerCoaster Tycoon, and it's a very addicting game.
  
  At first, RollerCoaster Tycoon can be difficult to get used to. Luckly, there is a tutorial which 
 can help you start building rides and theme parks. Once you know how to do that, you can then start 
 to build your own theme park!. You have a handful of scenarios to get you started, such as Diamond 
 Heights, an already successful theme park which you have to extend. Evergreen Gardens, which has 
 some beautiful gardens and lakes which you use to make your own theme park. There are many different 
 park objectives in each scenario, such as getting 1,000 guests in 3 years or a park value of 20,000 
 by the end of year 3. As you complete these objectives, you unlock more scenarios, and these can 
 take time to complete. 
  Making a theme park is great!. You have a handful of rides you can build in your park. The trouble 
 is that you've also got to keep an eye on your finance otherwise you may end up starting to lose 
 money and it's difficult to get money again. You've got to make the right rides for your park so 
 that the guests will enjoy the park thus earning a profit in your park. The more money you have, 
 the bigger your park can be.
  Guests have feelings and give opinions about your park. If they say "I need to go to the toilet", 
 you need to build more toilets in your park. You need to check what the guests think of your park 
 often as these can give you a rough idea of what you can do to improve your park. You also need 
 to hire staff members in your park, as you need to keep your park clean from guests leaving rubbish 
 on the floor and guests vomitting after they've been on a rollercoaster.
  You also get vandals in your park from angry guests, this can be controlled by adding security 
 guards to your park. Mechanics are used to prevent ride breakdowns and if they're not quick enough 
 to fix a ride then BOOM!, your ride explodes and guests are killed. This is not good and will give 
 your park a bad reputation so you've got to avoid this. Managing your park is very important, and 
 if you don't, they you'll end up failing the park objective so you can't get further in the game.
 
  
  The graphics arn't the best in the world for RollerCoaster Tycoon but they work well as they are 
 sort of 3D and it's above the park. The rides are detailed and so are the levels but the guests 
 are not detailed. For example, when you click on a guest it always seems to be a boy and never 
 a girl. The guests also seem very small in the game and they tend to wear the same sort of clothing. 
 As for sound, you'll hear alot of screaming from the guests on the rollercoasters and the theme 
 tune for this game rocks!. The sounds work well and it's what you expect from a theme park.
  
  Is RollerCoaster Tycoon worth buying? I would have to absolutely say yes. This is a very addicting 
 game and I'm sure you'll want to unlock all of the scenarios, so this game does have alot of replay 
 value. Most scenarios take time to complete, and making new rides is always fun. So, even if the 
 game is 7 years old it's still a must have strategy game. So buy it while you can as this game 
 is difficult to find in the shops now!.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juno54
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 24, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon is a business simulator for the PC. The game allows you to make your own 
 roller coasters and run your own park. Your creativity could possibly make your new coaster the 
 best ride in the park, or it can turn out to be a total flop. But it just not about building coasters, 
 its also about managing your park so that your guests are happy. There a lot of other factors that 
 you have to put into when managing your park, hiring people to keep the rides running and the park 
 clean, seeing how much you are spending in each month, and if you have to pay off loans that you 
 may have taken out earlier. The game has challenges in each park that you run, getting a certain 
 number of guest in your park by a certain month and year, have a certain park value, making certain 
 rides with certain specific requirements, and many others. The game at first may seem difficult 
 to understand, but if you watch the tutorial then you might just understand what to do. Once you 
 understand what to do in this game, the game is a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 17, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  Your first hour of Rollercoaster Tycoon is a very special sixty minutes. It's a sixty minutes filled 
 with wonder and amazement; a sixty minutes where you'll be positively enthralled at just how brilliant 
 this game is. The later games in this firecracking franchise certainly built on this core formula, 
 but your first hour of experience is likely to be one of your most memorable gaming moments ever. 
 
  
  Rollercoaster Tycoon is, first and foremost, a theme park management simulator. It sounds like 
 a great idea for a videogame, and, after this magical first hour of playing, you'll wonder at the 
 amount of work that has been poured into this game. Rollercoaster Tycoon is ambitious to the point 
 of ridiculous, but it's one of those rare games that actually fulfil those ambitions and ultimately 
 create an immersive and groundbreaking gameplay experience.
  
  Rollercoaster Tycoon first packs in an immense amount of freedom. For the most part, you can build 
 whatever you want, when you want, where you want, and how you want. This thrilling first hour of 
 gameplay incorporates a lengthy but worthwhile learning curve, that isn't too sharp, but still 
 manages to pack in a lot of ideas into a relatively basic design. Without putting off the more 
 casual or impatient gamers in this world, Rollercoaster Tycoon eases you slowly but surely into 
 its universe and ensures that you will never leave. 
  
  So, anyway. Rollercoaster Tycoon lets you build whatever you want, whenever you want, wherever 
 you want, and however you want. Whether you want to build a park entirely for the little kids, 
 one for the family, or one for those thrill ride extremists, then Rollercoaster Tycoon gives you 
 that freedom, and more.
  
  Building rides is done on a slick, user-friendly interface that's unbelievably easy to use but 
 still incorporates a lot of scope for complex rollercoaster design. While you can build pre-made 
 designs at the click of a mouse, it's a thousand times more enjoyable to create your own rollercoaster 
 masterpieces, bit by bit, and then watching them in all their monolithic glory. 
  
  It's not just rollercoasters either. You can build merry-go-rounds, launched freefalls, log flumes, 
 water slides, helter-skelters, top spins, and many many more rides for a lot less expense of both 
 in-game money and your valuable spare time. 
  
  Rollercoaster Tycoon happens to be very addictive for these reasons, and could well destroy your 
 social life on a disastrous scale if you let it. The hours will slip by as stealthily as a greased-oil 
 version of Sam Fisher, and before you know what's happening, your park has failed its objective 
 and it's way past bedtime. And that's just your own fault. 
  
  But, all this fun comes at a price. Rollercoaster Tycoon isn't some sort of dreamland where you're 
 let loose to build your own magical park. 
  
  It's a management game, and that means that sometimes you have to pay the inevitable consequences. 
 Financial debt, loans, vomit all over your park, dirty paths, rides breaking down, and countless 
 other niceties are ready to spew all over your golden creations and turn your masterpiece into 
 a soggy square mile of watered-down commercial failure.
  
  You'll need to pinpoint problems and then fix them almost endlessly before you can even begin to 
 find time to build a new ride or attraction. Your time must be used wisely in Rollercoaster Tycoon, 
 and I cannot stress that enough - at times it can be a very demanding game, and this all stems 
 back to its overly ambitious concept.
  
  And, of course, because of this game's huge amount of inspiration and ambition, it's bound to have 
 flaws. These flaws are largely in the audio and the graphics, but there are a few irritations in 
 the gameplay engine that must be mentioned and outlined.
  
  First off - you can shape your park's land, by adjusting its height and adding slopes here and 
 there, but this control is fiddly and unresponsive. It's basically done using the mouse, but you're 
 forced to painstakingly edit it a shape at a time, and if you go wrong, of course to you have to 
 pay money to right it. 
  
  The game's main structure is a single-player campaign where you can only unlock the next level 
 by completing the one before it. And this works fine - but there is a lot of repetition in the 
 mission objectives and you will find your interest in the game wavering in the latter half of the 
 game. I have been playing for years but I have never found the heart to go further in the game 
 than about 70%, and this all stems from the obvious repeated objectives. A lack of variation is 
 often the game's downfall. 
  
  Yet, all in all, if you play the game right, and if you are willing the face the sometimes harsh 
 difficulty, then you will find Rollercoaster Tycoon to be a truly wonderful experience that will 
 keep you hooked for days, months, even years. 
  
  Now it's time to address the graphics in Rollercoaster Tycoon. These do the job fine and represents 
 your theme park in a perfectly acceptable vision. But the problem is, it's all so... meh. 
  
  The visuals in Rollercoaster Tycoon are utterly devoid of character. It almost hurts to outline 
 a flaw in such an amazing creation, but a bit of colour and panache here and there wouldn't have 
 gone amiss. The graphics are very identikit and it is painful to say this. Look at some of the 
 screenshots or even the gamespace banner for this game and you'll see what I mean... this is one 
 of the elements of the game that DIDN'T get improved on in the successor. 
  
  The audio reaches similar heights. Sure, the music from the carousel brings back fond memories 
 of funfairs and candyfloss, but that's about it. The quality of the sound feels like it's been 
 recorded from a mobile phone - and not a recent model either. 
  
  So, there you have it. Rollercoaster Tycoon is an inspiring and successful attempt to make an innovative 
 theme park management simulator. Although it falls to a merely average showing in the graphics 
 and sound department, you can look past an ugly face to see a true gem of a game that shouldn't 
 be missed by anybody. "Don't judge a book by it's cover"? This is the perfect example. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefan606
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 14, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Well I've always been a fan of tycoon games, railroad and rollercoaster ones being my favorites. 
 But I wouldn't be into rollercoaster tycoon games if it wasn't for this one that got me started.
 
  
  This game has you as a manager of an amusement parks that you select in the scenarios. The first 
 ones are pretty easy for beginners but as you pass more and more umm levels, you unlock new and 
 harder amusement parks to play in. 
  
  Some things to watch out in this game are crashing rollercoasters, feeding and providing areas 
 to drink for the guests, and the state of cleanliness in your park. If you don't have any bathrooms, 
 food/drink stalls, vomit covered paths, and a lot of crashing rollercoasters, you can forget about 
 succeding in this game.
  
  You have to manage other the park besides the above. Advertisements to help get more guests come 
 to the park, having enough rides, having entertainers to entertain your guests while waiting in 
 line or relaxing after a ride on a roller coaster, and having enough mechanics/janitors/guards 
 in the park.
  
  So if you like managing and building amusement parks, I reccomend this game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHUTupNrocK8
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 9, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon is DEFiniteLY the greatest game I've ever played on the PC! Wow, you get 
 to create your own amusement park ..... How cool is that? This game is so so so so ADDICTING .. 
 I could play to for hours at a time! I lost it about a year ago for the PC, but I just got it for 
 my Xbox 3600 yesterday so I can how it plays on that, but here you can't play it on it because 
 you need Xbox live to update the game onto your 360 which is stupid .. I thought you could play 
 any Xbox game on the 360 . just like ps2 and ps1 games!
  
  Well, back to the game! Gameplay is totally amazing ... you can controll the way you want your 
 custom roller coaster to go and other rides! Graphic to this game, many people would say that they 
 stink, but I think the graphics to this game are just right! Sound is really good to .. the sound 
 of the coasters, rides, the merry-go-round, people, everything! I think the value on this games 
 is really really good because everything should have this game becuase it is flipping amazing!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 I love this game!!!!!!!!!!! Very VERY great game!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  The first thing that's really cool with Roller Coaster Tycoon is all the flexibility and liberty 
 the game offers to the player for designing, building and managing your theme park from A to Z. 
 I mean, you can spend you money and research and development in many aspects, like new rides and 
 shops, or simply new rides improvements; you can also hire and lay off your manpower accordingly 
 with your needs and so do you manage the tasks and priorities of your staff; you also decide which 
 marketing strategy you want to use for your theme park and there is a lot of flexibility on this 
 aspect; finally, you need to make sure your park is always profitable and meets your shareholders 
 satisfaction. You can also zoom to each individual customer in your park to find out more information 
 about is satisfaction, the latest rides he went to and where and how he spent his money. This feature 
 let you tag a client and follow his action and thinking while he's enjoying his day in your park. 
 
  
  The downside of this game is the scenarios. After the first two or three scenarios, which you need 
 to complete to unlock the following ones, the scenarios gives you less and less flexibility and 
 are harder to complete. I got fed up really fast of the scenarios in this game and always preferred 
 to design my own park from scratch. 
  
  Overall, this game is the best Business Strategy game on the PC and I really enjoy it. I keep playing 
 it after all these years. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmm0070
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  Roller coster tycoon is a game in which you are the constructor of a entretainment park, and you've 
 got to complete some objective such as having 1000 guests in the fifth year. this game is very 
 reallistic, all guests are different, have different amounts of money, like to enter more or less 
 exciting games, etc. People can get drownrd, die in an accident (what make other guests get frigthened 
 of that game for at least one year) , guests vomit, games get failures and you got to hire some 
 fixers, etc. There is a big variety of games to build, and when your park gets better, you got 
 acces to even more games. The best part of the game is constructing roller coasters, where you 
 can include even photo stations and reverse grabbers!! You can also buy kinds of roller coasters 
 such as the boomerang. You start unlocking new pieces or roller coasters such as loops or "tisubarones" 
 to improve them. Then you can win 3D theaters and even kinds of roller coasters that allow you 
 to make a 90 fall and others that are just to thow the passengers in a reverse 90 fall, etc. 
 REALLY COMPLEX game, it can even start getting laggy if you make a great park, winning money is 
 sometimes really difficult and you are full of debts and things. you are really going to feel as 
 a entretainment park constructor :) . It's is really difficult to learn all the things you can do, 
 but after some 3 or 4 days playing you'll get familiarized with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyp7711
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 31, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  To my knowledge, a very early game, although still a very good old-school classic game, that never 
 seems to get old. I even prefer it to RC3 :D This game was infact released in 1999, which makes 
 it even better! I remember the old RollerCoaster Tycoon website where you had to find certain objects 
 or images on the website to gain extra content on the game, or such. Definately a good idea! Kept 
 me on the game for a year or so! Even now I sometimes think, "Hey, I should play RollerCoaster 
 Tycoon!!", but never seem to get around to it.
  
  This was a game that seemed to really grasp 4 different angles of view for any simulation/strategy 
 game. The sprites of this game were all pretty good, and never did I come across a bug with this 
 game. To be honest, the game itself seemed to be pretty clean, as in it never lagged or had any 
 problems.
  
  I would usually say this game had a lack of online modes, although back in that day and age, online 
 gaming wasn't as common as it is today, so I doubt I'll be seeing that in RC1 :P Although Hasbro 
 Interactive or whoever developed the game and website really did push the game's online ability 
 to the limit without including online live modes. By this I mean they did actually try connecting 
 people via. track sharing, which was rollercoaster designs that you could download onto your game, 
 a very good idea if you ask me!
  
  The expansion packs that I never owned were also a great idea, although I can't really give a valid 
 opinion considering I never bought one anyway :P But I'm sure the two that I know of were pretty 
 good additions to an already great game :)
  
  Overall I'd say that not only just for its time, but I'll also say for now, this game seems to 
 have the unique feel to it. Games such as Theme Park, and Theme Park world never got the publicity 
 this game earned, and that shows that this game was really a revolution of Business Strategy gaming.
 
  
  The only slight thing that always confused me was why there were never any female visitors, and 
 how all the visitors looked exactly the same... me thinks, sexist? Hehe, although this is the only 
 problem I can think of right now, so I'll rate this game high, because in my opinion, it deserves 
 a nice big rating :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydro1236
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon adds greatly to the Tycoon serires. Put those engineering skills to those 
 test in this all around fun game. Can you build a gigantic theme park with rides, games, and food? 
 See how many people you can get to your park. Hire mascots and market your park. You can even have 
 special deals, such as half off coupons! This game brings all the real things in owning a theme 
 park. Did a ride break down? Better get a team of mechanics on that. Spend hours on end building 
 the dream theme park with towering roller coasters or splashing water rides. What ever it is your 
 build, it's sure you'll have a blast in this classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chococattia
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Addicting! Hours of fun! Make your own Theme Park!
  these quotes are listed on the box of Roller Coaster Tycoon, and are true. Some of the bad sides 
 being addicting, is that you just can't get enough of it, no matter how old it gets because you 
 are playing it for hours, and hours. Roller Coaster Tycoon IS overall a good game, one of my favorites, 
 but it still disappoints me to this day, how old it gets in only a few hours! Some good parts of 
 this game I enjoy,
  -Design your own rollercoaster track
  -Name Guests, keep track of them
  -Design your theme park (OF COURSE)
  -if you get bored, you 
 can actually drown a park guest, or a employee by dropping him into a lake. Doing this too many 
 times, though, lands you with the most unsafe park in the country award.
  
  Some bad things about this game
  -Gets old easily
  -Way too addicting
  -Run into debt too 
 soon and easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griffer38
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be the most fun business game i've ever played. Even with the second and third 
 games out, this game still tops these. You start out with maybe around twenty scenarios to play 
 around with and each one is unique. You can only have several new scenarios at a time, which really 
 makes you work through the game and is a good way to get better. I can't tell you how much fun 
 it is to run a theme park anyway you like it. You want to set up a mile-long queue line? you can 
 do it. The peeps might not like it but you can do it. This game is a lot of fun to play. I highly 
 suggest that anyone with a computer get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  Now when i brought this game, i had just came back from alton towers and wanted to build a theme 
 park the same way as alton towers, and with all the designs and structures in this game, you was 
 able to build alton towers.
  
  But as soon as i had built the theme park, i found many more useful items to play around with, 
 so i placed more fun features down ,and adding more depth to the tracks and adding more food and 
 drink buildings.
  Every time i kept on adding, it became to look less and less like alton towers, so i had to change 
 the name for it.
  
  I called it Looney toony towers.
  
  How catchy is that for a theme park.
  
  I used to build and build and then after a while a 
 newer theme park coaster game came out, so i trade this game in, to get the latest game.
  
  Rollercoaster tycoon 3.
  
  More unique designs.... Enough said, read the other game review 
 for that game info.
  
  This game was well worth buy, oh and still is, if your intrested.
  
  You control your very own theme world and construct it in your own style and bussiness way.
 
  
  Dont run your self it dept and then lose customers, keep them happy until you can efford to upgrade 
 your park.
  Then watch what happens. More Happy customers.
  Can even ride them your self to make sure your happy with them.
  
  If your not happy with the 
 ride, neither will they, so enjoy contructing the ride and enjoy riding your own ride.
  Once your happy, they will be happy, if there still not saticfied, change it to suit them to make 
 them happy.
  
  Happy makes money...
  
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon is one of few games I reinstalled twice to play again. It's the only tycoon 
 game that had two things to make you feel that "one more minute" feeling. 
  
  Like all tycoon games, wanted to have the next evolution of attraction or trying to get more money 
 was the first goal. BUT this game differentiate itself by having another level- Wanting to make 
 the best rollercoaster and that was super fun. 
  
  The simplicity of the interface, the fun of looking back at the first iteration of your park and 
 then compare it to your park a couple of years later, everything was there to keep you buidling 
 a wonderfull park. v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bogfred
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Well, the title's predictable, but it's still a good game. 
  RollerCoaster + Tycoon = RollerCoaster Tycoon. Fair enough.
  There are plenty of ways to customise 
 your roller coaster. Everything from the size of the loop to the colour of the stipe on the cart. 
 Whereas most games of this sort normally come up with a message along the lines of 'you can't do 
 that, it's too dangerous' Here though, the game will happily let you open a half finished roller 
 coaster and watch as you send your customers to their doom! You can even pick them up and kill 
 them by dropping them in a lake. I never got tired of picking up customers who are about to leave, 
 and sending them to the back of the park. One customer, who I named Unlucky Bob, spent years trapped 
 there because of me. Because of this, I never got very far in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  RollerCoaster Tycoon is a game that contains a lot of fun inside. To create your own rollercoaster 
 at such an early time in of the beginning of the PC gaming was such a cool thing. The graphics 
 are all that is needed for this game. All of the people look the same but that is the least of 
 your worries. There is a lot to do and even the sound is really good. Lots of different styles 
 of music and the scream are good at the beginning but maybe after a couple hours of playing you 
 might get quite annoyed.
  
  The lifespan of this game is hours upon hours. There are about 10 different places to go to but 
 you can do them again and again and each one can take days. The overall standards of the game are 
 high and should be appericated by most gamers. New or old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustyjayrusty
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly one of my favorite video games of all time, great graphics/ sound/ scenarios/ 
 details/ ride etitors, this is one great game. I never played any other Roller Coaster Tycoons 
 but this is a good game.
  Gameplay: The ride editor is great, the details are good and this has great gameplay.
  Graphics: 
 They could be more detailed but they get the job done. Good graphics overall.
  Sound: Music is good, all sounds do their job.
  Value: I got this game from a cereal box, so 
 excellent value!!
  Go buy RTC its a great game!
  Go buy RTC its a great game!
  Go buy RTC its a great game!
  Go buy RTC its a great game!
  Go buy RTC its a great game!
 
  Go buy RTC its a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PVCSnathan
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I've always loved RollerCoaster Tycoon 1 ever since I got it for my xbox. A few months after I 
 got it for my computer and was thrilled at how much more fun it is on computer. I soon realized 
 that there is a very large community that is tied to this game so I began downloading utilities 
 and trainer to "enhance" the game. I'm amazed at how much fun this game truly is (and it's so addictive!) . 
 I've played for hours and hours and hours, yet I am still not tired of it. I can play for hours 
 more and still be entertained by this game.
  
  The details about everything are just right and add to the great game play. The way the scenarios 
 are set up is spectacular to. When you complete all of the scenarios you get a mega park in which 
 you can use all of the rides and scenery.
  
  Although this game has its limitations (can only have so many rides and about 5000 peeps due to 
 coding limitations) I still love it and rate it as the best in the RCT series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  In one scenario, you have to earn a monthly income from ride tickets of at least $10,000. In another, 
 you have to repay a bank loan and build your park's value to at least $500,000. And in another 
 scenario, you have to erect 10 different roller coasters, each more than 3,937 feet in length and 
 with excitement ratings of 7.00 or more. And so on. If you've never played RollerCoaster Tycoon 
 before, you may indeed find these objectives enjoyable, even challenging -- but if you're a fan of 
 the series, you've seen them before. Fortunately, the developer at least had the foresight to let 
 you play any of the scenarios at any time.
  
  Also, RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 offers a bit more variety in terms of the parks you can build. A number 
 of the game's more challenging scenarios involve theme parks, which gives them a unique character 
 that isn't provided by the traditional objectives. Alpine Adventures, for example, is set on an 
 icy mountain that is more hospitable to skis than roller coasters, while Infernal Views seems to 
 overlook the tourist-trap ring of Dante's Inferno. Also, RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 features the official 
 Six Flags license. You can try your hand at running five official Six Flags parks, including such 
 popular family destinations as Great Adventure and Magic Mountain. These locations can be played 
 as formal scenarios starting with parks that resemble their real-world counterparts or as part 
 of a build mode that lets you put together a park from the ground up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falloutboyo1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 8, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Alright here's my review of Rollercoaster Tycoon
  This game has been one of my favorite on the PC since I got it. I enjoyed doing campaigns and sandbox 
 types.
  Gameplay 10/10
  The gameplay was great there was little room for improvement yet i wish upon more campaign levels.
 
  Graphics 9/10
  The graphics portion of the game was almost shockingly good for when it was released. I do admit 
 that it has room for improvement in many places such as guests or weather.
  Sound 10/10
  Sound was very good you could tell it isn't flawless but it is highly efficient.
  
  My summary 
 is that I would strongly recommend this game to all especially those into strategy or tycoon games 
 if you like this game you would probably like the sequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumpy500
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent. Despite not haveing great graphics, and mostly repetitive sounds, the gameplay 
 shines through and keeps you addicted. The missions seem almost secondary to just keeping the park 
 open for fun. You don't feel like you're being required to complete the goals, rather being rewarded 
 for reaching them. There is a wide selection of parks to choose from, and each one has its own 
 quirks that make it interesting. Once you get the hang of running a park, it's very difficult to 
 get yourself to stop. This game has become a classic among simulation games, adn rightfully so. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenalhenry11
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  This game is a great classic. I bought it a few years ago (3yrs) and im still playing it. There are 
 loads of scenerios to build your park in. There are challenge objectives, overall and good game. But, the 
 let down of this game is its camera mode. You can only zoom in at a certain distance, and rotate 
 the camera in a certain way, if you are building a roller coaster it can be difficult. If you want 
 to be using a free flowin liquid camera, Buy Roller Coaster Tycoon 3. You can zoom in as far as seeing 
 the expressions on guests faces, that game i have also and it is brill. And it is a free flowing 
 camera so you can go anywhere .Under rollercoaster high in the sky, anywhere you please. And the 
 best thing is coaster cam where you can ride every ride in your park including roller coasters 
 and the ones you make!!! And you can import your own music and it has a amazing fire works MixMaster 
 where you can make your own firework show this is a 10/10 game buy it. But Roller Coaster Tycoon 
 1 is a great classic of the new improved one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Gambit_GT4
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I did not think I would enjoy Roller Coaster Tycoon at first. Then, it came to me that it was addictive. 
 I remember playing over 3 hours in a row because I wanted everything to be perfect. It is really 
 fun but really hard, too. I never passed the whole game because I was not good enough. But, I played 
 just for fun with my brother. Here is what I think:
  
  Gameplay: Nothing to say. It is perfect and I love it!
  
  Graphics: Only thing I complain about. 
 The graphics where lame compared to the game.
  
  Sound: Nothing bad to say about it. Close to roller Coasters, you hear people scream. Beside a 
 Merry-Go-Round, you hear yeaaaaaaaaaah!
  
  Value: It is really worth 39.99 but not more than that.
  
  Tilt: Just one thing: If you do 
 not want to get hooked in the game, do not play it!
  
  Conclusion: Instant classic and something that you should really buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtimandan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 23, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game since not long after it came out. Unfortunately, when I lose a hard 
 drive or wipe it and forget about copying my RCT saves, I invariably have to start all over again... and 
 that's not a bad thing!
  
  This game has been in constant rotation in my Now Playing list for years - no other game I have 
 can keep my attention like RCT does, and I have innumerable games, easily several hundred for all 
 of my various platforms and PCs.
  
  The graphics are simplistic but work well here, for the most part. At times you'll have a problem 
 situating an object or a person but a quick quarter-turn of the map resolves any camera issue.
 
  
  The sounds can get repetitive, but that's entirely up to you as you have control of the in-game 
 songs from the various rides so you can tailor it to suit your taste. The child giggling is a good 
 sound - that means someone [hopefully a lot of people] like the ride they just got off of. When 
 you hear a child cough, that's not such a good sound as you now have a pile of puke somewhere that 
 needs attending to. The ride sounds are fairly accurate and at the least very appropriate.
  
  Finding the perfect balance of employees, advertising, pricing, rides, food and bathrooms is 
 quite difficult and almost always in need of adjustment or some other form of your attention. Altering 
 pre-made rides when you build them is the simplest way to increase the rider capacity [longer trains 
 or more cars on each train] and therefore increase your profits, but it's all temporary and you 
 will be adjusting your pricing very soon. If a ride happens to fail and results in the death of 
 some riders, practically no one will ride it any longer and you will need to demolish the ride 
 and put something else there. The good news is that you get back all or most of your cost of building 
 the original ride when you knock it down.
  
  Some of the scenarios are quite challenging to expand upon, due to limitations of the environment 
 you're working with. Once you have your own proven formula for success, you can jump right into 
 a campaign and usually come out shining when that scenario ends.
  
  This game has spoiled me for sims, I suppose... whenever I try to play other sims [the only positive 
 exceptions being The Sims and the Diablo, WarCraft and StarCraft franchises] , I come away feeling 
 like the interface is clunky and too much of a distraction, simply because I've been spoiled by 
 the incredible ease-of-use of the GUI in the RCT & RCT2 games and their expansion packs. One game 
 in particular, FastFood Tycoon, makes me want to jump out a window and it comes from Activision 
 of all places! It's difficult to find such a good sim GUI as RCT has. Even the new 3D RCT3 GUI 
 isn't as easy to navigate as is RCT & RCT2.
  
  If you like sim gaming and have become bored with virtually spanking aliens, annhilating the evil 
 possed or dating your next door neighbor, then check out the original RCT games if you haven't 
 already done so. The gameplay holds up well over time providing you're not spoiled by the graphic 
 capabilities of today's video cards and consoles, plus you can get RCT and RCT2 and their expansions 
 usually bundled together for very little money, making it much more worth the investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I know that there is a newer version out there, but this is what I have to say about this one. 
 This is one of the better building games that has been produced.
  
  What I like about this game is that there are tangible missions where the goals are actually do-able. 
 It isn't a completely far off vistor count or profit margin. It makes sense and is reachable. The 
 game also includes the ability to building and test your own roller coasters and thrill rides. 
 There is a selection of rides to chose from the expansion opportunities are endless.
  
  The bad stuff about this game are the limitations of the mission modes. When you get through a 
 couple of the missions, the repetitive nature of the setup cause you to realize that you can coast 
 through most of the rest of the missions. You find the pattern that makes for victory, and you 
 find that the only way that it will challenge you is if it gives you a very limited space to build.
 
  
  The innovation of the game also falls short in that it should have let you ride the coasters from 
 inside the trains. Instead, you ride outside of them.
  
  This is a keeper. This is a great game. Excellent job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  rollercoaster tycoon is really good game....
  the idea to build a park with all the rollercasters and the food and all the stuff
  ther are 
 in real park... and you really feel like the menager of the park....
  you need to take care of all the rides that wont broke...
  and you need to publish your park 
 and that how more peoples will come
  and spent a lot of money... and you can allso build you own rollercaster...
  and this its realy 
 nice... but the people are not clean at all... they are all the time throw stuff on the floor and 
 then they say that the park its not clean and then they are leaving and then you lose money,,, and 
 then the park is closed and you lose... LOL no just kidding.... its a nice game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Roller coaster tycoon has everything a good game has. it's very addicting. the game is hard and 
 takes a long time to figure out every thing. this game is just plain fun. for only $30 you will 
 probably play this game for over 60 hours. great value. you learn a LOT FROM THIS GAME. the sound 
 affix from them screaming wen they go down a hill on a roller caster is very real. it takes a lot 
 of skill to be good at this game. If you like real life games or bassness games this is the game 
 to play. GREAT GAME.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicGamer91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon (PC) is one of the first amusement park simulation games to calculate almost 
 everything to exact numbers. Everything in the game from the money you have to the total profit 
 a ride has brought in to the physics of your newest roller coaster is calculated perfectly. The 
 game's calculations almost never fail and give you an accurate idea of everything in the park.
 
  
  The best thing about the game is the fact that it never really gets old. There is so much variety 
 to it that you can't have too much of it. It's fun to play and always keeps you busy.
  
  The game also has fairly good graphics for a computer game of this genre. It has the ability to 
 show rides from every angle and does a pretty good job of showing light reflecting off of paint 
 on the rides. Considering graphics capabilities at the time, it's not too bad at all in this department.
 
  
  The game also has great sound. It makes you feel like your actually at the amusement park and gives 
 you good feedback on how much guests like your rides. There are a few glitches in the sound, but 
 this is to be expected with any game.
  
  The game is also worth all of the money that you pay for it, so you don't have to worry that it's 
 too cheap or too expensive when you get it.
  
  The only thing that I found wrong other than what I've mentioned so far is that at times the game 
 doesn't seem very realistic. There are a few minor details in the game that could probably be fixed 
 to make it more realistic than it is, but it doesn't really lack too much here either.
  
  Since things get progressively harder at a fairly even rate, the game is "Just Right" in difficulty. 
 I've spent about 20 to 40 hours playing it and I'm still learning several tricks you can use to 
 make your parks better; however, it only takes 30 to 60 minutes to learn the basics.
  
  This game is truly a masterpiece of its genre! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calicow
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:10 am PT
Review:  I first became a fan of Roller Coaster Tycoon when my cousin invited me over to play it on his 
 computer, and I must say, since that day, I got hooked on playing the fun game. It was not too 
 long afterwards that I went out and bought it for myself, because of how fun and addicting the 
 game is. I found that in playing the game, it was fun to make the various rides in the park, especially 
 the roller coasters and seeing how popular the rides are among the visitors to the various parks 
 in the game. It was also fun to see how profitable the parks can be and what you can do to make 
 them more so, it's just like running your own business. In all, I found this to be one fun, yet 
 addicting game, and if anyone could get their hands on this game now, I would highly recommend 
 getting this game and have fun playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Burly_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 3:15 pm PT
Review:  As one of the biggest PC hits in 99' and clear into 2000, Rollercoaster Tycoon sticks out as positive 
 step towards the true theme park sim experience. As the title states, you will be making Rollercoasters, 
 but the game is really about designing, managing and building an entire theme park.
  
  With all the factors you'll be constantly figuring and acting upon, Roller coaster Tycoon will 
 be very time consuming, in the good way though. Management is a huge part of Rollercoaster Tycoon, 
 you'll be hiring and firing mascots, janitors (they mow grass, take out trash, clean up vomit and 
 trash, and water plants) , and security guards to help keep your theme park in working and enjoyable 
 order for your guests. You'll have to make sure that all your rides are in working order by enough 
 mechanics to get on the situations as soon as they happen. Also, if you want a successful park, 
 you'll be running different ads and sending out coupons to attract more visitors to your park. 
 The most important part of management in Rollercoaster Tycoon is the surveying of how many customers 
 your rides are bringing in because guests will get bored of rides the longer the rides are commission; 
 though sometimes rides will retain a certain level of respect and will be ridden by people even 
 with fair prices. All this management is made much easier with tons of stat tracking features. 
 You can even track what people are thinking at that time, for instance, if lots of people are complaining 
 about getting lost in that comment's category, you should react by making less complicated paths 
 and by supplying more maps around the park. Basically every stat about every person in your park 
 is traceable, like the amount of money they have, how much they spent, what they are carrying (maps, 
 food, map, toys, ect.) , and as far in detail as showing how happy they are, their nausea level, 
 how much they have to go to the bathroom, and their energy. The park rating also gives you the 
 total average of what your guests think about the park, also certificates and awards will help 
 you see what parts your park is excelling in. The stats are really just amazing and provide feedback 
 that is very helpful in creating a successful park.
  
  Another great addition to the game is the amount of customizable rides that this gem sports. Of 
 course, you can manually build Roller Coasters; along with train tracks, go kart tracks, toobing 
 rides, raft rides, monorails, chairlifts, ect. (Most of them have awesome preset rides you can 
 just plop down into your park without the labor) . Those are only some of the manually built rides 
 there is in Rollercoaster Tycoon, on top of all those categories, there's basically all the rides 
 you can think of at almost any theme park, aside maybe a few oddball rides that you might not find. 
 All the rides can be colored to your liking and can also be named what ever you wish them to be 
 (you can name everything in the park, including each guest) . There are also improvements that you 
 can get for your rides by the means of scientists, which is also how you discover new rides through 
 out your parks life. Included in the rides category are food stalls, which can be customized just 
 as the rides, though the each food stall will only sell what it's name suggests (A pizza stall 
 for example) .
  
  The graphics and sound in Rollercoaster Tycoon remain as a great insight to the whole theme park 
 feel. The isometric view is a nice choice, considering it brings out the size of things with a 
 3d view, but without the graphics ever being 3d themselves. Each ride is well detailed with color 
 and texture, as are the landscapes, which are fully customizable (you can raise and lower land, 
 put tons of different plant, trees, flowers and decorations around, and make lakes and ponds if 
 you want) . Though each square land piece is either at a 45 degree angle or perfectly parallel, 
 it's still full of life as grass grows and your decorations pile up all over. I like how the graphics 
 leave nothing to imagination; if a mechanic is fixing a ride, you'll see him walk in and fix it; 
 if people pay to get in a ride, they'll walk through the gates onto the ride and you'll be able 
 to see each individual person on the ride. The sound is overall authentic to real life theme parks, 
 but after playing the game for hours on end, you'll get kind of tired of hearing the same sound 
 affects being played, like when one faint voice of a child says, "Flora Flora Flora". It's a good 
 thing that the music that radiates from some rides can be toggled on and off, because if you have 
 tons of merry-go-rounds, you won't want to hear the music all the time, though it changes enough 
 to blend into the background sound fairly well.
  
  I've really only began to scratch the surface of the game's many options and features. Rollercoaster 
 Tycoon is one of the most addictive games I've ever played, and should be yours as soon as you 
 can snag a copy of it. As close as you'll ever get to owning a park, without actually doing work.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YortEmperor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon is a fun money management that offers a high level, at least for me, a high 
 addiction rating and a enjoyable rating. For some reason not completing a track and watching people 
 fall to their dooms is rather satisfying. 
  Anyway, I also love this game because it features a topic I like. Making money. Good thing it is 
 a sim or else I wouldn't be able to get a loan in real life anymore. hehe. 
  It's graphics, for the time anyway, are great. Smooth anyway. The sound features the actual sounds 
 of theme parks and carnivals, or whatever your making which is a good thing. 
  One of my favorite things about this mighty simulation of building a managing is that, wait for 
 it, YOU CAN CHARGE PEOPLE TO GO TO THE BATHROOM!!!!!!!!!!! LOL!!!!!!!!!
  Anyway thats all I can think of at any rate. -Carth Onasi 
  
  This is an older game for me 
 so its kinda hard to review, but I feel I covered most of the bases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 19, 2005 1:02 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best computer games out there. It is a great and fun-filled game that will keep 
 you busy for a long time. The game play is awesome and very fun. It makes you think and achieve 
 business goals in a fun way. You can customize your park any way you want to. The graphics are 
 good for it's time but could have been better but fits the game right. The sound is one of the 
 many high points of this game. The sound of the rides and people in your park are great. The value 
 is unlimited because after you beat the game you can mess around with the game and do what ever 
 you want to do. Any one who owns a computer should have this game it is a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimonBall
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2005 5:02 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  Basically everything about the game was great when it was first released. But I will divide it 
 up for you..
  
  The graphics werent terribly impressive, but they got the job done. They were clear and smooth. 
 All you basically need. Alot of detail too.
  
  The rides, dont start me on the rides.. Well at the time, there was basically the opportunity to 
 build any rollercoaster or ride imaginable, and in turn, kill people by building it with hostile 
 intent. Again, the graphics were basically the same for each ride, but still. The rides are prised, 
 imo, the realistic range () , and can easily keep you entertained, even watching the exit.
  
  Shops and stalls, numerous, simple facilities and the odd Drive-Thru type of thing. Bugers, 
 Drinks Popcorn, some of the few. Quite good and essential to the game. I would have liked to seen 
 them a bit more numerically but what you going to do?
  
  The guests, all the same except for the shirt, money and tolleration of rides. Not much to say, 
 I just gave you their life story.
  
  THE BAD:
  Addictive.
  
  SUMMARY:
  A classic in its own right. Cheap now compared to when I bought it. And well worth the money too. 
 I believe it is still ranked the best managment game by some PC Game magazines, after all these 
 years.
  
  Extreamly addictive. I have spent too many hours sitting and playing this game. Once you get into 
 it, you wont be able to get out.
  
  "Worth Every Penny!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagacious_Tien
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 28, 2005 11:36 am PT
Review:  Chris Sawyer's developmental work is highly regarded in PC simulation circles. After all - he was 
 the key man behind the Transport Tycoon series - which is more the forebear to his latest work. 
 Those familiar with that series will feel right at home here - it has the same feel, functionality 
 and user friendly interface. While it's roots may lie within Transport Tycoon and Bullfrog's Theme 
 Park, Rollercoaster Tycoon sets itself apart, and is set to be a major name in the park simulation 
 genre.
  
  Rollercoaster Tycoon brings 21 interesting and diverse Missions to you - each with multiple objectives 
 and difficulties. Gradually getting harder, you will be forced to come up against tighter deadlines, 
 bigger profits and even bigger drops. And no, not drops in revenue - but the kind we get after 
 that first hill on the Big Dipper we are all drawn to upon entering our Theme Park.
  
  Not only are you equipped to design and upkeep your own version of Fantasy Land, you can go so 
 far as to create your own Rollercoaster. From Wooden track to Steel, and everything else in-between, 
 there is a great variety in how you can create. Or you can always just load in one of the many 
 pre-built designs that you may just plonk in on some free real estate. Connect the paths to where 
 your guests roam - and in will pour your funds.
  
  It isn't this easy however - you must balance each and every turn - make sure there is enough gravity 
 to make that height - that there is enough speed for the ride to be thrilling, that people will 
 be rattled on the Wooden Rollercoaster, but not feel to sick that they can't enjoy the ride. You 
 must cater to a wide variety of guests - build easy to navigate paths, create rides and sections 
 where they will feel more comfortable before taking on your ultimate ride - provide food service 
 areas which will help your bank account, but you will need garbage bins nearby our your park will 
 begin to resemble a tip. You must balance each action with a reaction - purposefully design to 
 make maximum profit, but also to be instantly and continually appealing for your peeps.
  
  There are many options to how you play the game, but an important feature not available, a Sandbox 
 mode - is not included in game, which is very noticeable, though the variety in Challenges and 
 the fact that you can continue playing after completing a challenge helps allieve that. Creating 
 Rollercoasters is suprisingly easy, and yet there are so many ways in which they can be constructed. 
 Utilising the isometric viewpoint which is synomonous with Strategy games, you are given a good 
 setup in which you can easily see what is happening and how to best place the pieces.
  
  An excellent tutorial mission will explain everything easily to you, from creating rollercoasters, 
 to managing your park. There is a challenge - but the variety in options doesn't extend as far 
 as you would like to the gameplay, making the game a wash, rinse, repeat cycle. As well, there 
 are only 2 game speeds, so speeding up time is not an option, even if you have already completed 
 your objectives.
  
  The various music and sound effects are pretty much spot on - you really do feel as if you are 
 in a Theme Park. The music gets a little boring over time though, but each individual ride has 
 it's own tunes (and in many cases, multiple tunes) , which you can turn on and off at will, so it 
 isn't too bad. The sound effects are great, with people screaming their lungs out as they turn 
 a shap corner on that Steel Rollercoaster you made, to the sound of the toilet's being flushed, 
 everything sounds as it should, though, again - becomes repetitive.
  
  Graphics wise - Rollercoaster Tycoon is a functional game, which does what it's trying to do very 
 well. Oerall presentation is fairly static - with your peeps resembling each other far too often 
 and your environmental pieces (even when you create them) generic and a little boring. You can 
 paint your own Rollercoasters, and to a degree, craft a world specifying to a single theme, like 
 magic, or Alice in Wonderland. These inclusions are skin deep though, the gameplay is much the 
 same - but overall, the graphics represent a good job at giving you the best view on your park 
 and your options. It just could have used a bit more personality though.
  
  Overall, Rollercoaster Tycoon isn't a big step from it's forebears. It's an interesting take on 
 Park Simulation - and it succeeds on a great scale - this is a fun game which gives you a great 
 deal of options on how to design and manage your own personal Disneyland. If this were given more 
 time in development - the end product could have been better, but nonetheless, Rollercoaster Tycoon 
 provides a solid and fun simulation of running your own Theme Park, and there aren't many games 
 that can make that claim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stegma
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 30, 2005 12:15 am PT
Review:  In a nutshell you are the park manager, contractor, architect, landscaper, human resources and 
 entertainer. Game developers are always looking for new ways to entertain us and this certainly 
 was one hell of an idea. Cuddos to Atari for another great success!!!
  
  You may play the missions which are set up to be more interesting with goals in mind for your park 
 objectives, or you may build a park from scratch with amazing tools to your disposal. Everything 
 from creating the way the visitors look, making forests/lakes/hills and of course setting up your 
 park for your game. You may also start with a blank canvas with unlimited cash at your disposal 
 to do as you like - be careful thought - eventually without a really good computer you will run 
 into some slowing down issues.
  
  Building roller coasters and rides is moderately easy but I dont find it frustrating. You can 
 sit down and plan what you want to build or just wing it and hope the guests like it. This game 
 allows you to be as free as you want with your designs.
  
  The other half of the fun is managing your park. The game turns you into a business man - makes 
 you think where you should place that burger joint in order to make the most money or what price 
 should I set this roller coaster ride that people will pay to go on it. You find out what people 
 are thinking, what they buy, where they spend their money, if they are sad or happy and so on. 
 Hiring workers to clean the park, maintain the park...... it just keeps going. It really feels 
 like running a business accept its more fun and youre the boss!!!! 
  
  Graphics and Sound are quite good also - you can set music on all the rides. Hearing the people 
 scream when they are scared or laugh when they see something funny makes the game extremely realistic. 
 
  
  That word brings me to the conclusion - realism - thats what makes this game so much fun to play. 
 Most games are far from realistic but sometimes we want the opposite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man_diesel789
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2005 9:27 pm PT
Review:  hi this is one of the best games ever i own this game since it came out and i still love it this 
 is a masterpiece (for its year) 
  
  its very cool you can build your own roller coaster and you can make it go underground you can 
 build a go-kart place you can build your about everything a merry-go-round a slide , THE BIG BROW 
 ROLLER COASTER IS COOL. 
  
  so if you can afford roller coaster 3 i recommend getting it but if you cant i tell this is one 
 of the best strategy games ever 
  
  
  
  (sorry for bad spelling)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliot_holmes
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 13, 2005 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Rollercoaster Tycoon is a really fun and addictive game. You can get into it fairly easily, and 
 it has suprising depth to it. The problem is, after you beat most of the parks, it starts to get 
 boring and repetitive. Another problem is that crating your own rollercoaster is hard because if 
 you don't put just the right amount of flips and turns in it, it will be either too boring or to 
 intense for most of the parkguests. This game is a good game, especially considering the 9.99 pricetag 
 and the fact that it runs well on almost any modern computer. The cheap pricetag is good, because 
 after about 20 hours of playing it, you will be sick of it for a while, but later you might come 
 back to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigfish2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  In Roller coadter tycoon you have to build a theme park and get a certain amount of money in a 
 certain amount of time to unlock new park maps. You can make all sorts of different rides and attractions. 
 However you need to keep your customers happy by building a good mix of scary and not so scary 
 rides. You also need to build toilets and food and drink stands plus souvenir stands. As you make 
 your park better you unlock new attractions and food stalls to build. If you want to be mean you 
 can even pick up your customers and chuck them in the water. Sometimes rides will crash also killing 
 customers. Rides will also break down so employ mechanics to fix them. If you like strategy you'll 
 like roller coaster tycoon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkBelthasar
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 22, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Rollercoaster Tycoon is one of the greatest building simulation games of all time. It led to the 
 popularity of the name "Tycoon" which continued to be used in many other games. 
  
  The basis of the game is building your own amusement park. There are tons of parks, each with their 
 own challenges, tasks, and rides. This game can be played to beat each of the levels, for pure 
 enjoyment, or for both. 
  
  Although the music is relatively repetitive and unexciting, if you get the expansion packs, which 
 you probably will, you'll be happy to to find out that you can have each ride play any of about 
 20 songs. You'll also hear the sounds of the people yelling and screaming, rollercoasters rolling, 
 motors running, and all of the other sounds one would hear at their favorite amusement park. 
 
  
  The graphics are iffy, but they allow for the rotation of the screen so that the park can be viewed 
 from four different directions which makes the game a lot easier to use. The game is highly customizable 
 though, so colors on most of the rides can be changed and themes can be expressed. 
  
  The gameplay is spectacular! There is some waiting involved, while money is being earned, but there 
 is so much to do in that time. You can control your staff, finances, loans, prices, or just check 
 out the people and what they're thinking. Yes, each and every one of the thousands of visitors 
 will be slightly different in thoughts and actions, likes and dislikes. The rides are so different, 
 you'll never get tired of building new ones. 
  
  The replay value is high. I've never gotten tired of this game. The reason why is because it will 
 never ever play out the same way. Every time the rides will be different and the layout of the 
 park will be different. 
  
  In conclusion, if you don't have this game, buy it. It is a PC game good for any and every age 
 that won't ever get old. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 1, 2005 1:42 am PT
Review:  The graphics are nothing amazing, but are nice enough to look at. Really the only complaint I have 
 is that all the guests look exactly the same except for different shirts and pants. Everything 
 else is good enough though. 
  
  Sound is wonderful, and sounds exactly as you would expect for a Theme Park game. You'll hear the 
 music for rides, as well as the murmer of the people walking by, and a few random sounds here and 
 there. There's always room for improvement, but the sound is good enough. 
  
  The gameplay is great, simple as that. You build up you're own theme park with rides, stalls, and 
 scenery. There are plenty of rides to be build, some of which (namely roller coasters) you can 
 actually build the tracks for (which is hours of fun in itself) . There are different missions to 
 play, which are mainly just, "Get X amount of guests in X years with a park rating of X". They're 
 not really challenging, which really lets you just have fun with the different maps, and building 
 different kind of parks. 
  
  Anyone who likes tycoon games would do well to get this game. It truly is one of the best tycoon 
 games out there, and will provide lots of fun. I would recommend just about anyone to get Roller 
 Coaster Tycoon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolbmann
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 18, 2005 8:47 pm PT
Review:  "RollerCoaster Tycoon" could be described as "SimCity" on vacation. Instead of worrying about property 
 taxes and crime rates, it's your responsibility as the despotic owner of an amusement park to see 
 to it that the sim-citizens who come to play are having fun and spending tons. 
  
  The little touches are what make "RollerCoaster Tycoon" great. Indeed, it's the subtleties that 
 make or break any simulation game. Fortunately, this game has enough nuances to take it a long 
 way. 
  
  As in Will Wright's "SimTown," "RollerCoaster Tycoon" allows players to take a very detailed look 
 at each individual sim. Players can see what simulated guests carrying, what they've spent and 
 even what they're thinking. Additionally, players are able to name virtual visitors and follow 
 them around the park. Unlike "SimTown," however, in this game, designer Chris Sawyer made sure 
 unique individuals actually do something interesting. Instead of knowing Billy's favorite color, 
 for example, you know he likes to go on thrill rides that typically make him sick. 
  
  One guest I was observing said she had to enjoyed the boat rental and the Ferris wheel, was intimidated 
 by the Satan's Chute roller coaster and had to go to the bathroom. I decided to name her "mom. 
 
  
  Of course, most of the park's visitors will not be intimidated by coasters such as Satan's Chute 
 -- quite the contrary. As in the real world, it's the coasters in "RollerCoaster Tycoon" that make 
 the park profitable. Try building a new whiz-bang ride and watch your gate proceeds double from 
 the previous month. And once you have enough whiz-bang rides running, you can safely raise the 
 price of admission and rake in even more cash, which can then be used to build more attractions. 
 
  
  Don't go thinking "RollerCoaster Tycoon" is all about the Benjamins, though. It's still a virtual 
 playground at heart. While the left brain is content keeping an eye on the ledger sheets, the right 
 brain is free to design any number whimsical and wild new rides. 
  
  The complex ride-design feature gives the game considerable staying power. Though an obvious extension 
 of the "SimCity" franchise's Urban Renewal Kit, "RollerCoaster Tycoon's" construction module is 
 considerably more fun. Once a player has completed a masterpiece, he can set it in motion and watch 
 the sims line up. 
  
  The process of actually building an attraction isn't terribly intuitive, but what it lacks in ease 
 it makes up for in flexibility. With enough practice, players should be able to construct coasters 
 that wind their way around footpaths, bridges, trees and even other rides. 
  
  Of course, ride design can be a costly and time-consuming process. With that in mind, "RollerCoaster 
 Tycoon" provides players with a varied assortment of pre-designed rides with more loops and dips 
 than you can shake a stick at. 
  
  Equally important as the ride designs is the general layout of the park. Here is where details 
 dominate. 
  
  For example, some sims will make a habit of eating two slices of pizza before going on roller coasters 
 with names like Rough Rails. If there aren't benches, bathrooms and garbage cans near the ride's 
 exit, nauseated sims will lose their lunch on a park walkway. Not a pretty sight. 
  
  Fortunately, this park has workers who deal with that sort of thing -- but only if players hire 
 them. Handymen, mechanics, security and entertainers all add value to the park and help keep it 
 running smoothly. For players interested in taking micro-management to an extreme, they can even 
 forcibly pick workers up and drop them anywhere in the park (perhaps at the exit of Rough Rails) . 
 
  
  This attention to detail is applied universally throughout the game, making for a truly enjoyable 
 sim-experience. 
  
  The graphics aren't mind-blowing, but they serve their purpose well, notably illustrating the bustle 
 of thousands of people moving around in an equally active amusement park. 
  
  The sound is outstanding. Each ride (and rider, for that matter) produces its own specific sounds. 
 As you scroll away from a ride, its noise gradually fades away. Ditto with crowd noise. The roller 
 coaster noises are perfect (right down to the most nauseated sim) and the carousel music puts players 
 in the midst of the park itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xKrnBoI24x
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 2, 2005 11:13 pm PT
Review:  What the heck? Rollercoaster Tycoon? You build your own themepark? Thats just silly. Or is it...? 
 Publisher Atari and Developer Chris Sawyer works on this unusal Strategy game. In the game, you 
 build your own themepark, yes you build your own themepark. 
  
  RollerCoaster Tycoon offers you 21 scenarios at start to play. The way you complete a "mission" 
 is to earn big profit on a themepark, either that or make more off a pre built themepark, or achieving 
 a certain attendence. 
  
  I really like the camera in this game, because its easy to view. For starters, you make a admission 
 price and then build all the rides, foodstands, bathrooms etc! Its just like how it worked in Simscity 
 3000, transport tycoon, etc~
  
  I apologize for not giving off much information... Its because I havent played in like 3 years 
 and cannot quite remember... Anyways, Id like to proudly say that the gameplay is just plain fun, 
 addictive and ingaging! As long as you get the controls and how stuff works, you will enjoy what 
 its made for, An unusual game yet so fun and addictive that it will keep you busy for hours to 
 come. Good Luck and Have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwisdom
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2005 2:39 pm PT
Review:  For all those familiar with Chris Sawyer's earlier work (Transport Tycoon) you should be happy 
 with this, the latest Tycoon game and one where you are in control of a virtual Amusement Park. 
 Don't roll your eyes because you done it all before in Theme Park, Rollercoaster Tycoon is a benchmark 
 for other Simulation games to follow.
  
  Carrying many of the trademarks from Simulation games, as well as it's most obvious influence, 
 Theme Park, Rollercoaster Tycoon brings 21 scenarios of very enjoyable gameplay together in a well 
 crafted game that may just keep you entertained for a lot longer than you initially intended.
 
  
  Rollercoaster Tycoon is a game about Balances. You must balance out building the more excitig rides 
 with the less. You must cater to a wide variety of guests. You must build easy to navigate paths 
 and a good transport system if the park is too large and must create the first ever triple loop 
 rollercoaster or whatever. The game has many challenges that you must stick too.
  
  Balancing is the key to the entire game. You can hire Entertainers to keep the queue lines happy, 
 or Clowns who subliminally try and sell your guests some more over-priced souvenirs. You have to 
 consider the guests needs when designing your park, and things like nearby toilets after a exciting 
 Rollercoaster is a good thing.
  
  Starting with a small income, you must build an array of attractions, from Drinks Stalls to Merry-Go-Rounds 
 to Railroad Trains to Rollercoasters. There is a good variety of rides to build, and the Rollercoasters 
 themselves (everyone's favorite ride) are completely customiseable, you can create them from scratch, 
 or use one of the in-game designs.
  
  Creating Rollercoasters is suprisingly easy, and yet there are so many options. Using the isometric 
 viewpoint which is synomonous with Strategy games, Rollercoasters are easy to build and look great 
 too. There are options like choosing Wooden to Vertical to Steel to Looped Rollercoasters, so there 
 is no lack in variety, although you wont feel lost in it all.
  
  There is an excellent tutorial mission that will explain everything easily to you. The game is 
 not hard, but does become a little grating. Unfortunately, there are only 2 game speeds, so speeding 
 up time is not an option, even if you have already completed your objectives.
  
  There also isnt a free-build mode, giving you unlimited money and all the Rides. This would have 
 been a great addition and you can see the game suffer with it's non-presence. However, the 21 missions 
 have enough variety and are challenging enough to keep you playing for some time.
  
  The sound is great, with the game sounding very much like a Country Fair, or an Amusement Park 
 that has shipped in and is staying in your town for a week. The music gets a little boring, although 
 it is fitting. Sound effects are great, with people screaming their lungs out, to the toilet's 
 being flushed, everything sounds as it should. However, they get a little repetitious, the game 
 could have used some more sound bytes.
  
  By and large, Rollercoaster Tycoon is not a bad game. It improves upon the winning formula that 
 is found in Theme Park and if you enjoyed that game, you will be hard pressed not to enjoy this. 
 It is a great title which had the ability to be outstanding, although you will have a lot of fun 
 playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerDeutscher
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 31, 2005 4:21 am PT
Review:  If you don't own this game then you need to buy it immediately. It takes a good amount of time 
 to learn the physics of the game and also all the features but once you pick them up you will not 
 be able to stop playing. In Rollercoaster Tycoon, you get to build your own theme park from the 
 ground up. The game has 30 different and challenging scenarios which test your skills by setting 
 goals such as attaining a certain amount of people in your park or making your park worth more 
 money by increasing the park value. The scenarios may seem easy at first, in fact they are, as they 
 want to familiarize you with the controls and features but they become quite challenging as you 
 advance. Just as in a real theme park you must hire proper security to prevent vandelism, handymen 
 to keep your park clean, mechanics to fix and inspect rides, and entertainers to keep your guests 
 happy. You must also balance the finances of your park so you can make money to keep building and 
 researching rides. There are many more features to this game but I will leave it up to you to discover 
 them, as this is almost as entertaining as building the park itself. I highly recommend this game 
 to fans of the strategy genre and anyone looking for a fun and highly addictive experiance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 30, 2005 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Rollercoaster Tycoon, or better known as RCT by the fans of the series will tell you that this 
 game started a revolution. It's easily one of the most popular simulation games ever released. 
 This game was definately a treat for me as I am a major rollercoaster enthusiast who lives to ride 
 coasters! RCT really started my coaster frenzy and then it took off from there. None the less I 
 owe a lot of my enthusiast-ism to RCT for being a fun and highly addictive "ride" of a lifetime, 
 pun intended.
  
  RCT is a basic simulation where you must build you amusement park up to complete objectives such 
 as guest amounts and a certain level of wealth. Following this game were two other expansion packs 
 that really made the experience that much better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximummaker
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 9, 2004 10:58 pm PT
Review:  As one of the biggest PC hits in 99' and clear into 2000, Rollercoaster Tycoon sticks out as positive 
 step towards the true theme park sim experience. As the title states, you will be making Rollercoasters, 
 but the game is really about designing, managing and building an entire theme park.
  
  With all the factors you'll be constantly figuring and acting upon, Roller coaster Tycoon will 
 be very time consuming, in the good way though. Management is a huge part of Rollercoaster Tycoon, 
 you'll be hiring and firing mascots, janitors (they mow grass, take out trash, clean up vomit and 
 trash, and water plants) , and security guards to help keep your theme park in working and enjoyable 
 order for your guests. You'll have to make sure that all your rides are in working order by enough 
 mechanics to get on the situations as soon as they happen. Also, if you want a successful park, 
 you'll be running different ads and sending out coupons to attract more visitors to your park. 
 The most important part of management in Rollercoaster Tycoon is the surveying of how many customers 
 your rides are bringing in because guests will get bored of rides the longer the rides are commission; 
 though sometimes rides will retain a certain level of respect and will be ridden by people even 
 with fair prices. All this management is made much easier with tons of stat tracking features. 
 You can even track what people are thinking at that time, for instance, if lots of people are complaining 
 about getting lost in that comment's category, you should react by making less complicated paths 
 and by supplying more maps around the park. Basically every stat about every person in your park 
 is traceable, like the amount of money they have, how much they spent, what they are carrying (maps, 
 food, map, toys, ect.) , and as far in detail as showing how happy they are, their nausea level, 
 how much they have to go to the bathroom, and their energy. The park rating also gives you the 
 total average of what your guests think about the park, also certificates and awards will help 
 you see what parts your park is excelling in. The stats are really just amazing and provide feedback 
 that is very helpful in creating a successful park.
  
  Another great addition to the game is the amount of customizable rides that this gem sports. Of 
 course, you can manually build Roller Coasters; along with train tracks, go kart tracks, toobing 
 rides, raft rides, monorails, chairlifts, ect. (Most of them have awesome preset rides you can 
 just plop down into your park without the labor) . Those are only some of the manually built rides 
 there is in Rollercoaster Tycoon, on top of all those categories, there's basically all the rides 
 you can think of at almost any theme park, aside maybe a few oddball rides that you might not find. 
 All the rides can be colored to your liking and can also be named what ever you wish them to be 
 (you can name everything in the park, including each guest) . There are also improvements that you 
 can get for your rides by the means of scientists, which is also how you discover new rides through 
 out your parks life. Included in the rides category are food stalls, which can be customized just 
 as the rides, though the each food stall will only sell what it's name suggests (A pizza stall 
 for example) .
  
  The graphics and sound in Rollercoaster Tycoon remain as a great insight to the whole theme park 
 feel. The isometric view is a nice choice, considering it brings out the size of things with a 
 3d view, but without the graphics ever being 3d themselves. Each ride is well detailed with color 
 and texture, as are the landscapes, which are fully customizable (you can raise and lower land, 
 put tons of different plant, trees, flowers and decorations around, and make lakes and ponds if 
 you want) . Though each square land piece is either at a 45 degree angle or perfectly parallel, 
 it's still full of life as grass grows and your decorations pile up all over. I like how the graphics 
 leave nothing to imagination; if a mechanic is fixing a ride, you'll see him walk in and fix it; 
 if people pay to get in a ride, they'll walk through the gates onto the ride and you'll be able 
 to see each individual person on the ride. The sound is overall authentic to real life theme parks, 
 but after playing the game for hours on end, you'll get kind of tired of hearing the same sound 
 affects being played, like when one faint voice of a child says, "Flora Flora Flora". It's a good 
 thing that the music that radiates from some rides can be toggled on and off, because if you have 
 tons of merry-go-rounds, you won't want to hear the music all the time, though it changes enough 
 to blend into the background sound fairly well.
  
  I've really only began to scratch the surface of the game's many options and features. Rollercoaster 
 Tycoon is one of the most addictive games I've ever played, and should be yours as soon as you 
 can snag a copy of it. As close as you'll ever get to owning a park, without actually doing work.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dstunt504
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 17, 2004 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I played and played this game because it was my first pc game because I grew up on systems, This 
 game is extrodinary the time I spent on this game the game took foever to beat and me and everybody 
 else played to beat it, When I first got it I stayed up late playing it. Anyway this game is addictive 
 like tv and it is so much to do when managing a park and you actually get smart off of this game 
 teaching you how to manage problems and make guests happy. Then when you get the cheats you are 
 still playing more and more. Go out and buy it its a instant classic and will keep you busy, What 
 makes this game the best is the customization it will bring you in and actually make you think 
 you are making money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CitizenKane-
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2004 6:44 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most fun, and mosyt addicting, games I have ever played. Everything in this 
 game is well balanced. The gameplay mechanics are really well done. You fell that you actually 
 own your own amu****t park. Your park is teaming with life, people going where they see fit. They 
 either enjoy the ride or hate it. Both with bring consequences to your rides and park. The graphics 
 are pretty good for an RTS, you can see the individual's faces, tuny blades of grass, and what 
 food and/or product they are holding. The sound is pretty good also. You cna hear the laughter 
 and excitement of the guest on a certain ride, the car rumlbing against the tracks on the roller 
 coaster, and most important of all, the cahs flowing into your amu****t park. The value of this 
 game is through the roof. I still play this game constantly to this day. It is so addicting. If 
 you are a RTS fan looking for a game that doesn't deal with building and destroying civilizations, 
 then I suggest you pick this game up. You will thank me later. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
