-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: RollerCoaster Tycoon 3: Soaked!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/rollercoastertycoon3soaked/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tons of new content for RollerCoaster Tycoon 3.
 Cool water-based rides, including water slides.
 A solid expansion that addresses the issues from the original game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The user interface feels unnecessarily complex.
 The music is a tad bit too mellow for an otherwise fun game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  7, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.9, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 999 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Frontier Dev.
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Jun 23, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This expansion for RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 adds a ton of cool new content and addresses many of the 
 issues from that game. 

  Few games were as anticipated, or as mildly disappointing, last year than RollerCoaster Tycoon 
 3, the latest in the gargantuan mainstream hit series based on the simple idea that building theme 
 parks can be an addictively fun and family-friendly affair. The first RollerCoaster Tycoon practically 
 kick-started the entire Tycoon game genre by selling millions of copies, and so there were many 
 fans eagerly awaiting the third game in the series and the big leap to 3D that it represented. 
 And while RCT3 did deliver on the graphics, it stumbled a bit in terms of gameplay. It also felt 
 like it was rushed out early, suffering from a myriad of bugs and other weird gameplay issues. 
 Well, the good news is that, almost nine months later, Frontier has turned out RollerCoaster Tycoon 
 3: Soaked!, the first expansion pack for the game. Not only does Soaked! include all the latest 
 updates to clean up the gameplay, but it also tosses in a ton of new content that's beautiful to 
 behold.  

          It's safe to go back into the water in this expansion pack for RollerCoaster Tycoon 3. 
     

  As you can probably guess from the name, Soaked! is all about getting wet, but in a good way. Water 
 is very much the theme of this expansion, from fantastic, imaginative waterslides to giant wave 
 pools, killer whale shows, and more, all packed into eight brand-new scenarios. In addition to 
 all the water, there is a sandbox mode that lets you create your own park from scratch. Like before, 
 the single-player "campaign" (and we use that term loosely) starts you off with three scenarios 
 unlocked. Each scenario has three different levels of difficulty, and all you have to do is accomplish 
 the most basic goals to unlock another scenario. However, you can keep on playing a scenario to 
 unlock the more-advanced goals, which provides hours of gameplay for each scenario as you carefully 
 accumulate the money and research to create an even more-spectacular park.  

  These new scenarios offer a nice bit of variety, from the Loch Ness-like Monster Lake map that 
 features beautiful green hills and a tranquil lakeside setting to the desert-based Fountain of 
 Youth, which rises out of a hole in the desert to encompass the surrounding landscape. But what's 
 most impressive about these settings is the amount of imagination that each possesses, and it's 
 almost daunting to think that, with practice, you too can build something as wondrous and daring. 
 It'll take quite a bit of practice, though, as the user interface remains about the same as that 
 from RollerCoaster Tycoon 3. And if there's one complaint we have regarding the interface, it's 
 that it feels unnecessarily complex. Frontier has its own conventions for basic interface issues -- such 
 as main menu screens -- to confuse you, and trying to manipulate all the little buttons in order 
 to design and fine-tune a ride or coaster can be halfway maddening at times, especially when you 
 accidentally erase a tile or object, which happens far too often. Of course, practice does make 
 perfect, and if you get to Soaked!, odds are that you're a RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 veteran by now, 
 anyway. But if you're new to the series, or picking up Soaked! after a long interlude away from 
 the main game, then be prepared for a learning curve.  

  Soaked! does feature plenty of improvement to the core gameplay, as well. Gone is the bewildering 
 peep behavior from the main game. For example, in RollerCoaster Tycoon 3, rides went from being 
 red hot to ice cold inexplicably within a matter of moments, and trying to decipher your peeps' 
 behavior was baffling at times. Now there's much more of a logical cause-and-effect relationship 
 between you and your peeps, as you can adjust the many different prices and variables to your heart's 
 content and see how they react to them. And once again, Soaked! proves that RollerCoaster Tycoon 
 3 is a micromanager's dream, as you can control everything from the amount of pickles and condiments 
 that customers can put on their burgers to choreographing the laser light shows, fireworks, and 
 dolphin acts. It's so easy to get lost in all the little minutia of the game, and before you know 
 it, you realize that you've been charmed by it all. It's simply fun to watch your peeps have fun, 
 whether it's jumping into a pool or dragging their friends onto a wild ride. Or if they shake their 
 heads at a souvenir counter, you want to know why so you can address the issue. (Thankfully, all 
 it takes is to select a peep to see his or her thoughts.)  

          There are a ton of new coasters and other rides, in addition to all the new water-based 
 content in Soaked!     

  Considering that it requires about the same amount of computational power as RollerCoaster Tycoon 
 3, it's impressive the way Soaked! improves on the graphics of that game, mainly through the excellent 
 water effects. Water simply looks realistic, and it's so cool because there are many ways that 
 you can interact with it. For example, you can stir a pool up with your cursor and watch the peeps 
 react to the waves, or you can move the camera too close and see water splash onto the screen. 
 It's also fun to see all the new interactions your peeps have with the environment, like how they 
 paddle along on their inflated swim toys, or watch the gorgeous and elaborate Las Vegas-style mock 
 sea battles. There are a few blemishes, though. The collision between peeps and their environments 
 seems a bit off in places, and you'll see peeps meld into their deck chairs and other pieces of 
 furniture like they're being swallowed alive. Meanwhile, the light bloom effects are lavished in 
 disgusting amounts, making it all but useless to sort out any graphical details. It's best to simply 
 turn it off to begin with. The expansion is rather hit or miss in terms of audio, as the effects 
 remain good (and they sound downright great on a surround-sound system) , but the music is still 
 a bit too New Age for our tastes. It can be very mellow at times, which doesn't feel like the right 
 tone for a theme park game.  

  Soaked! represents a nice improvement over the original game, and overall it's a great expansion 
 that adds plenty of new content while also addressing some of the glaring gameplay issues of RollerCoaster 
 Tycoon 3.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  When Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 came out, many fans did in fact enjoy most of the gameplay and how 
 you can ride on all of the rides, and all the other great features, but there were still quite 
 some things missing most felt, and Roller Coaster Tycoon 3: Soaked! came out and anwsered most 
 of everyone's prayers.
  
  Roller Coaster Tycoon 3: Soaked! still features everything new and good of Roller Coaster Tycoon 
 3, and more. In Soaked, you can create pools in your park for all the peeps to enjoy. There are 
 different stages in Soaked, so you won't get to continue from other stages, although, this expansion 
 pack also adds some of the same new features to the original Roller Coaster Tycoon 3.
  
  Roller Coaster Tycoon 3: Soaked! is also supposed to address many issues, although nobody here 
 has noticed any difference. There is also no difference to the interface. It's still a little bulky 
 and still takes some time to get used to, especially path building.
  
  Overall, if you have Roller Coaster Tycoon 3, it wouldn't hurt to add this expansion to the game. 
 This expansion helps with a lot of problems and is great to really help you become a Roller Coaster 
 Tycoon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: green1995
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  This is a great expansion to add. This not only gives you the power to build pools but to build 
 slides, funnels, Aqua blasters, and a few other things. They also give you a few new coasters. 
 Scenery also has a few new things. well actually a lot. There are a ton of fun things to do now 
 like build your own indoor waterpark. The only down side is that the peeps fly into the pool when 
 the ride is over not making it realistic.
  
  Anyway if you don't have i would recommend it to any one who is bored playing rct3 .And since i 
 need a few more charecters i am going to mumble about rct3.
  
  Very fun, fun to view in coaster cam, very addictive, i wonder how many charecters i have said 
 do far. 689 wow a lot more. lalala........ lalalalla... i like watching videos on youtube. i also 
 like halo. halo is realllllly fun you should all play it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon1223hk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  RCT3 itself is a great game, and with this expansion pack it gets even better. You're allowed to 
 build a water park! With swimming pools and slides and all sort of water things! Water is always 
 a great thing when you are playing crazily and imagine how great it is to see your guests playing 
 them. Water is simply the best addition to an amusement park and this expansion pack makes the 
 dream come true.
  
  Also there are many additions to many aspects like there are more rides (a dolphin/whale show that 
 allows you to add fireworks to it!) , more scenery and lasers and water jets and tunnels. And the 
 passport machines! Guests can collect stamps across your park and retrieve a prize when they have 
 got a certain number of it... it is just truly great! It will be so fun if I can go to a park with 
 these machines lol.
  
  Anyway this expansion pack is GREAT, it is SUPERB. If you have got RCT3, then you MUST, I mean 
 you MUST, get this expansion pack to expand your fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Now you can make the full park of your dreams and create swimming pools and lazy rivers more water 
 rides and all the tycooness you could ever want!!
  
  And still all the cool rollercoasters, scenary and everything you could want to create your own 
 park... and if you take up enough time with it.. you have your own Disney World..
  
  I always have loved RollerCoaster Tycoon snese the first one and bought every game. Well here is 
 my review..
  
  Graphics 7 because its pretty great for a pc game and great 3d.
  Sounds 6 what the crap is that sound?? its just bad.
  Gameplay 8 excelent all around fun just 
 plain fun game and chalenging.
  Value and tilt 9 and 9 because its great in its way and nobody respects it.
  
  The Good
  
 Excelent Graphics.
  Fun chalenging park managment.
  
  The Bad
  Lag.. Glitches.. crashes alot.
  
  -- (\8.0/) -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KriTTerBlack
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon 3: Soaked! For me, this is a good game. I approve the idea of build water-theme 
 parks. Now, return to old versions of Roller Coaster: For example, Version 2: We can build tunnel! 
 Because I love to build underground rides. The pool complex is very good.
  
  I love water rides! This game for me, is amazing.
  
  If you like the idea of build roller coasters, 
 and/or a park, purchase the first version (3) and late, purchase the Soaked! Pack.
  
  I wait for the third expansion pack: Wild! I wait for purchase this! Hehehe.
  
  xD
  
  Note: 
 You must have a good pc to buy this game. Pentium III at minimium, GEFORCE or ATIRADEON video, 
 and a very good RAM Memory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clone_commando_
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Let's get started on my review of RollerCoaster Tycoon 3's expansion pack Soaked! . This is one 
 of the greater expansions for any game, but of course you have to have RCT 3 to get this. Gameplay 
 10/10
  In the Gameplay section i was impressed by this area. The new attractions and features are abundant 
 and were highly anticipated by myself.
  Graphics 10/10
  Graphics are an important part in all games but especially expansion packs. This expansion provides 
 an excellent source of just that, good graphics. there is little to no room for improvements.
 
  Sound 9/10
  Sound is excellent in all aspects from music to vomiting to splashes to tires screeching this game 
 has it all. Great sound is important in games even though you might not realize it. I found a few 
 places were the sound wasn't the greatest, but all in all. the sound was good.
  
  To summarize this it's a game for all types but tycoon or strategy gamers tend to like it more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shane97shane
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 8, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  i havent bought the game yet but with all of the amazing user videos ive seen about that and just 
 the normal roller-coaster tycoon 3 im gonna get them real soon! They look awesome! With now you 
 can make pools and water slides. Cant wait to play. I say its the best one in the entire series. 
 Over all it looks absolutely astonishing! Id recommend this game to people who like strategy and 
 simulation games. its sad that i cant play it right now. Im gonna wait till platinum comes out 
 so i can get all 3. well i say everyone should buy this game it looks really cool especially with 
 being able to actually ride the rides unlike number 1 and 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irunongames
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  It was very boring when I just had plain RCT3 but when I got the RCT3 Soaked expasion I was playing 
 it evry time I could. Some of my favorite things about it is that you get pools and you get one 
 more VIP guest. You also get more stalls. And you also get a passport mecienes which you can station 
 around your RCT3. And each peep gets a passport when they enter. And because they have to get to 
 them they may get hungrey or thirsty and then they go to stalls. Then you make alot of money. You 
 also get alot more rides. I say if you have RCT3 you got to get this expasion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cs88
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I got Soaked a while back and was surprised how great of an EXPANSION it was. That's right, don't 
 go buying this game until you have Roller Coaster Tycoon 3. Basically, in Soaked you get some new 
 rides, coasters, an ability to create amazing pools, slides ,some cool new stalls, and the ability 
 to make light and water shows with the MixMaster Display. Also, there are 8 new scenarios in Career 
 Mode that are fun and challenging. So overall Soaked will make RCT 3 more enjoyable and gives you 
 more opportunity and leverage to build the theme park of your dreams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the screenshots of RollerCoaster Tycoon 3: Soaked! I was amazed. This expansion 
 pack is what I had really wanted. Soaked! offers so much more (including fixes to a number of bugs) 
 to make playing RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 even more fun. Why is there a need to buy a separate water 
 park game when you can have roller coasters and water slides all in one game?
  
  I wasn't playing RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 that much until Soaked! came out. This expansion pack is 
 what I needed in order to continue playing RollerCoaster Tycoon 3. Without this, the game would 
 probably be gathering dust. I have been to a few water parks in my time and now it is possible 
 to recreate the fun from this expansion pack. I love creating a massive pool (like Wet 'n Wild) 
 and placing various things in the complex such as water slides, diving boards, showers and lazy 
 rivers. Your imagination can create the most wonderful pool complexes. Since pool complexes are 
 separated from the main park you can have a fee just to go on the water-based stuff and a few for 
 everything else. It's also quite fun placing roller coasters over the pool. Don't think I can remember 
 a theme park that does that. It's also cool to see that you can have hundreds of guests in a pool 
 complex at a time. So, if all the ride queues are long they can just come to the pool complex and 
 splash about.
  
  I don't have a really expensive graphics card or other expensive components but from playing the 
 game on my computer it looks stunning. The water in the pool looks realistic whenever someone dives 
 in it and the addition of new rides look just like what they are. For someone with an Alienware 
 computer I'm sure this will be even more amazing than what it is on my computer.
  
  Sound is great too. You feel like you are in a water park when playing this game. Splashes, people 
 sliding down to the plunge pool and kids having fun.
  
  Worth the money for an expansion pack. We are not talking another Wacky Worlds for RollerCoaster 
 Tycoon 2 (can that qualify for an expansion pack?) . If you haven't got the game pick it up sometime. 
 It adds to the countless hours of playing RollerCoaster Tycoon 3.
  
  If there were no Soaked! then there would be no more of me playing RollerCoaster Tycoon 3. Seriously, 
 Soaked! adds so much more for an expansion pack. RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 has done it for roller 
 coasters and now with this expansion pack it has done it for water parks too. A very well done 
 to the developers and beta testers who made this game so much more fun for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leelee_rocks
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack is truly incredible. I simply love making water theme parks from them or even 
 merging them with the normal RTC: 3 game in one big park. I love the fact that you have water cannons 
 so when you want you can get onto one of the cannons and blow the peeps around it off their feet, 
 flying into the air!
  
  I also fixes the bugs like your rides become instatnly popular and then just as quickly becoming 
 unpopular wihtout notice.
  
  I like the fact that you can create a kind of whirling tornado in the water whilst the peeps are 
 swimming in the pool to make them dizzy for a bit or when your are riding a water ride, the water 
 drips of the cam lens and light beams shoot through the surface of the water when you are underwater.
 
  
  I also love the addition of water shows and laser shows which you can make costomly to your own 
 liking. These add spectacular realism to the theme park and liven it up so much mroe than previous 
 tycoon games. 
  
  If you get RTC:3, you simply MUST get this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Soaked is Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 made right. The original title was so buggy that I had to put 
 it aside cause I was getting too nervous that it would crash everytime I was moving something around 
 that I was saving every 3 minutes. 
  
  If just for solving the bugs of RCT3 this expansion is worth it but since it's supposed to be like 
 that originally they had to put something more for me to buy it. 
  
  And they did. The new themes adds a lot of fun and diversity. The water effects, waterfalls and 
 everything related to water are very nicely done. The possibility of going underground is a blessing 
 since now it's very easy to actually make a coaster on mountains where it was a lot of work previously. 
 I also saw a bit of performances improvements. 
  
  All in all, this expansion is one of the best expansion done in all games this years.... but it 
 comes at a price. Only 10$ less than the original games. I find that a bit overpriced for an expansion. 
 With all the bugs the original game had, I would have been more kind to the fans if I would be 
 Atari. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  These new scenarios offer a nice bit of variety, from the Loch Ness-like Monster Lake map that 
 features beautiful green hills and a tranquil lakeside setting to the desert-based Fountain of 
 Youth, which rises out of a hole in the desert to encompass the surrounding landscape. But what's 
 most impressive about these settings is the amount of imagination that each possesses, and it's 
 almost daunting to think that, with practice, you too can build something as wondrous and daring. 
 It'll take quite a bit of practice, though, as the user interface remains about the same as that 
 from RollerCoaster Tycoon 3. And if there's one complaint we have regarding the interface, it's 
 that it feels unnecessarily complex. Frontier has its own conventions for basic interface issues -- such 
 as main menu screens -- to confuse you, and trying to manipulate all the little buttons in order 
 to design and fine-tune a ride or coaster can be halfway maddening at times, especially when you 
 accidentally erase a tile or object, which happens far too often. Of course, practice does make 
 perfect, and if you get to Soaked!, odds are that you're a RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 veteran by now, 
 anyway. But if you're new to the series, or picking up Soaked! after a long interlude away from 
 the main game, then be prepared for a learning curve.
  
  Soaked! does feature plenty of improvement to the core gameplay, as well. Gone is the bewildering 
 peep behavior from the main game. For example, in RollerCoaster Tycoon 3, rides went from being 
 red hot to ice cold inexplicably within a matter of moments, and trying to decipher your peeps' 
 behavior was baffling at times. Now there's much more of a logical cause-and-effect relationship 
 between you and your peeps, as you can adjust the many different prices and variables to your heart's 
 content and see how they react to them. And once again, Soaked! proves that RollerCoaster Tycoon 
 3 is a micromanager's dream, as you can control everything from the amount of pickles and condiments 
 that customers can put on their burgers to choreographing the laser light shows, fireworks, and 
 dolphin acts. It's so easy to get lost in all the little minutia of the game, and before you know 
 it, you realize that you've been charmed by it all. It's simply fun to watch your peeps have fun, 
 whether it's jumping into a pool or dragging their friends onto a wild ride. Or if they shake their 
 heads at a souvenir counter, you want to know why so you can address the issue. (Thankfully, all 
 it takes is to select a peep to see his or her thoughts.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falloutboyo1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Let's get started on my review of RollerCoaster Tycoon 3's expansion pack Soaked! . This is one 
 of the greater expansions for any game, but of course you have to have RCT 3 to get this. 
  Gameplay 10/10
  In the Gameplay section i was impressed by this area. The new attractions and 
 features are abundant and were highly anticipated by myself.
  Graphics 10/10
  Graphics are an important part in all games but especially expansion packs. This expansion provides 
 an excellent source of just that, good graphics. there is little to no room for improvements.
 
  Sound 10/10
  Sound is excellent in all aspects from music to vomiting to splashes to tires screeching this game 
 has it all. Great sound is important in games even tough you might not realize it. I found no room 
 for improvement in the sound category.
  
  To summarize this it's a game for all types but tycoon or strategy gamers tend to like it more. 
 I would recommend it to all buy it if you would like and if you need RCT 3 first get it because 
 it to is an almost flawless game. All around this is an awesome game. My final score of RollerCoaster 
 Tycoon 3: Soaked! is a perfect score of 10/10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooleman8
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  The bst of the Park Atracctions game is this, Roller-Coaster, that you can create, made and buy 
 some atracttions to improve the happiness of your people.......
  
  A video-game with many Atracctions and other things.. I cannot imagine the quantity of people that 
 accumulates in the game and besides you have to buy the stores or other places where the people 
 have that to buy so that sits down satisfied. I have played the passed versions but this play is 
 an innovator and with its expansion to create parks of water is totally the best fun parks play. 
 What but i like to cause is to buy Roller-Coasters and to improve them to see as the people is 
 enjoyed she, good in short, the game, you can do everything that your want always when be of the 
 diversions parks theme
  
  It is recommendable that buy it, is cheap and WILL CHARM YOU!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:08 am PT
Review:  My favorite amusement park game series does it again. Soaked! is so much more than I could ever 
 dream of.
  
  This expansion pack adds all those water rides that we were missing in the transition from RCT2 
 to RCT3, which means the return of log flumes, river rapids and water slides among many new attractions.
 
  
  As usual, starting from the beginning proves to be very useful. Soaked! comes equipped with a series 
 of 8 tutorials to teach you the basics: it covers everything from building a simple swimming pool 
 to creating a custom image laser show, how to create waterfalls (although it's lacking on the explanation 
 about how to prepare the terrain) and tunnels, plus the essential mechanics of dolphin and whale 
 shows. I recommend you play through them first, since there are a lot of new concepts to learn, 
 especially concerning the pool complexes.
  
  Oh, the pool complexes I don't have enough words to express how much I love them! Pools can be 
 built in levels and you can connect them with spiral staircases, ramps or small sets of stairs. 
 From the upper levels, you can build water slides heading to the lower levels, and you can even 
 ride them when you're done. You can also place diving boards on the upper levels (or on platforms 
 built for that purpose) so peeps can dive down to the lower level pools.
  
  If you have a little stall selling floats, you will see peeps walk around carrying them under an 
 arm, and jump in the pool with them. The floats are different for each age group.
  
  The pool complex has exclusive rides for itself: water slides, inflatable slides, a sort of river 
 rapids where peeps can jump in and swim or take their floats with them and let the current take 
 them. They must be connected to the pools by paths so everyone can enter and exit the rides, including 
 your mechanics.
  
  With simple click and drag mouse movements, you can create a series of waves or a whirlpool, and 
 watch while your guests have fun spinning around and sinking, going "whee!" or "oh, no!"
  
  It wasn't after a few hours that I realized my staff was complaining or quitting and the rest of 
 my park wasn't doing so well, but the pool complex is actually a microcosm of the amusement park 
 itself. It's so easy to completely forget about the rest of the park and concentrate on the pools, 
 watching how everyone reacts to the different facilities or amusements. I just kept zooming in 
 on everything, changing camera angles and watching peeps' super-happy faces while they lounged 
 in the sun or came down the water slides screaming "woo-hoo".
  
  But there is much more to Soaked! than just the pool complexes (although it is my favorite thing 
 in the game) .
  
  Like in RCT2, you can now build rides through land by tunneling through mountains, which adds a 
 lot to the excitement, and no one has to be in complete darkness since you can add lights to the 
 track pieces.
  
  A new transportation ride makes a special appearance, so now you can create a series of rivers 
 and lakes, and take your park visitors on spectacular boat rides while they get from one point 
 to another.
  
  Swan boats, canoes, rowing boats and the like have a new family member: windsurfing boards.
  
 
  Aquariums, killer whale and dolphin shows are fantastic attractions that you can stare at for quite 
 a while. Watching them from a first-person point of view can be nearly breathtaking as a manta 
 floats by, dolphins take a tail walk or a whale takes the trainer for a ride.
  
  The new landscaping and scenery themes are just the right complement to the theme of this expansion, 
 with jumping water sprouts, several fountains, Atlantis-related dcor (vases and fish-men included) , 
 animated mermaids and a ton of artifacts belonging in a lost paradisiac island.
  
  It's been constantly over 30 Celsius where I am, and has been for the last month, and I've been 
 wanting to go to a real theme park. But who needs a real theme park in this heat when I can just 
 sit back, relax and feel refreshed with the wonders of Soaked!
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=rct3soaked 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dangerklm
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 8:37 am PT
Review:  RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 is now widely hailed as one of the most successful simulation games ever 
 to hit the shelves. Soaked! cements this view and add's many new gameplay features and eye boggling 
 new content, as well as adding a few scenario's to the Career Mode. 
  
  The major add on in terms of content is the swimming pool feature. Building a massive new swimming 
 complex or a small pool for relaxing, really your choice. Add slides and river rapids and you've 
 got yourself you new favourite attraction (they have MEGA capacities) . Also the new shops and scenary 
 are a welcome addition. The new water are as immense as the 'dry' coasters that preceded them. 
 The dolphin and whale shows add another dimension to this multi dimensional simulation game. 
 
  
  The new scenario's add a much welcomed challenge, though some are treacherously difficult but should 
 be by no means avoided, after all everyone likes a challenge.
  
  The game isn't highly addictive, though if you do find yourself completely glued, don't sit too 
 close to the screen as you risk getting square eyes and the occasional soaking. 
  
  In conclusion, this game is an utter steal for the hours of extended gameplay it adds to an already 
 classic style. And if you can drag yourself away from RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 long enough to buy 
 it.... definately do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SidFerrariman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2005 8:28 am PT
Review:  This expansion-pack is very welcome for RCT3. 
  The bugs are over, and the new elements are great.
  
  First, the swimming poles: they are big 
 fun, and with extending your pools with waterslides they become as spectacular as a rollercoaster. 
 
  Building pools is very easy and nice for the face of your park.
  
  The new usual attractions are not very good. They are a bit boring, just like the new rollercoasters, 
 they only have other trains on the track.
  
  Other new elements are waterfalls, 2 new themes (Atlantis and Paradiso Island, not themes who you'll 
 use much) and some little things, like new things for your footpaths.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasfight54
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 22, 2005 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is alot better than I thought it would be. With the new water rides you will have many 
 water slides, aqua boosters ( like the Master Blaster in New Branfels.) You will also get many 
 new features like laser shows, whale show. But the most noticible thing is the graphics are improved 
 from the base game. The water looks more realistic than it did with the base game and there is 
 only one glitch and it is when you are going on a quick ride with a huge drop, you go into the 
 peeps face, and this is really annoying because I like seeing how my ride looks from the seat. 
 Overall though I feel like this game is definatley worth the money. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 11:59 am PT
Review:  This is a great expansion pack for Roller Coaster Tycoon 3. With all new rides and attractions 
 it is a new out look Roller Coaster Tycoon3. The game play is better then RCT3 because of all the 
 new things you can do and build. The graphics are slightly better because of all the new water 
 features. The water looks really good and ripples and such like it would do in real life. The sound 
 is also very good because of all the rides and people. It sounds like you are in an Amusement park. 
 The value is unlimited just like all the other Roller Coaster Tycoon games. After you beat the 
 campaign mode you can mess around in Sandbox Mode or in the levels in the Campaign mode. If you 
 have Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 you have to have this expansion pack for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rifton
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:15 am PT
Review:  One year ago I got RCT3 for Christmas, although it was fun at first, but it quickly wore off because 
 of glitches and terrible A. I. When I heard that they were going to make an expansion pack that 
 would not only fix the problems I was having but also allow you to build water parks I was very 
 exicited. So when I got it I was overwhelmed by how much fun it was. It was pretty fun when you 
 could actually finish the missions and the waterparks were awesome, they were what RCT has been 
 missing all these years. Now I can actually stand to play for more than an hour at a time. If you 
 are a fan of strategy or simulation games this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geek12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 12, 2005 7:25 am PT
Review:  Soaked! Is the first expansion pack to an already greate series. Now, rct3 was buggy, didnt have 
 that much to offer, ect. But it was still a good game. Soaked fixes all thoes things. This game 
 adds so much that it almost is like 2 expansion packs in one. You have:
  
  Water parks- the best addition to the game, they are addictive to make, they dont give you as many 
 water slides as i would have liked, but i can get over it.
  
  New rides- i cant see how they come up with these, either way they are a great new adition and 
 it adds quite a bit to the game
  
  Scenery- Im not a fan of scenery so i really dont use it. But Waterfalls are a great addition along 
 with tunnels. Tunnels add so much to this game, i dont see why they didnt add them into rct3.
 
  
  Graphics- if you have a good graphics card, the game looks amazing, the water effects are fun and 
 the rides look even more realy. I also rated the graphcis high because even though it says that 
 (in the readme) it doesent supory gforce 4 mx and cards like that, it does! 
  
  Problems- The main issue is are the problems with the copyright and things of that nature, they 
 can get in the way on the second insilation of the game, other that that, Rct3: Soaked! is a great 
 expansion pack, BUY IT!
  
  Sound- Sound isnt really an issue, but its really not there either. I like the sound efects and 
 there really isnt any music. But the sound efects are good enough to not make it annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectricB05
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 2, 2005 7:45 am PT
Review:  This game has to many memory leaks on some machines i have 1.5g memory and its slow thats with 
 a 64 bit proscessor. BUT it looks like it would be awesome without the memory leaks, Hasbro needs 
 to make a patch and quick im going to buy wild hoping it has a patch too fix the game or RCT 3 
 is next months garage sale for a buck. RCT 3 was good before the memory leaks on Soaked. One thing 
 that looks exciting in Soaked is the Fire works display and lasers and water shows. the graphics 
 are good and the sounds is unbelivable i would love to give the game a 10 but its going to get 
 a 5 for the leaks sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxoidRodi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 29, 2005 11:42 am PT
Review:  There is no doubt that Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 was a great success! However with the "Soaked!" 
 expansion pack it's something totally different!
  
  Of course, from it's name, we can know what the pack is all about - WATER PARKS - just in time 
 for summer, the expansion pack will add the necessary features for us to build the water park of 
 our dreams! With loads of new water and non-water related tools, the expansion pack takes the original 
 game to the next level! In addition to the water pools and awesome water rides, the game adds the 
 ability to build waterfalls and to design your own laser lights show (just like fireworks!) . Besides, 
 the game also adds 50 new regular rides to the original game, so now you can expand your park as 
 much as you want!!!
  
  Roller Coaster Tycoon: Soaked! is a must for those of you who have the original one, you don't 
 know what's waiting for you!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeTer__GriFFin
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 27, 2005 3:07 am PT
Review:  Ok this game is not all water, its a mix of water rides, swimming pool, new rides, shops, food, 
 scenery. And this may be a necesity to your collection. If you have roller coaster tycoon 3 you 
 must get this, which would probly be every one reading this because other wise why would you care 
 unless you are thinking about buying both. Ok graphics are the same which is definately a 10!!
 
  gameplay well its just as fun with a couple new twists and a few more levels, and new park management 
 sections 10-10 
  
  sound is still great and the new sounds are nice 9-10
  
  all your 30 belong to this, worth the money, and it is fun to see your park go from small time, 
 to nation wide so i give the value a 10-10 
  
  tilt 10-10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingBobCat
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2005 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep it brief, if you own and enjoy RCT 3, you MUST get this expansion!!! I took a chance 
 and deleted my original profile and started ALL over, after installing this add-on. I have had 
 an absolute BLAST with it! I've only been through a couple of the parks, but Soaked! adds SO much 
 to the game! You can actually make swimming pools within your park (and charge money, of course 
  :) ) ! You can even make a park that is half water park, half amusement park if you want! It adds 
 tons of cool rides and shops to the amusement side too, so don't let the name fool you! It isn't 
 just water, it has tons of neat extras for your main park! Also, it adds a whole new list of water 
 park scenarios to work on. Lots more playability to keep you busy! :)
  
  30 bones is steep for an expansion pack, but it is totally worth it if you love RCT 3! Gotta get 
 it! Have fun! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
