-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: RollerCoaster Tycoon 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/rollercoastertycoon2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 14, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.6, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 2,289 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Chris Sawyer
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Oct 15, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Newcomers will likely find RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 enjoyable, but if you were a fan of the original, 
 you'll probably have a hard time believing that you waited so long for what the sequel has to offer. 
 

 Both the best and the worst thing you can say about RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 is that it is nearly 
 identical to its predecessor. It's both a blessing and a curse, because the millions of fans of 
 the original and its two expansion packs will no doubt be happy to receive more of the same park-building 
 fun but crestfallen over how few changes have been made by developer Chris Sawyer. Though newcomers 
 will likely find the sequel enjoyable for the simple, engaging fun that it shares with the original 
 game, if you were already a fan of RollerCoaster Tycoon, you'll probably have a hard time believing 
 that you waited so long for what the sequel has to offer: the same old graphics, the same old rides, 
 and the same old objectives.           You can now build the Texas Giant from Six Flags Over Texas. 
    

 For the most part, RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 is more like a stand-alone expansion for the first game 
 than a true sequel. The gameplay is cut from the same cloth as the original and its expansion packs 
 in nearly every way. The 26 huge scenarios feature nothing but fairly ordinary objectives, so while 
 you are almost overwhelmed in terms of how much you can get out of the game itself -- each scenario, 
 even the three beginner parks, can take as long as six or seven hours to complete -- you're basically 
 doing the same things you did in the first game. In one scenario, you have to earn a monthly income 
 from ride tickets of at least $10,000. In another, you have to repay a bank loan and build your 
 park's value to at least $500,000. And in another scenario, you have to erect 10 different roller 
 coasters, each more than 3,937 feet in length and with excitement ratings of 7.00 or more. And 
 so on. If you've never played RollerCoaster Tycoon before, you may indeed find these objectives 
 enjoyable, even challenging -- but if you're a fan of the series, you've seen them before. Fortunately, 
 the developer at least had the foresight to let you play any of the scenarios at any time.   

 
  Also, RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 offers a bit more variety in terms of the parks you can build. A 
 number of the game's more challenging scenarios involve theme parks, which gives them a unique 
 character that isn't provided by the traditional objectives. Alpine Adventures, for example, is 
 set on an icy mountain that is more hospitable to skis than roller coasters, while Infernal Views 
 seems to overlook the tourist-trap ring of Dante's  Inferno . Also, RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 features 
 the official Six Flags license. You can try your hand at running five official Six Flags parks, 
 including such popular family destinations as Great Adventure and Magic Mountain. These locations 
 can be played as formal scenarios starting with parks that resemble their real-world counterparts 
 or as part of a build mode that lets you put together a park from the ground up.           One 
 of the beginner scenarios is set in a medieval castle.    

 Unfortunately, most of the original RollerCoaster Tycoon's rides and concession stands have been 
 carried over to the sequel with few additions or alterations. Although the sequel's huge selection 
 of rides and amenities is much bigger than that of any other management game, it's still disappointing 
 to see so few changes. Fans of the original and its expansions will recognize everything but Six 
 Flags roller coaster designs like Colossus and Psyclone, a few new flat rides such as Magic Carpet 
 and Soap Box Derby Racers, and some new amenities like ATM kiosks and theme toilets. Some of the 
 preexisting attractions have seen a little fine-tuning. Coasters, for example, can now feature 
 banked inclines, steeper lifts, and new train types. Lots of scenery has been added. This includes 
 elements of Wild West, giant garden, and pirate themes, along with all sorts of new fences and 
 foliage to better custom-fit your parks.    

 Play RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 for a while, and you'll find the same absence of innovation in the sequel's 
 gameplay. The interface has been upgraded so you can select attractions by simply scrolling down 
 a screen of icons. Operating a park functions in exactly the same way as before, with the incorporation 
 of some welcome frills like being able to build theme tunnels around rides, stack scenery, and 
 place structures more easily on uneven land. Parks can now be greatly expanded by buying up adjacent 
 land. But in basic play there are no new staff members to be hired, no new streams of income, no 
 new troublemakers, no new ways of cleaning up when the most thrilling coasters cause riders to 
 retch up their cotton candy. There isn't even a default sandbox mode, unless you create one with 
 the new scenario editor.           The scenario backdrops aren't pretty to look at.    

 RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 actually includes two new editing tools as handy accessories to the otherwise 
 same-seeming solo play. The aforementioned scenario editor lets you make your own scenarios from 
 scratch, but this welcome feature is crippled by limits on attraction and scenery options, just 
 six simplistic objectives that are no different from those in the default scenarios, a $10,000 
 limit on starting cash (though cash can be turned off completely so you can make a sandbox scenario) , 
 and the bizarre inability to set up attractions with it. This latter issue forces you to set up 
 the size of your park and objectives in the editor, save your progress, play the scenario until 
 you get the starting rides and concessions just as you want them, save your game again, and then 
 go back to the main menu tools and turn the save game file into a scenario. At this point the scenario 
 editor automatically restarts so you can make adjustments to the starting conditions and resave 
 the scenario. It's a needlessly complex process. The new roller coaster editor is better conceived, 
 as it allows for the free design of coasters without jumping through hoops. You also don't have 
 to worry about cash and other factors that come into play in formal scenarios.   

  Although the editors are desirable additions, it might have been better if Sawyer had skipped them 
 and addressed the more troublesome aspects of the game. Designing custom rides still requires you 
 to use a cumbersome builder applet that is difficult to manage. This should have been refined here, 
 especially in consideration of the sequel's more complex coasters and larger parks. Managing the 
 game in general is still much more awkward than it should be, in large part due to the fact that 
 it makes you manually deal with terrain features. For example, the game still doesn't always automatically 
 compensate for the problems involved with uneven terrain or the need to make a tunnel. You have 
 to fiddle with minor problems so much that it's often easier to take the path of least resistance 
 by demolishing what you have and looking for a different building location. This is a problem that 
 really should have been addressed in the sequel, especially since the recent Virtual Resort: Spring 
 Break and Sid Meier's SimGolf are easier to use in almost every way.           Junk food and water 
 rides can still be found in every park.    

 Those competitors also look better. Although management games are typically developed to run on 
 the older systems of casual computer gamers, RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 takes this to an extreme. The 
 graphics are almost exactly the same as they were in the first game, which is now fast approaching 
 its fourth birthday. Although the engine apparently features some more special effects, such as 
 visitors looking up at roller coasters and additional ride animations, you would never know it. 
 It's hard to tell the two games apart in most respects. Each is based on a grid system that looks 
 terrible when used to represent anything than isn't square. The Ghost Town desert and Alpine Adventures 
 tundra look more like bad cubist art than sand and snow. Though RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 does support 
 higher video resolutions, any setting over 800x600 makes it difficult to read the text on menu 
 screens. The new sound effects are somewhat hard to differentiate from the old ones, but since 
 the first game's audio was very good, this isn't a problem. Also, the sequel's audio seems to have 
 more depth, since the music from your rides and the noise of the crowds seem to combine more effectively. 
   

  But in general, RollerCoaster Tycoon 2's parks won't seem very lively to you, especially if you've 
 played the original game. It's entirely possible that if the developer had taken a lot of risks 
 and changed the RollerCoaster Tycoon formula radically, it might have angered the game's many fans 
 around the world. But unfortunately, RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 seems to go in the opposite direction, 
 making hardly any significant changes or additions to a formula that has been incredibly successful 
 but has remained largely unchanged for years. If you've never played a RollerCoaster Tycoon game 
 before, you won't be amazed by the graphics, but you'll likely find RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 to be 
 as colorful and charming as the original game was to its fans. However, if you've played the original 
 game, you'll find that RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 is successful in some aspects, but ultimately isn't 
 a fulfilling sequel to one of the best computer games of the past decade.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (55 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: the_danny
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2009 9:56 am PT
Review:  and why??
  
  the birdview looks better for rct
  
  and why
  
  ???
  
  i dont know :p
  
  maar nu moet ik nog een heleboel carakters er bij zetten dus ik doe dittttttttt 
 ttttttttttttttt tttttt
  tttttttttt ttttttt
  tttttttttt tttttttttt
  ditttttttt tttttttttt
  tttttttttttt ttttt
  tttttttttttt tttttttt
  dittttttttt tttttttttttt
 
  ttttttttttt tt tttt
  ttttttttttttttt ttttt
  dittttttttttttt ttttttt
  ttttttttttttttttt
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ditttttttttttttttt ttttt
  ttttttttttttt tttt
 
  tttttttttttttttttttt
  ditttttttt tttttttttttt
  tttttttttttt tttttttt
  ditttttttttt ttttttttttttt
  tttttttttttttt ttt
  ttttttttttttttt ttttt
  tttttttttttttttt t
 
  ttttttttttttttttt ttt
  dittttttttttttttt ttt
  ttttttttttttttttt
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ditttttttttttttttt ttttt
  ttttttttttttttttt
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
 
  ditttttttttttttttt tttt
  ttttttttttttttttt
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ditttttttttttttttt ttttt
  ttttttttttttttttt
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ditttttttttttttttt tttt
 
  tttttttttttttttttttt
  ditttttttttttttttttt ttttt
  ttttttttttttttttt
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ttttttttttttttttt
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ditttttttttttttttt tt
 
  ttttttttttttttttt
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ditttttttttttttttt ttttt
  ttttttttttttttttt
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ditttttttttttttttt tttt
  ttttttttttttttttt
  tttttttttttttttttttt
 
  ditttttttttttttttttt ttt
  ttttttttttttttttt
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ditttttttttttttttt tttt
  tttttttttttttttttttt
  ditttttttttttttttttt ttttt
  ttttttttttttttttt
 
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ttttttttttttttttt
  tttt tttttttttttttt tt
  ditt tttttttttttttt tt
  tttttt ttttttttttt
  tttttttttttttttttttt
  ditttt tttttttttttttt ttt
 
  ttttttttttttttttt
  ttttttttt ttttttttt tt
  dittttt t tttttttttttttt
  ttttttttt tttttttt
  tttttttttt tttttttttt
  ditttttttt ttttttttttttt
  tttttttttttt ttttt
 
  ttttttttttttt ttttttt
  dittttttttttt ttttttttt
  tttttttttttttttttttt
  ditttttttttttt ttttttttttt
  ttttttttttttttttt
  ttttttttttttttttt ttt 
  
  (sorry for mine 
 bad english i am dutch)
  (sorry for mine bad english i am dutch)
  (sorry for mine bad english i am dutch) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red-Ravens
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:15 pm PT
Review:  To put it simply, Roller Coaster Tycoon 2 is addicting. I'm not talking about keeping you up at 
 night addicting. I'm talking ignoring you wife and kids, not showering for weeks at a time, losing 
 your job, and having absolutely no life at all. Okay maybe I'm exagerating but it's still a very 
 fun game and highly addictive. If you can spare a couple bucks you really need to pick up this 
 game. The basis of this game is fairly simple. You make roller coaster, thrill rides, and food 
 stands to try to complete the objectives and make the best park you can. This may sound boring 
 but it is a very enjoyable way to pass the time. If you are living on a college campus and you 
 have a lot of spare time you need to get this game. IT WILL MAKE YOUR LIFE BETTER. If I didn't 
 have this game I don't know what I would do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nypd66
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:57 am PT
Review:  You can break ground and start from scratch, open the gates to a remarkable Six Flags park, or 
 just create the most gut-wrenching rollercoaster imaginable! New features in RollerCoaster Tycoon 
 II will include a tuned ride creation system for more control while building roller coasters and 
 scenery, new shops and stores to help raise players profits in their parks, new park themes to 
 help gamers attract new customers to their theme parks and a scenario editor with which gamers 
 can create their own park challenges. It's not all that bad once you start playing it, but it's 
 kinda boring after awhile. I was into it for a good 2 weeks than I got bored of it. It's a bit 
 overrated, but it's an enjoyable game. I recommend you rent it first. If you like these kind of 
 games, than I suggest you just go ahead and get it, but if you don't and this is your first time 
 playing this series, than I suggest you rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is very entertaining. Think of it as the Sim City for amusement parks. You can create an 
 amusement park from sctrach and design how big you want it, and you decide how much to charge people 
 for entry fee and for riding the rides. If you charge too much the people won't want to come to 
 your park, if you charge too little the expenses will outweight the earnings.
  
  See it costs money for rides to operate, and they break down and you need to hire mechanics. You 
 need to hire cleaners to clean up your park otherwise it will be too dirty and nobody will want 
 to go there. You need food stalls so people can eat and have to pay for staff, same with toilets 
 and it costs money for toilets to operate.
  
  So you have to balance out the budget while keeping people entertained and happy enough so they 
 keep coming.
  
  And most of your money will be spenting buying rollercoasters or designing them yourself. You can 
 build some absolutely giant ones, and ones with many twists and loops that will draw people.
  
  When you design your own roller coaster, you can make it so big the ride will take over 2 minutes
 
  
  You can build the pirate ship style rides and those type of rides that go really high in the air 
 and drop down really fast.
  
  There is some rides that use water which are fun to watch hit the water and create a splash, and 
 you can build the good old dodge em cars.
  
  If you want to attract a lot of people you need to make some rides that are suitable for children 
 and more gentle rides like ferris wheels too.
  
  You can also hire people dressed in costumes to entertain kids so they will want their parents 
 to take them to your park, and it also gives your park a more colorful feel.
  
  You also need to think carefully about the layout to your park and how you design footpaths because 
 if people get frustrated they won't want to come back as often.
  
  You can win awards for having the best rollercoasters, or cleanest park in the country, or even bad 
 awards too such as ''most confusing footpath layout''.
  
  Once you get bored of your park there is scenarios you can take which you have to accomplish goals 
 within a set time. And if you find it too hard to balance a budget you can play with unlimited money 
 and just relax and watch people scream happily as the ride the roller coasters.
  
  There is even a tool that lets you locate any staff member at any time and you can tell a mechanic 
 which roller coaster to fix first (they automatically check and repair them, but you want your most 
 popular ones to be fixed first) and you can tell your people in costumes and clearners where to 
 go (so there is extra micro management and strategy you can use to keep your visitors happy)
  
  The graphics were detailed for their time. The roller coasters look great and you see people 
 everywhere and waiting in line to ride them and on the roller coaster. You will see your park get 
 dirty and your cleaners trying to clean the park. You see the mechanic walking around checking or 
 reparing rides and the people in costumes walking around trying to entertain.
  
  You see the water rides built around water and when they hit the water you see a big splash.
 
  
  You see rides of a jungle theme, and the pirate ships swing like crazy and the ride that goes really 
 high than drops fasts looks like in real life.
  
  The rollercoasters always move through the loops and twists very smoothly.
  
  Some of the roller 
 coasters look really absolutely huge and dwarf anything else, and you see detail like fence around 
 your park.
  
  You can make any of the rides have music and select different music for each ride. And the music 
 for the game is pretty good. You hear people screaming loud on the more exciting rides and the more 
 people at your park the louder your park will become with the chatter of people.
  
  Overall a very entertaining game and great for people who've always wanted to own their own amusement 
 park. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Life_man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I've recently started playing this game again, I thought I beat it to it's death, but this game 
 grows on you. It's like the Sims or Simcity, you might think there's nothing to it, but you'll 
 spend dozens of hours sitting in your basement while the sun shines brightly outside satisfying 
 the needs of centimeter-tall people who all look alike. 
  
  This light-hearted, easy to play game is more fun that you initially might think. Pretty much all 
 you do is lay out tracks, build rides and services for your people, and hire a few people, but 
 fine-tuning every aspect of your park is alot of fun.
  
  Let's get the obligatory graphics and sound out of the way first. I'm pretty sure the graphics 
 are exactly the same as RCT 1, maybe there's some higher resolutions, but it's nothing to leave 
 RCT 1 over. The sound: there are dozens of songs you can have playing, the sound of screaming from 
 rollercoasters, the pops from balloons, quacks from ducks, exclaimations from your guests, a symphony 
 of amusement park sounds constantly pouring from your speakers. 
  
  Gameplay is fine. There are several missions you can do including running your own Six Flags park 
 or building in some difficult place such as a castle. I don't really have any complaints about 
 the gameplay, everything you do affects the economy, you can't whine and say that the game is cheating 
 you. Combing through financial records and cutting some fat, such as a particular food stand that 
 no one likes, will help you if you aren't chugging smoothly along, and you can of course take out 
 loans, as long as you keep an eye on the interest payments. 
  
  So there you go, my shining review of this awesome Chris Sawyer game. Remember Transport Tycoon? 
 He made that, he made this too! You know this comes from a good place, so peel yourself from your 
 computer chair and go buy this game. Unless your computer is a decade old, you can run this. Your 
 mother will be happy to see you providing cotton candy to five-year-olds instead of pumping lead 
 into a thirty-foot alien. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: no_info_here
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  The full review says this game is kind of disappointing due to the same game play and graphics. 
 I say this is what makes the game pure gold. Fans of the original will know exactly how to manage 
 their park, and RCT 2 already is harder than the prequel, so the game's difficulty is perfect for 
 old fans and new fun challenges for newbies. The extra features (new stalls, rides, entertainer 
 costumes etc.) also gives the game a great addition to the game play. RCT 3 had different graphics 
 from RCT 1&2 but that's different. Chris Sawyer knows just what to do, what kind of game play, 
 what features should be added/removed, everything. His brain knows how th think, so the game's 
 much better than how the full review says. I say it's just what the world needed. The game's been 
 out for quite a while now, but if you decide to buy it, you won't regret it. Trust me. Or trust 
 the people who agree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesy_potatoe
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon 2 is a great game to make the park of your dreams.
  there are all kinds of rides form the kid ones to the most thrilling roller coasters you can make. 
 The new thing about it is that it includes real rides from six flags with every track piece in 
 the same place as in the ride. also there are all kinds of different tracks to make your own roller 
 coasters, but the roller coaster builder can make the game a little difficult for newcomers. the 
 building mechanics have not changed alot since the last game making the game difficult. the graphics 
 have not changed at all. but all of the new features make the game a whole lot better than the 
 original. this game can be complicated so I would not recommend this to young people. But despite 
 ageing, this game is a great game to unleash the tycoon inside of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImpSlayer
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Sure, it is painfully similar to the original. Sure, it uses the same mechanics to build rides. 
 But, in this case, that's a good thing. If you played the first and couldn't put it down, this 
 is your game.
  
  The graphics are slightly upgraded (almost unnoticeably) . But the new additions are the best part. 
 With more types of rides, Six Flags parks, and a rollercoaster/scenario designer, it is the best 
 possible follow-up to RCT. The new scenarios are even more difficult, but more addictive, too. 
 Quite simply, there is a boatload of more things to do. Just as strongly as I recommended the first 
 installment, I recommend this ten-fold.
  
  The expansion packs also add a few levels of replay value (as if it needed it) . Like the original, 
 you'll play this one to the end, yearning more. I'd suggest continuing through the expansions before 
 trying RCT3. Just a warning...
  
  Last Words: What are you waiting for? GO BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goosebumpsfreak
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon 2 has out done itself with the scenario editor, new rides, Six Flags, and 
 parks. RCT2 has the original gameplay, graphics and sounds. It has better qualities than the first 
 in the series because of the scenario editor and new rides. Who wouldn't love this game? It offers 
 a variety of new rides such as the giga coaster which is completley awesome and the option of guest 
 loving more intense rides. If you are debating about getting this game, trust me, buy it. It has 
 intense gameplay as guest complain about your park and what it needs. I hate how they complain 
 about the fee being to cheap though. lol. So really buy it because Chris Sawyer has a really good 
 mind when it comes to creating tycoon games. RCT2 highly meets my requirments. I swear I hate the 
 stupid review thing here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TSBFan
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  RollerCoaster Tycoon 2, like its predecessor, is a scenario-based theme park simulator. The actual 
 game in Chris Sawyer's plan has gotten little usage by me. His intention was to have players work 
 with fairly small parks in objective-based scenarios to "win" or "lose". In this light, RCT1 was 
 a much better game for the scenario player. It had actual scenarios that the player could unlock 
 after winning a certain number of lower scenarios. The ultimate prize was what Sawyer did not see 
 as most player's only interest all along -- a "sandbox" by the name of Mega Park.
  
  The history of "trainers" and other mods for RCT1 was just as deep as, if not deeper than, any 
 other PC game of its era. The key difference being that mods made it a completely different "sandbox" 
 game, and Chris Sawyer had a real problem with "his" game being used in these ways. He even wrote 
 code to prevent mods in later RCT1 expansions. After many talented programmers worked through these 
 measures, he all but submitted to popular demand. The result is RollerCoaster Tycoon 2, or as it 
 is known to the RCT community as "RCT2" or "park-making heaven".
  
  A scenario editor, which many coders had tried making fan versions of in RCT1, came with the new 
 game. Sawyer also included options for unofficial user-created objects like scenery and rides, 
 but this option wasn't made public until some code cruncher fans discovered it. It is believed 
 that he was going to release some custom objects online, as well as in expansions. But only a "Panda" 
 theme, with a coaster train, scenery and other objects ever surfaced. These objects were examined 
 by coders in the fan community, and it became evident that they had a flag set to "user-created 
 object", which meant players could make their own. Then it became evident that the RCT2's similarities 
 to RCT1 were only superficial. Sure the basic engine of the game was still the same. But now a 
 player can easily assign a set of objects to their park, and make custom objects that can easily 
 be imported into the game by simply placing them into a certain game folder.
  
  Now not only could players work with the default objects any way they wanted, they could make their 
 own or download someone else's creation to make their park look practically like anything they 
 wanted it to look like. Now there were some truly remarkable parks made for RCT1, but RCT2 had 
 possibilities RCT1 couldn't even dream of having.
  
  In short, Sawyer should thank his loyal fans for some of the game's success. I think the fans have 
 made the game as much as he has. Of course the coaster engine is nearly flawless, though somewhat 
 on the fast side. Not many "big park" makers allow "peeps" (guests) into their park, since they 
 use wider paths, but I think even the peep AI was good for the specs Sawyer was going for (100 
 MHz computers for the original) . Sawyer definitely deserves much credit for the game's design.
 
  
  RCT3 and especially the Thrillville series aren't really Sawyer's games, but they all have at their 
 roots Sawyer's excellent game design. Most of which was dreamed up in '95-'99, originating as a 
 sequel to his popular Transport Tycoon series, and evolving into a much more realistic and open-ended 
 answer to the old Theme Park series.
  
  With that said, I believe RCT2 to be the pinnacle of "his" franchise. Sure it doesn't have 3D, 
 peep groups, or a "Peep designer", but the core park making abilities of this game really put other 
 successors to shame, plus big parks run well on systems of 500 MHz, while big parks on RCT3 need 
 something more like 500 GHz (ok, I'm exaggerating a little...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xela8
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This is cooler than the 1st version since it has a lot more rollercoaster and stuff hey WAIT! Rollercoasters 
 fits Rollercoaster tycoon AWESOME! This I have got all the rollercoaster Tycoon games exepect the 
 3rd one and I'm trying to figure out what's with the landscape version at imdb. com...
  
  I don't think the landscape version isn't out and I hope they sure they didn't make a 4th version 
 stopping at 3 is fine cause' I never saw the 4th version here at Gamespot. com maybe it's imdb. com 
 making up own godamn games and movies I do not understand
  
  But my favorite ride is the Magic Carpet ride and I haven't had a favorite rollercoaster ride yet 
 but at millions of times I have played this game but now I have got my WII, I'm not playing it 
 too much anymore so now it's a nice time for me and my siser to play this game toggether 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 80 % The gameplay is good it looks allot like the first roller coaster tycoon but this 
 game doesn't have that much action like the first game in the series. This game has allot of options 
 for building a park i think if you like the first Roller coaster tycoon game i think you should 
 check this game out because this game has better maps and better roller coasters.
  
  
  Graphics 88 % This game has amazing graphics for a 2002 game i think when you'll be playing this 
 game you'll be impressed how good the graphics are.
  
  
  Sound 87 % This game has better music and sound i was pretty impressed.
  
  Difficulty : I think 
 this game is simple and easy to learn how to build a park i think in ten minutes you'll understand 
 every thing that you can do in the park.
  
  I reccomend this game for every one because this game has allot of new maps and new things that 
 the first game didn't have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm a hardcore RCT fan. When this game came out it was a must buy! So I got it. Totally awesome! 
 Here's the review. The game is very similar to RCT1. The graphics aren't much different and there 
 are many of the same types of rollercoasters and rides. But, the game does have a extremly cool 
 new feature. There is a sandbox mode. Here you may make your own maps, rollercoasters, or edit 
 saved maps. This new feature is very awesome! Also, there are a new bunch of awesome rollercoasters 
 and rides. The new rides add much more to the game. The game has new missions, which are all unlocked, 
 which means you don't get the joy that the old RCT gave you when you beat a level and unlock a 
 new one. The game's new missions are pretty fun but, there is not a lot. However, the map builder 
 lets you build your own missions which makes the missions fun. 
  
  Overall, the game is very fun. There are some problems though. But, if your a hardcore RCT fan 
 this game is a must buy!
  
  -Helloiseeu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikotuck
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun little game where you can design your own rollercoaster park and have a whole lot 
 of variety of themes and rides and shops and amusements! This game is not good for you if you are 
 looking for a game that you can play for a long time and not get old. Pretty soon all you do is 
 wonder what you have not built because your park is so huge. And you usually end up using the already 
 made rollercoaster because it is so boring and hard to make your own, and the pre-made ones are 
 just a lot better looking. Also, you know the saying "spend money to make money"? I don not think 
 this applies for this game because you spend a lot of money preparing your park and build all the 
 shops and rides and junk, and the guests come in start spending their money and you get all happy 
 because you think you are making a load of money, but you don't! You never do! Your money meter 
 stays the same all the time because you are only making enough money to pay all your employees 
 and buy products for your shop and all of your expenses! If you are looking for a game where you 
 can be proud of your self for making lots of money like Guitar hero, This is NOT it.
  I do not even know why I rated this game with an 8! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koopatroopa1015
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  RollerCoaster Tycoon is back! Now you've got more rides to choose from, more scenarios, and more 
 features! You can design your own scenario from scratch or play one of the existing ones. You've 
 also got a toolbox to design your scenarios, set options, and even design roller coasters. RCT2 
 features Six Flags parks as scenarios in the game! You've got more ways to play than in the first 
 one! In general, if you're new to the series, you'll have a blast. But if you were a fan of the 
 first one, it'll be disappointing. This is due to the similarities between the two. The fact of 
 the matter is, the second is basically the first, except with different parks, features, and a 
 couple new modes. Maybe not a great way to make a sequel of the game, but if this were an expansion 
 pack to the first one, it would be amazing. Be careful, the game is usually stable but it may give 
 some minor problems in the middle of gameplay. Also know that the more you put into your park, 
 the more the game demands, and it'll make your PC run a little slower in-game.
  
  The graphics are not bad - they're colorful but rather blocky. There is hardly any change in the 
 graphics from the first to the second. The SFX and the music, however, are nice and improved.
 
  
  It's well worth it if you're new to the series. You'll enjoy the park tycooning that this game 
 has to offer. But if you have the original, skip this one. It's too similar and the few minor updates 
 and improvements aren't worth it.
  
  I recommend this game to everyone who is new to the series that has an interest in theme park designing. 
 If you have the first or the third, then don't get this game. In my opinion, it's a nice game, 
 but how much you'll get out of it depends sharply on how familiar you are with the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Not only are you able to design your own coasters and trade them online with other tycoons, but 
 youre essentially asked to build an amusement park economy from the ground up. People who know 
 enough to put bathrooms next to their more nauseating rides wont have to rely on their handymen 
 to clean up as much puke on the paths. Its the simple, yet strategic, portions of this game that 
 make it a blast to play. Savvy owners will watch their parks burst at the seams with customers, 
 while gaming morons will look at their deserted grounds and wonder where they went wrong. On the 
 flip side, when youre trying to place a coaster, it can be unbelievably difficult to see where 
 you need to build a path so your park-goers can enter it. That, a few other technical glitches, 
 and the titles graphical ineptitude hold it back, but they in no way hinder RCT 2 from being a 
 solid buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyran87
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  So 3 years on and Chris Sawyer comes once again with a masterpiece. With Atari now as opposed to 
 MicroProse - maybe it was a bad move on some parts maybe? That didn't stop it being a great game.
 
  
  RCT2 had somehow lost some stuff but gained other stuff. It was instantly noticeable. Added to 
 the game was guests being named automatically, new rides, new paths, new entertainers, brand new 
 challenges, themed parks. The biggest thing probably was the ability to build on top of stuff, 
 rather than ground level building - and the ride editor was definitely a plus.
  
  However the game seemed to become either less fun or shorter than RCT1. It had lost a major zing 
 to it. The really challenging parks were all of a sudden plugged right to the start of the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragoncub
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  The First RCT:
  It's a bummer having only scenarios, scenarios, scenarios. What else to do but try and achieve 
 the unachievable. If only you could have something simplier to start...
  
  Fortunately, in RCT2 you can make your own scenarios! Select everything as available, give yourself 
 unlimited cash, and make a goal so easy you don't have to be Donald Trump to get it down. Of course, 
 'the Don' (disturbing) is more likely to start a business in manufacture of cheese-flavored rugby 
 balls than roller coasters. But it's a nice image. And you don't have to have the roadkill  I'm 
 sorry, I meant 'haircut'.
  
  But I digress. RCT2 doesn't have a lot more to offer than buying and building, but it's a great 
 opportunity to unleash your creative side. Ever looked at the Deja Vu ride, or other big-scale 
 ride and just thought, 'I can do better'? Well, now you can prove it! Build it, and if they like 
 it better than your average 'Six Flags' ride, your in the business. Of course, you don't want to 
 make it too boring (I want to go on something more thrilling than Ride Name) or too intense (Ride 
 Name looks too intense for me) . Even if you like all the loops, the speed may go overboard and 
 get SUPER-INTENSE  the labels are in red and the guests jump a literal foot in the air and hurry 
 away! You also want to make it exciting (this is separate from intensity  people may like bumper 
 boats even if they're not intense) and not too nauseating  guests throw up, and you have to clean 
 up! Fortunately, several guests, if not most, know their limits (just looking at Ride Name makes 
 me sick) but for the most part, you need a Handyman.
  
  Ahh, handymen. You need these, mechanics, security (got to keep 'em in line) and entertainers in 
 (uncomfortable-looking) themed outfits. Ahh, the joy.
  
  The real idea behind the game is be a successful businessman/woman, piling in the money and building 
 up you dream. Of course, you don't have to be interested in that to have fun, you can just build 
 up your dream outright.
  
  It's better to have a little experience with this type of game before launching in. There is no 
 detailed in-game help so after it's installed, look at the Manual first. Even if you've played 
 the first (the controls are much the same) , it's a good idea just to get back up to speed with 
 the new environments.
  
  Ideal for both the intellectual gamer, the newbie and the simulator-lovers alike, Roller Coaster 
 Tycoon 2 is a game that most will enjoy, however long they last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendevil
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  Roler coaster Tycoon is an astounding game, and features coaster design, park management, and Scenery 
 construction. I think it raised my IQ a bit :D. but realy, there is a lot to be apreaciated about 
 this game. Things that make a game good: Large area: the customisable size leaves you know problem. Chalenge: 
 three words, TONS OF 'EM. Details: if you click on a duck in a pond, it quacks. yes there are details. 
 Suround your coaster with fire. or put it in the middle of a dessert. and if you think about it 
 hard, you can get it under water. Customisability: create every foot of your park. From the size 
 to the trees to the mountains to anything you can think of, this is ten times beyond what you imagine 
 of the game at first glance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepperpocket
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  This game is very cool, it is even better than rollercoaster tycoon 3!!. Rollercoaster tycoon 2 
 is really a true masterpiece and people who like theme parks will LOVE this!!!!! I really like the 
 feature that there are Six Flags parks in the game-five of em!! I also really like the feature 
 that you can build your own park and purchase all the land and toggle money off for free play!!!!! 
 As I said this game is freaking sweet and 100% worth buying even if you like theme parks a little 
 bit!! With Six Flags parks there are 25 Six Flags rides you can build from!! This Game is the best 
 in series and will satisfy you 100% if you like theme parks!! Get this game PLEASE!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  RCT2 is an amazing simulation that really makes you believe your making your own park. It's art 
 is incredible. This game's rating it utterly under-rated.
  
  You really can make whatever you want in a huge park of your very own. Create a scenario, start 
 building and watch it grow and grow. See what people like and don't like. Design any of your rides, 
 color them, even build amazing scenery and when you are finished you really will feel acomplished 
 with your masterpiece.
  
  
  
  So many choices for original creation of your very own. Name the rides, build the terrain. Add 
 water, dirt, mountians, trees, grass, even create an Egyptian park, Water park, scary park, medieval 
 park, spece park, western and plenty more.
  
  It sounds like a lot of responsibility but it is all about fun. There is nothing wrong with this 
 game except it's graphics and sound starting to age. But if you can stand the mild graphics and 
 sound you will find yourself playing this game alot.
  
  RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 for the PC deserves nothing less then a 9.5 Superb. Anyone who says otherwise 
 can go back to their Gears of War and forget the amazing classics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamie323
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Greatest game i have ever played. Well thats because ive devoted my life to Roller Coasters and 
 nouthing but roller coasters. Great Game fun to build roller coasters and design scenary great 
 to remake real rides from. I love this game its fun and the game really becomes great if you get 
 a ride editor where you can change the whole game around. lots of the scenarios are fun and can 
 be added onto very well. What can i say if you like amusment parks then youll love this game i 
 love it i would sell my xbox 360 for it i love this game great for American Coaster Enthusiats. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  If your a fan of the original game this sequel offers even more parks/missions and even more sim 
 items/coasters to fill that addictive need. The graphics are the same as they were in the original 
 as is the sound.. but what this game gives is even more gameplay, more sim building.. and even 
 more addictive fun for the entire family.
  
  Gameplay: is exactly like the original game and will not deter newcomers. As such the game plays 
 very well and without errors. Value: endless play possibilities limited only to your imagination 
 with the ability to terraform land and build your own coasters.
  
  I give this game a solid 9 for being a superb game with great great replay value. Something that 
 means you will spend less money on shallow non-replayable games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazlofan098
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to the original Roller Coaster Tycoon is excellent. This new game from the Roller Coaster 
 Tycoon series features many new roller coasters and rides. It includes five real Six Flags parks, 
 including Magic Mountain and Great Adventure. New music is also incorporated into the game, including 
 a third rock style, mechanical style, and many more styles. Finally, there are new types of scenery, 
 such as giant garden and candy theming, Six Flags theming, and others. Overall, this addition into 
 the Roller Coaster Tycoon series is amazing and exciting. I give Roller Coaster Tycoon 2 a perfect 
 ten out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sixdown
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  RollerCoaster Tycoon was a strategy type game based on building and maintaining a theme park. There 
 were many scenarios to chose from with objectives that ranged in difficulty, and you eventually 
 unlocked more as time went on, which was a very fun experience. However, the game always lacked 
 a sandbox mode, where you could simply make a park without having to worry about money; just to 
 let your imagination run wild. It was always limited by how much money you had.
  
  Rollercoaster Tycoon 2 still has many scenarios with even more challenging objectives, but they 
 also have the scenario creator, which lets you create your own park from scratch, starting with 
 a blank chunk of land that you can manipulate anyway you want to make any kind of park you want. 
 If you like spending lots of time on this game, like I do, then you'll love this feature. But if 
 you're a pick-up-and-play kind of person, this may not be for you, because creating the actual 
 park can take a great deal of time, but the upside is: You can make it so there is no money whatsoever! 
 The graphics and overall gameplay haven't changed drastically in this sequel, but there are some 
 improvements that make it more enjoyable and give you a lot more variety to what you can do. Now, 
 for example, you can use the shift key to move blocks and walls up and down and make entire buildings, 
 which you couldn't do at all in the original. This opens many many new doors in what you can do 
 with your rides and park. There are many other new rollercoasters and rides, but the reality is 
 it's not that different from the original, though it is cleaned up a bit graphically and has new 
 features. Plus, the scenario mode is a little screwed up, because there are no scenarios to unlock, 
 they are just all there and there is no clear reward for completing one.
  
  However, I've spent several hours on this game making my own parks and keeping them up, so if you're 
 like me and loved the original, you'll be addicted to this; I have been for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BraindeadRacr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Alrighty, Roller Coaster Tycoon II, what i understood of it around five years ago; It had not really 
 more content added to it, to name it a Two instead of a Expansion Pack. In matter of fact, it still 
 ran on the same graphics system, it still used the same AI, it still had the view-points we had 
 in RCT1.
  
  But, it's improved. It has more rides, attractions, parks, features, scenery, shops, guests, and 
 options. The AI has improved here and there, the scenery has been updated, we finally can color 
 almost all rides, the guests make more comments about your park and it actually feels good to let 
 them walk around, rating your park as awesome! .
  
  Sure, to the most this sounds like your average Patch , Downloadable Content or Expansion . But 
 to me, this feels not like RCT1 at all. The graphics remind me to, tough, but it is still RCT2. 
 Chris Sawyer done good again.
  
  Now, after a short review, the full review:
  
  ==GAMEPLAY==
  
  The gameplay is good, and they did what I personally find best: If it isn't 
 broken, don't fix it! . The Gameplay is simply; Start a amusement park, build it up, make it a 
 succes, maintain it as a succesfull park, and continue.
  
  Many Roller Coasters, from wooden to metal, from kiddy-best to hardcore-G-force, there are many 
 new Travel rides, also RCT2 features quite a few of the Thrill Rides and Normal Rides, and ALOT 
 new shops. Also, some of the Roller Coasters are featured in Six Flags Parks troughout the world. 
 The big-time Roller Coasters Goliath , Superman and Nitro are in, and almost all others aswell. 
 The scenery, which is largly improved, will be available, for you to cute-your-park up. The scenery 
 now plays a large role in your Park Rating , the more people you have in your park, the more happy 
 you can get by placing interesting scenery troughout your park.
  
  Also, now you have the options of creating your own park. From scratch, you can select your rides, 
 scenery and landmarks, you make a interesting land, from there it's Research Inventions , Financial 
 , Guest Info , Name Park , Climate and Park Objective . You can play it afterwarths aswell.
  
  There's also a Coaster Builder feature, which lets you build Coasters on a large patch of flat, 
 empty land; perfect for you to create your coasters.
  
  ==GRAPHICS==
  
  Well, all i can say is that this is Chris Sawyer's style. And it doesn't have to be extreme good, 
 to make this game a all-time classic.
  
  ==SOUND==
  
  Nice sounds overall;
  Visitors' sounds are nice, the screams of exitement from Roller Coasters/Ride's are very nice, 
 the toilets flushing, music from attractions, sick people trowing up, roller coaster carts rolling 
 by, the sounds are well-made.
  
  ==VALUE==
  
  I can't say alot about this;
  It was October the 15th when i bought this game, it's the 27th of January '07. I still love it, 
 play it and like it.
  
  === CONCLUSION ===
  
  Well; Sum-ups:
  +6.5 for a amazing gameplay, even for a RCT1 Re-make.
  +2.5 for a instant-classic
  +0.1 for 
 a slightly improved AI
  +0.1 for a park-building mode
  -0.8 for still having the same visitors, graphics, sound and rides.
  
  ---------------- 9.2 
 SUPURB! --------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: welch16
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Who wouldn't want build their own carnival???
  
  This game is such a guilty pleasure (especially for adults) . Its quite addictive. However, you 
 need to have good eyesight for this game (or wear glasses) .
  
  First off, the graphics are ok for a computer game. I wish some things were a little bigger (besides 
 the rides) , like the people! Its just so.......... quaint.....
  
  There is not much of a soundtrack, unless you count the music in the rides. The music could have 
 been better but i guess it is designed to appeal to children. Maybe that's where the quaint comes 
 in........ Anyways, the sound was ok also.
  
  Customizing your rides are wonderful but its a challenge with the limited space you are given (you 
 will have to buy more space) Sometimes you are better off putting up pre-made rides. The creators 
 do keep it real when it comes to not being able to please everyone . The customers you have will 
 have a lot problems with your park, not enough paths, not clean enough, not enough bathrooms-they 
 can become a pain! No matter how successful you are your customers will not be 100% satisfied. 
 You can only do your best.
  
  As for the business end of it, the best tip is to BE PATIENT! Patience is a virtue in this game. 
 In order to make the big bucks, you must manage your workers well, give them orders, have an awesome 
 layout, such as statues and fountains, make sure they have treats, some rides and............. patience! 
 Don't spend all your money at once. You will find yourself starting over a lot in the beginning, 
 which is not a crime.
  
  To find where everything is, such as where to get workers, take out loans, and put up rides, its 
 all laid out for you. It will not take you too long to find where everything is. There is more 
 to do on Rollercoatser Tycoon 2, more modding, etc, but not much. The best thing though is the 
 amount of theme parks you can work with! Yummers!
  
  You will find yourself playing for hours just trying to make money and make your customers happy. 
 Yes, it can be a frustating game but........... all you need is..... that's right....... patience:) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodnecron
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  this game is good, i like how the people screem, and stuff. when i go to a them park, i aways get 
 the maps and later i build it in this game. i usually have to make the ride... im not good with 
 building rollercoster so i get my help from my bud, he helps me build rollercoster but thats it, 
 i do the othere myself, i even made a them park where people enjoys my park. in my park, there 
 is a section with flowers and benches and people liked it. i amd very good using my money and spending 
 it, paying the income tax and etc. the only thing that is hard and enoying is when peple trows 
 up and my worker need to cleen up that mess... i also hate lawing my grass so i leave it untill 
 tey are grown a lot. i made this them park where there is dino and its awsome. there is a ride 
 with water and i made it in to a jungle... i wasted lots of money on that, but i raised because 
 people loved it. my faveorit part is the 5 story high food cort!!!!!!! its so awsome, i have like 
 all the food cort in that building (i have food cort troughout but the building is the main food 
 restuant) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vapor188
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  After the infinite addiction of Roller Coaster Tycoon, Chris Sawyer has come out with a so-called 
 sequel. This game keeps all of the original features of RCT 1 plus one or two bonuses. I found 
 this game to be so short and similar to the first game, that I found no enjoyment in RCT2. There 
 are a couple good points to this game. The new design a roller coaster feature is nice when you 
 want to create your own roller coaster with no money limit. It is also easier to save roller coaster 
 designs to be used later if you utilize this feature. Another good point is the drastic increase 
 to the amount of preset roller coaster tracks that you can use to your disposal. While their heart 
 was in the right place with the scenario creator, they fell drastically short of what I expect 
 in a usually open-ended feature of games. The scenario creator lets you use saved games or a blank 
 canvas to create a unique scenario, as long as you use one of the pre-determined objectives and 
 don't exceed the money limit. Other than that, you can do whatever you want. Once you start the 
 scenario you've created, it is just like a normal game except you cannot receive a full loan. You 
 can only use the money that was not burned in the scenario creator, a very restricting feature. 
 As for the default scenarios, I believe (this is an estimate) there are about 5 categories with 
 about 5 different scenarios each. That's about it. If you complete a scenario, then, unlike RCT 
 1, there is not a new scenario to get excited about unlocking. The music, graphics, track designs, 
 scenery, and themes are almost identical to that of RCT 1. The only positive difference is an addition 
 of a couple track modifications that allow you to build a couple new pieces of track types, such 
 as an inclined, banked curve. This game has nothing new to it that I found was a reason to go out 
 and buy this game. It is nearly an exact replica of the original, only 1/10 the length. Though 
 the game has some expansion packs I have not tried, I would not get my hopes up for these additions 
 to a weak foundation of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neowelchsevilsm
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  RTC 2 is a good game over all, even though it's almost EXACTLY like the first game in this series.
 
  The graphics are not all that great, they are certainly not top notch.
  But that's ok because I sure don't want to look at some snot nosed little brat ALL the time.
 
  The A. I is decent in the game, at least these people aren't as stupid as the ones in Mall Tycoon 
 3.
  The ride editor is so-so, I just wish that they would have allowed you the chance to design a pyshically 
 impossible ride or design one that you know would scare the the brown streaks out of the vistors 
 pants.
  (Imagine a ride with 2 coasters both met nose to nose at the middle of the track in a near head 
 on collision but stop short of each other and return to the start.)
  Now that would be a thrill ride for your thrill seeking $%&amp;$%&amp;.
  So if you don't have 
 the first RTC, and your interested in becoming a tycoon that makes people puke their guts out all 
 day.
  You should get this game and it's expansion Wacky Worlds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peter_l1993
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 31, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  I love this game! It's very addictive. Gameplay:
  I love the idea of buliding your own rollercoasters and managing your own theme park. The interface 
 is clean and very easy to get used to. There are loads of fun scenarios for you to get through 
 or you can create your own. Controls aren't confusing but simple.
  
  Graphics:
  Not exactly revolutionary. The graphics are exactly the same as RCT1, so no change there. But I 
 think this type of graphics is perfectly suited to the game. They don't slow down the game, which 
 is important for people with slower machines.
  
  Sound:
  This is where the game is let down. The music is horrifying and makes you want to eat your speakers 
 so they will stop piercing your brain. Sound effects are excellent and I love the sound of a good 
 wooden rollercoaster going up a hill.
  
  Value:
  If you've got RCT1, there is absolutely no reason why you should buy this because there isn't that 
 much of a difference, except for the new rides. But worth your money if you happen to have missed 
 RCT1.
  
  Overall:
  JUST RIGHT
  If you love strategy games or even if you don't this game is worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: googleadam
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 9, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This is game is a definite improvment on the original. There are some added features that were 
 much needed on the original that are now included in the second one. I got this game in a cereal 
 box, so it really cost me $1. There are new added tracks to the game, and you have better control 
 over your theme park, but the most exciting hing about the this one is the track editor and better 
 design editor. If you have played the first one, you will still like it although it may not AS 
 different, you will see bigger differences that were MUCH needed is the ability to put a price 
 on (ie.) ice cream and set it at a price and make that the price for all the icecream shops. There 
 are also differences, but i forget lol because i havent played the first one in a while beacuse 
 the second one is a real improvment. I would say, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 30, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  I liked the first on better because I guess it had more of an impact on me for making roller coasters. 
 Then I playted that for so long and got this one but it was pretty much the same.
  
  The gameplay on this game is pretty good, but it is aexactly the same as the last one. Just a little 
 more scenary and a few more rides. It is still fun, I just think more should've been added. LIke 
 make your own character or something. Im not saying that the gameplay is bad, it's just almost 
 exactly like the last one. The few stuff that they add theough are kind of neat. The new parkks 
 that you can choose from are really cool and look really nice with the cool scenary, such as you 
 can now build on the Wall of China. In Roller Coaster Tycoon I liked how there was one level with 
 no money and just flat land, but on this one there isn't. The one with no money is on a cliff and 
 it makes it hard to build. The new roller coasters are nice, such as the dragon one. They are very 
 cool and you can do a lot of stuff with them. The thing that I really liked and am glad that this 
 is one of the few things that they changed is that the rides that you build arn't as intense as 
 they were in the last Roller Coaster Tycoon. That makes it SO much easier to build a roller coaster.
 
  
  The graphics on this game are good. The people kind of looom blurry and if you look at them close, 
 they have 4 eyes. Literally, not glasses, they dont have glasses. They have 4 eyes, you dont even 
 really have to look at it that close, but anyways, they are kind of blurry. The rides look well 
 though and are pretty detailed.
  
  The sound on this game is amazing. I couldn't find anything wrong in it! The chatter of the people, 
 the booming roller coaster sound, and the music from the carosel all go well together in this game!
 
  
  Overal, this game is pretty good but since Roller COaster Tycoon 3 is out now, you might want to 
 get that. I havn't played it but it looks like there is A TON of new stuff in it that I and hopefully 
 you would enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greendayzmylife
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Rollercoaster Tycoon 2 is an interesting game on the whole, but the game challenge is anything 
 but hard. The fact that you get to make the park yourself down to the last trash can and lamp post 
 is pretty awesome, but the goals are kind of lame. Don't get me wrong, it's an awesome game, but 
 Chris Sawyer ( Whoever that is!) couldv'e done alot better of a job. And the only thing different 
 from the first Roller Coaster Tycoon is more Roller Coasters and rides to choose from. I'd advise 
 you to just buy the first Roller Coaster Tycoon for ten bucks and call it a day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 6, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 was a very fun game; the first one was more impressive due to the time when 
 it came out. #2 has many more things to offer like many more accessories, more kinds of roller 
 coaster. Theres also real life parks that you can own with is really cool, and they have real 
 statistics on real rides like nitro. The Gameplay is cool not ass impressive as #1, but good. The 
 Graphics are much better and more improved. The Sound is the exactly the same as the original which 
 is good but they should have made it better. The Value is great because the game never gets boring; 
 it just gets more interesting as you go along. Personally I think the game is great and would recommend 
 it to anyone hew played the first one and liked it or hew is a strategy kind of guy and you like 
 to create your own imaginary park, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PVCSnathan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This game should have been something new, something that wasn't the same as it's prequel! Instead 
 of totally redesigning the game Chris Sawyer just gave it a facelift and added a few things (some 
 new coasters, rides, stalls, etc.) and said look at this its better than the other one come buy 
 it. This game is truly a waste of money (do not get me started on the expansions!) since it is 
 just a clone of the first one.
  
  Some good things are the addition of new features and the ability to have larger parks with more 
 rides/stalls. Along with this came the ability to add custom made stuff. People like Amazing Earl 
 really helped to community along by providing rides that are absolutely amazing.
  
  For those that haven't played RCT2 and have RCT1 -- don't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  In one scenario, you have to earn a monthly income from ride tickets of at least $10,000. In another, 
 you have to repay a bank loan and build your park's value to at least $500,000. And in another 
 scenario, you have to erect 10 different roller coasters, each more than 3,937 feet in length and 
 with excitement ratings of 7.00 or more. And so on. If you've never played RollerCoaster Tycoon 
 before, you may indeed find these objectives enjoyable, even challenging -- but if you're a fan of 
 the series, you've seen them before. Fortunately, the developer at least had the foresight to let 
 you play any of the scenarios at any time.
  
  Also, RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 offers a bit more variety in terms of the parks you can build. A number 
 of the game's more challenging scenarios involve theme parks, which gives them a unique character 
 that isn't provided by the traditional objectives. Alpine Adventures, for example, is set on an 
 icy mountain that is more hospitable to skis than roller coasters, while Infernal Views seems to 
 overlook the tourist-trap ring of Dante's Inferno. Also, RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 features the official 
 Six Flags license. You can try your hand at running five official Six Flags parks, including such 
 popular family destinations as Great Adventure and Magic Mountain. These locations can be played 
 as formal scenarios starting with parks that resemble their real-world counterparts or as part 
 of a build mode that lets you put together a park from the ground up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 27, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  this is just like an expansion pack on rct. and boy did it deliver. welcome to the sequel to one 
 of my most addictive games. i very much love all the new rides and shops. now there is more stuff 
 for people to sit and eat and me to admire and get all giddy because they are so cute.
  i love how the people stare at the scenery, that you dont have to remove tree by tree anymore (boy 
 was that irritating) and the huge space of the six flag parks.
  theres even rides ive been on in real life that u can build :D
  i can sit on this game and play 
 four hours straight and be still on the edge of my seat... will i get 3000 people? etc. much harder 
 campaigns than the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyp7711
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Notice in the *Review Deck* I only said the game was 'good'. I'm just guessing that everyone will 
 give comments such as:
  "Been there, done that"
  But no, you haven't. Though I wasn't really attached to the game for long, I think it's an improved 
 game to the original. You can do so much more on this game, like those really big rides, and different 
 objects and things altogether.
  
  It was about time that they made a sequel to RCT1 :)
  
  I'd recommend it to any RCTycoon fan.
  
  Sorry about the short review, but I remember little 
 about the game iteself :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aiman24
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 17, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  if you have played rollercoaster tycoon 1 then this game will not be that different, if u havent 
 played the previous game then ull enjoy this game.
  the objective is make a spectacular theme park with a little tweak here or there. like in sum modes 
 u have to achieve a high park value while in others u have to have a high amount of people in the 
 park while in sum u have to have a high amount of rides in the park, u can modify the six flags (worlds 
 best theme parks) , change them destroy em, etc.
  all the objectives take about 5-10 hours depending on how u handle things and which mode ur playing....
 
  graphics are ok, enough to understand everythin.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  this game is so slow, youll find yourself watching the little money bar go up by pennies. the only 
 way to hav fun in this is to either hav an extreme love for business, or take a $100k loan out, 
 then wait to be eaten alive by intrest rates. other than that its pretty cool. you can set rides 
 to go as fast as you want, but crashing them on purpose probably wouldnt be a good idea, as it 
 will scare customers away. there really is no difference between this and the first, except for 
 new rides (i think, ive only played the first once) . if your going to get a roller coaster tycoon 
 game, get the newer one, this one isnt worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buccaneers445
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  I loved the first Roller Coaster Tycoon game, and I thought the second one would be better. It 
 is better by a little bit, but it is so close to its prequel that there is absolutely no reason 
 to buy it if you have the first one.
  
  Graphics: Bleh, the worst part of this game. The characters have no detail at all, and the textures 
 look like they're completely flat. Also, the sky isn't that nice, there are no lighting effects, 
 and it is always daytime. The good this is that at least the rides look colorful and halfway decent.
 
  
  Sound: The music is made up of crappy tunes that hurt your ears, but there are some pretty cool 
 sound effects like vomiting, tires squealing, and screaming.
  
  Value: There is good value in this game, because you can play around 150 parks as many times as 
 you please, with different missions for each. Because of theis however, there isn't a defined story 
 mode, which would be a welcome addition.
  
  Gameplay: You can still mange your park. You can make rides, clear land, biuld paths, benches, 
 lights, grabage can, bathrooms, food stands, and shops. You can also hire and fire your all-star 
 team of janitors, mechanics, cops, and mascots. I do not know why, but doing this just doesn't 
 feel as satisfying as it did before. Also, money is a BIG factor. Mostly, you cannot create any 
 super coasters or elaborate schemes because you'll run out of money and will have to start all 
 over. A big disappointment is that there are very few new rides that weren't in the first game. 
 This is made up for by adding five real Six Flags parks (Magic Mountain, Texas, Holland, Great 
 Adventure, and something else) which rocks becuase I like frickin 15 minutes away from one of those 
 parks! (Not telling you which, hackers!) You can also add the real rides from those parks. It just 
 doesn't seem that there is enough new stuff in it though.
  
  Verdict: Roller Coaster Tycoon 2 is a good game, improving on the first one, but just barely. This 
 would of been a great game if there were some more new features. If you have the first one, skip 
 this game. If you don't, then buy this, or spend $10 less on the first one, which is basically 
 more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calicow
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2005 1:39 pm PT
Review:  What I like about Roller Coaster Tycoon 2 is that it starts up where the original Roller Coaster 
 Tycoon left off. You get a lot of cool roller coasters, a majority of which are 6 Flags Coasters, 
 and you get a lot of cool games, fast food stands, game situations or landscapes that weren't in 
 the first game. I think that it's cool that you could follow around the park goers and see if they're 
 happy and send them to what they need to become happy.
  
  The only drawback that I find to the game is that I think that the graphics are a little bit cheesy 
 and could have been improved upon from the first Roller Coaster Tycoon. It still has the same great 
 sounds that you find in the first Tycoon game, and that you find in actuall theme parks.
  
  If you enjoy simulator games and love theme parks, I would highly recommend playing Roller Coaster 
 Tycoon 2. It is one very fun game that is highly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 25, 2005 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Who doesn't love theme parks? The music, the environment, the scenery, the smell of cotton-candy 
 and popcorn, the loops and corkscrews on that special roller coaster that makes the hair stand 
 up on the back of your neck. Wouldn't you like to own a theme park? Build it to your own image; 
 create the ride of your dreams (or nightmares) ? 
  
  Now you can! The ultimate test to see if you have what it takes to be a RollerCoaster Tycoon is 
 here.
  
  The same basic game interface has been preserved, which is great, we already know where everything 
 will be. But creating and running the ultimate amusement park is now a lot more fun, more creative 
 and very, very addictive. You can create everything you think real parks are missing. Combine fantasy 
 with demand and challenge the laws of physics. RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 contains new and addictive 
 challenges and opportunities for your creativity: the game incorporates the same detailed design 
 of the previous version, with the possibility of exploring all the aspects of the construction 
 and organization of your park. 
  
  There are tons of new shops and amazing ride designs, lots of scenery and themes to choose from, 
 and track designs with scenery included (if already researched) . Entertainers can now have more 
 costumes to dress in, like the Sheriff and the Burglar, perfect for a Wild West theme park. Vertical 
 construction options (you can have your Free-Fall standing over your Car Ride or your paths, for 
 example) . Not having to delete each little tree so you can put up your new coaster, the game does 
 it for you automatically when placing a ride where you want it. You can see new actions on the 
 guests (they actually stop to watch the rides) . There's no need to complete certain scenarios to 
 unlock others. 
  
  Creation trading with other Tycoons worldwide is available at www. rollercoastertycoon. com. Select 
 from 25 official Six Flags roller coasters and compare your rides to the ones built by pros. 
 
  
  The Scenario Editor (in which we can create our own park challenges) has numerous options ranging 
 from the type of rides and themes available right from the start, to what color do you want the 
 water to be or what type of park entrance do you prefer.
  
  Shops and Stalls
  There are a total of four categories: food, drink, guest facilities, and souvenirs. Food stalls 
 sell all sorts of food, from Fried Chicken to Won Ton Soup. Drink stalls sell hot (Hot Chocolate, 
 Coffee) and cold (Lemonade, Soda, Ice Tea) drinks. Guest facilities are stalls that give help or 
 sanitation to park visitors, such as the First Aid Room and the ATM Machine (yep, now your guests 
 can spend even more money on your park!) . Souvenir stalls sell a wide range of items, from T-shirts 
 to Sunglasses, so your guests will have something to remember their stay.
  
  Rides and Attractions
  There are a total of five ride categories: gentle rides, roller coasters, 
 thrill rides, transportation, and water rides. Gentle rides are just that, gentle. You have 13 
 types to choose from, from your ordinary Merry-Go-Round to the Crooked House or a Circus, these 
 rides will please those with a low nausea tolerance. Roller Coasters are a must on every park, 
 they are usually the main attractions. You can choose from 15 types of coasters, wooden or steel, 
 floorless cars or ladybird cars, the options are numerous. Build a mini-coaster that everyone will 
 enjoy or go for the maximum nausea rating! But then remember to add some extra benches, bathrooms 
 and handymen to the exit area.
  
  Thrill rides are just that, thrilling. Motion Simulators and 3D Cinemas are some of the guest's 
 favorites. Transportation rides transport around visitors to your park. Monorail, Steam Train, 
 Chairlift, Trams and Elevators make your guest's access to certain park areas a lot easier, saves 
 them a lot of walking, which helps preventing bad moods and tiredness.
  
  Water rides usually get the riders wet, either they're on a Swan Pedaling Boat or a Jet Ski, Log 
 Flume or River Rapids, but they will always enjoy their Submarine trip.
  
  There are more customization options, from the type of music playing in your ride to different 
 colors for each part of a rollercoaster track.
  
  Scenery and Theming
  Vertical scenery construction allows you to add tunnels to a coaster, you can place all sorts of 
 different buildings around your park, or match different themes to create a unique decoration. 
 You're even allowed to change the color on every theme piece. Entertain your guests with new and 
 sometimes animated themes, including Giant Garden, Wild West and Pirates. My favorite was the Candy 
 Theme. Jelly beans, gummies, lollypops, chocolate bars, marshmallows and liquorice combined placed 
 big smiles on my guests' faces and made the rides look even more delicious. Themes really are a 
 challenge to your creativity and imagination.
  
  There are hundreds of new little things in RCT2, but the look and feel of the original game are 
 still there. And that's what will keep me cleaning up the puke at the exit of my rides.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=rct2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun filled game that is a great follow up to the original Roller Coaster Tycoon. The 
 game play is just as fun as the original. With so many more rides and attractions it is an awesome 
 experience. The graphics have not improved. It was ok on the original but times have changed and 
 they look exactly the same. The sounds pretty good. It makes you feel like you are in a theme park. 
 The sounds of the rides and people are great. The value on this game is just like the original 
 Roller Coaster Tycoon. Unlimited. After you beat the very hard campaign you can mess around in 
 any of the levels so the vale is very high. Fans of the original should defiantly get this new 
 addiction to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g_man_1989
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 19, 2005 5:27 am PT
Review:  this looks like a great game where you build rollar coasters and your own theme park, but its a 
 lot more complicated than it need to be, you have to look after a buget and make improvments so 
 people will come to your park, make rides costs lots and sometimes you dont have enough land and 
 you have to buy more, which really costs alot.
  you start off with one park, and have to work your way up, this is a drag cause you cant pick what 
 level you want to do next.
  The graphics in this game look ok but not good, the people that go to your park are really stupid 
 and can get lost or angry easly.
  the sound is great.
  You should try this game if you like mangement games . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirian808
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 9/10
  The gameplay is awesome. It lets you create your own roller coasters (duh) , and you have over forty 
 or fifty track types to choose from. For those of you who like the full owning-a-business experience, 
 I'd recommend playing through all of the scenarios. For those of you who just like the roller coasters, 
 I'd recommend creating a custom scenario with no money. That way, you don't have to worry about 
 how in the world your going to finance that $46,000 roller coaster you just built in Roller Coaster 
 Designer. Mechanics-wise... the game is really awesome and very user-friendly.
  
  GRAPHICS: 4/10
  This is where the game suffers. Really, REALLY suffers. The game's graphics are 
 terrible. No 3D at all. Everything's just pixelated. Of course, that works just fine for me, but 
 some people do not even bother to look at games with graphics as horrendous as these.
  
  SOUND: 5/10
  Sound is not very good. There are about four different screams in the game, and 
 trust me, they get old really fast. The coaster sounds, however, are great!
  
  VALUE: 9/10
  You will be addicted to this game if you like roller coasters and haven't played 
 Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 yet, I guarantee. It's well worth the $20 you can now get it for.
  
  TILT: 8/10
  Roller Coaster Tycoon 2 is a good game, but it has some flaws. If I were you, 
 I'd go with Roller Coaster Tycoon 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Napster06
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:14 pm PT
Review:  It is highly addictive. You could play it for hours just thinking it was 10 minutes. When I first 
 played this game it was 12 hours non-stop. The graphics are great for a 2D game. Being able to 
 build your own coasters are also what makes the game fun. Great for youngsters too who think the 
 SimCity series are a bit too hard. Worth spending your money on it, worth spending your time playing 
 it, and the best thing is you dont need a mega-computer to play it. Those old 98s are fine.
  
  Definitely a must have. Only flaw is it doesnt have a sandbox mode. But who cares, right?
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlasmaBoy2000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  A great game that enables you to create your own little park or Six Flags park! You can create 
 any ride imaginable, cause your own coaster accident, theme it anyway you want, name your rides 
 and your park how you want, and best of all, an excellent game if you're going to start a coaster 
 tycoon career! You can customize the landscape of where your park will be, create landforms of 
 your choice, put water, also put the collor of your water, and even a Coaster Designer Scenario! 
 Bottom line is that this game is superb! I've never seen any other coaster game so great! Except 
 Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 of course! I'd totally reccomend this game! It gives you a good idea of 
 how coasters are built! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shraylo
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 18, 2005 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Way back when, when this game first came out for it's price of $60, I always wanted it. I could 
 never get it at the time, and I am glad I did'nt waste my money on it. Now, I get a free copy out 
 of a box of Reese Puffs.
  
  RollerCoaster Tycoon 2 is basically RollerCoaster Tycoon, except with a lot more rides to choose 
 from. In the game, you have a choice to either do a scenario, in which you have to get a certain 
 amount of people in your park or make a certain amount of money through a period of years, or you 
 can choose to make your own Six Flags branded theme park. Customers come flowing in the moment 
 you open your park, so don't open it before you make any rides.
  
  When you are building the park, you start off with $10,000 dollars to spend on whatever you want. 
 You can build roller coasters, food stands, walkways, water, and different rides and scenery for 
 your park. Once you have run out of money, it usually is a good time to open it. People then come 
 into your park, and start paying their precious money for food, drinks, and ride admissions. You 
 can customize the colour of your rides, the price people pay to go on the rides and to buy food, 
 and you can also have people pay to get into your park.
  
  But this game is not all about making the coolest park in the world, you also have to learn how 
 to spend your money. True, if you run out, you can take out a loan from the bank, but you have 
 to pay it back later. You'll need money to hire staff, to pay your researchers to come up with 
 new rides, and to spend on buying scenery and rides for your park.
  
  So in conclusion, while this game CAN be a lot of fun, if you have played the original RollerCoaster 
 Tycoon, you know what to expect. This game is for newcomers to the series ONLY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tardog_daman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 24, 2005 9:30 am PT
Review:  Ahhh who could forget Rollercoaster Tycoon 1? Gosh that was one of the most popular games of the 
 year. Building rollercoasters, watching the rides crash and burn from accidents, expanding the 
 park with that out of this world ride. The game was amazing.
  
  Rollercoaster Tycoon 2 has been around for a couple of years now and it has already proven to smash 
 through the original and surely rule all future Rollercoaster Tycoon games without ANY doubts. 
 How? Read my review below and find out!
  
  Gameplay has been boosted to an all new, cool design mode. The missions have been categorized and 
 dozens are there waiting for you to beat!
  
  There has been a new feature thrown in this time, the ability to create your own map! This is a 
 fantastic feature as you can make your very own dead easy or impossible to complete missions and 
 it's all as simple as drawing in MS Paint!
  
  The graphics engine are a slight let down though. Being a 2000 game it has the same graphics engine 
 as the original. However this isn't a let down. This gave the game a more "Rollercoaster Tycoon" 
 feel. In my opinion, if the graphics had been changed, it would lose the feeling of the game.
 
  
  Sounds and music are great. This time you can set music to play at certain areas and there are 
 some really catchy and cool tunes there. The sounds engine has been slightly edited around and 
 is slightly better than the original which is good.
  
  This game is worth the money. You will never regret buying this game and it is simply marvellous 
 for any ages. I'm 15 and I turned to games Like Vice City but I honestly still have this installed 
 on my computer and I play it every now and again!
  
  Now I've clocked in at least 1,500 hours play time. Easy. It's addictive, fun, hard (which can 
 be good!) , and it will essentially assure you that you will never want to take back or sell this 
 game again. I purchased the triple thrill pack (which has the 2 expansions also) for only $30.00 
 Australian currency and it is fantastic.
  
  This game is worth every cent and if you're thinking of buying, Buy it now. If you rent it you'll 
 regret returning it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2005 3:42 am PT
Review:  There isn't much I can say about Rollercoaster Tycoon 2 except for that it truly is my favorite 
 game, it has all the features of the first one, with some new innovations made for those who like 
 to create their own custom parks, which is my expertise.
  
  I've logged over 1,000 hours of this game, from it's release to now. I haven't played it in about 
 a year, but I'm going to. This game without a doubt beats Rollercoaster Tycoon 3 into the ground.
 
  
  This game has a lot more coasters than the first one, more flat rides and more customization options, 
 especially stackable scenery, which becomes crucial. These things along with mod creating and downloads, 
 make this game endlessly playable, download and share parks, tracks and custom-made scenery with 
 people all over the internet, I can't get enough! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whyamifat
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 26, 2004 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon 2:
  Firstly I would like to mention that this is a great game, there are plenty of things to do or 
 buy which makes the whole business feeling much more enjoyable. It has improved a lot from the 
 first roller tycoon series; it has much more rides, miscellaneous items, and a lot more merchandises 
 such as shops varying from seafood to iced tea shops. 
  
  RCT 2 has a real good simple main menu, it has missions such as achieve 1,000 guests by the end 
 of year 3 march, it has a tutorial on how to build rides, and parks. It also has create a roller 
 coaster mode were you have a grid base on the ground and you build your roller coaster here is 
 the place where you try out roller coasters before you build them or if you just want to make the 
 most crazy ride ever, no guests are in this mode, one of the other options is that you can change 
 the name of rides you made or rides that were already made.
  
  Money is a little easier to gain in this one because of all the guests who enter you park, as your 
 park progresses you are going to find out its a lot harder to manage because of vandals, rubbish, 
 and the need for toilets. 
  
  The guests are much better in this game and they have more status such as what rides they have 
 been on how many rides they have been on what food they bought if they liked the food how much 
 cash they have left and so on.
  
  In the first RCT once you created your own roller coaster no one would go on it because they were 
 to scared, RCT 2 the guests are more willing to try out fast, swift, crazy rides.
  
  The downfall of this game which is not a major issue of garbage bins, and toilets you have to build 
 a lot of these cause most of the guests are stupid in there thoughts they same I need a bathroom 
 and then they just walk right past one so you have to have quiet a lot of them, this is a problem 
 because sometimes this might slip away from your mind, then you remember when its to late, but 
 like I said not a major issue.
  
  The graphics, sound, gameplay are excellent, this game may appeal to some and others not. Overall 
 this is a good game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisterHarryZ
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 16, 2004 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Now this is a disappointment, and definitely not the all-conquering sequel to RCT that it should 
 have been. For every improvement made over RCT1, there's something missing. 
  
  You can stack scenery, but you have to place each individual item separately (which makes building 
 skyscrapers a REAL chore) . 
  
  There's a ride designer, but you can't use scenery or design it in a real-world setting, which 
 doesn't help at all.
  
  There's a scenario editor, but no option to put pre-built rides in.
  
  And, worst of all, the 
 game looks exactly the same as RCT1. Never mind Rollercoaster Tycoon 2, this should have been called 
 Rollercoaster Tycoon 1-and-a-half instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyvivanco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2003 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is the coolest game building rollercoaster game. It is so fun there is so many new rollercoasters. 
 I dont know why nobody likes it, this game is sometimes hard. It is cool that they added Six Flags 
 parks inside it. It it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it 
 it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it 
 it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it 
 it it it it it it it it it it it it it it it is is is is is is is is is is is is is the coolest 
 game game game game game game game ever ever  
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
