-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: RollerCoaster Tycoon 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/rollercoastertycoon3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Beautiful 3D graphics come alive.
 Plenty of built-in content.
 Virtually ride all the rides.
 Build your own fireworks show.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Serious bugs affect gameplay.
 Big parks can slow performance.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  1, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.3, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 3,798 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Frontier Dev.
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Oct 26, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If not for some of the glaring bugs in the retail version, RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 would have been 
 a truly excellent sequel to a beloved franchise. 

  Making a sequel to a hit game is tricky business. If you simply rehash the original, fans will 
 complain that it's more of the same. But if you change too much, you risk losing what made the 
 original special. The RollerCoaster Tycoon series stands as good evidence of these potential pitfalls. 
 The first game quietly debuted in 1999, only to become a huge success that spawned countless imitators. 
 But the series stumbled with RollerCoaster Tycoon 2, which was deemed by fans to be too much like 
 the first game. That brings us to RollerCoaster Tycoon 3, the newest game in the series. In many 
 ways, RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 is the sequel we've been waiting for -- the one that updates the gameplay 
 and graphics to modern-day standards. Yet while RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 delivers on those promises, 
 its potential is undermined by some glaring bugs.  

          RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 will let you build the theme park of your dreams, even those with 
 sharks in them.     

  Like its predecessors, RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 allows you to build the theme park of your dreams 
 and then watch as your guests (known as peeps) walk around and enjoy the rides. Thanks to its next-generation 
 3D technology, the parks come to life like never before. Though the appearance has drastically 
 changed, much of the underlying game mechanics remain comfortably familiar for the most part. Once 
 again, your job in the career mode is to take charge of a series of failing or nascent theme parks 
 and make them flourish. Each scenario has a three-tiered set of objectives, ranging from apprentice 
 (the easiest) to tycoon (the hardest) . In order to accomplish the apprentice objectives (and unlock 
 a new map) , all you usually have to do is hire park staff to clean and maintain the park and build 
 a few extra rides, concession stands, and coasters. Using this method, you can blitz through most 
 of the scenarios in the game. But if you want a tougher challenge, you can tackle the more advanced 
 objectives, which will task you with harder goals, such as repaying the park's loans or building 
 coasters of a certain length and excitement level.  

  British studio Frontier, which developed the game with oversight from series creator Chris Sawyer, 
 wisely didn't stray too far from many of Sawyer's established conventions. You still design the 
 park and build a wide range of rides and attractions, and you can pick from prebuilt coasters to 
 ones that you design on the fly. The coaster-building tool is derived from the first two games, 
 but it's easier to use, thanks to the 3D engine that allows you to zoom in and move the camera 
 around to better understand the layout of your coaster. And you'll still control veritably every 
 aspect of your park, from the entrance fee, research and development on new attractions, ticket 
 prices, all the way down to the color schemes on your rides and employees' uniforms. Meanwhile, 
 Frontier also threw in its own, welcome innovations, such as a fireworks editor that lets you create 
 your own custom fireworks show to go along with a mix of your favorite tunes, which you can import 
 easily into the game. Then there's a new focus on the peeps. Each of your peeps now has a unique 
 appearance, and they are now separated into demographic and social groups. Young peeps steer toward 
 gentle rides, while teen peeps like extreme thrills, whereas older peeps will move toward the more 
 sedate entertainment.  

          Fully dynamic lighting and a day/night cycle allow for beautiful moments like these.   
   

  But at the heart of the RollerCoaster Tycoon games is the sheer sense of fun that you feel when 
 watching your peeps enjoy your park. There's nothing like seeing a peep come off a thrilling coaster 
 and pump his hands in the air while the peep behind him looks nauseous and has to sit down. Then 
 there's the satisfaction of building a hot new ride and seeing the peeps queue up in a huge line, 
 waiting to give it a try. RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 manages to capture some of this, but Frontier 
 also loses something in the translation from the original games. Gone is the giddy, infectious 
 carnival music that seemed universally present in the first two games. In its place is a rather 
 mellow, almost New Age theme music, and while you can customize the music on all of your rides 
 by importing your favorite tunes, you have to zoom in close to a ride to hear the music. What's 
 more serious, though, are RollerCoaster Tycoon 3's gameplay issues.     

  Unfortunately, RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 managed to ship with a number of glaring bugs that can make 
 your park feel a bit lifeless, even when there are hundreds of peeps roaming about. For example, 
 popular rides that are hot one moment mystifyingly go suddenly ice cold the next, and even slashing 
 prices to the bone can't seem to resurrect their appeal. Or sometimes you can have a park full 
 of rides, yet few peeps seem interested in actually riding them even though there are no lines -- those 
 rides then become money pits that slowly drain your coffers. And in some cases, certain rides refuse 
 to reset properly, meaning that your peeps will get stuck in line and complain. Shutting down and 
 starting up the ride in question doesn't reset the ride, either.  

          Each of your peeps has a unique appearance, and they all have different tastes.     

 
  These bugs will probably be addressed by Atari and Frontier in the coming months, but the shame 
 is that they mar what is otherwise a beautiful game. The new 3D engine is a marvel to behold, as 
 you can see hundreds of unique peeps explore parks brimming with sights and sounds. Though the 
 peeps have a somewhat blocky look to them, the rest of the game is exceptionally detailed and well-rendered. 
 And the big, new highlight is the ride cam, which lets you ride both the coasters and noncoaster 
 rides from a first-person perspective. Experiencing a virtual coaster from the front seat is an 
 experience that's the next best thing to riding a real coaster -- the only things missing are the 
 g-forces and the wind in your face. One thing to keep in mind, though, is that larger parks with 
 large populations of peeps can slow your computer down, but the graphics engine has numerous settings 
 that let you scale down the visuals.  

  There's also a lot of content to explore, as RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 ships with five different themes, 
 including generic, space, and Wild West. Each theme has its own distinctive rides and amusements 
 and shops, as well as animatronics and decorations. There's also a huge amount of variety, so you 
 can set up water rides with mechanical great white sharks that lurch out of the water to any style 
 of coaster imaginable. There are also 18 distinct scenarios in the game, though the last two are 
 only playable if you unlock them, which is done by beating all the earlier scenarios on the tougher 
 difficulty levels. These scenarios all present unique settings and challenges, but as with the 
 earlier RollerCoaster Tycoon games, the best scenarios are those that give you something to work 
 with. A perfect example would be the run-down Hollywood theme park that comes with an amazing tram 
 ride that's right out of a studio-lot tour. The oft-requested sandbox mode that lets you build 
 a park from scratch with unlimited funds has also finally made an appearance, giving micromanagers 
 and enthusiasts the ability to build the parks of their dreams.  

          The new 3D graphics engine allows you to ride the rides like never before.     

  There's 
 plenty to like in RollerCoaster Tycoon 3, which makes the game's teething problems all the more 
 annoying. If not for some of the glaring bugs, Frontier would have delivered a truly excellent 
 sequel to a beloved franchise. However, it looks like we'll have to wait a bit longer while Atari 
 and Frontier iron out all the wrinkles.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (152 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PetJel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 8:26 pm PT
Review:  To start off Rollercoaster Tycoon 3 takes a different approach from the previous parts. RT3 is 
 more realistic, has far more depth and the gameplay is less basic.
  
  After playing this game for a few hours the first time after installing I was disappointed. The 
 feeling of the other games just wasnt there and the music and graphics made it almost unrecognizeable 
 compared to the other two.
  I left the game alone for about a week, and then gave it another try.
  
  This time I started 
 to notice how this game actually shines with the 3d camera and numerous details.
  
  You can freely zoom in and out from a birdseye overview perspective, all the way to a closeup of 
 a park guest.
  This opens up a whole new level of atmosphere. With the advanced camera option enabled you can 
 more or less walk around your park in a first person view. The paths covered by trees, filled with 
 guests, stores, your park entertainers, scenery is absolutely stunning to see, especially at night 
 when the path lights turn on.
  
  The guest detail is incredible. You can see your peeps buying slices of pizza at a pizza stand, 
 and you then actually see them walking around with it. The same goes for park maps, sunglasses, 
 popcorn, icecream, etcetera.
  
  The new camera also allows you to build your park in a more controlled way. Forget the 4-way camera 
 from RT1 and 2, now you can actually see why your coaster doesnt connect ;)
  
  Every attraction can be seen in action trough a first person perspective, from your self-built 
 rollercoasters to the overwatch towers, to the trams that run around your park, to the canoo's 
 that navigate around the self-built lake.
  
  Rides are heavily custsmizeable. The actual track, the ride's colors, the music, the car types, 
 the intervals when rides take off, you name it. Like in other RT games you can add hills, lakes, 
 ravines, different floor types like desert, grass, snow, rock, mud.. Hundreds of scenery items 
 to add to your paths and fields; dozens of trees, lights, garbage cans, benches, ride banners, 
 path types, hedges and walls, bushes, flower fields; all this spread over about 10 different themes 
 which changes the item's appearances.
  
  Special effects can be added to your rides aswell; for example you can place a big oil tower that 
 explodes when a car passes a certain part of the track that triggers it.
  
  To continue, the ability to create your own scenery buildings has been expanded. You can make tunnels 
 over your rides, buildings with doors and windows allowing you to make a little town to place your 
 stores in, you can build entire buildings over your rides with doors that open when a car approaches.. 
 you name it.
  This allows incredible creativity.
  
  I will include a few words about the expansion packs here aswell; they make the game truely complete.
 
  With them you can make your own zoo's, safari rides, waterfalls, tunnels for pedestrian paths, custimize 
 dolphin and lion shows; stupid as it might sound, it is incredibly fun if you like filling in details. 
 
  Swimming pools can be made, including loads of provisions like diving boards, water glides, wave 
 generators, jacuzzi's, showers and so on.
  
  Lasershows are included aswell, elevators and tons of new rides also make their appearance.
  
 All in all this comes down to well over a hundred, maybe even two hundred different rides, all 
 fully customizeable loaded with options.
  
  About pc performance: My current pc is pretty old for modern day standards (1gb ram, geforce7600, 
 amd 3200) but I can play RT3 without any problems or slowdowns at all, on the highest settings 
 (but on 1024x800) in huge parks.
  
  The only bug I ever found in my near-hundred hours of playing this game was the paths that don't 
 connect well on a hill. Easily solved with some 3-second terrain editing.
  
  I have played RT3 for about 3 times longer than Call of Duty 4 and Crysis full singleplayer COMBINED 
 and I even had more fun in RT3 most of the time.
  
  Forget your RT1/2 arcade gameplay, and take your time to dive in the never-boring world of Rollercoaster 
 Tycoon 3.
  
  9,5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tall_Walt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  As the GameSpot review correctly points out, Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 had a lot of problems. But 
 that was a long time ago. It took both expansions to solve all the problems RCT3 started with, 
 but the end product is a great game, fully as good as its predecessors.
  
  The first expansion, Soaked, added water parks with swimming pools. Wild added animal parks, in 
 seeming competition with Zoo Tycoon. But, they also added fixes and more rides to the original 
 game (which, after all, is what this review is for) .
  
  The end result is an excellent 3D game, with fireworks, water shows, and everything else you could 
 want at a theme park. A few problems do remain. The original had no tunneling ability: the expansions 
 added it in, but the game remains a little quirky in that area, especially with the extra wide 
 rides. Shooting movies is very slow. But this is more than offset by the play value of the basic 
 game: as a roller coaster builder and/or as a business game -- or, you can just make what you want 
 in sandbox play.
  
  The important thing is that you don't get the fully fixed RCT3 without both expansions. Even if 
 you hate water parks and animal parks, you need to get Platinum to see the real RCT3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_danny
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 9:54 am PT
Review:  i like the game but rct2 is better
  
  why 3D doesnt fit rct
  
  except the coastercam thats suits rct perfectly
  
  the people doesnt like people they look 
 like not human like things so this is the end of mine i hope so 100 words thing
  
  mayebey i need t o s a y m o r e o r m a y e b e y e n o t b u t i d o n t k n ow s o i g o f ut 
 he er wi t h t h i s
  
  (sorry for mine bad english i am dutch)
  
  maar nu moet ik nog een heleboel carakters er bij zetten dus ik doe dittttttttt ttttttttttttttt 
 tttttt
  tttttttttt ttttttt
  tttttttttt tttttttttt
  ditttttttt tttttttttt
  tttttttttttt ttttt
  tttttttttttt tttttttt
  dittttttttt tttttttttttt
  ttttttttttt tt tttt
 
  ttttttttttttttt ttttt
  dittttttttttttt ttttttt
  ttttttttttttttttt 
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ditttttttttttttttt ttttt
  ttttttttttttt tttt 
  tttttttttttttttttttt
 
  ditttttttt tttttttttttt
  tttttttttttt tttttttt
  ditttttttttt ttttttttttttt
  tttttttttttttt ttt
  ttttttttttttttt ttttt
  tttttttttttttttt t
  ttttttttttttttttt ttt
  dittttttttttttttt 
 ttt
  ttttttttttttttttt 
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ditttttttttttttttt ttttt
  ttttttttttttttttt 
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ditttttttttttttttt tttt
  ttttttttttttttttt 
 
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ditttttttttttttttt ttttt
  ttttttttttttttttt 
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ditttttttttttttttt tttt
  tttttttttttttttttttt 
  ditttttttttttttttttt 
 ttttt
  ttttttttttttttttt 
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ttttttttttttttttt 
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ditttttttttttttttt tt
  ttttttttttttttttt 
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
 
  ditttttttttttttttt ttttt
  ttttttttttttttttt 
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ditttttttttttttttt tttt
  ttttttttttttttttt
  tttttttttttttttttttt 
  ditttttttttttttttttt ttt
 
  ttttttttttttttttt 
  tttttttttttttttttt tt
  ditttttttttttttttt tttt
  tttttttttttttttttttt 
  ditttttttttttttttttt ttttt
  ttttttttttttttttt 
  tttttttttttttttttt 
 tt
  ttttttttttttttttt 
  tttt tttttttttttttt tt
  ditt tttttttttttttt tt
  tttttt ttttttttttt
  tttttttttttttttttttt 
  ditttt tttttttttttttt ttt
  ttttttttttttttttt 
 
  ttttttttt ttttttttt tt
  dittttt t tttttttttttttt
  ttttttttt tttttttt
  tttttttttt tttttttttt
  ditttttttt ttttttttttttt
  tttttttttttt ttttt
  ttttttttttttt ttttttt
 
  dittttttttttt ttttttttt
  tttttttttttttttttttt
  ditttttttttttt ttttttttttt
  ttttttttttttttttt
  ttttttttttttttttt ttt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I'm tossed up on this game. I loved the Roller Coaster Tycoon I, so of course I had to try this 
 one. The graphics were amazing for the release date, I had to upgrade my computer to play the game 
 well. The coolest feature is being able to ride you rollercoaster creations. Everything is pretty, 
 and it's fairly easy to make your park look any way you want to. My main gripe with the game is 
 twofold:
  
  One, some of the last scenarios are too difficult to beat, thanks to bugs in the game, or whatever... I've 
 tried many times to get my VIPs to recognize that I have two different themes going on in my park, 
 no luck. That's when I stopped playing. I came back at it in sandbox mode, which was cool. I always 
 thought that you should be able to take the work, the coasters, the parks you've built in the last 
 scenario and just add to them, change them in order to fit increasing demands, but the sandbox 
 mode here had no challenge of any type, which leads me to the next gripe.
  
  Two, the game wasn't really a challenge. Part of the fun of the original game was that you could 
 fail if you didn't think about placement, what people wanted, and if your rollercoasters weren't 
 fun. With this game, it seemed like everything was just a matter of time, no challenge factor, 
 which is what a game is to me... it has to have some difficulty to it, however mild, in order to 
 keep you going. Not really there for me.
  
  Overall, I game this an 8.5 because it really is a game you ought to try if you enjoy coasters, 
 and the thought of building your own amusement park sounds like fun. It is, just don't expect it 
 to blow your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pittfan666
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 increases the amount of rides available to build and provides an improvement 
 to graphics which most fans sought after playing the first two games and their expansions. In the 
 game, there seems to be hundreds of roller coasters, thrill rides, gentle rides, and much more 
 available for you to build. Usually by the time you finish building a coaster, your research team 
 will have made 3 to 5 possible rides for you to build in the future. The ride selection seems endless.
 
  
  Graphically the rides, environments, and park patrons all look great compared to the previous games. 
 While playing you can zoom in really close to everything and the visitors have much more variety 
 this time around. In addition, you can sit in most rides you build and go along for a first person 
 view of it. Flora and fauna also look great, they even made animatronic scenery this time around. 
 However, with these enhanced graphics also expect a much higher system requirements in order to 
 run the game.
  
  Unfortunately even after all of these upgrades, the control system is extremely cumbersome and 
 annoying in game. Gone are the easy menus from the previous games which enabled you to hire mechanics 
 and janitors by simply hitting a single button at the top of the screen. Now you must navigate 
 through many more windows, drop down windows, and more buttons in order to do things which were 
 so simple in the previous games. In addition, it's difficult to build rides based on the landscapes 
 and their building menu. Everything just appears cluttered and it's often hard to tell at what 
 heights your track pieces are and if they are even lined up with the station where you aim for 
 them to go. Also utterly confusing is why they made drink and food stalls able to break down. The 
 simple footpath, and the options to place garbage cans and seats on them, are also much more harder 
 this time around.
  
  I haven't experienced any of the bugs which gamespot mentioned in their review, and the game appears 
 to be pretty stable on my souped up laptop. 
  
  If you can manage to handle the difficult controls when building your park, your system can run 
 the game, and you enjoy roller coasters then you should enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suiteferb
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: The time spent playing is the acumulation for the career mode.
  Some people hate it because it's 3D, and not like other RollerCoaster Tycoon series games. Well, 
 I have to say the RCT2 was really bad. I haven't tried the first game yet. But I watched a video 
 of it and it's 2D as the second. The game has good goals for the carrer mode and cool scenary. 
 And the zoom and camera turns are not "x2" and "90" anymore. So the game gives the option for 
 selecting which kind of ride (not rollercoaster, other rides or water rides) do you like fitting 
 to the scenary (Generic, West, Horror, Adventure, Future) . All this comparisons are in relation 
 to RCT2.
  My favourite style is "Generic". Because you have a lot of rides and all that. My favourite park 
 in the career mode is "Go With the Flow". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3-rox
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  The 3D graphics, the coaster camera, the "sun sets and rises", the fire work shows (my favourite 
 part) , the huge number of one of a kind visitors, including those you create, acting not alike to 
 each other, and the whole new camera views (my biggest  and much 
 more, made mixed feelings to series fans.
  I allways loved tycoon games and my first one was the first rct demo version, when I was 8. It grew 
 on and made me chase the second version of the game; I was flattered by the simplicity, the fun and 
 customization, what kind of kid wouldn't like to build his very own unique roller coaster.
  The camera was so simple, and it still looked so real; the themes were perfect and so simple: with 
 2 clicks on the mouse you could build a castle; the ride constructing was also easy, that just click 
 on the screen thing.
  A whole new variety of almost everything made theme park building long lasting and boring, and 
 the results were not always satisfatory, it takes 10 times longer to create a theme set than the 
 version 2.
  Therefore the word that describes the difference between rct 3 and 2 is simplicity, while the first 
 tries a lot of new commands and innovations, the other stick with simple and fun gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fima1fim
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  the best things i love about this game are:
  
  you can use a cam to look like a real guy that rides the roller coaster you build! 
  
  2. you 
 can chose what roller coaster you want to build and then BUILD IT BY YOUR SELF AS YOU WANT!!! you 
 can make loops sides big and loong rides! its really gives you the filling of I NEED TO BUILD THE 
 BIGEST AND THE BEST ROLLER COASTER! as well you can build atractions so people will have a big 
 chose the are like 30 atractions 30-40 roller coaster you can build and as loong as you want! don't 
 forget don't start the game and at 1st place build a roller coaster you need to build toilets burrgers 
 and drinks as well suvenirs! and then build atractions! then after you builded a nice lunapark 
 and get money and alot of people come to you and love your park only then you can try to build 
 a roller coaster and don't make it too scary! or people will not want to ride it!!! now don't forget 
 to hire mechanics, geneters, guards, and the guys that make people happy!!! don't forget you need 
 to make people love your park and not hate it cuz people will not come and not pay you and you 
 will have - money!!! 
  
  now 3 you can buy expansion packs like Wild and Soaked!
  
  if you ask me i love the Soaked more then Wild but Wild have more stuff and you can buy animals! 
 and show people and that really makes people happy!!!
  
  ill be makin more reviews ow and if you have Gerrys Mod 10 you can download my maps at garrysmod. org 
 just type in search tandem and you will find my work!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6411
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  The good: Awesome Graphics, make your own fireworks, you feel like your riding the coasters, design 
 your own coasters
  The bad: AI is frustrating, music gets somewhat annoying, limited space in rides
  
  Game-play: 
 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Value: 8/10
  Tilt: 10/10
  Average Score: 9.3/10
  
  The Rollercoaster Tycoon series has been known to push the envelope 
 a lot with its twisting game-play. Now, the envelope can go farther with Rollercoaster Tycoon 3, 
 the newest game in the series. This time, you can build your own coaster, make fireworks, and more! 
 This is one of the most addicting games ever made, and it shall get better in the future.
  
  The main problem with Rollercoaster Tycoon 3 is the AI. When a customer goes on a rollercoaster, 
 sometimes when they get off, they hate it, puke, or say words such as "suck" or "crap". This gets 
 annoying, as it would happen frequently, if not all the time. Looks like your works as a rollercoaster 
 engineer is over because of harsh AI.
  
  Graphically, the game looks beautiful. Although there are some minor bugs in the game, it shouldn't 
 matter because of how splenid the presentation of the graphics look. The design of the coasters 
 certaintly look amazing.
  
  The camera of the game is amazing. The side views of you riding your own rollercoaster make you 
 look like you actually are. Also, you can change your views anytime on the rollercoaster, which 
 will give you a satisfying first person view.
  
  The sound is solid, although there are minor tweaks in the music. The music seems to be extremely 
 repetitive, and a such case for the games presentating music makes in lacking of any detail.
  
  With the new option of designing your own rollercoaster, and fireworks, Rollercoaster Tycoon 
 3 is a blast to play. Although the AI isn't very good and the sound gets sort of annoying, overall, 
 you'll definitly want to play the best Rollercoaster Tycoon game yet. And, I'm not going to lie 
 to you, this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toyeboy
Rating: 3
Date: May 30, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up a while back thinking it'd be great since I love and still play RCT 1 and 
 RCT 2. But my excitement quickly turned into frustration. 
  
  Out of the box this game is broken. There are soooo many bugs and design flaws, it's just hard 
 to believe they'd release it like this. Everything seems out of wack, the time of day ticks far 
 to fast and the peps walk far to slow on supposedly "actual speed". Yes you can speed them up with 
 "fast forward" but then it's like regular RCT speed, so what's the point of 'play" if fast forward 
 is regular speed. While the peps move slowly in the fast speeds, the rides move too fast. All I 
 can say is the speed and pasing of everything together in this game just doesn't work, and is just 
 thrown together it seems. 
  
  The next thing that just made me forget this game altogether... the peps won't ride certain rides 
 at all. I'll build a ride and make a path and open the ride and the peps don't even acknowledge 
 that it's sitting there??!! This isn't fun at all, you can't have any fun if the peps are this 
 unresponsive. Just complete ludicris to release a game with this many bugs.
  
  While the graphics "Look" very good, once you get just a few rides in your park, and then increase 
 the speed of the game (which you will) , the performance quickly takes a hit even on my decent computer... 
 it gets to almost unplayable levels with ugly 20-30fps. I think they bit off more than the game 
 engine can chew with the visuals, they didn't have to make it look this good and just make the 
 game run as good as the 2D ones did at a constant framerate. The size of the parks I used to make 
 in RCT 2 couldn't be done in this game simply b/c the game engine can't handle all this 3D stuff 
 moving around, or you'd have to have a cutting edge pc to run it.
  
  The only thing you could do if you want to play this game is get it with the Soaked expansion pack 
 b/c I've heard it helped some of the bugs and issues... but I'd never WASTE more of my hard earned 
 money on it to find out after seeing how terrible this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azadiscool
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I see that Gamespot said this game has good graphics, so I'll start off by saying that even on 
 my amazingly expensive graphics card, this game looked uglier than the original Gran Turismo. So 
 where's the fun in a game where you can't separate one roller coaster from another. The answer 
 is that is non-existent.
  
  That is not to say that this game is all bugs, and no enjoyable gameplay (which it is) . It has 
 some good features too. Lets see... how about the fireworks? Which, no matter what, look more out 
 of place than a hooker at BJ's (suttle joke made not so suttle) . There's also the ability to ride 
 your own roller coaster, which makes me question why you don't just go ride a real one. Maybe the 
 great character design, so great in fact, it looks like all of the people are the same to the naked 
 eye. But a more observant eye will notice that their shoes are different.
  
  I have to say, the almost anticipation is better than the game. Actually, a lot of things are more 
 fun than this game. Heck, this makes Wii Fit look fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 24, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  =Preview=
  
  This is a series of Roller coaster tycon series, after the success of the sequel Frontier and atari 
 making this game most live and with 3D graphics engine. the fan of this game will enjoy and addicted.
 
  
  =gameplay=
  
  roller tycon 3 allows u to build ur park itself, u can expression urself to remake the parks. with 
 virtually ride, fireworks show, and also the amazing coaster who can u choice. u works as a parks 
 managers who managed ur parks with ur park staf. ur can hire park staf to clean the parks, repair 
 the attraction, and build a new attraction. U can make ur dream parks with the high explosion mountain, 
 or else. i have interested to a unique appearance which depend on demographic and social graphics, 
 a few like steer toward gentle rides and the others like extreem thrills. and each peeps have his 
 self appearance to comment. but there are a few bugs who will slowly and flickr ur game, but isn't 
 major problem.
  
  =graphics=
  
  roller tycon 3 use the modern 3D graphics engine with the zoom which can see detail object. little 
 number of dinamic lights, and the impressive sound with the song can you choose. the game can play 
 with the minimum requirements at least celeron 1,8 Ghz. with 512 ram and 700 mb disk space with 
 minimum SIS onboard vga. but i recomended to use at least cpu with min 2.0 ghz with 1 gb ram and 
 vga card like x300 or geforce 3 mx to increase the performance and avoid the slowing down performance.
 
  
  =All performance=
  
  Roller tycon 3 is the best of series i have play. with the same theme but there are improvement 
 in graphics, sound, and gameplay. i give point 7.5 to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BulletsandBlood
Rating: 3
Date: May 24, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Obviously by reading the review deck you can tell I wasn't completely satisfied with Roller Coaster 
 Tycoon 3. I maybe going far out to say that Atari ruined this game. The game seems directed at 
 a younger audience from the start menu and some of the rides and other things, but when you finally 
 start playing, the game requires a fair bit of knowledge that I doubt someone 6-8 years younger 
 than me (that seems the audience their aiming for with the visuals in this game) would know what 
 to do when they put this thing in their PC. I have had a lot of bugs plague my experience with 
 this game, Paths wouldn't connect or they would be seperated and I would have to build a seperate 
 path and people would be trapped, I'd get bad ratings...*sigh* it was not enjoyable. In RCT 1 and 
 2 I was able to pick up and play without problems, it challenged you, the visuals were simple and 
 the overall view was not clunky. Instead of making a simple sim they made a cartoon which clearly 
 isn't the right way with this series. I was constantly regretting laying down $40 for this thing. 
 Anyways, I can't be all down on this thing, some new features did catch my attention, the fact 
 that you can now build animal cages and safari's is all the fun of going to a real zoo without 
 throwing stale corn pops at angry Polar Bears who clearly don't want to be disturbed because frankly 
 they just want to be left the **** alone... yeah... anyways back to the game. I do like making pools 
 and things like that. I just think they could have done this without changing to a 3D camera which 
 is more useless than any other thing in this game, more so than having a "sandbox" mode where you 
 have unlimited money... doesn't that take away the point of "tycoon", you have to EARN the money 
 by starting small, I was king of coasters and all I had in my park was a bathroom. To sum this 
 up, all that I have to say is that I do prefer RCT 2 more than 3, I will continue playing 2 and 
 hope that they don't drain this series anymore but I guess it can't get worse than a game being 
 given away in a cereal box *cough* RCT 1,.... If you want to try a Roller Coaster Tycoon game I 
 say go for 2, It is great all around and you probably won't run into issues. I suggest getting 
 the expansion packs with it as well and enjoy it.
  
  The Good:
  - including aspects of other Tycoon games
  - New rides and features help make this game not completely 
 insufferable
  - more park stats and options
  
  The Bad:
  - Visuals are less than average
  - 3D camera is clunky and hard to use
  - placing small objects 
 is a hassel
  - Not as good as RCT2
  - definately not worth the $40
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  I never had this game before nor the other 2 versions but I have now become a rollercoaster fan. 
 It was after I went to my local Theme Park Thorpe Park, which is not far from London. I mostly 
 got excited to build an Alton Towers style Theme Park by building an Inverted rollercoaster, Vertical 
 rollercoaster, corkscrew rollercoaster and a flying rollercoaster. Something like Nemesis, Oblivion, 
 Corkscew and Air for instance. 
  
  It is all realistic and I love it a lot. But the most important part of running your park is to 
 get the tourists to enjoy it by giving them all sorts of excitement.
  
  You have to build paths, shops, food and drink stalls and hire mechanics, cleaners (janitors for 
 you yanks) , entertainers and security guards as well as you have an inspector to check on your 
 progress.
  
  Everytime you progress, messeges pop up on the top of the screen to tell you whats going on. If 
 there are problems, you must deal with them quickly otherwise you will recieve a fine.
  
  You can select your type of currency you want (like for instance $ Dollars,  Pounds, Euros, Yen) . 
 You can change your type of weather from Faranheit to celcius.
  
  I prefer  Pounds and Celcius because I'm British.
  
  I think it is an excellent game and a 
 great choice if you want to build your own Theme Park. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  The good: Awesome Graphics, make your own fireworks, you feel like your riding the coasters, design 
 your own coasters
  The bad: AI is frustrating, music gets somewhat annoying, limited space in rides
  
  Game-play: 
 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Value: 8/10
  Tilt: 10/10
  Average Score: 9.3/10
  
  The Rollercoaster Tycoon series has been known to push the envelope 
 a lot with its twisting game-play. Now, the envelope can go farther with Rollercoaster Tycoon 3, 
 the newest game in the series. This time, you can build your own coaster, make fireworks, and more! 
 This is one of the most addicting games ever made, and it shall get better in the future.
  
  The main problem with Rollercoaster Tycoon 3 is the AI. When a customer goes on a rollercoaster, 
 sometimes when they get off, they hate it, puke, or say words such as "suck" or "crap". This gets 
 annoying, as it would happen frequently, if not all the time. Looks like your works as a rollercoaster 
 engineer is over because of harsh AI.
  
  Graphically, the game looks beautiful. Although there are some minor bugs in the game, it shouldn't 
 matter because of how splenid the presentation of the graphics look. The design of the coasters 
 certaintly look amazing.
  
  The camera of the game is amazing. The side views of you riding your own rollercoaster make you 
 look like you actually are. Also, you can change your views anytime on the rollercoaster, which 
 will give you a satisfying first person view.
  
  The sound is solid, although there are minor tweaks in the music. The music seems to be extremely 
 repetitive, and a such case for the games presentating music makes in lacking of any detail.
  
  With the new option of designing your own rollercoaster, and fireworks, Rollercoaster Tycoon 
 3 is a blast to play. Although the AI isn't very good and the sound gets sort of annoying, overall, 
 you'll definitly want to play the best Rollercoaster Tycoon game yet. And, I'm not going to lie 
 to you, this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFS102
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  -------------------------------------------------------
  Good:
  -3D graphics make building your rides easier and more fun than ever.
  -There are a wide variety 
 of rides and attractions. 
  -The ride-cam makes you really feel in the game when you make a coaster.
  
  Bad:
  -Sometimes 
 the game feels restricting when building rides.
  -It lags up average computers when you get a big park.
  --------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 is the 3rd installment into the highly popular business franchise "Roller 
 Coaster Tycoon". Now RCT is packing 3d graphics, new challenges, and an overall package that you'll 
 want to pick up.
  
  RCT is very simple to play; all you have to do is make a park. You have pretty much no restriction 
 with what you want to do. You can make huge theme parks with tons of rides and attractions. If 
 you've never played RCT before, the game should be pretty easy to pick up, and for all you RCT 
 fans you'll be making rides in no time.
  
  For all you RCT fans, the new 3-d graphics will easily be the best change in the game since RCT2. 
 The rides now look exceptionally good, much better from previous games in the series. Other changes 
 in RCT3 include the edition of the "Ride-Cam". This lets you actually ride your roller coasters, 
 which is much more fun than watching them from the regular perspective. Those are the two major 
 changes that make RCT3 standout from the others.
  
  RCT has a few downsides to it though. On "graphically challenged" computers the game can start 
 to slow down as you build bigger and better parks. I have made awesome parks before, but once I 
 fill the area up about halfway, the games frame rate drops quickly. For gamers who have awesome 
 computers, it shouldn't be any problem though. The only other downside I can think of is that sometimes 
 the game can feel restricting to me. You don't have the greatest amount of variety when building, 
 like you only have 4 different slopes when building a hill. But these are not enough to make the 
 game un-playable. 
  
  RCT3 definitely amps up the expectations for tycoon games. It easily beats RCT2 and all the other 
 tycoon games, like Zoo Tycoon. For RCT fans, I say this would be an easy purchase. Yet the restriction 
 will keep some away. If your really serious about building rides, I'd recommend something else 
 due to the restriction, like [HERE] . But nonetheless, RCT3 is an exceptional game.
  
  I give Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 an 8.0 out of 10.
  
  -NFS102
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ST3-3YA
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Roller coaster tycoon 3 is much better if you buy the expansion packs because generally it's just 
 much more fun. 
  It's the first of it's type where you can actually ride the coaster as thought your on it. This 
 is probably the best new feature that has been introduced in this game as well as much better graphics 
 and a wider choice of rides to choose from. 
  You can make plain old boring roller coasters or you could spend ages on making one roller coaster 
 and make it lok professional by putting scenery around it and using realistic speeds, not speeds 
 when in real life the coaster would just fly off going over a hill.
  You can go on this game just to learn how to work it or you could have ago at making your own park 
 and coaster etc. If you find that boring then you could enjoy yourself by making roller coasters 
 that crash.
  But thats not all. You can make them crash into tourists if your really bored. But you probably 
 won't be.
  There's so much to do on this game that you can't do on the others. It's one the best game i've 
 got on pc following sims, 007 and call of duty. Worth trying it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 83 % This game is good it has better maps and there's the new camera view where you're 
 in the ride and then you just sit and watch the show. This game is the best in the series because 
 in this game you can finally experiance every ride in the game and thats the best part of the game.
 
  
  
  Graphics 84 % The graphics are fine it has pretty good graphics for a 2004 game i was pretty impressed.
 
  
  
  Sound 85 % The sound is better and the music is good.
  
  Difficulty : This game is harder then the other roller coaster tycoon game i think that it will 
 take you more time to complete the objectives you have to do.
  
  This game is worth the money and worth playing because this game has new things that the older 
 games in the series didn't have. 
  
  I reccomend this game for people that liked the older roller coaster tycoon games. And people that 
 never tried this game should check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff12fankw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  With Roller Coaster Tycoon 3, it is one of the best when it comes to those owning a roller coaster 
 park type games. It is one of the first roller coaster games with an on ride camera view, which 
 is pretty nice it is just that it doesn't seem to be that well put, I guess that is because of 
 how I was to excited. Or because of how it doesn't feel like you are on the ride, like what the 
 purpose of it is some post to be, unlike Thrillville, where it actually dose feel like you are 
 on it.
  You just do the same old thing then the other Roller Coaster Tycoons. Except for that you can do 
 the objectives at anytime (except for some of them) , then It is in 3D, and there is an awesome 
 mode called Sandbox Mode. Sandbox Mode is when you can build anything, for you have unlimited money. 
 The way that I look at it is that this is a good but boring game. 
  The game as good stuff but they just aren't the same as the first couple of games. So that is why 
 I don't like this one that much as the others in the same category. 
  So that is why I give RCT3: 8.5 out of 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Y3arZer0
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Another excellent installment to the franchise that we all love. I remember playing the original 
 RCT on a Pentium 90. (90 Mhz) Ahhh, those were the days, the only problem i have with this version 
 is the graphics. Character models are very blocky. But, thats not the real focus, the coasters 
 and scenery look amazing. 9.0/10 for me. Plus, i love how they focus on the add-ons. I just wish 
 they had a digital download for it, instead of going to the local game store to pick them up. I 
 got the gold pack which suites me just fine. All and all, a great fun game. Easy for kids to pick 
 up and play with the "just build" mode with unlimited money. Yet it provides a challenge for the 
 more experienced gamers with goals and themes. The water-park add-on that came with the gold package 
 adds a change of pace when just building coaster. I love water rides and slides, so that added 
 a greater sense of what a park really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby-fu-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 is a great, and fun roller coaster simulator. The graphics in RCT3 aren't 
 anything groundbreaking or incredible but they aren't downright bad. Zooming out to far can make 
 things dissapear which is dissapointing though. But you can turn up the graphics to make it looks 
 better by 100% but that may increase the lag a bunch.
  
  Gameplay is great but with in game items can seem unrealistic. But since the discovery of Custom 
 Scenery it has come very far from that. The bad thing of its gameplay is the serious lag issue 
 with larger parks. After building large things the lag in the park can get very irritating. With 
 a good amount of CS and pure skill and attention to detail can make RCT3 look just plain incredible. 
 Making coasters is obviously the main part of the game and is very accurate with coaster company 
 track and car types. Though some elements of the rides can seem rough and unrealistic.
  
  Overall any coaster enthusiast ready to have some fun should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combot55
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game for Christmas in 2004, I ran in as soon as I got it. There were a few 
 problems though. 1st, my Peep Editor crashed my computer when I tried to use it. 2nd, I couldn't 
 see any water. 3rd, on night mode, my game went to 2fps. ever sence I updated it, these have been 
 corrected. In 2007, I got RCT3 Platinum! for Christmas. I'll review that game later though. So 
 now i have a park in sandbox mode that takes up all the parks room. Giant buildings, indoor, outdoor, 
 and underground coasters, and every thrill, gentle, and junior ride in the game. With all 5 themes, 
 custom scenery, custom mortars, my own custom fireworks, and 2,000+ guests. And it doesn't lag! 
 If i wrote this before update 3, it would have gotten a 6.5. However, Atari has made this the best 
 RCT game in the series. And, before I'm done, send Atari E-Mails saying to make an RCT4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodElf42
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The bugs have been fixed that is all I can they are all gone I have had none of the usually problems 
 since the patch came so no problem there. I do agree with you on the largem aps issue though those 
 slow down ALOT. That does take some of the fun out of the sandbox but it's still good old fashion 
 Tycoon fun with the rides and guests and the slightly cliche humor. the graphics are amazing, the 
 expansions fun and worth the money for the content ( or just buy the platnium edition) You can 
 finally full customize your guests the way you want so you'll have someone ot ride the most extreme 
 rides you design ( biggest let down of the first was design massive coasters everyone was scared 
 of) . So I'd have to say this game is worth the money for someone who enjoys recreational gaming 
 and the tycoon games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Okay, let's start off with this. If love the Rollercoaster Tycoon series. I've played that series 
 for years! So when this came out this was a must buy for me! I bought it and was disappointed. 
 This was not the old Rollercoaster Tycoon I used to know and love. This was like what EA does with 
 games except EA didn't publish the game. Where shall' I get started.
  
  Okay, the graphics in RCT are 3D. Sounds funs?? Kinda kills it, its hard to explain how but it 
 does. It makes everything seem to realist which is bad. RCT was a game that wasn't very realist. 
 I had fun crashing rides but now, [shakes head] they seem to real like I'm watching Final Destination 
 3. The 3D feature kinda ruined the game for me. The rollercoaster building was pretty weak. I remmeber 
 back in RCT2 where I'd build giant rollercoaster and watch people scream off em'. Not now. The 
 3d feature makes the rides too realist which is bad if your talking RCT wise. The game is also 
 LOADED with bugs. Every darn time I'd play campaign and get far the game crashes. NO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
  
  The game isn't that bad though. One feature they added was very cool. Theres a option where you 
 can add your mp3. files to your rollercoasters. So when the rollercoaster was on my favorite tunes 
 where on which is pretty cool if you think about it. I had Metallica playing for the hardcore bad-@ss 
 rides and soft lite rock for the weak merry-go-rounds. Also the people are a lot more funnier to 
 see. They walk with groups and families. And you can make your won familes which totally rocks! 
 The game also allows you to make your own food recipes which I found surprisingly fun. I made all 
 different kinds of wierd, bizzare foods. 
  
  The game adds a lot of neat features that truely give the game an awesome look but, adds some features 
 that are too realistist to the RCT franchize. If your not a huge fan of RCT buy this because you'll 
 truely have a blast! If your a hardcore fan like me, I suggest you play the demo.
  
  -Helloiseeu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rozar505
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 1, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Thinking this game will be better than Roller Coaster Tycoon 2 I got it. I installed it and played 
 it and this game is so bad I uninstalled it the day I got it. Rarely a game is that bad but I feelt 
 like I was playing Sims Theme Park which has little to no realistic coaster construction. Pretty 
 sad when a company named Frontier screws everything Chris Sawyer up that pretty much ruins this 
 franchise. If you are looking for an actual roller coaster simulation go buy NoLimits, the only 
 real roller coaster simulator out there. Roller Coaster Tycoon 2 is a game I've spent at least 
 a month's worth of time playing it was that great. Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 makes me never want 
 to buy a game made from Atari or Frontier ever again, which I haven't to this day because they 
 both make crap games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  This is a revolutionary game in the tycoon series. I couldn't believe how much the game play had 
 changed from the second and first one. The graphics and scenery were amazing! The coasters and 
 rides and food stalls you could choose from were endless. In this game one of the most addictive 
 things is sand box mode. Pretty much anything you can amagine is on this. Just think and you can 
 build. I really think every one should get this game believe me you will grow on and be very addicted. 
 So go out there and get this game, I would very much appreciate this, I just can't believe how 
 much these games are underated. I don't care who you are out there I would reccamend this game 
 to anyone who likes any aspect of this game, event though it has some bugs like most game that 
 come on at this time, thank you roller coaster tycoon. 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassicPlayer
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 has you managing parks, entertaining guests, and making sure you have the 
 right amount of toilets in a park (can't forget those) .
  
  The great thing about RollerCoaster 3 is that the graphics are proper 3D, which means better graphics, 
 which also means that your coasters will look better in every way. The campaign mode is okay, but 
 not great. The sandbox mode is the best bit, as you can create the park you have always wanted 
 to build. Have Go-Kart tracks, as well as big and crazy coasters.
  
  The bad thing about this is that the game can glitch when there is too much stuff in the park, 
 more so in a specific area. This doesn't change anything for this game.
  
  Overall, players who loved the previous RollerCoaster Tycoons, or have loved Theme Park Inc should 
 try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  RCT3 is the third installment to the tycoon series, and while it does improve on lots of aspects... it 
 fails in the same amount. Don't get me wrong though, this game can be tons of fun and time worthy! 
 Especially if you buy at least the Soaked! expansion pack. RCT3 is a theme-park driven game that 
 puts you as the conductor of... well... a monorail! There's tons of rides to put in your park along 
 with firework shows, bathroom stalls, snack bars, help centers, ATM's and the list just goes on. 
 You can play in a sndbox mode or go through almost like a story mode where your put to do missions 
 that still aren't fun and super challenging. Riding your own coaster seeming to be one of the only 
 amazing adds this time around... while it is amazing though, it fails sometimes as to fact you see 
 always clouds that move 30 miles per hour, badly made backrounds, and track pieces cut off. I suggest 
 you buy this is you have a PC, it's a fun coaster ride... until the ride ends though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon1223hk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 28, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  I was a player of both RCT1 and RCT2. It is true that RCT2 really only looks like an expansion 
 pack to RCT1, with all the graphics and control be the same as the previous version. Although I 
 was not really disappointed, but it indeed can be better.
  
  And RCT3 does it!
  
  RCT3 introduces a brand new 3D environment. Although the graphics cannot be compared to many action 
 games nowadays, I do think it is good enough for a strategy game. Also, RCT3 has changed (and improved) 
 the entire control and has added lots of new features. The sandbox mode allows you to build a GIGANTIC 
 park with no financial problems. The career mode provides 18 levels (another 8 for the Soaked! 
 expansion pack and 12 for the Wild! expansion pack!) for you to achieve the not-too-easy-and-achievable 
 objectives.
  
  It is a game that also allow older computer to play as its system requirement is not very high. 
 It is a game that you can enjoy for a very long time and even longer with the two expansion packs, 
 which one allows you to build a waterland with swimming pools and another allows you to raise animals 
 and make your park like a zoo. Unlike the Sims, the two expansion packs can be installed and played 
 at the SAME TIME.
  
  The game does load for quite a long time even though you have a good computer and this may be one 
 of the bad points.... However I think its good points are well outweighing the bad points and this 
 is a game that you definitely should buy if you are a lover of strategy game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew2015
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I am a Tycoon on every one, but Island Hopping!! You Have To have it just right. Which is hard 
 with 5 coasters. The rest of this is just letters because it has to be at least 100 words. hghjghf 
 g hgf h hd gfgf h gfghg hg gfg hhgfh gf ht y zf ASe sd ff ggh k kjhjf fg g asd sdf gd hdfghjgyh 
 jgf f sgf df adas f gf gf hgfhgfhgf h gfh f dfg fh gfh gfh fg j jih i ijni hgfyder d76hijjiu gfrcd 
 ybumko uigtyvghbjn uihyub n hyu gty bui ju gty v nio hjyu g in kj yug km iuhb boj i jui bnk mop 
 j yu bh jmkoj8yubjmkjh bj nij ni jio uhik mp [oujyufer c m890hujni ki0 j 9n iom ij u80bgy bi ni 
 nh uin om koi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaaskwast
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 12, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  The game has all the elements to be a flawless mastgerpiece. Roller coaster tycoon is by far the 
 best themepark series. But this game is a total letdown. The first thing that made roller coaster 
 always a great series is the originality. Roller coaster 3 however has copied big parts of its 
 gameplay from Theme park inc.. And Theme park inc. sucks. And the gameplay...... well the gameplay 
 sucks. Many bugs in the park view, wich tend to anoy quickly. And many other flaws. The game is 
 not all bad, it has allot of cool elements. I unfortunatly couldnt bring up the patience to make 
 this game worth my while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pm_gamemaster
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 21, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Rollercoaster Tycoon 3 is a  game. Rollercoaster Tycoon 3 allows 
 you to build the theme park of your dreams. You'll be spending exciting hours, trying to get that 
 huge rollercoaster to really shine. Or to make the peeps as happy as they can get. Or, to just 
 have fun with this game.
  
  So you can choose to play either the Career- mode or the Sandbox- mode. The Sandbox mode lets you 
 play with a empty park. This is the most fun playing-mode, because you start with unlimited money. 
 There is no limits for what you can build, 'cause you can build everything. The career mode also 
 have it's fun times. I wouldn't say this game is only for kids. I think it can be fun for almost 
 anyone. There are alot of rides in this game. You choose how big your rides will be (if it's a 
 rollercoaster) , what colour (s) it will be in, where it'll be placed and much, much more. The options 
 are many in this game. You'll find yourself building restaurants, following people, selling balloons, 
 riding those big rides in 3D etc. Thanks to the 3D technology, the parks comes to life as never 
 before. So if you've played the predecessors, you'll be in love with RTC 3. The expansion packs 
 (Soaked and Wild) will make the game even better, adding a lot more fun. It seems as I have no 
 complains, but there are some gameplay issues and some bugs, unfortunetely. But that shouldn't 
 stop you from buying this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lewisex
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  i recommend this to anyone who doesn't play a tycoon game, they will realize how much they were 
 missing if they play this game. the die-hard fans of this series will get satisfied with this game 
 too! The only thing i could complain about was the sound, it seemed to mellow for a game like this 
 and the bugs are also a problem but not too big of a problem. Anyway, the really awesome addition 
 to the series is the coastercam and the peeps reaction. it gave me a reason to create very good 
 coasters surrounded by beautiful scenery, so that when i ride the coaster, i can enjoy how good 
 it is. The peeps are very nice, they are very helpful in keeping you informed of whats wrong in 
 the park. they are also very fun to watch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilan94
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  What makes Rollar Coaster Tycoon 3 one of the best games ever? The fun and amzing time? The coaster 
 cam? The thing where you can BUILD YOUR OWN THEME PARK?
  
  The gameplay of Rollar Coater Tycoon 3 was awesome. There is a profile for every person as your 
 park (in sandbox mode, I have 2000 people) and many other features. Yet, when there way to many 
 people... over 500 people then the game started to slow down, and the coster cam seemed more like 
 many pictures going one before anthour.
  
  The graphics of the game are awesome. Sadly when you try to get your camera down (by using the 
 left and right mouse button and scrolling down thing) , it always went back to the same hieght. 
 But the coaster cam was intense.
  
  The sound was okay. It is awesome they had a few music here and there, but sometime people said 
 the weirdest thing. Like after a good rollar coaster, I couldn't tell if they were saying wooh!!! 
 or something.
  
  The value of the game was awesome, the graphics, sound and gameplay made it the best of all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  Gamespot i think there wrong in there review cause this is a great game i really dont care about 
 the bugs in it cause it is not a big problem. The graphics are really good but depends on the graphics 
 card you have. This is the first game for RollerCoaster Tycoon to turn 3D and Frontier have'nt 
 done a bad job at the game at all. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay - Rollercoast Tycoon 3 plays well and its the best of the series so far giving a lot of 
 detail to the rides its surroundings also to the public in your park. The cam coaster is really 
 fun to see and you can watch this on all rides which is really cool adding more to the experience. 
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics - This is really good graphics but this depends on what graphics card you own in your 
 computer but seeing this in 3D is a big change and its well worth it. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound - The game has great sounds on the sound effects and its good to here them, the music isnt 
 very good not what i would listen to but you can add your own music to the rides which makes the 
 game even more cooler making it feel more real.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Value - I bought this game with RollerCoaster Tycoon Soaked which was in a box site called RC3 
 Gold i bought this a while ago but cost me &pound;29.99 and its well worth it. Now you can buy 
 the full box set with every game from the Rollercoaster tycoon series for &pound;29.99. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Dont listen to the people who have been giving this game a low mark cause its the best rollercoster 
 sim out there better then Thrillville believe me. Here you can make rides where ever you want, 
 build them and also add your own music. Well Worth the Money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truemattyz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 2, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  very good game, i loved the first one but this is even better
  i love the add ons as well .. great that you can watch the rides close up and make your own tho 
 this can be difficult ff ff ff ff ff ff ff fff fff f ffffffg fgf gsg gg dgeg rgr gzgzdgdgz z zdg 
 g g gzfgz rgdr g zkjh p ;hjk hkh j;; kl ; ;llk; ; h; h very good game, i loved the first one but 
 this is even better
  i love the add ons as well .. great that you can watch the rides close up and make your own tho 
 this can be difficult ff ff ff ff ff ff ff fff fff f ffffffg fgf gsg gg dgeg rgr gzgzdgdgz z zdg 
 g g gzfgz rgdr g zkjh p ;hjk hkh j;; kl ; ;llk; ; h; h 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I play this game alot! Because it's fun. Making the park is one thing and riding them is another! 
 If you've liked the previeus games of RCT then you will like this one. the riding feature i find 
 to be fun becuase not only can you ride coasters but also bumber cars ect. Sandbox mode I find 
 to be the most fun because no money hasels and you just build a fun park. Design your rides color 
 them add songs name rides put up bulletons of your pictures. all the scenary and rides you whould 
 want to make while making a park of ur dreams.... PLAIN FUN! not as good as the second or the first 
 though : (
  
  Gameplay - Fun, just plain fun.
  
  Graphics - Graphics does not make a game, a game. but the 3d graphics should be fine enough for 
 u
  
  Sound - lots of choices to choose from but non of them are hits lol!
  
  Value - Just a plain great game that you should buy.
  
  Tilt - overall not the best tycoon 
 game. but making the park is awesome. riding and watching it grow is ever more awesome!
  
  Did I forget to mention that making a park and designing a land IS FREAKING SWEET before you even 
 start building your FREAKING SWEET park. lol
  
  -- (/7.9\) -- Good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Intense
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  I purchased RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 pretty much the day it was released, and quite honestly I was 
 hugely disappointed. Literally years later (3 to be exact) I decided to give it another go, and 
 in the process raised my score of this game from a 5. something to an 8.5, and here's why.
  
  Gameplay
  
  First and foremost RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 is relatively easy to get into, starting 
 with various tutorials to help you on your merry way. Also, if you don't want to dive straight 
 into the scenario's it has to offer (which is the main part of the game) a 'sandbox mode' is available 
 - you can build almost anything you like for free without any money problems.
  Maneuvering around your park is simple enough, left click on your mouse brings up a few options 
 for whatever you've clicked on as well as serves as the primary function for building things, the 
 right mouse button held down strafes your camera and the mouse wheel allows you to zoom in and 
 out as well as rotate the camera if you hold it down. In short, controls are nice and simple and 
 the interface is well laid out.
  
  Graphics
  
  I think this is the part that threw me off the game at first. Graphics, quite simply, are stunning. 
 However, contrary to what it says on the back of the game box you need one hell of a powerful computer 
 to run this game even at the minimum specifications. For example, the minimum processor speed has 
 to be at least 1GHz, and although my 1.6GHz machine isn't brilliant I thought I'd be able to run 
 the game fairly well, which was backed up by twice more RAM than the 256 suggested. How wrong I 
 was. I had to have every setting on minimum which made the game look really, really bad. I know 
 graphics aren't everything in a game, but this factor really put me off RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 
 for a very long time.
  Fast-forward to 2007 and my processor speed has been raised to nearly double the minimum required 
 processor speed, and I have 4 times more RAM than required. Trouble is, I till have the graphic 
 settings at little over 1/3 full, but even so the difference is remarkable. The only setback is 
 that I can't have a super-sized park otherwise the game slows down to the point of being unbearable.
 
  Simply put, I don't recommend purchasing this game unless you have a top of the range computer 
 to run it on.
  
  Sound
  
  In my opinion the sound and music featured are the weakest aspects of this game. The bustling sound 
 of people going about their business in your park is nice, but the music tracks that accompanies 
 the rides are bad. Fortunately you can import your own music if you wish, which saves the score 
 here from being a 3 or a 4.
  
  Value
  
  RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 has been out for over two years now, so it's safe to say it probably won't 
 cost you too much to pick up. You can also buy a double pack featuring the original game plus it's 
 expansion 'Soaked!' for a good price, and there is also a deluxe pack available featuring the original 
 game, 'Soaked!' and 'Wild' available. After a look around various sites I've found the deluxe pack 
 going for &pound;25, so it's safe to say that this game is good value for money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottosmann
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game puts you in the shoes of a theme park manager. In the third addition of this popular 
 series, you are given more control than ever before. You can do everything from designing coasters 
 to building shops to even choosing the color of you janitors uniforms. There are endless amounts 
 of cutomazation options. And don't forget, in this new addition, you are even able to ride your 
 rides along with the ability to make massive firework displays.
  
  This game makes it fun to recreate parks that you have been visited, once again because of the 
 wide range of cutomization options.
  
  You can either place a previously built roller coaster, or you can go the more fun route and build 
 it from scratch. You also have the ability to build you own generic rides, like haunted house, 
 go karts, ect.
  
  There are five different themes in the game; sci-fi (rocket ships, space) , adventure (jungles, pirates) , 
 horror (haunted houses, ghosts) , generic (your regular carnival-type rides) , and western (coboys, 
 mining villages) .
  
  I would reccomend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awsomedude56
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  ok this game is a total or kinda failure, if there was no bugs i would of gave this game a 9.4 
 why cant they make a rct game with noooooo bugs?????
  its definitly not worth the price so if i were u buy it try it if u dont like it take it back and 
 get ur money now im tellin da truth really so if u really want too play this ignorin the bugs then 
 get it this game is for die hard fans of the series in my opinion so in conclusion in my opinion 
 dont get it its a letdown 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameFreak34
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  After owning all RCT games including all expansion packs it was pretty cool to run the park. Then, 
 I really wanted a game where you could ride the rides and have a spectator's point of view. I definitely 
 found it in RCT3. I bought this game first day of launch and have played it ever since. I also 
 picked up Soaked! and Wild! later when they came out. I have many views toward this game- most 
 good, but a few disappointments as well.
  
  The Good- It runs a lot like like the earlier RCT games with most features included. The difference 
 is riding the rides. It's awesome to ride over 200 of them, at least 50 roller coasters. Building 
 scenery is always fun, too, and with the billboards, you can add any image to the park. The peeps 
 look pretty good overall. It's cool that you can create your own. But the best thing added to the 
 series in my mind is the fireworks and laser shows. It's difficult at first, but gets addicting 
 and fun to create in the parks.
  Also, RCT3 Soaked! and Wild! were the greatest expansions ever thought of. Creating a water park 
 or zoo along with the actual park makes it pretty realistic like today.
  
  The Disappointments- There are some occasional bugs, especially if your playing this game on an 
 older computer. My computer plays well though. The day and night feature was a plus, but after 
 building up a park it seems once night hits the gameplay freezes and studders a bit. Also, I was 
 kind of disappointed with the new coasters put in on the Wild! pack. They were a little too futuristic 
 and they should of created more modern coasters.
  
  Overall, I love RCT3. I don't think any more expansions are coming out or something like an RCT4. 
 But being a huge roller coaster fan and visiting amusement parks around the world, this game can 
 create that feeling of being at a park. This game is a must for all roller coaster fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexlips
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 11, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the original RCT and one of the reasons that I loved it so much was because 
 it was so simple but there was so much to it. The third in the series is similar but the opposite 
 at the same time. There is so, so much to it that I think there is way to much to it, this makes 
 it not simple but really complicated. Its good in a way that there are literally thousands of different 
 rides and the scenery (which I can't be bothered with) but there is to much for 1 game. This is 
 good but its gonna take me alot of time to figure out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clone_commando_
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Here we go on my review of RollerCoaster Tycoon 3.
  This game proves up to the RollerCoaster Tycoon line as the best one yet. I would say this is in 
 my all-time top 3 of PC games alongside the expansion Soaked and Age of Empires 3.
  Gameplay 10/10
  The Gameplay category has so little room for flaws or improvements that's why 
 i gave it a 10. During the game my favorite type of game mode is Sandbox having no money limits 
 and an open flat terrain.
  Graphics 9/10
  The Graphics were slightly flawed not bad but there was room for improvement in a few parts.
 
  Sound 10/10
  In the Sound category I was impressed on how crisp it was. The sound wasn't choppy it was clean 
 and the music was also good.
  
  To summarize this game i would have to say it is the best in its series. I liked it, for those 
 tycoon and strategy gamers you might want to check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: queenfan66
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  this game is what the rollercoaster tycoon series has been waiting for 3-d grafix changed the game 
 so much. It is so much easier to make rides now thanks to coaster cam. It is a lot of fun to make 
 parks and see people riding the rides you made. this game not only sets the higher bar on the franchise 
 but on all tycoon games. This game is so much fun to play. Sometimes though like on many PC games 
 you can experience the game becoming really slow. But the game is still wonderful. WARNING this 
 game is highly addictive. You can spend hours and hours playing this game. This game is a great 
 game to play. If you love simulators and tycoons this game is the game to buy. unlike many games 
 this game doesnt requireexpansion packs this game is good right out of the box. If you are looking 
 for a new game to play pick up a copy of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titans321
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. It is the best in the RCT series. I love how you can ride the rides by yourself 
 and the Sandbox mode is great. With all new rides, new scenery, new places, and much more it is 
 surely one of the best computer game on the market. The people are much more detailed but you can't 
 name them anymore like you could in the previous games. It was totally worth the money that I payed 
 for it and I am glad I bought it. If you like the RCT 1 and 2, you will surely love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ginga-Lightnin
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that strikes you about RC3 is the massive contast between it and it's predecessors. 
 The whole game engine has been completely revamped and, whilst the core gameplay remains the same, 
 everything around it has changed in one way or another.
  
  Firstly, the graphics. As you may have guessed, a lot has happened since the days of the 90 deg. 
 retation 2D RC1&amp;2. The game now comes with fully-3D viewing, with rotation, zoom and tilt. 
 Wilst the graphics are indeed lush, with some of the most realistic water I've seen on a game like 
 this, they're not xactly ground-breaking. The visitors are blocky, as are the rides sometimes. 
 Apart from these minor quivers though, the graphics are generally good, a vast improvement from 
 1&amp;2. The water shines and reflects, the rides run much more smoothly, and the surroundings 
 are much more becomming of a Theme Park Game. Although the best graphical feature of the game by 
 far is the night-time lighting and fireworks. You'll see what I mean from the second you start 
 playing.
  
  The sound is, unfortunately, a little repetetive. There are only a couple of pre-recorded clips 
 for the different sounds required on the game, and it's clear when these repeat. Whilst only a 
 tiny hitch, It can spoil the experience a bit if your a deep gamer. The music also is very repetetive. 
 As far as I know, the menu and the background music share the same singular track, and whilst it 
 is a jolly tune, it is very easy to get sick of. The ride usic etc. is much better, with a wide 
 selection of tracks to suit your particular ride, and this are as clear as crystal. The fading 
 sound in correspondence with the distance from the ride or feature is impressively smooth, and 
 definitely worth a listen.
  
  Finally, the gameplay. As I said, the main features of RC1&amp;2 have been retained for the third 
 outing, which was definitely a good move. The game still revolves mainly around mission based play, 
 but the way you go about completing all the objectives has changed slightly. Now, there are three 
 different levels of objectives, mainly containing groups of two or three objectives each. The three 
 levels are Beginner, Entrepenuer and Tycoon. Each group consists of varying objectives from building 
 a coaster with a certain excitement to impressing a VIP in a certain way. Which leads us onto another 
 big change. VIPs. Basically, famous people which enter your park periodically and have certain 
 tolerances to thinks like litter and autograph-seeking punters. If they are impressed when they 
 leave, which requires a different action depending on the VIP, chances are you'll complete an objective.
 
  
  Another interesting new feature is the fact that it isn't all objective-based play. There is now 
 sandbox mode, where you start off with a flat piece of empty land, and try and turn it into a fledling 
 theme park, with no restraints. It's simply open-ended play in every sense of the phrase.
  
  ANother new mose is the set of construction modes. There consist of Scenario editor (create 
 your own mission based park) , Coaster editors (a place to build your dream coasters with no financial 
 restraints) , Building editor (A place to test out the new building tool) , and Custom scenario, 
 where you can try out your edited scenario.
  
  All in all, RCT3 is definitely worth a buy if you like the lushness of it's graphics and like the 
 idea of building your own theme park, but if your just looking for a fix for your noSimCity syndrome, 
 I'd look elsewhere, as this isn't the most fulfilling of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_Kevin_x
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Compared to RCT 1 &amp; 2... this is wicked! It is a great game that will keep you busy 
 for a long time! With the great scenarios and the new sandbox mode, it'll keep you busy. In RCT3, 
 there is a sandbox mode in which you have no money limits or objective at all! Everything is automaticlly 
 unlocked, so it's the perfect chance to build the park of your dreams! The scenarios are also nice, 
 ranging from normal parks that need your help to get popular to CIA requested parks. Cool, eh? 
 There are also a ton of awesome rides and coasters, and a wide range of plants, decorations, and 
 path extras, and great items for building buildings. You even get to create your own peeps, which 
 can be made up or real life people including yourself! There are a ton of roller coasters, in which 
 you can get them premade, or you can make them yourself. You can even have waterfalls and tunnels. 
 The wide selection of shops and stalls are great, too! There are also VIPeeps, which are famous 
 peeps that want to come and relax at your park, and you must meet their standards. One of the VIPs 
 are Bush Clinton, the president. Sounds fimilliar, hmm? There are many themes, from generic (for 
 all your needs) to spooky (to creep your park's teens out) .
  There are also two awesome expansions called Soaked! and Wild!, which add to the fun, but you have 
 to get them separately. Soaked! adds on some new themes and many rides and extras to create the 
 water park of your dreams (also with new scenarios and rides) , and Wild! lets you create a zoo 
 type park with animals for peeps to look at while they ride the rides, (also along with new scenarios 
 and themes, plus new rides) . But I won't touch on the expansions too much, but I will in a review 
 for those two in the future. The RideCam is also wicked, allowing you to ride almost and of your 
 parks rides. And if you feel mischievous, you can build you coasters to crash, which you can ride 
 on too. There are also transportation rides, including ski-lifts, monorails, and trains. If you 
 want to, there are also some neat cheat codes, including where you ride a buggy and run peeps over 
 ;) .
  
  Graphics: Graphics are great! Though they may get a bit glitchy once in a while, that's pretty 
 much it. If you have a slower computer, you may have to turn the graphic level down though, so 
 you won't get the full taste of them.
  
  Sound: There are some pretty good songs, park related of course. The peeps also scream and talk, 
 and you can hear them barf when they do. The rides also make some realistic noise.
  
  Value: Awesome. With the expansions and all, this is a must have. I have to give it a nine though, 
 and here's why. On older computers, it may run slow. It also has high system requirements, and 
 takes a ton of memory... it's the biggest program on my computer. It also may get a bit glitchy 
 and freeze up. So make sure you meet the requirements, or else, it may not run well, or not run 
 at all. Overall, this is a fantastic game, one of my absolute favs, and I highly recommend this! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapman_06
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  rollercoaster tycoon 3 is a really good game. Its the best in the series infact.
  i like the way that they have brought out expansion packs for it and the thing that i always needed, 
 auto-complete. The coaster cam is another great thing that enhances gameplay to the max. the rollercoasters 
 them selfs are better than ever there are loads more designs and they are easier to build.
  i have ran out of things to say and i am only saying because you need 100 words. and i still dont 
 have 100 words so i am just writing useless crap to get 100 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIkDlam0ndz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 21, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Roller coaster tycoon. Is the best computer game ever!! Most computer games r hard to control or 
 u dont understand it. But this is great. It dont take up alot of space on ur computer. And the 
 graphics r good. The gameplay is good to. The game is a challenge but once u get used to it they 
 ull learn how to win. Building rollercoasters and running ur own theme park is great. U can watch 
 people ride rollercoasters u designed. And they wont always like it. But like i said this is one 
 of tha best PC game out and if ur thinkin about gettn it. U should
  
  -BlkDlam0ndz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Condor23
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 27, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  In Roller Coaster Tycoon 3, you get to build the dreampark of your dreams. You get to places gift 
 stands, food stands and get to adjust the prices and the items they sell which can be really fun. 
 But the best part is to the ride your own rides, even the roller coasters that you get to create 
 from scratch. While building your park, you get over 300 objects to choose from, placing them any 
 where you want, even have your own fireworks show at night and watch the crowd swarm in, each with 
 their own wants.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The guests look terrible, but everything else is wonderful, from water graphics to the rides, you 
 get to build waterfalls with the expansion pack, for this game, this game has great graphics for 
 fast computers
  
  SOUND:
  The only sound is the crowd, and the rides which don't so good, and the music is preety lame, so 
 on this game, add your own music, it's better.
  
  VALUE:
  Building the park of your dreams with your own rides, creating your own fireworks, and creating 
 your roller coaster masterpieces is a blast. Roller Coaster 3 is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squishyhippo
Rating: 3.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  When I first saw ads and reviews for this game the hype surrounding it was pretty big, and I was 
 impressed with what I heard about it.
  Coming from that angle when I finally played it I was sorely disappointed. The gameplay is really 
 clunky and no where near as interesting as other strategy games - even it's predecessor (Rollercoaster 
 2) are much better from a gameplay point of view.
  As my primary interest is strategy, and being addicted to games like Sim City (1-4++) , Civs, Rail 
 and Zoo Tycoon I was a little suprised that this game was, well, so boring. Tycoon games are usually 
 pretty good.
  I figure that anything that can't hold my interest isn't really worth my while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renorlibrado
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  Virtually this game makes your dream come true. All you need is a high end computer and or a massage 
 chair (to get that vibration going) and you are all set. This game varies from its predecessor, 
 its 3D, no underground rollercoaster, and you can ride it! WEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!!! AHHHHHHHHH....... you 
 can crash the coasters! But i geuss Tom Sawyer did not want to create evil masterminds when they 
 grow up. This game is so addictive that by the time you already built you rollercoaster (assuming 
 its your first time) its already christmas. But yah this game is addicting but needs a high end 
 computer... maybe next time RCT10 would come with a "Coaster Chair" that would swirl us like we 
 never did before! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris_53
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon was originally released in 1999 and proved to be a very in-depth game that 
 kept people addicted for hours on end. In 2002, we saw Roller Coaster Tycoon 2 released. The game 
 was just as good as the first with new rides and features such as Roller Coaster Designer and Scenario 
 Creator, but at the same time most people were disappointed about the lack of improvements to gameplay. 
 Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 was released in 2004 and it offered you much more of a better feel than 
 its predecessors. This is mainly with the new 3D engine which allowed players to view their parks 
 in real-time 3D. Players could also ride their rides and experience the thrills of the roller Coasters 
 by using what is called the Coaster Cam. This feature alone is worth getting this game for. There 
 is also more detail to the guests or peeps in this game. There are different age groups which 
 consists of young children, teenagers and adults. The guests also come in families or groups. New 
 to this series is the sandbox mode where you build a park without any limitations, you have unlimited 
 money and all the rides are available. The problem with this is that its not very challenging at 
 all. For the first time in the series you get a day and night cycle. At night you can light the 
 skies by creating firework displays. The interface for this is easy and you can set it to music 
 that is included in the games selection of music. Alternatively you can make it more personalised 
 by setting it to your own music thats stored on your hard drive. My criticism of this feature 
 is that there arent many types of fireworks so you may find it hard to create a firework display 
 with any kind of variety. There is a major bug in this game where the guests will not ride your 
 rides after a certain period of time. The good news is that you can repair this by downloading 
 the patches or picking up a copy of the Soaked expansion pack. Another problem in this game is 
 its overall performance. For some reason even on a very high end machine that well exceeds the 
 recommended requirements, the game seems to really struggle. As your park gets bigger the frame-rate 
 gets slower and there are sometimes frequent pauses. This is a shame because the game looks amazing 
 when the graphical settings are set to high. But you do get used to the frame-rate after a bit. 
 One more issue is when you construct elevated pathways its very fiddly and frustrating since you 
 sometimes have to delete the whole thing and start again. Overall, this is a very entertaining 
 and satisfying game especially to those who enjoyed the previous games. The graphics are impressive 
 and the gameplay is addictive. Even with the games flaws this is still a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick_tycoon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 30, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun because the custom roller costers are easyer to make and dunt take for 
 ever and u can view the ride like ur in it ,witch is very cool and u can do fire works and more 
 resturants and u can make ur own plyers and vip and stars come to the park ur makin and they review 
 it and enjoy them selfes and ur park rating goes up witch is good. so i think this game is worth 
 getting if u like building things and sumtimes very addicting lol and u can add ur own mp3 so u 
 can listen to ur music well u play witch is good the other ones dunt have that so this game is 
 my favourite and i cant wait till another one comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charley_mcd
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  A big dissapointment when I first seen it on my computer screen .I did'nt have a clue what to do (still 
 dont lol) and when you make a mistake there's no turning back .Never the less it's extremely addictive 
 and the new camera feature is really cool! But the AI of the characters is still a bit wrong (much 
 better than 1 or 2's obviously) like they just stand there sometimes just doing nothing for like 
 30 minutes. One of the best new features is the water though. Its so realistic and reflective i couldnt 
 beleive it. But overal a very very very very very confusing game. one more thing dosent this game 
 have any more more songs afer the menus the sound is terrible it really is ugh! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Someguynamedjor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 21, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Yes its good, i like it fun, camera can be bad but still good graphics are amazing and i love the 
 riding cam. Bugs yes but all games have bugs really before ya know it they'll fix those dumb bugs 
 and the game will be fun again! But really when it comes down to it its just plain fun, build rides, 
 watch the peeps throw and with exitement and make moneys! ha ha best part right there, really cant 
 wait for the next installment ! Should be great! Least i hope so and oh ya rct2 was great so this 
 one was even better im a true rct fan boo ya! ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irunongames
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  It's a great game. The best in the whole RollerCoaster Tycoon series. For example lets say you 
 tycoon all of the scerniars you have a playing area called sandbox mode. You can make the park 
 of your own dreams with no limit to what you can buy because you begin with unlimited money. Also 
 you can make your own seniroes and play them. Another thing is that you get to make your own peeps 
 (People are called Peeps in the game) . And they will come to your park when it's first open. And 
 lets say you have a great park/ ride or custom senctrey you can share it almost anywhere. And you 
 can dowlload rides parks and custom senctrey at almost any RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 fan-site. Also 
 the other RollerCoaster Tycoon games were in 2D but RollerCoaster Tycon 3 is in 3D. Another thing 
 is that you can ride the roller coaster you made! I have to say it's a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimps11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 17, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  u get a great choice of diffrent rollercoastrers available to contruct u get a gr8 first person 
 point of view to c how ud like to go on d rollercoasters u have built theres plenty of whacky themes 
 to go on to design ur themepark unfortunatly i cud not find where to download proper theme parks 
 such as alton towers thorpe park and orlando theme parks etc u get to go thru a number of missions 
 and unlock new rollercoaster and impress the vip guests when they arrive at ur park i got this 
 game for 10 wid the rollercoaster tycoon 3 soaked expansion pak whic i fink is gr8 value for money 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacoonusDoodus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Roller-Coaster Tycoon 3 is the best addition to the RCT series. If you've been a fan of the RCT 
 series since the first or second game like me, you'll notice a lot of changes this time around. 
 For example, it's alot easier to make custom rollercoasters, easier to build paths, easier to do 
 pretty much everything. On the other hand, if you're new to the series, it can seem very difficult 
 or confusing at first. But then it all just seems to click and you get it. From there on you see 
 the fun in it. Riding the rides, being a tycoon, having fun.
  The game includes career mode, custom mode, and sandbox mode. In carrer mode, there are many different 
 levels to choose from. Your goal is to get the Tycoon rank on each of the levels. To do that you 
 have to complete the specific goals for that level. Then you start unlocking more levels.
  But you don't have to do career. There is also sandbox mode, my personal favorite. You have unlimited 
 cash (!) You can buy whatever you want and not have to worry about your budget! It's like a cheat 
 mode without the cheating! And the other part is you have everything unlocked for you!
  But custom mode is like the career and sandbox mixed into one. You have no goals or things you 
 have to do in order to move on, but you have to worry about money and unlocking stuff etc. But 
 you customize your own park. You pick the size, the scenery, etc. but for a price... literally!
 
  Overall, RCT3 is a fantastic game with awesome expansion packs. I give it a 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hakkans
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 9, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  There are tons of tycoon games and %98 of them are bad. RollerCoasterTycoon and RollerCoasterTycoon3 
 are at this %2 because the idea, controls, graphics are really good. I say again: This review includes 
 Soaked! expansion pack too.
  
  Let's start. RollerCoaster Tycoon is a game that you make your own park and try to do missions 
 while we are making our park. At RCT 3, there are 3 levels of missions; easy, medium, hard. They have 
 different names but I don't remember them now. So, if you complete all of the missions, a new park 
 opens. There are over 30 parks with Soaked expansion pack, and last ones include really hard missions.
 
  
  As you thought before, you use mouse again to play. Sometimes the camera drives you crazy because 
 controlling the camera isn't so easy. Without this, everything's okay.
  
  About attractions and rollercoasters. They are great again and if you make rollercoasters, you 
 can save them for using at another park. And pools! You can make pools, add tons of things into 
 it or you can make aquaparks.
  
  The sound is decent, coud be better. However, you can add your own musics to the game and this 
 make my score better.
  
  Graphics are good, but there are tons of bugs at the game and that disappointed me.
  
  There 
 is one more new thing. CoasterCam! You enter to the coaster and watch how it is. OK, this is a 
 good addition but sometimes you don't understand what is happening
  
  The game's really long with Soaked! and I still couldn't finished the game %100. However after 
 a bit hours you will be bored and will close the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaxter342
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  I thought roller coaster tycoon 3 was the best game in its series it was fun and you can pick how 
 you want to run your park and you can also pick the theme of you park. I think this is the best 
 tycoon game. So if you play any kind of tycoon game I would get this one. There is a couple things 
 I would add to the game thought like animals and you can build your own stalls and rides. Like 
 you can pick how many floors you was to have on it and you can pick pick what color it looks like 
 in side and out. Like if you build a restraint you could pick what picture you want on the wall. 
 You should also be able to upload them from you computer. But that is just my idea. I hope they 
 decide to make more like this in the Roller coaster tycoon series cause people will keep playing 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petman1325
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome. It has hundreds of new rides. Even the peeps have real emoations (including 
 the sick love where they go 'I love my partner' and stuff) . They even don't scream at the same 
 time. They scream when they want to. Plus, you can ride the rides instead of just watching them 
 and thinking "I want to go on my SUPERKILLERLOOPER ride". You can even upload rides from RCT and 
 RCT2 so you can ride the rides you were watching. It is awesome!!! If you are new to the Roller 
 Coaster Tycoon clan, I suggest you buy this one first (get expansion packs like Soaked and Wild 
 so you can get the full experience) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidwwone
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  this one is straight to the point it you liked theme park you will love this! the graphics are 
 superb the missions are challenging the gameplay is superb.
  
  
  THE GRAPHICS 
  
  as soon as you get into the game you realise how pretty everything is there is so much detail in 
 this game it really is a nice game to sit and watch apart from the very rare frame rate issues 
 on the in ride camera there isnt anything to complain about even on the minimun spec machine the 
 game still looks lovely.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY
  
  the gameplay is superb you have tasks to perform in the career mode but there isnt in there that 
 you think are in there to piss you off. this will include things like building 3 rollercoasters 
 or making the park value to a certain about of money, so superb. the sandbox mode is reat if you 
 just want to make a park and not worry about the money involved this gets a little boring after 
 a while mainly due to the unlimited money fund you have there isnt any real challenge here but 
 fun for some time at least.
  
  THE SOUND
  
  Superb that it superb. you will be sitting on a ride and you will hear people screaming or someone 
 being sick i recommend a surround sound kit or headphones to finish the effect off.
  
  THE VALUE
  
  get this game if you want to spend hours playing it for not much money i got tycoon 
 3 and soaked for 20 in GAME.
  
  Happy gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  RCT 3 is a good game that has a lot to offer like a ton of scenarios and many coaster and ride 
 types. The thing that makes this game average are the immense bugs. I have an excelent computer and 
 some times I start up the game it randomly crashes or I wont be able to play it for days then it 
 will suddenly work fine. The positive things about the game are easy to see, like the improved terrain 
 sculpting controls (no more hard and unsightly edges) , tons of roller coasters to add to your park 
 and the AI of the guests is amazing. If you are in a creative mood and have the patience to put 
 up with bugs and choppy graphics then RCT 3 is a good game. And its way better than all the other 
 ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkViper1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 15, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Rollercoaster Tycoon 3 delivers the same detailed fun from the previous two games and adds nice 
 new features and in 3D, which i have to say i like a lot. The game will take some getting use to 
 as at first, its not something you can just fit in to even if you played the previous 2 games for 
 ages like i did. At first. it will feel a bit slow and complicated and awkward, but you should 
 give it a chance. After about a 1 or 2 hours of practice you will still start getting into the 
 routine and then as more playing time passes by you should feel like you are getting your moneys 
 worth, I certaintly did. Its still more of the the great fun you got from the previous two games 
 and thats good enough for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maple_fan_1391
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 13, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Now, I like Roller Coaster Tycoon and RCTycoon 2, alot, and in the beginning, I liked this one 
 too...
  
  The reason I stopped liking this one is because, when you start a new park, or load a park, it 
 takes like 5 minutes to load, plus, after you get like 5 rides in the park, it goes WAY to slow, 
 slow enough to freeze sometimes...
  
  Actually, I have heard alot of people who wanted it to be like the first two.
  
  Great 3D, 
 Good Graphics, but, too slow...
  
  Overall, I hope if they create a 4th one, that they go back to the original...
  
  You may say, 
 "You probably have a really bad computer!", but I don't... It's really fast and it has not just 
 the required settings, but the reccomended settings... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 11, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  RollerCoaster Tycoons 1 and 2 were both great games, allowing you to build massive theme parks 
 and custom rollercoasaters which would give you hours of fun. This game wasn't that close to the 
 first in gameplay but you can still recognize some of the aspects from 1 and 2.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay was fun, though not much like the first. It seemed to me a little too 
 peaceful, in the first game people would be running and barfing, occasionally at my will a few 
 dozen guests would "accidentally" perish on a ride, customers would be angry and I'd often leave 
 a little island in the middle of a load of water with a train off of the island and exiting nmear 
 the entrance... that costs 75 dollars to board, all that fun stuff. In RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 it 
 was too quiet and peacefull, and in the Main Menu there was just a quiet little tune playing that 
 really didn't resemble what I would make of my guests and park. Other than that being able to ride 
 your own rides was verry fun, though of course it couldn't get near to really riding a ride, especially 
 if you have lag. All the new required food stalls may drain you of money and make the game not 
 too fun when a quarter of your park is dedicated to food.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics I thought were great, but occasionally laggy, especially when you really build up 
 your park. But hte individual models were fun to watch, since you could see their anger in their 
 eyes. Also the new night time mode was loads of fun, you can make a glowing park with torches around 
 to make a tropical scene, or just lamps for a more modern scene. I prefer jungle :)
  
  Sound:
  The sound I thought was good, the roller coaster sound on a huge fall was fun, but the 
 screams didn't quite cut it for me this time, ot much to talk about with all the similarities in 
 the game.
  
  Overall I think it was an okay game, worth the money nowadays if you enjoyed teh first two, and 
 if you were a fan of them you'll enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skating_rules
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  This is the first 3-D game in the RCT series and in my opionin it is the best in series also. Yeah 
 sure some people have problems with the graphics card but you just have to configure it to ur vid-card's 
 specs.
  
  This game is much more complex then the first two in the series but after getting used to it its 
 much better than them, the controls take some getting used to it but it has AMAZING tutorials so 
 you'll have no problem.
  
  Alot more features such as water shows (when you get the SOAKED! expasion pack) fireworks, laser 
 shows, and much more.
  
  You can now ride the rides from many different views and on MUCH MORE rides.
  
  If you even 
 slightly enjoy simulation then this and the other 2 in the series are the games for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynicoren
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  I really waited for this game, since from the days of Railroad tycoon I liked tycoon games.
  This games wakes up the little child in you - to build a roller-coaster, the way you like, you 
 can also ride it and ask the costumers about their experience.
  I have found this game way too easy - i just built little rides at the beginning of each stage, 
 put on some stands, repaid my loan ASAP and that's it. Rarely i needed to look in the financial 
 to take a decision.
  The VIP visitors are very forgiving , and if you don't put up a satisfying park , they'll come 
 back very soon, and you won't be punished in any other way.
  I have managed to get to be a tycoon in each park in about 45 minutes, and since I don't think 
 I'm the best tycoon player, I guess this game is just too easy...
  ... But still , it has a charm that draws you back for trying another level.
  The gameplay is 
 pretty convenient, and so are the cameras.
  The graphics is very detailed once you zoom in, and it is stunning (check out the rides or the 
 water reflections and the newly added fireworks show - absolutely believable) .
  The sound is a bit lacking. When you move around your park from high above, you will hear no music 
 nor crowd. The upside - you can add your own music to the game.
  What was the most annoying thing to me was the bugs of the game. The most irritating one was that 
 i installed Soaked !, and the computer just got stuck every time i tried to run it. Then i installed 
 RCT3 again, but the game just didn't work. Too bad, since I had to give up Soaked !
  
  To sum this up : If your looking for a true tycoon game, go play Capitalism 2.
  If you enjoy 
 building rides in a Sandbox mode, you'll find some interest in this game for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maneliss
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  it is really good.
  first it is now 3d so it is a great revolution and, with 3d graphics we can ride the rides and 
 things like that. I has a big innovation from roller coaster tycoon 2 lots of different rides, 
 shops, a really a LOT OF decoration, we can make it look like a western, a alien base and a normal 
 park so it has a lot of variation.
  
  when we build roller coasters we have even more loops and things like that we had in rollercoaster 
 tycoon 2, we can build really big rollercoasters.
  
  So has i have said before the gameplay is perfect we can do almost everything we want, the graphics 
 are really good too if they were better my computer would start to run slow (: P) and the sound 
 really fits in what the game is so it is perfect.
  
  THe game is even better if we have the soaked and wild expantion packs, the wild because we can 
 make the par of a zoo, and then with soaked we can make some big polls in there soo it is a 3 in 
 1.
  
  nothing to say more, try the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fridge
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 30, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Once you began to play this game, call your boss, you don't go at work for a couple of day. The 
 game is highly addictive and relatively easy to understand. You control everything, from the cost 
 of the toilet, to the salary of your employees. 
  
  The graphic are good , the effect (water, sun) are excellent, but the "peeps" (the people) are 
 blocky, surely because of the memory limitation. 
  
  About the hardware, you will need a good computer (I have a AMD 3700+,
  2 gig of ram and a Radeon 
 X800XL) if you want to enjoy all of the game have to offer, like the "coaster cam". The game have 
 a little bug, he freeze (5 time in 2 weeks of games) even with the patch. This is frustrating when 
 you pass 4 or 5 hours and the games and you forgot to save!!
  
  I want to gave a 9 out of 10, because it's a fantastic, immersive game, but because of the bug 
 and some problems with the terrain tools, I gave a 8.2.
  
  Note to the producer: Please add a "1st person view" to be able to visit the park freely for the 
 next game, and the "challenge kiosk" , like the water gun in the mouth of the clown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cs88
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 20, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I got RCT 3 for my birthday over a year ago and I surprised how great it was. Here are my ratings 
 of the game:
  Gameplay: 9/10. The gameplay is great overall because of the Career Mode and the Sandbox Mode where 
 you can build the theme park of your dreams without spending limits. At first, it will be difficult 
 to understand how the controls work but you'll catch on. Also, with the Coaster Cam feature you 
 can view your rides as if you were riding them, and you can even create yourself with the Peep 
 Creator. 
  Graphics: 7/10. The graphics are good because they allow you to see the game in 3D and because 
 they let you move freely to view every angle of your park. HOWEVER (you knew this was coming) , 
 the graphics run slow on computers with less memory, the game stutters a lot, and there are many 
 bugs in the game. Although this sounds bad, it isn't really much of a problem.
  Sound: 10/10. The sound is just spectacular. Try uploading MP3 files of music you like and you'll 
 be in for a treat.
  Value: 10/10. Although the retail price is $40, the game's replay value is astronomical and the 
 Career Mode is exciting and replayable. Nuff said.
  Overall: 9/10. Just a basic average of all the above stats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webmessia
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 11, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  If you have played RCT1 or 2 before you will be amazed by that amount of new features and rich 
 graphics. Learning to use is easy with the tutourials but tutourials are sometimes so simple that 
 the amount of time it takes to load makes them seen pointless. but that it only for basics like 
 placing rides and moving the camera. Once you have found out how to play the fun lasts for hours. 
 New features like themes, new rides and animated decorations bring life to the game. The most lifelike 
 part of RCT3 is the CoasterCam. This lets you ride the rides. The CoasterCam has three view points: 
 Peep View (what your guests see) , Nose View and Static View. Highly Customisible rides and other 
 buildings in your park let you have colour schemes, and if you us one of the Themes/Sets provided 
 in the game and use one in one area peeps (guests) will like it more. The new option of putting 
 your own music into the game lets you add any music on your pc, and play it on a ride. With new 
 tools like the scenaro editor which lets you chose ablolutely everting about your park. The peep 
 designer, is not that good. But new scenarios and finally Sandbox mode which gives you infinate 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Clock_Man
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 4, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  weeeeeeeeee eeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eee eeeeee eeeeeeeee 
 eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeee eeeeeeeee  wooooooo oooooooo oooo ooooooooooooo 
 oooooooooooo ooooooooooooo ooooooooooooooooooooooooooo oooooooooooo oooooooooooo ooooooooo oooooooooo 
 oo oooooooooooooweeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeee eeeee 
 
  woooo oooo ooooo ooooooo oooo ooooooooooo ooooooooooooooo ooooooooooo oooo oooooo oooooooo oo 
 ooooo
  yipeeeeee eeeeee eeeeeeeeeeee eeeeee eeeee eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee eee e eeeeeeeeeee 
 
  woooooooooooooooooooo  oooo o ooo oooo oooo oooo 
 oooo oooo oooo ooooo ooooo oooooooo 
  wee we e weee wee wee wewe wewew we ow weo weow eow e weeoo owoo woow ow oow owoo wooo weee we 
 ew eweeew ewwewee weee weeew eweeee weeeew weeew eeewe ewew e e w ee w e e w e we e e e e e e e 
 eeeeeeee e eeeeee eeeeeeee eeeeeee eee e eee e e e e ee
  Now that is all that needs to be said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DES343
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Im not sure if many people read the reviews or not so i cant say if im being helpful but here it 
 is....
  
  I think that the game has exspanded a lot from the original games im not sure if its for the better 
 or worse i think that i has expspanded into being too complicated and sometimes a bit glitchy....
 
  
  I bought the game months ago and never played it again i put it in and found the loading time to 
 piss me off so i waiting and found out that the game in no way resembles the others i hated the 
 camera control of the game and find it nearly impossible for a person just starting on it to build 
 a coaster and i am very good at all other roller coaster tycoon games in the series so this should 
 not happen to someone like me i didnt think anyways.....
  
  Something else i didnt like about the game is they seemed to try to make it TOO graphical to the 
 point of it resembles a lot of Sims Theme Park and i hated that game to me this is all the new 
 RTC is to me is a redone Sims Theme Park just obviously better
  
  The biggest problem i have is its not RTC anymore it is nothing like what made the other games 
 great to me....
  
  Recently i put the game back in and reinstalled it and i did some tutorials to find out if i might 
 find it to be a little better that way well doing the tutorials got me wanted to give the game 
 a shot but i got tired of loading and just turned the whole comp off.... but i will play it later 
 and bashing it so much i have to admit you have to try it and gain your own opinion just keep in 
 mine just becuz its RTC on the cover its not a true RTC game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 has really changed the way that you play the RollerCoaster Tycoon games. 
 This game goes more into the actual park that you own. You can zoom right in, into your park and 
 really observe the guests and you can be a guest in a way because you can ride all of the rides 
 which is an excellent new feature. That feature makes a lot of difference and makes the game much 
 better because then you can ride a ride that you have built. In a strange way, this increases the 
 level of gameplay in this game.
  
  The graphics have gotten even better and the lighting is usually very good in places. The real 
 time has been done well but in some areas, time seems to jump. The sound is good in way but sometimes 
 the screams can get annoying. The length of the game is actually very long because you can keep 
 going and going and there are loads and loads of different options and there are even scenarios 
 to complete. This game has done a lot to the RollerCoaster Tycoon series and has taken a big leap 
 into this type of strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawtymann
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  To be honest with, when I played the game for the first time, i didn't think it was so good because 
 of the camera contol and it being to complicated. But after a few days of practice it actually 
 turned out to be quite fun and addictive. I find myself spending more time than I would like playing 
 it.
  If you enjoyed any of the previous RCT's, this is a must by. It'll take a while to get used to, 
 but its worth it in the end. You'll get a better experience if your computer is up to date. Very 
 good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bento
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  This game is great. You can choose what kind of scenerio you want  
 and Adventure. Its the best game for PC. If you have played the previous Rollercoaster Tycoon's you 
 will no that you get music like Water Theme or Horror Theme, now in Rollercoaster tycoon 3 you can 
 import your own music from anywhere, real life voice music it is wicked. Like in Rollercoaster Tycoon 
 you sell burgers yeah in Rollercoaster tycoon 3 you can sell burgers and add a bit of salad Chilli 
 sauce salad cream ketchup etc. It is very realistic. The best thing about it for me is that you can 
 ride EVERY SINGLE RIDE IN YOUR PARK. From Ferris Wheels to rollercoasters. And there is a new thing 
 called Peep designer where you can create your own people. Now in rollercoaster tycoon 3 you can 
 get 1 MILLION PEOPLE IN YOUR PARK AND NOT ONE WILL LOOK THE SAME!! It is an amazing game. You will 
 be hooked on it for ages trust me. You get all new animated scenery from moving plastic sharks to 
 volcanoes eruptting and Dinosaurs roaring. This game is all you need so buy it. Coaster Cam where 
 you can ride all the rides is wicked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webchuzz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  The dream of making your own theme park has come true. Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 is a great game, 
 that possibilitates a very high level of costumization: you can edit your terrain lenght, build 
 your own rollercoasters, choose the entrance fee, edit an existing rollercoaster, etc. What's new 
 in this game is that you can be in the place of a person, using a button that changes the camera. 
 You can choose a person camera, a rollercoaster camera, and much more others. Now the quality of 
 people is better and looks like more reallistic.
  Rollercoaster Tycoon 3 has various playing modes: in sanboz mode, you can construct your own park 
 without having to worry about money, as everything is free. In carrer mode, you'll have a selection 
 of levels, each of them having its own objectives. Having even more pieces and other things than 
 Rollercoaster Tycoon 2 , this game becomes even more amazing due to a big variety of objectes and 
 rollercoasters. You can even edit your own family, to visit your park and evaluate your rides or 
 even the park itself.
  100% recommended!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 its superb and fantastic! The 3D Graphics, I can place my music on game 
 and the gameplay, I consider perfect. I can play the game building a park on night! Contains hours 
 and minutes, its great, superb, amazing!
  
  Play Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 and enjoy!
  
  The game contains new rides, attractions, you can enter on the rides! The loops of Roller Coaster, 
 rotating on merry-go-round.
  
  My prefferid ride its the Twister Coaster, the second is the Tilt Coaster, and the third its the 
 standart Corkscreew Coaster.
  
  The sound of Go-Karts its real! The Tilt Section on Tilt Coaster, and the standart Corkscreew Loop 
 and contains the "Large Corkscreew", I like the Twister Coaster. The Snake-Helter-Skelter, Caribean 
 Castles, Marble Sultan's Palace and the Sultan's Palace. Ah, and the Fireworks MixMaster its perfect! 
 The realism is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leelee_rocks
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  This game has been long awaited especially after the dissappointment of rollercoaster tycoon 2 
 and to the faithfulls of the tycoon series, i'm sure that this edition will not fail to impress. 
 
  
  I like the fact that people are now individuals and even come in groups like a group of children 
 with a teacher or two or a small group of students and so on. Each one of the peeps are individual 
 in the skin colour, clothes, size, hair colour and each have their own preferences which you have 
 to take care of. No longer are there single peeps walking around on their own everywhere.
  
  i especially like the introduction of the 'coaster cam' which allows you to ride any of the 
 rides or attractions you have built on the ride with incredible excitement only lacking the wind 
 in your face and the g forces. 
  
  I also like the fact that you can create your own groups to enter the park and whenever their picture 
 is taken (on coasters or 'hotspots') their pictures are saved for your own personal viewing.
  
  over all i like this game alot and recommend it to anyone wanting to buy a pc management game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 maintains the spirit of its predecessors while introducing key innovations. 
 Your goal is still to build a theme park that attracts customers and makes them happy. Among the 
 improvements are easier construction, the presence of VIP peeps, an enhanced career mode, and a 
 freeform sandbox mode. There is even a new Fireworks MixMaster, an easy to use editing tool that 
 allows you choreograph dazzling pyrotechnic wonders synchronized to your own music library.
  RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 contains five different theme park categories: Generic, Spooky, Sci-Fi, 
 Western, and Adventure (Arabian Nights or Caribbean motifs) . All the items, rides, stands, shops, 
 and trimmings are distinctly designed to fit with each separate theme. Due to the colorful and 
 fanciful nature of the themes, the variety you encounter really enhances your enjoyment of the 
 parks you create. The differences are not just cosmetic either, but rather reflect functional distinctions 
 in what you build. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EASPORTSGC
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  if youve never played a RC, than the main objective is to build a theme park. you build coasters 
 and all that stuff. but the worst problem of this game is the GRAPHICS. why didnt they stick with 
 the old ones? this 3d makes it hard to see and the guests are weird looking sticks.
  GAME FEATURES
  what i like the best is coaster cam. its like you can actually ride any ride in 
 the park. i like to build my coasters and ride them all the time. Like always, there are those 
 premade coasters. and there are still everything like the merry go round, cars, and all that good 
 stuff. Also, in this version there must be 30 different coasters to choose from, which makes sandbox 
 mode so cool :) . O yeah-another cool feature-granted that you have a music player (Windows Media 
 and iTunes both work) you can make your rides play music. Any music. I like to make mine play some 
 black eyed peas =) . theres also a way to make your own guests, but that never really worked for 
 me. 
  MODES
  theres 2 main modes-Campaign, which is what you think it is-get your park to a level and do this 
 to the fixed number of parks (dont know it off the top of my head) .
  and sandbox- FREE FOR ALL unlimited $, all rides unlocked, and other gimmicks.'
  
  the BOTTOM 
 LINE that RCT3 is a fun game with weird graphics. now ive never played RCT2, but ive played the 
 original RCT. Id say if your a fan of the series, this is a must. for all you others, you might 
 not wanna start out with this as the first in the series that you play. 
  
  thanks for reading my review :)
  ive reviewed
  zoo keeper
  retro atari classics
  more to 
 come... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandy4
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  When first playing Roller Coaster tycoon 3 (RCT3) i was amazed that they had managed to turn a 
 not so 3d game into a full 3d game. U can now zoom in and see the actually faces on the visitors 
 where as on the older RCTs they all the same head. It is more difficult to make money on the new 
 ones and money cant jst be saved as VIPs visit the park and demand certain things this makes the 
 game a bit more challenging. The rides are now more creative however the parks i fell are still 
 too small to fully make a theme park of your dreams, well the campaign ones r. The free run mode 
 is an excellent chance for beginners or people not so used to the game to experiment and create 
 a park with no limitations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sten10
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon is one of the best computer games I've played and breally is the best in 
 the series.
  
  Pros 
  - Great game, fun for hours!
  - Coaster Cam is the best thing in this game!
  - Sandbox mode lets you do what ever you want, 
 add as much rides, food, etc. as you want, and it's all free
  - Can add your own music to the rides
  - tons of different rides, and scenery themes. I can never 
 fit them all into one park!
  
  Cons
  - No online play (except saving you coasters and putting them online)
  - Some glitches
  - Sometimes 
 freezes up your computer, if you have too much in your park
  - Water (adding, or putting rides in it) can be confusing
  
  Roller Coaster Tycoon is an awesome 
 game, and if you haven't played it yet, you should! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  When I first played RollerCoaster Tycoon, It was love at first sight. A theme park afectionado 
 like me creating my own part, rides and themes? It's just too good to be true. Several years later, 
 in 2004, I played RollerCoaster Tycoon 3, which is a great game, if you know how to play it. The 
 first 2 RCT games had very simple graphics and allowed new players to get into the theme park buisness 
 fairly easily. RCT3, due to it's 3-D graphics and somewhat confusing interface is a bit harder 
 to get use to. There are tons of new features including the ability to create fireworks displays 
 and to ride your rides. It's pretty cool, but not nearly as much fun as riding a real coster at 
 Busch Gardens, Tampa Bay. RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 is a very good game that improves greatly on pretty 
 much every aspect, but it may be a bit tougher to learn how to play than the first two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Each scenario has a three-tiered set of objectives, ranging from apprentice (the easiest) to tycoon 
 (the hardest) . In order to accomplish the apprentice objectives (and unlock a new map) , all you 
 usually have to do is hire park staff to clean and maintain the park and build a few extra rides, 
 concession stands, and coasters. Using this method, you can blitz through most of the scenarios 
 in the game. But if you want a tougher challenge, you can tackle the more advanced objectives, 
 which will task you with harder goals, such as repaying the park's loans or building coasters of 
 a certain length and excitement level.
  
  British studio Frontier, which developed the game with oversight from series creator Chris Sawyer, 
 wisely didn't stray too far from many of Sawyer's established conventions. You still design the 
 park and build a wide range of rides and attractions, and you can pick from prebuilt coasters to 
 ones that you design on the fly. The coaster-building tool is derived from the first two games, 
 but it's easier to use, thanks to the 3D engine that allows you to zoom in and move the camera 
 around to better understand the layout of your coaster. And you'll still control veritably every 
 aspect of your park, from the entrance fee, research and development on new attractions, ticket 
 prices, all the way down to the color schemes on your rides and employees' uniforms. Meanwhile, 
 Frontier also threw in its own, welcome innovations, such as a fireworks editor that lets you create 
 your own custom fireworks show to go along with a mix of your favorite tunes, which you can import 
 easily into the game. Then there's a new focus on the peeps. Each of your peeps now has a unique 
 appearance, and they are now separated into demographic and social groups. Young peeps steer toward 
 gentle rides, while teen peeps like extreme thrills, whereas older peeps will move toward the more 
 sedate entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madgez
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Even know the graphics aren't the best, the game is fun.
  Its not so easy to learn the controls; building, dragging, lifting, etc., but you'll get used to 
 it in about an hour.
  
  You can have fun by making rollercoasters, opening up mouth-dropping parks, or bringing people 
 to spend their cash on you. Whatever you do, don't keep your eye off the park! You will have to 
 clean up trash, puke, and hire employees. All of that is just the extras, but you can have fun 
 as well.
  
  Make a park layout, add benches, add an envirment, and become rich. Have the most famous park in 
 the country; big or small.
  
  Buy this game today, before you get addicted to something else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 18, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 is a pretty good game except you may get tired of it in a few days. The 
 original RollerCoaster tycoons lacked the graphics of this newest installment of RollerCoaster 
 Tycoon. Tycoon 3 has really good music to it, and the day/night cycle is uncommon for a lot of 
 games. It makes you feel like you are right there in the amusement park, especially when you add 
 the camera views to it. You can test out your roller coasters first hand. Hop in one of the carts 
 and take the it for a spin. the 3D experience makes you feel that you are right in the ride. Even 
 though there is all these goodies added, there is no real rewards for completing a certain amount 
 of rides and such. It is still a good game, but you will probably get sick of it in less than a 
 week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozzy_810
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 14, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  This great and you never get bored because you can always make a new rollercoaster. This better 
 than any other tycoon game. Its also better than the first two rollercoaster tycoons. The sound 
 isnt perfect but then you can add your own music in. The graphics are good but not as good as the 
 movies. The career starts off easy then it just gets impossible. It is so hard near the end but 
 you do unlock new rollercoasters everytime you complete a level. Sandbox is the best all together 
 you get unimited amount of money with every rollercoaster unlocked. So you can make the best park 
 in the world. The only dissappointment is that you dont compete against other theme parks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oogieboogie8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Rollercoaster Tycoon 3 has more than it's proccesors, it has got more. The graphics are good, but, 
 some times the peeps look blocky up close. And the peeps sometimes sink through their chairs when 
 they sit. These problems dont corrupt the gameplay, so they don't really matter. Whats cool is 
 that now each peep has their own unique look, and there are actually girls, teenagers, adults, 
 and children. There is also now coastercam, where you can ride the rollercoaster. You can play 
 with it too. What you can do is make an incomplete rollercoaster, and ride it, and you can actually 
 experience the crash. This feature is like Sim Theme Park, except I don't think you can ride incomplete 
 rides. What this game lacks is the amount of themes. There are only 5, and no more. If it were 
 to have more shops, scenery, and themes, it would be more fun. There is no water theme, sadly, but 
 they have: basic, spooky, western, adventure, and sci-fi. if you want more themes and scenery, 
 I suggest u buy expansion packs like Soaked! or Wild! Soaked is water and Wild is like safari and 
 animals. Overall, this game is very fun and strategic, but it lacks a couple of things. Oh, and 
 also, you can also advertise your parks on ads and newspapers, attracting more peeps to your park. 
 Thsi game is definantily a huge step ahead for the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lau_chen87
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 13, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  When i played this game feeling very dizzy . . . the map is Big! but the details for the game is 
 poor ... What i expected this game is better than previous , many item is still avalible and i 
 am angry ~ the visitors that visiting the park is SUCKS! feeling like 2-D game~ Those machine is 
 nice bt the spoiled is the customer ! What i like is the roller coaster is D. I. Y ( Do It Yourself 
 ) ... also got underground road acess ... quite nice ~ Need a bit strategy to play this game , 
 not easy to handle a big theme park . Areas covers the theme park is too big , when u full developed 
 the theme park u have scroll up and down to keep the park stable... the cdustomer are hard to control 
 ... once they sick or unhappy ... hav to solve it fast before causing any trouble ... This game 
 still need improve more graphic , make it more smooth .. and more item that i expected will come 
 out ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExNeil251
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I played the original RCT when I was young but it is seriously nothing compared to this. Like I 
 loved the original and all, I mean it was seriously an amazing game in its day but this is just 
 over the top. There is just so much to do in it. All of the new rides, scenery, landscaping functions 
 are just incredible. So many of the new features are great improvement over the last games. I'll 
 start with the landscaping, oh look there not squares anymore. They defintley took something straight 
 out of Sim City 4 here, you can make mountains that are actually round, nit giant pyramids now. 
 The textures in the landscaping are much better now since the arent divided up by squares, they 
 combine to make smooth and clean look. Now the rides and facilities, all stunning. Every ride is 
 great, even the Merry go rounds and ferris wheels are cool now that you can ride them and see your 
 park from a guests point of view. All the new pieces for the roller coasters are great, especially 
 the stuff like zero G rolls and figure eight loops. There are a lot more features other than these 
 two and they are all great, I'm not gonna tell you about them cause I really recommend you buy 
 this game, either if you are a fan of the series or a newcomer wanting fun, you should really try 
 this game, its great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KriTTerBlack
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 its superb and amazing! The 3D Graphics, I can place my music on game (The 
 Roller Coaster Tycoon 2 something place two musics, its bad...) and the gameplay, I consider great, 
 no perfect. If you playing the Roller Coaster Tycoon 1 and 2, you like very much the Roller Coaster 
 Tycoon 3, and the option of night, is very good, I can play the game building a park on night! 
 Contains hours and minutes, its great, superb, amazing!
  
  Play Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 and enjoy!
  
  The game contains new rides, attractions, the 3D 
 camera, you can enter on the rides! The loops of Roller Coaster, rotating on merry-go-round.
  
  My prefferid ride its the Go-Karts, the second is the Tilt Coaster, and the third its the standart 
 Corkscreew Coaster.
  
  The sound of Go-Karts its real! The Tilt Section on Tilt Coaster, and the standart Corkscreew Loop 
 and contains the "Large Corkscreew", I like the Twister Coaster (Contains "Barrel Roll", "The 90 
 Degree", Vertical Slow. I liked the Adventure Scenario! The Snake-Helter-Skelter, Caribean Castles, 
 Marble Sultan's Palace and the Sultan's Palace. Ah, and the Fireworks MixMaster its perfect! The 
 realism is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Rollercoaster Tycoon is unquestionably one of the finest management sims ever made. It has innovation, 
 quality, quantity, and - well, management - all packaged into one disc for pleasure and enjoyment. 
 Countless hours have been wasted by more people than just me, simply playing around with the rollercoaster 
 building and endlessly constructing carousels for no reason whatsoever. When I saw an article about 
 this game sometime in 2004, and saw that the series was getting a new lick of paint and going 3D, 
 I was hit with mixed reactions. One, I had loved the isometric view of 1 & 2, and I really saw 
 no need for the development team at Frontier to change it. But two, I was hit by a wave of excitement 
 at riding my very own creation - a wave of excitement that I rarely get. 
  
  And this wave of excitement carried me all the way to my independent game store, with thirty quid 
 in my pocket, to buy this game. In a scenario that has been visited many times, I ran home without 
 stopping, had a breather at my front door and waited for the stitches in my side to fade, and then 
 hurtled upstairs to install this game. 
  
  And as you can see by my Great score and the respectable 8.8, I was impressed. One thing that is 
 obvious above all others is how the fundamentals of the series have been ported into this magnificent 
 new 3D world. All the conventional options of the previous games reprise their role in this game 
 as well; all the countless little options I knew and loved have been effortlessly ported into this 
 modern masterpiece. Whether it's the choice of the scenery, the ways you can customize your brain-twistingly 
 crazy rollercoasters, or the sadistic things you can do to your guests, i. e. throwing them into 
 deep lakes and laughing uncontrollably at their misfortune, they are all featured here, as satisfying 
 as ever.
  
  The gameplay is still relentlessly addictive, and in 3D it seems doubly remarkable. Whether it's 
 building your own sick rollercoasters, or placing ferris wheels at regular intervals around the 
 park, or placing eight launched freefall rides right next to each other, you're guaranteed to find 
 dollops of fun in this game. The learning curve isn't that bad, and new people can be guided safely 
 into this perplexing new world using the great tutorials. For people who like to methodically build 
 a successful park, there's still the cunning scenarios. And for people looking to wear out a bit 
 of their social frustration, there's always the Sandbox mode for unlimited funds and infinite amounts 
 of pure fun. 
  
  And of course there's some new features in this game. There's now an excellent Fireworks Designer 
 that you can get to play in sync with catchy music, and you can also get your own music to play 
 by one of your rides [I personally found enjoyment blaring AC/DC's Highway to Hell from one of 
 my Merry-Go-Rounds] There's a whole new host of charismatic scenery to be placed in your park, 
 along with some totally new rides and rollercoaster templates. But of course, the feature that 
 deserves the largest mention is the Coaster Cam, which, if you become immersed, can give you similar 
 feelings of nausea as if you were actually riding your rollercoaster. Seriously, if you stare at 
 the screen your stomach will knot as you slipstream down a 300-feet drop. 
  
  There is some stress to be found in this game, even though that's what management games do. It's 
 almost tear-jerking when your elegantly designed park suddenly gets filled with a tidal wave of 
 vomit. And when the park becomes empty because your staff are lazing about, crisp packets will 
 forlornly get blown away into the shadow of a tree by a passing breeze... if you don't treat your 
 guests right, you and your park will pay the consequences. 
  
  But then again, when the panda entertainers make people laugh by dancing to Queen's "We Will Rock 
 You", which is emanating from the crowds standing outside of a helter skelter, Tycoon 3 is a relaxing, 
 humorous experience. It's a lot less business-like now it's took on a slightly more cartoony look, 
 and the result is something truly satisfying: a management game with a huge amount of depth and 
 things that will make you smile in sheer exhiliration. 
  
  Now I've covered the frequent thrills of the gameplay, I move on to what I call the more tedious 
 parts of the review; the audiovisual presentation. RollerCoaster Tycoon has never been good at 
 this. The first games had an identikit look with barely any variation, but now the series has took 
 on a striking 3D look, it becomes one fine-looking game. The rides, characters and textures are 
 all exquisite, individual, and distinct. The fireworks displays are inspiring. The Coaster Cam 
 is a truly brilliant recreation of something I love to do in real life; ride rollercoasters. Unfortunately, 
 when your park becomes bigger, and becomes more crowded, the game has a tendency to get slowdown, 
 and for me it jerks a lot; I'm not sure if it's just the specs of my PC, but that's what I experienced 
 when my park began to thrive. But, overall the game takes on a colourful, crisp, individual look 
 that is also seen in games like The Movies. 
  
  The audio has always been slightly generic as well. Now the sound is a lot better, just like the 
 graphics. The importing of audio is a nice idea and adds a new layer of personality to your park, 
 and the preset music deserves praise as well for people who have not much interest in the industry. 
 The stereotypical buzz of conversation that is in previous games is no longer as unintelligible, 
 and this time it gives the park a sense that it really is crammed with content adults and ecstatic 
 teenagers eating candy floss. 
  
  RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 is a revolution for the franchise; a way of injecting new life into a dying 
 formula. The transition to 3D is excellent, save for a few technical issues. Now isn't a better 
 time to become a theme park designer, as there is now two stunning expansion packs for the game 
 that shouldn't be missed. If you haven't yet played this game, it comes recommended in my book. 
 It's almost criminally addictive and has an unbelievable depth that will keep you going for months. 
 This will crumble your social life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falloutboyo1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Here we go on my review of RollerCoaster Tycoon 3.
  This game proves up to the RollerCoaster Tycoon line as the best one yet. I would say this is in 
 my all-time top 3 of PC games alongside the expansion Soaked and Age of Empires 3.
  Gameplay 10/10
  The Gameplay category has so little room for flaws or improvements that's why 
 i gave it a 10. During the game my favorite type of game mode is Sandbox having no money limits 
 and an open flat terrain.
  Graphics 9/10
  The Graphics were slightly flawed not bad but there was room for improvement in a few parts.
 
  Sound 10/10
  In the Sound category I was impressed on how crisp it was. The sound wasn't choppy it was clean 
 and the music was also good.
  
  To summarize this game i would have to say it is the best in its series. I liked it, for those 
 tycoon and strategy gamers you might want to check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aka_hal
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I did not expect to enjoy this game as much as I did. I know the box makes it look very cartoonish 
 compared to the previous two rollercoaster tycoons, but I discovered that the graphics seemed more 
 pleasant than I thought they would.
  
  I have heard people say that this game runs slow on people's machines, even higher end ones. I 
 have had the opportunity to play this on two different computers and this is what I discovered. 
 My older computer which is just a hair below the standards on memory ( 256 is just below the recommended 
 amount) and just meets the others, has speed problems, but it IS playable, if only barely on later 
 levels. On my computer I built this past summer, which is an AMD 64 3000+, Geforce 6600GT, 1 gig 
 ram computer, it runs perfectly and smoothly. I have no complaints even with 40+ rides in a park 
 with 2000+ guests.
  
  The graphic quality of this game varies widely depending on the capabilities of your computer. 
 It is unremarkable, but not unpleasant on a lower end computer. On a higher end computer everything 
 gets smoothed out and the water effects are nice to see. This is not to say you should expect Fable 
 quality graphics or anything (it is a tycoon game still) , but there is a difference in graphics 
 depending on the card.
  
  Sound is unremarkable. The selection of music for rides feels smaller and I was disappointe to 
 see that the carousel music that had been in the previous 2 games was gone, I like tradition and 
 I miss it, particularly since nothing else seems to work well for the carousel.
  
  The game play is enjoyable, but I must admit some times placing paths is annoying. Some times it 
 decides to drag across a large line like you want, and others it thinks you want to go upwards. 
 The levels are for the most part very easy, but scenic. I would like to note that the difficulty 
 of this game CHANGES depending on the capabilities of your computer. It took me much more game 
 time to beat the levels on a slow computer, than on a fast one. Many of the levels took me hours 
 on my slow computer took me under an hour on my good computer.
  
  Scenery in this game is improved, though some of the scenery from the other games is missing. One 
 type of scenery I really like is there is now a kind of active scenery that activates when a ride 
 goes by, such as a volcano or a shark. Many of them will make you think of theme parks, in particular 
 Universal and Disney world (anyone else think catastrophe canyon with some of these???)
  
  I recommend this game and even more with the Soaked expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EscoDaddy14
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Wow, going from RCT1 and 2 to this masterpiece is just stunning. The 3-D engine for this game is 
 simply amazing! The sky, rides, and whole world is just so detailed. The whole coaster-cam is a 
 great feature because teamed with the graphics and motion, its just an overall great experience. 
 
  
  The sounds of the game are very well done also. The screaming and music thems for the ride, just 
 gives you that "in-the-park" feeling.
  
  The controls are easy to adapt to, it has avery simple menu on the side of the screen, giving easy 
 access to your building needs.
  
  The addition of sandbox mode makes for some fun time, because now you never have to worry about 
 anything. The are also single player challenges, but I have not yet tried them. If you loved the 
 older RCT, then this game is a MUST-BUY, because its so great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 27, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  i prefer the classic games to this new one. the controls in this one are much harder, the people 
 do not sit and eat their fairy floss ever so cute, nor does the spew look bad. the trash is hard 
 to spot aswell on the grounds & the cleaners dont seem to do anything. this game has stolen alot 
 of what "sim theme park" created. you are able to ride rides etc. 
  this seems to be another game focused on graphics not on gameplay, which is why new rpg, strategy 
 etc games these days SUCK so much but fps games are getting pretty good. 
  go back to the oldschool graphics and focus on the game not its features please! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danngerus
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't a very fun game as such. It doesn't have thrills, explotions, characters, story 
 line.... but it gives you the potential to be incredibly creative.
  If you like sim games and like to play the with an easy pace this should be to your liking. If 
 you want to play the business and objectives side of thegame you can do that, but where it does 
 stick out is its creative side.
  Yes you can just drop a predesigned ride and create a path straight to it and put a toilet nearby. 
 But if you play the game like this you'll be missing out. You should try and create the greatest 
 theme park your imagination can think off. Design your own rollercoaster, make it go between two 
 cliffs, twist inside a castle, drop beside a path, do a barrel-roll over a lake, fly through a 
 forest. Instead of draging a path to it'sentrance you can make one go over or through a ride and 
 inside a building. Decorate it, devide it by themes, plant trees and other plants.... Put drinks 
 and food stalls fitting with the areas theme, put staff desguised as aliens or cowboys, etc.... 
 The possibilities are endless. Every time you play you know you can create a better themepark with 
 more exciting rides and prettier landscapes, thats where the addiction comes from.
  Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenalhenry11
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  This game is great. You can choose what kind of scenerio you want  
 and Adventure. Its the best game for PC. If you have played the previous Rollercoaster Tycoon's you 
 will no that you get music like Water Theme or Horror Theme, now in Rollercoaster tycoon 3 you can 
 import your own music from anywhere, real life voice music it is wicked. Like in Rollercoaster Tycoon 
 you sell burgers yeah in Rollercoaster tycoon 3 you can sell burgers and add a bit of salad Chilli 
 sauce salad cream ketchup etc. It is very realistic. The best thing about it for me is that you can 
 ride EVERY SINGLE RIDE IN YOUR PARK. From Ferris Wheels to rollercoasters. And there is a new thing 
 called Peep designer where you can create your own people. Now in rollercoaster tycoon 3 you can 
 get 1 MILLION PEOPLE IN YOUR PARK AND NOT ONE WILL LOOK THE SAME!! It is an amazing game. You will 
 be hooked on it for ages trust me. You get all new animated scenery from moving plastic sharks to 
 volcanoes eruptting and Dinosaurs roaring. This game is all you need so buy it. Coaster Cam where 
 you can ride all the rides is wicked. This game works best on Windows XP. Not Windows 98 it will 
 not work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yapperface
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Although the graphics seem very pixelated, this game is recommendable just for the gameplay and 
 all the control you have in your park . The game is really addictive, with plenty of types of rollercoasters, 
 and all kinds of other nice little baubles. You want to get the expansion back, by the way. Why 
 not buy it?
  
  Strength:
  Gameplay - Awesome customization levels, including fireworks, are just too much- they give you 
 such an overload that you have to learn everything one by one- making the game easy to learn, hard 
 to master.
  
  Weakness:
  Graphics- Looks are iffy at best. Everything looks nice in the coastercam, but when viewed from 
 the normal viewpoint, the guests and coasters don't look too good. Not that much of a problem though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sobekhorus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I was quite exited when i bought this game since RCT1 & 2 was very fun to play with. RCT3 is too 
 much micromanagement you need to look after your staff all the time making sure that they work 
 and thats so boring. 
  
  And the guests are always complaining about almost everything, either its too far to the rides 
 or there arent enough shade or that there arent enough ketchup on the burgers or their fries are 
 to salty or salty enough. 
  
  The only way to get guests satiesfied with the fod is too let the guest choose how much of everything 
 that goes on the burger but that willl cost you alot of money.
  
  these things make you loose the intrests after a while the feeling and amusement that made you 
 keep playing its predecessors night after night is gone. thats the bad things.
  
  the good things are
  The number of ride types that are plenty.
  The fire works editor/maker 
 which allows you to make extreme fireworks which really is the only thing that is a certain favorite 
 among your guests.
  
  The graphics are as good as many FPS games, really beautiful but too beautiful since a monster 
 machine is required to enjoy all the nice looks.
  
  The sounds is quite good to.
  
  Overall this game is a big disappointment the expansions provides some addational feautures but 
 doesnt affect the overall experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexlexia2000
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  although my rating is low ish.. i didnt really enjoy r c t games until this one, the graphics were 
 outstanding compared to the others and the freedom of movement was very interesting, however the 
 missions were generally easy and the rides available were endless. i liked the rollercoaster auto 
 complete function although it didnt always completed it to a perfect run. although the theming 
 was fun it became annoying due to he sheer amount of shops etc. i mean who the hell has time enough 
 to put in shrubs and other crap? i do hope that this is the end of rct series as unless they make 
 some drastic changes any add ons would be completely boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shutterbug4000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 16, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I originally tried playing this game with a substandard video card and was highly disappointed. 
 I've since upgraded, and the difference is like day and night. This game is the best game in the 
 Rollercoaster Tycoon series. The controls from the 2D game translated into the 3D game with very 
 few changes, so it should be familiar to any veterens of the series.
  
  There are so many improvements from Rollercoaster Tycoon 2. You get to ride the rides now. Each 
 peep looks different. Some scenarios have night modes. You can add fireworks to your park. The 
 Soaked expansion pack is also worth the money if you enjoy water parks.
  
  Overall this game is very addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clean1984
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Like i said before in my past reviews why do the creators completly change everthign around itno 
 a **** game . dont no what else to say go tto use up 100 waords .... this game sucks um ya so . 
 i didnt play roller coaster tycoon 2 cause iwas afraid it would be **** but cant be worse then 
 umber 3 wow i havnt used up a 100 words yet damn it stupid review makingme write so much when i 
 got nothign but beter to say but this game sucks butnot as bad as war craft 3 now that gmes blows 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calicow
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  When I bought RollerCoaster Tycoon 3, I thought that it was going to be really as easy to learn 
 and to play as its predicessors. However, the hours that I have played this version of the popular 
 computer game made me wish that I never bought the computer game.
  
  What I find seriously lacking is that the game seems to rely the most on the computer mouse. With 
 the previous RollerCoaster games, you could use both the keyboard and the mouse interchangabley. 
 Another thing that I don't like about this game is how the sim workers seem to be lazy and not 
 want to work, so you have to displine them, taking you away from building more rides that will 
 attract people to the park you're working on. In addition to that, I find the instructions to be 
 rather confusing to read and understand.
  
  In all, the only improvement to this game is the graphics. I would highly recommend not buying 
 this installment to the RollerCoaster Tycoon gaming series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaseykahnefan01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I can Definatly write some good ones and Bad ones for this game
  
  Lets start with the good shall we....
  
  Here is another Series i have fallen in love with 
 since the first game... and just like most games the gameplay and Goals always were to be better 
 then the last.... Now... RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 is out
  
  The new features such as the Nighttime Mode and the special FireWorks Creator is what really brings 
 your park to life at night... The stunning graphics used to illustrate the bright colors and sounds 
 really puts you in a trance as you forget whats happening around you... But There is something better.... How 
 about using the new "Test your Ride Feature" where you can actually get on the ride itself just 
 like you were one of the sim characters riding it.... And looking out so see your park from way 
 up high.... Did i mention the fireworks.... Ohh yea baby!
  
  Another thing that should be noted is how nice the rides look..... they really did a number of improvements 
 in graphics... And as with any new game.... NEW RIDES ^_^
  
  However even with the best games there are always some flaws...
  
  In this i noticed that even 
 though the 3-D characters are a big step up from the little Sim Characters the previous games had... I 
 think there is still a need to work on the graphics for Characters in themself... There are Pieces 
 of the Body or Certain Lines that seem to be non exhistent and makes you wonder where that Piece 
 is.... And zooming in you can really see the flaws... At least There is a bigger Diversity in characters 
 such as Adding in Different Races to the game.... Some people may of never noticed this sort of 
 thing
  
  Well What does that mean.. its a game worth Trying atleast.... I would recomend buying it if you 
 love themeparks ^_^
  
  This game deserves a 7.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JokerCZW
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:56 pm PT
Review:  So, I'm taking the R-8 train from 30th street station to Fox Chase here in Philly on my way home 
 from school during rush hour. As I'm sitting in the crowded car a Russian fellow named Mikhail 
 sits down next to me. We began reminicising about stuff and trading stories. I told him of school 
 life down at Drexel and he bragged abour how he graduated top in his class from Penn. Once we stopped 
 at Market East Station he pulled out some work he had left over from his job. He seemed very distressed 
 and unanxious to begin filling out the mountain of papers he had in his lap. So, in all of my basic 
 instinct, I pulled out my laptop and fired up Roller Coaster Tycoon 3.
  I loaded up Sandbox mode (a mode that allows you to play without any financial limits) and began 
 building some of the pre-set coasters. I tapped my new found russian friend on the should and said, 
 "Get a load of this." His eyes widened as I showed him the screen. 
  "Woah, are we riding on the thing?" he said, really intrigued.
  "Sure are." And as we began moving 
 up the rail to that ever so sweet clickity-clank sound of the chain lift the train began moving. 
 It really felt like we were riding on the roller coaster.
  Now that is only a taste of what it's like to play Roller Coaster Tycoon 3. The new gold edition 
 that's in stores now already comes with the Soaked expansion pak, which allows park tycoons to 
 add water rides, pools, acquariums, and other customizable water park features.
  Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 takes a big leap forward in the series, and finally branches out to 3D 
 which allows the player to actually ride on the ride. This can only be compared to Sim Theme Park 
 (later dubbed Sim Coaster) , however the experience in RCT3 is better ten-fold.
  If you ever enjoed any type of Sim game, get this! It will be so worth your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War_On_Errorism
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I was really anticipating this game only to find myself disappointed.
  
  The Graphics remind me of Sim Theme Park. The are not horrible but do not meet todays technology 
 standards. Its like they made this game for all the kiddies with small CPUs and weak video cards 
 with no regard to the big boys. The view is similar to before the only addition is when you click 
 the scroll wheel you can move the camera and zoom in and out. But this only makes the graphics 
 chopier/blurrier/or just plain crappier. The sounds are unoriganal and seem like the same sounds 
 from RCT2.
  
  The game play is still melodic with some new mission modes. But the scenarios are more frustrating 
 then fun. There are many frustrating things that also come along. Same linear game play with gridlines. 
 No more maintence works that continously mow grass but now you have just plain crappy workers. 
 Disciplining them doesn't work and entertainers that are supposed to be "entertaining" just mope 
 around. There are new rides but who wants the new and exciting Ride view when riding "tea cups 
 of death" or better yet "The Merry Go Round".
  
  The main thing about this game compared to RCT1 and 2 is thats its more frustrating then fun. What 
 happened to the fun in this series?
  
  As said by another user "Leave This One On The Shelf" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammbob
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:20 am PT
Review:  Yep it's back. I got this game 2 years ago now and still playing it as thou 2 years ago way yesterday! 
 Coaster cam is rely good I can fined how ridicules fast my rides go... My favorite mode is sandbox 
 because all the rides are there for you to bullied. But the let down is no underground tunnel's 
 unless you get soaked!. There are a hole lode of new roller coasters and rides you can bullied. 
 I didn't think there would be so much choice . There are rely good fire workes but I only just 
 got the hang of Catherin wheels 3-4 weeks ago lol. If you are a rides fan this is the game for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevr1995
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  The game Roller coaster Tycoon 3 is worse then any other tycoon game that i have ever seen. One 
 reason for that is you have to build the track one piece at a time. They should make it so the 
 coaster comes in three different sizes: small, medium, and large. It takes a little while to make 
 1 coaster. The last bad thing about the game are the graphics. They are worse then Zoo Tycoon or 
 School Tycoon. But if you like making your own unique tracks, then you should get this game. That 
 is just my opinion. I also think the tycoon series should be availble for playstation, gamecube 
 or xbox.
  
  ~Kevr1995 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 11, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  Truley amazing, not only am i visiting a theme park, i get to construct my own park and employ 
 staff to work for me, and locate them where i want them to go, and what jobs to do where, and how 
 to satifiy our customers.
  
  Once i'm happy about the ride, i can test it myself before the customer to make sure its safe, 
 and add some music to the ride, and if you want, you can drag your own MP3 tracks in to the music 
 game folder on the computer and insert theme into the game, so you can enjoy ridinging the rides 
 along with the groovey music of your own beats.
  
  The only let down about the game is, its very long drawn out, unlsee your in to them types of games, 
 always constructing and checking on staff, looking around for rubbish and sick on the ground, getting 
 your staff to clean the park, checking there not lazying around the park and if so, FIRE them on 
 the spot..
  
  Worrying about the money, and not adding the items in when you want.
  
  But the good thnig is, HAS ALOT OT OFFER, lots of roller coster rides, and fireworks at night, 
 adding trees and other fun features.
  
  Need alot of time to play this game and construct.
  
  I'm currently building Olten towers, 
 by following the map and plainning out what goes where etc..
  
  IF you have the time and are a SIM player, then this game is DEFO for you.
  
  Good game, great 
 sounds and good graphics.
  
  Now back to the drawing board. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rccars411
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:21 pm PT
Review:  I had been a fan of the game since the first release. Since then, I didn't care until I heard about 
 the third one and all the hype it has.
  
  To start off with, what is basically improved are graphics. You play in a decent 3d environment, 
 but there are plenty of flaws in the retail version. I found that even with the patches installed, 
 the game was still glitchy even at its lowest settings.
  
  The audio dropped into this game gets quite repetitive, but its something to listen to. The best 
 feature is, if you get annoyed by the cheezy music, you can simply add your own instead.
  
  The gameplay is what brings the game down into the hole, its just utterly disappointing. You can 
 try everything you know from the first game, but fail miserably. I have tried every method physically 
 possible, except for cheat. No matter what ride i had, no matter what store, bathroom, or whatever, 
 the only thing the guests would use was the walkway from one end of the park, back to the exit. 
 Even with the ride fees being free, they wouldnt touch any of the rides. These rides were the prebuilts 
 that the game comes with... every ride ranging from boring to exciting.
  
  After frustration, reading FAQ to FAQ, reattempting everything, doing the tutorial that supposedly 
 tells you how to run a successful park, nothing has worked once so ever.
  
  There isn't anymore to say about the game. If you see it on the shelf, keep walking by it. It's 
 not even worth warezing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokedude2000
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:03 am PT
Review:  This game is the greatest RCT to date. If you played the first two, it should be a breeze to figure 
 out, although it already is. But the greatest features are the Coaster Cam, the MIx Master (for 
 fireworks) and the Peep Designer. With Coaster Cam, your greatest creations come alive. And you 
 can impot from the first two Roller Coaster Tycoons, making old favorites come alive again. The 
 Mix Master may take a while to get used to, but soon enough you'll be creating massive displays 
 of Pyrotechnic wonder. The Peep Designer puts you and your friends into your theme park. (Just 
 don't play the song Dragostea Din Tei in your rides. They hate that) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwjd101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 26, 2005 9:21 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best roller coaster tycoon. They should have called roller coaster tycoon 4. 
 Has tons of new roller coasters, night activities, fireworks, cheats codes to help you out, different 
 new stores, each peep has ii's own face and personality, and it is so addicting! I haven't tried 
 the expansion packs yet, but I am looking forward to soon. It might take a little longer than past 
 roller coaster tycoons but you will get the hang of it after avout an hour of play in the new sandbox 
 mode, which lets you have unlimitied money$! You can build what ever you want when ever you want 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peewee6
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Ive been a big fan of the RCT series and this is the best yet i like the 3D graphics and the on 
 ride cam. But it is very hard to get used to i think they shoulda stuck with there old style of 
 option (along the top) 
  I think that this series has more to offer even if it takes then a few years to figure it out. 
 and it will continue to grow in popularity. 
  
  i reccomend it to anyone who enjoys theme parks and creating thier own rides. 
  the gameplay 
 is definetly hard to get used too, the graphics are amazing sound.. pretty good value. not bad.. 
 for 35 bucks not a bad deal. tilt... good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirian808
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 25, 2005 8:30 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 9/10
  There are 51 types of coasters in the game, which tells you a lot right off the bat. The customization 
 factor is HUGE in this game. You can create an infinite amount of coasters, create custom parks, 
 create custom fireworks shows, and even create custom buildings. You can also import rides from 
 Roller Coaster Tycoon 1 and 2 in, which means that even though Atari doesn't have rights to the 
 Six Flags rides this time, you can still import them from the previous title. Be warned, though... friction 
 is lower in the games before it, so sometimes, roller coasters that worked perfectly in the other 
 games will not work in the most recent title. However, the biggest feature is the CoasterCam, which 
 enables you to ride your roller coasters from the front seat. It makes the game a lot more fun. 
 Also, the fireworks MixMaster, which lets you make fireworks shows, is simple and easy to use.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: 7/10
  The graphics in this game are much improved from the previous game, but not remarkable. The peep 
 s are really blocky and undetailed on close inspection. However, the water effects are magnificent 
 and the textures are very good.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  Lots more sound this time around; there's more than three roller coaster screams, there's background 
 music when you zoom out really far, and there's better music to choose for your coasters.
  
  VALUE: 10/10
  This game can and will keep you entertained for a long time. Like I mentioned 
 earlier, there's a buttload of customization. More customization=more play time.
  
  TILT: 8/10
  The game is good, but some minor bugs keep it from being rated higher, such as your 
 park will be insanely popular one minute, and then three hundred guests will leave your park the 
 next, or the fact that people seem inexplicably drawn to the kiddie rides when their stats show 
 that they would much rather be riding roller coasters. Overall, however, these are small problems. 
 My advice: buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SidFerrariman
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 25, 2005 8:18 am PT
Review:  It plays well, but only if you've played RCT1 and RCT2. The graphics are fine, but you need a fast 
 computer to get the best of it. 
  Playing scenario's is just boring, there is no any challenge.
  So, if you want a game to build 
 rollercoasters, this is the one, but if you like to have fun with playing with a park, buy RCT1 
 or RCT2.
  
  But the grpahics are amazing! The trees, the people, the coaster, the attractions, your park at 
 night, it looks so cool.
  
  Building an attraction is quite simple, a rollercoaster more difficult. But riding in your creation 
 with the coastercam is big fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mick3rick
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 7:27 pm PT
Review:  A while ago I've recieved a copy of Rollercoaster Tycoon 3. Immediately I fell in love with it! 
 Building parks is awesome. The control for building coasters takes a little while to get used to. 
 Still, you are able to make coasters pretty much any way you want them. Unfortunately my graphics 
 card won't allow me to play on the highest detail and it gets choppy sometimes (mainly when I have 
 a lot of things in my park or at night) . There are many rides that are familiar and many that I 
 haven't heard of. The coaster cam is cool, but also gets choppy on my graphics card. Anyway, I'd 
 recommend this game to any strategy fan looking for a super fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasfight54
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is a great game. I have mixed reactions about it though.
  Lets start off with the good, good gameplay, but sometimes has a bug.
  The sound is also great, 
 If we had no monitor it would probably feel like we were there. The graphics are where the game 
 starts to weaken. The graphics are like Atari just tried to make a 3D game. Like they hardly even 
 worked on graphics. They probably should've stuck with RCT2 graphics. Another thing is all of the 
 glitches that will not go away unless you get the patch, thats why I say get the patch and enjoy. 
 Overall, get this game, install it, get the patch and you have yourself a good game of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petercoti
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:26 am PT
Review:  I think that Roller Coaster Tycoon is the best game. You feel like your in the park. I think atari 
 out did themselfs. You should get it. It's my must buy. And on the 23 rd it's out for mac users. 
 If you don't get this game you are missing out on the best game in the whole world. And if you 
 get bord of it then buy the wild or soaked verson. It's the best game in the world at a price of 
 only 29.99. Do I have to say it agian It's a must bye. It's cheap! Cheap! Put this on your holday 
 list. Hope you enjoy it (before they get sold out!) Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks26wsw
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 17, 2005 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Best Roller Coaster Tycoon game yet. Three-D graphics and all new rides gives the series a hole 
 new out look. This is a phenomenal game. The game play is awesome. The Graphics are amazing. They 
 are superb. They are the new face of the franchise. The value is extremely high because in order 
 to unlock new levels you have to achieve certain goals. There is also a Sand Box Mode were there 
 is no limits. You have all the rides and unlimited money. You can do drafts of your carrier parks 
 or just play around in it. It is an amazing game. If you like strategy games you must have this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGnintendoFAN
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2005 11:14 am PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 is an amazing game. If you always wanted to build your dream amusment park 
 but never had the money, time or patience to do it, then here is you chance with Roller Coaster 
 Tycoon 3. From the slippery Bobsleih to the all - twisting all darring Giga coaster, there are 
 many thrills and spills to be seen in this game.
  
  However, despite the excitment and hype of being albe to build your dream park with all sorts of 
 rides, atractions, terrain, tools right down to the finest detail there are many flaws which realy 
 spoil the game. For instance, like is commenly seen and is noticeble is the "From Hot To Cold" 
 in which were one ride can be red hot at one moment with many people queing and then in the next 
 5 minutes of so no one ever wants to go on it so you have to demolish it and rebuild a new one 
 which can be a real shame. Tough this problem has been here with past Roller Coaster Tycoon games 
 aswell, it majorly occurs in this one.
  
  There are others to like enginears sometimes just won't do nothing, when you have a broken ride 
 they just wont fix it no matter how many times you place them right next to it so you will have 
 to delete it all together, toy wont even be able to test it which is a real bummer and sometimes 
 upsetting. Sometimes but quite rarely people will say the vandalism is very bad even tough there 
 may be few people with over 100 sercurity gaurds and for some reason no matter how extreme you 
 build a roller coaster, people will ride on it as long as it is not to high, no matter how many 
 G's are on a roller coaster even if you build one with 10 odd people will ride it with no problem. 
 There is also a bug were if you build a realy long roller coaster, sometimes for some weird reason 
 when you connect it at the end it wont becuase the station height is different from your track 
 height so all of a sudden you build this fantastic roller coaster that you can't realy do nothing 
 with execpt test it and wacth it crash.
  
  But despite all that there are some truely amazing aspects about the game such as little kids will 
 go on more gentle rides and drag there parents and teenagers will want to go on fast and noasous 
 roller coasters. Tough, there are some times were little kids will want to go on some huge roller 
 coasters and they will stay away from gentler rides which kinda detracts from the game and realy 
 no one ever seems to want to go on gentle rides no matter how cheap they are.
  
  Also, the controls interferance is alot more complex than previous RCT titles and it can realy 
 take some time to get used to. It is more focused on little things which you probaly won't bother 
 with and is focused on subcatorgorys with many and many even endless sub-menus that just seem to 
 bug you. But one of the stronger elements of the gameplay is that you can do all sorts of realy 
 cool loop - to -loops and corkscrews and vert drops it is truely spectacular and so many things 
 you can do which wern't there in previous games. Also, one of the best things about this game is 
 getting a first person view and experiancing your ride without the wind in your face and scary 
 heart pounding drops. 
  
  There are so many things to talk about this game I want to talk about but I just can't otherwise 
 you would be reading through a never - ending encyclopedia but I will say that the Graphics are 
 absolutly amazing, altough It is going to take some high Hz proccesor to run this game at a smooth 
 framrate and accecptable graphics. Some of the particle effects can realy slow down your game and 
 it is a huge system hog so for thoose lower performence PC's you will have to turn the graphics 
 right the way down in order to play it at an acceptable rate.
  
  The musical sound in RCT3 is - as descirbed - a bit "new age" and doesen't like the the modern 
 day carnival but there are plenty of screams from rides and plentiful of abient sounds and rackety 
 clank roller coaster but there could of been more done to the sound.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Burn2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 12:55 am PT
Review:  Im a lover of most of the tycoon games, and certainly he Roller Coaster series! i just love creating 
 my own park and filling it with custom coasters... And this game is certainly a highlight of my 
 collection! from building your own coaster and riding on it, to making scenes activated by track 
 sections, such as a dino attack! I love making my own firework displays, although quite tricky 
 to begin with! Although a mostly great game, it is getting harder to create roller coasters that 
 actually work, or at least, that give the right excitement rating... Oh well, i suppose it gives 
 a more challenging approach to the game....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Napster06
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 26, 2005 10:18 pm PT
Review:  The best of all three, RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 really delivers fan what they wanted. The all new 
 Fireworks MixMaster added more spice to game. Built for newer PCs, this game couldnt be better.
 
  
  First of all, you need quite a decent PC to play it. It says you need a P3 with 800 MHz but I think 
 it is best played with a P4 1.8Ghz. 
  
  The gameplay in short is really addictive. For those who have not played the previous games shouldnt 
 be bothered to buy them. This game is definitely better. But for those who have played RCT 2 will 
 also see the game nice, but lacking a few details. For example, it is easier to lay paths and there 
 are more variety of sceneries in the old game. For those who have not played RCT 2 and reading 
 this, I highly recommend you to BUY it. Even with those slight details left out, the game is addictive 
 enough to keep you busy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yopefonic
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 16, 2005 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The roller coaster series has 3 versions, with 3 different developers! this has it's impact on 
 the game. the idea was good, the ad-on/share structure that was introduced in the first game has 
 it's place to be mentioned. but there is nothing more shocking to say. Everything new to the series 
 has already been done and is certainly not new to the series. That may be a reason to give it a 
 poor rating... BUT the game is good. It may be just ripped, but it has been done well. And nower 
 day's that seems harder and harder.
  
  there are some things i miss from the second version, i'd still like to fully create my own parks. 
 form the environments to the park itself. with this function I modeled a lot of local theme parks. 
 On the other hand... the ground fluctuations are a lot better, its possible to ride the attractions 
 (ripped form themepark world) the possibility to convert "old" track designs to the games.
  
  I really can't tell more... just a good game it deserves it's credits and does what is't supposed 
 to do. Why complain? because it could have done better! 
  
  greetz and see you online,
  
  YopeFoniC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holeattack
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 15, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  RCT3 takes you on a journey as a theme park operator and does a great job of it. Scenarios progress 
 along with objectives to achieve. Complete those objectives and become a Tycoon! Otherwise you 
 can just sit back in sandbox mode and build the park of your dreams.
  The game offers a unique in ride camera experience which works smoothly and looks superb. You can 
 add your own music to individual rides jump in, sit back and enjoy. On the downside the camera 
 controls can be a bit annoying in general gameplay if you want to get down low for some on the 
 ground views.
  The gameplay isn't rocket science. it may even be a bit too easy for some. I found it just right 
 though. Being not so complex allows you to spend more time actually building up the park, which 
 is where the fun is at.
  The tools to build rides and to manipulate the terrain are comprehensive and easy to use. Building 
 your first Roller Coaster is quite a buzz and there's enough option there to tinker with it and 
 get it just right for your customers. You need to balance the excitement rating , intensity and 
 nausea values. Tweaking the terrain is a little more time consuming but can be very rewarding. 
 The tools in place are very good once you understand what does what and you can acheive anything 
 your heart desires with devotion.
  In conclusion though I'd have to say what makes this game stand out for me is sandbox mode with 
 unlimited $$$ and just being able to try and build the ultimate theme park. Word of warning - It 
 can be a load on even the best PC's if you go and fill up every little bit of the map you can. 
 It is though a joy to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stegma
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2005 12:18 am PT
Review:  In a nutshell you are the park manager, contractor, architect, landscaper, human resources and 
 entertainer. Game developers are always looking for new ways to entertain us and this certainly 
 was one hell of an idea. Cuddos to Atari for another great success!!!
  
  If you have played the original than you know all about the game and how it is played and if not 
 - read on. 
  
  You may play the missions which are set up to be more interesting with goals in mind for your park 
 objectives, or you may build a park from scratch with amazing tools to your disposal. Everything 
 from creating the way the visitors look, making forests/lakes/hills and of course setting up your 
 park for your game. You may also start with a blank canvas with unlimited cash at your disposal 
 to do as you like - be careful thought - eventually without a really good computer you will run 
 into some slowing down issues.
  
  Building roller coasters and rides is moderately easy but I dont find it frustrating. You can 
 sit down and plan what you want to build or just wing it and hope the guests like it. This game 
 allows you to be as free as you want with your designs.
  
  The other half of the fun is managing your park. The game turns you into a business man - makes 
 you think where you should place that burger joint in order to make the most money or what price 
 should I set this roller coaster ride that people will pay to go on it. You find out what people 
 are thinking, what they buy, where they spend their money, if they are sad or happy and so on. 
 Hiring workers to clean the park, maintain the park...... it just keeps going. It really feels 
 like running a business accept its more fun and youre the boss!!!! 
  
  Graphics are EXCELLENT! There was a huge jump with graphics from the first Roller coaster Tycoon 
 to this third one. 
  
  Sound is quite good also - you can set music on all the rides. Hearing the people scream when they 
 are scared or laugh when they see something funny makes the game extremely realistic. 
  
  That word brings me to the conclusion - realism - thats what makes this game so much fun to play. 
 Most games are far from realistic but sometimes we want the opposite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mp3_bk
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 1, 2005 3:30 pm PT
Review:  RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 is the next sequel of the RCT series and this time in full 3D!. Many people 
 say 3D doesn't mean better but personally, I think RCT3 has successfully become a great and fun 
 game to play.
  
  Now most people complain about the game because there are a number of bugs in the game that ruins 
 the fun out of the game. If you get the recent patch of RCT3, most of the main problems will be 
 fixed. I will assure you that you need to get used to the new menus as they do seem a bit complicated 
 to find at first if you were an original RCT fan.
  
  Just like the first and the second RCT games, your job on the game is to create a successful theme 
 park and complete certain objects in the "Career Mode". Many of these objectives are very easy 
 but there are some challenging ones as you get further through the game. There are many new features 
 in RCT3 such as the CoasterCam where you can ride all of your rides in a persons point of view. 
 There is a "Fireworks Mixmaster" where you can create your own fireworks display in your parks!. 
 Pretty cool indeed!. A sandbox mode where you can make your parks without any objectives or any 
 money which is indeed fun to make large parks on. You get many different types of people in your 
 parks, such as toddlers, children, teenagers, and adults so all of the guests will have different 
 types of rides they will want to ride on. Overall, it's pretty much like the first two RCT games 
 in my honest opinion.
  There are many annoying things about RCT3 is that you have to look after your staff unlike the 
 first RCT games otherwise your staff quit. Also, shops now break down which didn't happen in RCT1 
 or RCT2 and making your mechanics now having to fix rides and shops. I think the AI of the guests 
 have gone down from RCT2 because my guests seem to struggle to get anywhere if I have any 2 square 
 wide paths in my parks.
  
  If RCT3 had a strong point, it would have to be the graphics. They are very colourful and bright 
 and the water reflections look great in the game. The guests however, have a rather blocky look 
 to them. The sound is rather exceptional, such as when the guests scream on the rides, and the 
 noises the rides make.
  
  Overall, RollerCoaster Tycoon 3 is worth your money, as long as you get the recent patch you will 
 most likely enjoy the game. At first I wasn't impressed with the game due to many bugs, but getting 
 the patch really helps on improving your opinion on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cps
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 15, 2005 9:38 am PT
Review:  I at first (from demo impressions) thought that this was a rip-off title. The second instalment 
 in the Rollercoaster tycoon series proved to be a dissapointment, and this title looked like a 
 drastic action to make money by buffing up the graphics and making the move to that risky world 
 of 3D. 
  
  I was impressed however with the overall approach this time around, with new options to ride your, 
 well... rides!... and design your own firework shows etc... 'Potential there' I thought, along with 
 the classic gameplay that has been spiced with some new tools and options. But I then realised 
 (which I now realise as being wrong) that it was all flash, and that the unforgiving interface 
 and gameplay elements, was the downfall of the game. But, coming back to this game, on the eve 
 (and as I write this) and release of the expansion pack, I have realised (for real) how wrong I 
 was. I suggest that anyone who approaches this game, that is as big of a fan of the original entries 
 of the series (And I'm talking, HUGE fan) , you need to give this a chance and remember that although 
 the core mechanics of the gameplay remains, the way at which you go about playing this title, is 
 quite different. ad example being the changes in the interface and building mechanics (which I 
 could go on about all day, but it's better that you see for yourself and begin to learn it all 
 inside out, again!) 
  
  What is obviously noticable about this title, compared to previous ones, is the graphics. At first 
 I was sceptical about the approach; I had always had this 'perfect' ideal for the 3D version of 
 Rollercoaster Tycoon, in my head, and frankly, I thought the guests looked childish and the rollercoasters 
 looked poorly structured. Now, having played this game extensively, I have accepted them and find 
 them to be appropriate in the expression of the game and certain little nags, turn out to be things 
 that make the whole world more vivid. The rollercoasters are only poorly structured, if you get 
 some idiot to design them. I had the setting on the highest quality (Theres about five choices 
 - highest performance (low graphics) to highest quality (extreme graphics) are the two opposites 
 on the spectrum) , the world is quite bland, but you must remember that it's a blank canvas (in 
 most cases) , in sandbox mode (where you have unlimited funds and a blank grass map to which to 
 go nuts on) it leaves you to add foliage, mountains, lakes, canyons etc... The world is what you 
 make of it, and when you make it, it looks great! 
  
  Another thing I couldn't fault, even when I had my troubles with the demo, is the sound. The music 
 (although not to everyone's taste, and maybe not varied enough) , is extremely well done, and goes 
 perfectly with shows, and rides and even background music. The choice to add your own music just 
 opens it up even more, and if you get completely sick of hearing 'Summer air' and 'Girls like spice', 
 you can always add the classic tunes from your old Rollercoaster tycoon games, in theory (anything 
 is possible) . The guests sounds as they should, and one things I was slightly worried over, was 
 that classic coaster group scream, which didn't quite make it this time around. When zooming in 
 on your rides, or using the 'CoasterCam', you often have just individual screams and shouts, but 
 it often depends on the number of guests that are on the ride. When using the 'CoasterCam', everything 
 is done extremely well (sound-wise - not to say that there's anything wrong with it, with anything 
 else) , there's full surround sound, and the mixing of sounds and music as you travel through your 
 park, shows no signs of glitches.
  
  Rollercoaster Tycoon 3 is a jam-packed thrill ride, and has proven itself to be a worthy sequel, 
 going for a new approach from no. 2 (whereby it gives you more challenges) , now it sparks your 
 creativity and gives you all the necessary tools to create (although quite overwhelming at first, 
 with some time, you'll be a pro!) . 
  
  My first score, was along the lines of 7.1 but some time after, and a second chance, has beefed 
 my score up to 8.9 - "GREAT" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2005 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I dont know what the original release of this game was like, but the current version is an excellent 
 game. Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 is arguably the best simulation available for the PC. If you love 
 Roller Coasters like I do, then the subject matter is a huge bonus on top of what is already a 
 fun game. This game is polished, highly detailed, packed with content, challenging, and addictive. 
 If you like sim games and roller coasters, then buying this game should a no-brainer.
  
  If you played the first Roller Coaster Tycoon game, then you should know that this game feels very 
 similar. The interface works largely the same. However, it has a lot of additions and improvements 
 over that game. In accordance with the explosion of roller coaster styles around the world in recent 
 years, this game has a bunch of new, impressive coasters. It also has a lot of other new thrill 
 ride types, new shops, and lots of new scenery, like ride events. One innovative addition that 
 this game offers is the ability to put together sandbox fireworks displays. This game is absolutely 
 loaded with content, and even if you complete all of the games scenarios you probably wont use 
 it all the first time. Its possible at any time to pause the game and browse through the available 
 stuff to build and contemplate for a half hour what to build next.
  
  Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 just flows really nicely, and its a very fun game. There is something 
 about the magnificence of a super-sized roller coaster that never gets old. Every one that you 
 build is a little bit different and special in its own way, like a painting by a master artist. 
 Its this immensely satisfying feeling of creation that keeps you glued to your seat while you 
 play this game. It has the addictiveness that defines the greatest simulations of our time. Minutes 
 become hours, and hours disappear as you concentrate on your park, building roller coasters and 
 trying to attract customers. 
  
  The simulation seems much more robust than in the first game. Instead of just one kind of peep, 
 there are now a few. There are adults, children, teens, college kids, and couples. They often travel 
 in groups. If a group gets split up on a ride, the first ones off of it will wait for the other 
 peeps to get off. Its actually interesting sometimes to just watch one person or group to see 
 what they do. The AI is very good and is generally devoid of the bugs that were supposedly in the 
 retail version of the game. The kids also dont vomit on the rides as much as they used to (this 
 was a silly and annoying feature in the first game) .
  
  Best of all though, is the games new, slick 3D engine. The engine lets you zoom in and out, pan, 
 and rotate. You will find yourself using these features constantly, especially as you build roller 
 coasters, which require some precision. This engine looks very nice and is very good at showing 
 off this games colorful style. The rides look beautiful, they are wonderfully animated, and they 
 are loaded with detail. The engine also has some nice eye candy effects, like reflections off of 
 the water. 
  
  Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 has so many choices that it can be overwhelming. Fortunately, however, 
 the game has a variety of gameplay modes that will satisfy the newcomer and the hardened veteran 
 alike. The centerpiece of the game is a set of 18 scenarios that usually require you to take a 
 half-developed park, improve it, and meet a series of goals. Each scenario has three tiers of objectives. 
 They vary widely. Some of them require you to make a certain amount of money. Others require you 
 to have a certain amount of guests in your park, or a roller coaster with a certain rating. The 
 easiest objectives are available for the novice who wishes to play casually. The hardest objectives 
 are there for the tycoon veteran who wishes to be challenged  and they are, indeed, challenging. 
 That this game can provide an appropriate and satisfying level of challenge for just about anybody 
 who plays it is one of its brilliant strengths. The open-endedness and nearly infinite replayability 
 of these scenarios is another major strength.
  
  The game also has a sandbox mode. The sandbox mode is fun because it allows you to build your own 
 dream park without many of the constraints of the scenarios. This is a feature that has been clamored 
 for since the first game came out. Lack of money or space in the scenarios may keep you from building 
 your dream rides. If youd like to relax and build stuff without worrying about goals, or if you 
 would just like to build the worlds first 450-foot roller coaster, then you will enjoy this gameplay 
 mode. 
  
  If Roller Coaster Tycoon 3 has any faults, they lie within the games presentation. The audio, 
 specifically isnt very impressive. Many of the ride sounds are authentic, but they seem somewhat 
 recycled from the first game. There isnt much of a variety of music to outfit your rides with, 
 and whats there is mostly forgettable. The peeps also have a low variety of noises. If you are 
 zoomed in on the park, then youll probably hear the same two or three yay! and yeehaw! noises 
 over and over again. The peeps themselves, are extremely blocky and ugly looking. Even when you 
 arent zoomed in close, you can almost count their polygons. This seems to have been a concession 
 to get the game to run on lower end video cards. Judging by how well it runs and how well the rest 
 of the game looks, the concession was worth it though. The game also could have used a bit more 
 tweaking to make some of the peripheral features more useful. For example its hard to tell what 
 use the scenery has. The rides seem to dominate everything else. If you spend $1,000 on scenery 
 and landscaping, is that ever better than spending $1,000 on a new ride? It seems like it isnt. 
 
  
  Any faults that this game has, however shouldnt take away from the dozens of hours of enjoyment 
 that this game has to offer. They are but minor scratches on an otherwise beautiful product. Roller 
 Coaster Tycoon 3 has just about everything that you could hope for in a simulation game. It has 
 tons of content and choices, a sandbox mode, challenging scenarios, and nice-looking rides. It 
 also provides the most fun subject matter of any sim game  roller coasters. If you like sim games 
 or roller coasters, then this game is a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeTer__GriFFin
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 11, 2005 3:20 am PT
Review:  Where to start, hmm. The graphics in this game are phenominal! The characters in this game all 
 look kinda bad, but think about this, they have to have 1000+ of them running around, and they 
 want it to run smoothly so they are great! the water effects are awesome, the coasters look real, 
 and the rides look beautiful at night! A uber upgrade in that department. The gameplay is not only 
 smooth, but it is fun, i find myself playing it for hours on end, one time an entire day! Loading 
 the old saved tracks brang back memories of my yesterdays. Riding rollercoasters and other rides 
 for that matter is not a new feature to this genre of strategy games, but it is one in this game. 
 Although it doesn't feel too good. I often find the camera clipping with the heads of the "peeps" 
 as they are called in the game and that can be quite annoying. Building roller coasters is an ease, 
 and they have added a much needed auto-complete button, which is very usefull for last minute touchups. 
 If you didnt find the first ones fun or intresting, you wont find this one intresting, if you liked 
 it. Buy this upgrade in the future! I was honestly fine with Roller Coaster Tycoon 2, i was planing 
 on buying it on the release date but i actually bought it on tuesday of The second week in June 
 2005! I have only had it for 3 days, and yet, i have had well over 10 hours worth of play time! 
 The sound is unique for every ride, and the laughs seem to be abnouqous but whatever really. It 
 is fully worth it to play through the entire game and watch your park flourish! I LOVE THIS GAME!
 
  
  gameplay 10-10
  graphics 10-10
  sound 9-10
  value 10-10
  reviewers tilt 10-10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheShelobMan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 5, 2005 4:14 am PT
Review:  RCT3 is a game that I would recommend only for tycoon veterans. Beginners might be better of starting 
 with Zoo Tycoon 2 or a previous installment of RCT. The game has a lot of responsibilities that 
 will definetly test the patience of many gamers, but it is also a game that is exciting enough 
 to make you want to finish the long campaign.
  
  First off, the gameplay is fun, yet many times I felt that the crashing of the rides and shops 
 was a little too frequent in big parks to be called random. One way to dodge that though is to 
 test a ride everytime after it has been fixed. That of course causes you to lose a lot of revenue. 
 THat is just one of the many lose-lose situations in the game and it is at times so frustrating 
 that I have to kick something everytime a ride or vendor crashes. One of the bad things in the 
 game is that the mechanics can't be told to go fix say, the Burgers vendor, but only go there if 
 they pass it by. With the rides it's different of course, but I still don't get why they did not 
 include that option in the second update. The Campaign is good with the first scenario deciding 
 the level of difficulty you will play the rest of it in. The Tutorials are good but the only way 
 to find out how to make lakes is by consulting the manual since it is not discussed in the campaign. 
 The sandbox is I guess the spot for beginners since there are no regulations to what you can and 
 cannot do. That is where I began. It is a better learning experience than the tutorials. 
  
  The graphics are top notch and are even better than Zoo Tycoon 2's graphics. The CoasterCam 
 is awesome and I frequently forget my duties as a tycoon to ride my brand new ride. My favorite 
 cam is the Jet SKI ride cam, it feels a lot faster than a roller coaster cam. The great thing is, 
 even the slow rides like Ferris Wheel and Monorail are good. The graphics are definetly sharp, 
 but only in the higher settings. They are horrible on medium settings so sacrifice performance 
 for quality, is my advice. The fireworks are a nice touch and making your own is a bit too time-consuming, 
 in case you are playing against the clock, so the presets will have to do. 
  
  The sound is not outstanding, but it really feels like a crowd, when the camera is close to the 
 ground and stuff. The fireworks make some weird sounds sometimes though. THe great thing is that 
 almost everything has a sound, even the shops and vending machines, which is a thing I liked about 
 Zoo Tycoon 2 also. It just feels much more alive with more sounds. 
  
  The game is long if you don't lose it by the time you are done with the fourth scenario. I almost 
 did. But it is long and challenging. Definitly worth the price although it is $30 - $40 dollars. 
 
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who owns the previous two titles and is a tycoon freak who 
 is ready for some challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skippyj9
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 15, 2005 9:52 pm PT
Review:  ****In this review I will not explain Roller Coaster Tycoon. I am writing this review assuming 
 you have played any of the RCT games.****
  
  I own RCT, Loopy Landscapes, Corkscrew Follies, RCT2, Wacky Worlds, and now RCT3. I love all of 
 them and the Roller Coaster Tycoon series is my favorite game series. But I do not like Roller 
 Coaster Tycoon 3. In this sequel there is 3D but that is not a good thing, it makes it hard to 
 see things when constructing. What is cool though is you can now ride the rides but some are so 
 unrealisticly fast there's no point riding them. Also on rollercosters some of the peep's heads 
 get the way of the camera. Also when looking at your park with graphics turned to full all the 
 rides look empty from a distance so in order to see the peeps riding the rides you have to zoom 
 up close. The new graphics do more damage than good.
  There are also a lot of problems with the gameplay. If you put more than two food stalls next to 
 each other all the guests will stay in that area of your themepark. So more guests are in line 
 at the Burger Hut instead of the 10 Excitement 7 intensity 4 nausea rollercoaster. This is frustrating. 
 And even when you put 10 food stalls by the entrance to a ride all 700 of your 1000 guests are 
 standing around the entrance to the ride not even looking at the ride. There are only 2 or 3 new 
 rollercoasters. And only 5 or 6 new rides. I have always liked RCT because making the rollercoasters 
 felt so realistic. But now they have made it so unrealistic it makes me mad. On the steel Wild 
 Mouse coaster you can now make it go through loops and barrel rolls. Yeah thats reasonable considering 
 there ar NO Shoulder restraints and only a metal bar. And you can go through that barrel roll at 
 60 MPH and still have a 6 intensity coaster. But this is not the main problem about the gameplay 
 the main problem is that no one goes on the best rollercosters.
  The sound is horrible too. The music they give you sucks but you can import your own music to your 
 rides if you want to. But the default music is crap. They keep in the real sounds from a theme 
 park somewhere but it isn't as good as the old RCT's sound. Also when you ride a rollercoster that 
 has one male with a beard riding alone you hear all these women, little girls, and little boys 
 screaming. The sound is a dissappointment.
  The only good thing going for this game is it can be addictive. I gave this game a 5.8 with the 
 Reviewer's Tilt because the game is mediocre. I would give it a 6.5 otherwise but that is what 
 this game is. A major mediocre dissappointment. I hope the Soaked Expansion can fix the bugs so 
 I can love Roller Coaster Tycoon 3. But as of now it is not a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkali
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2005 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Roller Coaster Tycoon is a wonderful addition to the classic Tycoon genre. It gives us the formula 
 that we're used to: start with an open plot of land, meet your objectives, become filthy rich.
 
  
  Gameplay is pretty good. There's nothing confusing or new, but there is a bit of a pain when it 
 comes to placing structures. You must hand-clear the plot of any existing scenery before placing 
 rides and attractions. That includes native flora, and it can sometimes be a bit hard to see what's 
 blocking you. Otherwise, no complaints on that front.
  
  Graphics are also good. Passably decent, nothing to write home about, but also not hideous. Everything 
 is bright and cheerful, and the 3D "Coaster Cam" is just awesome. It actually does a great job 
 of replicating the roller coaster experience.
  
  Sound I was also happy with. Again, nothing great, but serviceable. It would have been nice to 
 have had some more tunes available for the different rides, but what they do have is pretty good, 
 for the most part.
  
  Overall, I'd say if you like Tycoon games, snag RCT3. It's fun, and it's a great example of the 
 genre. Coaster Cam is lots of fun, and overall you'll get many, many hours of fun out of the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBot
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 21, 2005 2:39 pm PT
Review:  The first thing we got is the nice new menu, its a lot cooler looking then the last one. It shows 
 scenes from the game as usual, only now they're still, and if you are looking at a scenario it 
 will show you in game images of that scenario. When you first start up the game youll get to pick 
 from one of a few options. The first is tutorial. This will run you thru the basics of the game, 
 show you how to build roller coasters, and what all the graphs and charts mean, and how you can 
 better use it all to benefit your park. I highly recommend that if you have never played a Roller 
 Coaster Tycoon game before, or if its been awhile, that you run thru this tutorial.
  
  The next option is Career Mode. This is basically the classic style of RCT play. It gives you a 
 list of scenarios, all varying in difficulty, and you have to go and beat them. The difference 
 this time is each scenario has three levels you can beat it a; Apprentice (bronze) , Entrepreneur 
 (Silver) , and Tycoon (Gold) . The objectives for each level get harder and harder. Another big difference 
 is you can achieve the objectives at any time, theres not set time limit. Once you hit and objective, 
 regardless of what level its at, its checked off your list and youre one step closer to that 
 level. As you beat each scenario on the higher levels you will unlock more and more scenarios to 
 play, and beat. 
  
  Another thing that is very helpful is you can quit a scenario at any time, and it will be saved 
 at that point under your profile. So if you get to Entrepreneur level and decide you want an different 
 scenario, you just click the back button and it brings you back to the scenario selection screen. 
 You just have to be sure you save your profile then before you quit, or all your data on the scenarios 
 will be lost.
  
  They also finally added a sand box mode. In this mode you have unlimited funds, and access to all 
 the rides on the game. So you can build and build to your hearts content with no limits at all. 
 You also get lots of guest really fast into your park, so thats not a problem starting out either. 
 It was almost too hard to keep up with all the guests flowing in. With in minutes of starting the 
 sand box mode I had over 200 guests in my park. It was pretty crazy, but it ended up being really 
 fun.
  
  Theres also the ability to play custom scenarios that either you, or another RCT player over the 
 net built. This expands so much on the game since even after you beat it, you can still go out 
 and about and get scenarios from others, or even make your own. If you hadnt already guessed it 
 there is a scenario designer that comes with this game, it lets you set the criteria for your game, 
 build up the map/land for the scenario, and then send it all off you your friends, or find a site 
 and put it up on there.
  
  In addition to the scenario designer there is also a peep designer. This lets you make your own 
 peeps. You can either make a single peep, and group, couple, a family, anything you want. They 
 will then make their way into your parks. You can also build your own scenery/buildings in the 
 building designer. This makes it easy to get a cool looking castle, or a mansion, for any of your 
 parks, and only have to build it once! Finally we have the coaster designer, which lets you build 
 coaster that can then be put in the game by clicking on the button on the build coaster screen 
 to use a pre-made coaster.
  
  Some other large changes are the 3D graphics. The game is now in full 3D. You can rotate the camera 
 to any angle imaginable, and see your peeps, buildings, or coasters close up and person. You can 
 even ride your roller coasters in first person view and get and idea of what your peeps actually 
 go thru. Both of these things are very cool additions. I know I spent almost a half an hour just 
 riding all the coasters in one of my parks, thats how cool it is. I dont know if I rode all of 
 them because it was so cool and fun, or because it was, in fact, free, it was probably both!
  
  The game also cycles thru night and day, so now all those pointless lamps and lights from the 
 other RCT games are no longer pointless and now serve the purpose of keeping your park well lit 
 for all your guests. It even looks pretty cool when you get a big park to zoom out really far and 
 night and look at all the rides and lights. Something else I thought was neat was you can design 
 a custom fireworks show, and play it for your guests. You get a large list of fireworks to choose 
 from; all costing only a few dollars, and then you organize them in the Fireworks MixMaster. If 
 that wasnt enough you even have the option of putting it to music, either a song already on RCT, 
 or one of your own songs from your music folder. Then if you have a really cool show, you can save 
 it for later!
  
  The changes to the staff are also pretty big. Theyre no longer mindless people that roam your 
 park, and work for a flat wage, in horrible conditions. They now get happy, content, mad, etc. 
 If you have unhappy staff, you better do what you can to make them happy. This can come for a raise 
 (yes, you now choose what to pay your staff) , or you can even get them more training, so theyll 
 be more efficient. Or both! Usually being better at your job constitutes a raise, right? Guess 
 it depends on the kind of boss you are. You will notice one odd staff member, called the park inspector. 
 Hes the guy that goes around and tells you if peeps are having troubles getting to a ride, or 
 to give you helpful hints, tell you if a ride is broken down, and anything else of that nature.
 
  
  All of the rides also got revamped, and look a lot nicer. There are also a few new ones you may 
 even recognize from your local fair, or a large amusement park. Dont worry though; the customization 
 is still high with entrances, and colors of the carts, etc. Then the roller coasters are still 
 built from scratch, with a few pre-built ones saved just incase you cant quite get on built! On 
 your shops you can now pick toppings or extra things for your food and drinks, like ice, or a lemon 
 slice. Then you can sell those for a bit more then, say, the things with out ice, or toppings. 
 You can, also, let your peeps decide what they want, and sell it all for one flat price.
  
  Overall, this game is absolutely amazing; its everything weve ever asked for from the RCT series 
 all rolled into one amazing package, with a few extras we never even thought of. If youre a fan 
 of the RCT series, you cant live without this game, or if youre someone looking to get into the 
 series, this would be the one worth starting off with. Its sure to provide anyone with endless 
 hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rijorat
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2005 6:16 am PT
Review:  For starters, you may have read in most of the previous reviews of this game that there are glaring 
 bugs in the retail version. This is a testament to the fact that they probably released this game 
 a few months too soon. The good news is Atari released the version 2 patch at the end of January. 
 As long as you update to version 2, you should not see any of the bugs that are referred to in 
 some of the older reviews.
  
  One thing that you must understand is that this game does require some juice. Do not expect to 
 be able to run this game well on an older computer. The physics modeling and real time 3-D animated 
 graphics in this game are phenomenal advancements, and as such, they require the additional firepower 
 of a newer generation computer. The graphics are apparently optimized for ATI video cards, which 
 means that Nvidia users can probably expect to see some decrease in performance compared to those 
 using comparable ATI cards. 
  
  The computer I'm running it on has these specs:
  Processor - AMD Athalon 64 3000+ 2.0 Ghz
  Memory - 1 GB DDR 400 Ram
  Motherboard - Soltek SL-K8TPro-754
 
  Video Card - ATI Radeon 9600 128MB AGP
  
  With those specs, I can run the game at the highest settings with no negative effects at all. Man 
 does it look good on those settings. This game is very customizable. You can pretty much build 
 any style roller coasters you can imagine. Either you can select from the extensive library of 
 pre-made coasters, or you can build your own piece by piece. There are many other rides to play 
 with too, many of them customizable as well. Each rides has various settings that allow you to 
 control the appearance, ticket price, mechanics, and other things. The best part is that you can 
 ride virtually any moving ride in the game. You can control the camera as if you were actually 
 a paying customer. Sit in the front seat, or the back it is up to you. You can look left, right, 
 up, down, or even behind you. Here is where the physics gets really cool... the ride follows the 
 track that you'd expect it to. So it looks like you are actually riding the coaster... but the really 
 nifty thing is that all the other rides in your park keep operating at the same time. So while, 
 you are being tossed this way and that on your ride, you can see other peeps being tossed about 
 on their rides. This really lets you get in the game and experience the scene from a first person 
 perspective. This physics model is so cool, that I would recommend you get the game just so you 
 can see it in action.
  
  The editing tools are easy to use, and they allow all kinds of track variations from twists and 
 turns, to loops and spirals. Take your peeps (your customers) and toss them in all directions. 
 Once you have your track laid then you can add other set pieces to add character to it. For example, 
 you can build a mine train, and then build an abandon mine for the train to go through. The game 
 allows you to build all kinds of different buildings and structures in several different styles 
 to include castles. They game also has some event pieces allowing you to add more character to 
 your ride. If you have been to an adventure ride in an amusement park, you may know what I am talking 
 about. For instance, one piece involves an oil refinery that explodes whenever the train on your 
 coaster passes a certain point on its track. Fire, explosions, and falling buildings assault the 
 senses of your peeps.... and once the train is past... the event resets for the next train.
  
  Terrain adjustment is done very similar to the Sim City games, in that you can raise, lower, 
 level, smooth, add water... ect. It uses a grid mesh just like Sim City. You can even toggle on 
 the grid, elevations, and other helpful information for those of you who like to be very precise 
 in your designs. 
  
  Now it would not be game if there were not any challenges. The challenges are two fold... getting 
 the peeps to come and spend money, and of course taking that money and building new things without 
 going bankrupt. You make money from various things, not just on rides. There are many different 
 shops and stalls that you can place in your park to sell items at. You can also win awards for 
 certain achievements each month like being the safest park, ect. Bank loans are another viable 
 option if you are in a tight spot.
  
  Your peeps have certain thresholds and needs that you must be aware off and cater to. Some peeps 
 like intense rides, while others will not go near them. Generally, you will want to have a variety 
 of different intensities amongst your rides. As for needs it is simple... they need food, drink, 
 bathrooms, and of course money. You being the gracious host that you are will of course provide 
 food and drink stalls, toilets, and most definitely ATM's (Thus they can keep on spending!!!) . 
 Oh and yes, if you feel like being cruel you too can charge people to use the bathroom just like 
 some unnamed theme parks I know. You set all prices in this game. Set them too low and you will 
 soon run out of money, but set them to high and you will soon be out of customers. As with many 
 things in life it is necessary to find a happy medium.
  
  Your employees further facilitate Park management. You can hire janitors, security guards, mechanics, 
 and characters (Think Mickey Mouse) . You also play host to other specific characters like VIPs 
 and your inspector (He acts as the hint mechanism within the game since he will let you know his 
 opinions... on everything... he is a very valuable asset use him well.) You can train your employees 
 to make them more efficient. You also can control each employee's wage and area of operation. (It's 
 a good idea to keep a janitor working at the entrance since it's the first thing peeps see and 
 you don't want them doing a 180 on you right of the bat.)
  
  The last major element in the game is R&D. Research and Development is very simple in that you 
 set the amount of money you want to spend each month on it, and then set your areas of emphasis. 
 Everything else is automatic, and from time to time, you will get a message that some new item, 
 attraction, or ride is available for your building pleasure. In the beginning it's not to important 
 since you'll have a good variety of options to build starting out, but it will become important 
 later on in order for you to vary the kinds of rides in your park so don't neglect it.
  
  The sound is well... customizable to a point. If you zoom out you will hear some cheesy generic 
 music... but generally, you will be too close to hear it. Each ride can be assigned its own music 
 track/theme. In order to hear the music though you have to be very close. So for the most part, 
 you will not hear any music. What you will hear however is the many varied sound effects in the 
 game, from screams, to laughter; to vomiting.... it is all there for your listening pleasure... yes 
 your peeps will throw up if you nauseate them too much... which is actually a good thing since it 
 makes them hungry and they in turn go and buy food from your over-priced food stalls :-) . Just 
 make sure you have a janitor on hand to clean up the piles of barf that will litter the exit ramps 
 of your wildest rides.
  
  This game is very fun, and certainly is worth picking up, especially since the V2 patch fixes the 
 bugs that were holding it back before. Anyone looking for cool sim game that has a little more 
 to it than the same old pattern that other sim games have should seriously consider adding this 
 game to their collection. Oh and did I mention that the physics engine is sweet!?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aerdt
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 4, 2005 6:24 am PT
Review:  Finally a "new" Rollercoaster Tycoon! This time with a new 3D engine that, unfortunately, is sub-par 
 with todays standards. Your park visitors look extremely "blocky" and feature just a few expressions, 
 which makes watching your park in close-up not a pain to watch.
  
  Although the game is quite fun, it follow the general trend of porting older 2D games to 3D with 
 little improvements to the original gameplay. There are some nice new features like fireworks, 
 more rides, the "coaster cam" and generally more freedom, but the interface actually got even more 
 quirky and confusing and is not intuitive at all for the younger crowd who might enjoy this game 
 as well.
  
  Overall a nice overhaul with a mediocre 3D engine, a fun gameplay and some design quirks, but not 
 overly exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desertdback
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 29, 2004 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is not a great game, but it is for sure good. If you were a fan of roller coaster tycoon 
 in the past or have a fondness of roller coasters in your real life. I would definitely say that 
 this is a game that you should get. Not only can you build the roller coasters and watch the little 
 peeps running everywhere going on all your different rides, but now you can get your own first 
 person perspective on nearly all of the rides, except the indoor ones. This is a feature I have 
 been wanting ever since the first game came out long long ago, and now they finally come through 
 with it. But now gone is the old classic music that used to play as you moved across your park. 
 Now in turn you get scream peeps and music that you can barely hear unless you get really closed 
 to the ride. But all in all the game is good. I also like the way that they set up the scenarios 
 with a bronze, silver and gold levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bidybag
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 18, 2004 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite game in the series but is very hard. I cant manage to run a successful and 
 make money. The reason i like it so much tho is because of a new sandbox mode which gives you unlimted 
 money and you get all the rides and shops at the start. This is why i give it such a high rating. 
 The graphics are amazing and defintly up to date. I recommend this game to people who liked rollercoaster 
 tycoon 1 and 2 because you will love this. Or if you have played Theme Park World you will also 
 defintly like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wedge9k
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 12, 2004 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Overall a very good game that has potential to be great, if they fix some of the bugs soon. It 
 is very fun to play and fans of the series will be able to pick it up and play immediatly, however 
 some of the technical glitches that it shipped with (and in the Beta update) cause some problems 
 with the game and completing scenarios that can be quite frustrating.
  
  Actually playing the game however is really fun. The graphics are very good on everything except 
 of the Peeps (but then again having 2000 well detailed people in your park would make the gave 
 very slow) . The 3D gives added fun to building the rollercoasters and the Coaster Cam is by far 
 one of the best features in the game.
  
  I am a bit disapointed that there were some major bugs still in the game when it shipped, but they 
 are currently working on fixing those. Without the bugs I would not see a reason that anyone would 
 not want this game. Even though it does have its issues in some areas, they can be worked around 
 and I still have to recomend it to anyone who is even interested in the game.
  
  But if you are still timid, wait untill they come out with the first official patch and then get 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_nathan19
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 9, 2004 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The Roller Coaster Tycoon series has always seemed to be one of my favorites, even though I mainly 
 play sports games, or FPSs. They seem to have endless appeal because your tycoon can be so different 
 everytime you play.
  RCT3 does some things very well, and otehrs not so well. First off, the bad. The interface seems 
 hard to use (may be just because im use to using the other one) . I found it difficult to build 
 almost everything in the game. Rasing land was the worst i think, for some reason the designers 
 did something goofy with it, and it is all corky to use. The button panel for building rollercoasters 
 seems to cartoony, and not clear enough to make the building experience extremely enjoyable.
  Another downside is that the game can be very taxing on your system. But then again, that is what 
 you get when you have 600+ people with their own personalities running around your park... this 
 brings me to the upsides of the game.
  The games ability with the camera (zooming in and out, rotating) is pretty spectacular, and there 
 is nothing better than building up a massive park and zooming out to admre it :P.
  One of the biggest attractions to the game is the fact that you can hop into any ride, and get 
 a first-person view of what you are putting your guests through... VERY cool!
  Another upside, is the sandbox mode. Everybody remembers the sinking feeling in previous RCT labels... NOT 
 ENOUGH MONEY!!.... fear not my friends... Sandbox-mode offers you the option to build to all your 
 hearts content and forget about the "tycoon" part of Rollercoster Tycoon.
  All in all, I'd say that all theme-park junkies (and who isnt?) , should pick up this game and give 
 it a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 8, 2004 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Dont get wrong, RCT 3 is still the good old, fun game we all enjoy and loved for such a long time. 
 What RCT3 did do, is bring in an all new graphical interface, and completely new reworked menu 
 system, that could be the best Ive ever seen in a Tycoon game. The menus are so well laid out, 
 and you can move them anywhere on the screen. You minimized screens so that you can access it by 
 just one click. Very neat, make the game much easier, and much more fun. 
  The Graphics are very well done, maybe not revolutionary, but many times nicer then the last game. 
 One little gripe here, I wished all new games would have 1280x1024 support, for the new LCD monitors. 
 However it had 1600x1200 support. I really hate that.
  The game play is where this game really shines. There is so much to do in this game, its hard 
 to explain it all, and so I wont. You have to operate the park, setup what vendors will sale at 
 their booth and hire staff to help run the park. Theres plenty to do and its all very well done.
 
  There are a few bugs I found. The one that bother me the most is the one that keep you from using 
 the keyboard controls after a few hours of play. Everything seem to be working find, then you find 
 that the hotkeys and mouse controls not working as it should be, and a reboot is in order. One 
 other thing, new rides doesnt seem to stay popular very long; so you have to come up with new 
 ways to make money. After a few minutes, so popular rides are DOA. I think that maybe a bug, but 
 not sure.
  This is a very well done, game, and if you are into this sort of game, or a fan of the RCT series, 
 this is a must have. I give Frontier a lot of credit, when I heard that Chris Sawyer wasnt going 
 to be the designer for the game, I started to worry, but they did a awesome job with it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rollergold
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2004 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Excecp for the Bugs wich can be pached with Pach #1 this game is the best Tycoon gane of all time 
 great graphecs even on a low end Pc or note book superb sound great gameplay short to no lerarning 
 cruve this but like any other game there is a few quibelles like able to import nothing but coasters 
 from rct&rct2 i wish i could import the paths and scanery of the coasters u saved from rct2 and 
 able to import parks from rct1&2 & i wish i could make price of rides and shops more excat for 
 example make the prices of the rides and shops like these $4.31,$8.33,$4.44 ect but exulding the 
 little quiblles the game is Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JereStarsJ
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2004 1:34 am PT
Review:  This game is the best in it's genre. It is probably one of those highly addictive games that you 
 just wanted to play over and over again. This is also the best of the Rollercoaster Tycoon series. 
 It is also one of the first 3D graphics for the Rollercoaster Tycoon series. Also probably one 
 of the best part of the game is for the first time you can ride your own created rides. Also the 
 game is more realistic than it was from the other Rollercoaster Tycoon series. This game is now 
 a great bargain of $9.99. Great gift for the upcoming holidays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffsiver
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 3, 2004 6:02 am PT
Review:  The game itself is fantastic. I love being able to ride my roller coasters and see more expressions 
 from teh peeps. And the sandbox mode is great for testing roller coaster designs without having 
 to worry about money.
  
  Playing with the fireworks is fun too. If you took the time, you could set up whole scenes that 
 mimic some of the Disney presentations.
  
  My biggest issue is performance. On my P4 1.7Ghz with 1Gb RAM and a GeForce FX 5200 Ultra, the 
 display is jerky. I experience delays when creating roller coasters (click a construction button, 
 wait 20 seconds) that I don't think I should with this hardware. Especially since I'm running at 
 800x600 with the detail at the recommeneded level of medium. I hope Atari/Frontier can fix this 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artman420
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2004 1:07 am PT
Review:  Frankly I was lukewarm when I heard about the new RCT. I'd seen the first and the "all new" RCT2, 
 which wasn't (no offense Chris) . And when news of a 3rd started circulating, I was all "yawn, ho 
 hum." But when the first screenshots hit the net, then the videos, my interest was piqued. Well 
 let me tell you, after playing the demo and then a bit of the full game, IMHO we have a candidate 
 for game of the year. 
  Look at what's been accomplished with RCT3! 
  Hundreds of AI controlled characters all on the screen at the same time. What game has ever done 
 that? All of the principle game play from the original series is there but now I can take my time 
 to reach the objectives - finally a game for core gamers that can actually be played by non-gamers! 
 Who has had the ballz to take this kind of risk? And look, we've got 18 scenarios, but wait, each 
 has three levels of difficulty you can play at your option - this means the game has three times 
 the game play as the others! These days, games are offering less game playtime, not more! 
  Finally, look at all the new features us peeps have been screaming for! Sandbox, Day & Night, Peeps 
 of all ages, Ride all the Rides (not just the coasters) . And then all the stuff we didn't even 
 THINK to ask! Family groups, Fireworks, importing my music and importing RCT1 RCT2 coasters. 
 
  If you are a fan of the series, over all you will not be disappointed just so long as you keep 
 an open mind and consider that the developer changed some key features to improve the game. If 
 you are new to RCT, you may be a bit overwhelmed with the depth the game offers - but be patient 
 and check out all the options. Soon you'll be building coasters in no time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 2, 2004 11:45 pm PT
Review:  The original Rollercoaster Tycoon was an opiate for the masses: charming, addictive, entertaining, 
 and enormously popular. Its follow-up, the disappointing  Rollercoaster 
 Tycoon 2, retained all of the gameplay but enhanced very little, and its lackluster retail expansions 
 were barely worth purchasing. Now, Chris Sawyers design has gone 3D, and the result is nothing 
 short of brilliant. Rollercoaster Tycoon 3 retains all of the fun and appeal of the first title 
 while serving as a wishlist for longtime fans clamoring for more features. Frontiers title is 
 an instant classic and possibly the best Tycoon/sandbox game ever produced.
  
  Like its predecessors, RCT3 puts the player in control of a piece of real estate and provides the 
 tools with which to turn it into a theme park masterpiece. The main gameplay is the campaign mode, 
 which gives the player parks in various states of build and a variety of goals to achieve, such 
 as a particular park rating in a specific period of time. For those that complained that the originals 
 goals were too easy to meet, the new missions have several different tiers of success, so that 
 beginners can enjoy a simple, satisfying early achievement, while more advanced economic simmers 
 can push to make entrepreneur status. Sandbox mode is the other form of play, giving players 
 unlimited funds to create the park of their dreams. If youre saying to yourself its about time, 
 you arent alone: this is the first time this feature has been implemented in the series, and it 
 increases the games already practically unlimited replayability a thousand-fold. 
  
  Filling out your park with coasters, rides, buildings, decorations, and other attractions is the 
 meat of the gameplay itself, and it works much the same way as before. The building portion of 
 Rollercoaster Tycoon was never broken, and Frontier wisely chose not to fix it. Placing buildings 
 in your park is as easy as ever, and the collection of buildings  and themes - is interesting 
 and varied. In addition to your usual burger kiosks and drink stands, you have ATM machines, medical 
 stations and more, and they all play a part in the parks economic progress, as well as the happiness 
 of your guests. You also have a healthy number of thematic buildings and decorations, and the corresponding 
 foliage to match. Dont like the offerings built into the game? Thats fine  just use the built-in 
 editor to create and manage your own structures, choosing from different colors and textures to 
 suit your needs. Laying paths works as before too, although there is a greater variety of textures 
 and queues at your disposal, and the terrain tool is as simple as a sweep of the mouse. 
  
  But what fun is it without the rides and coasters? Its even more entertaining than ever: there 
 are more attractions (finally, a Zipper!) this time around, and while you can still choose from 
 a decent collection of pre-designed rides, creating your own coasters is the best part of the creation 
 element, and Frontier has done a fantastic job of making it easy without removing the wealth of 
 options at your disposal. While laying your tracks is pretty simple, making a coaster intense enough 
 to please your visitors while not alienating the meeker ones can be a challenge. The coaster constructor 
 now includes an additional option: auto-complete. If you have developed a huge portion of track 
 but arent sure how to connect the ends, auto-complete will offer a potential solution (although 
 it can sometimes take a short while if your coaster has meandered significantly) . Also handy is 
 the coaster designer, which lets you create rides outside of the game proper for importing into 
 scenarios or uploading for others to use. Thrillingly, you are no longer stuck observing the events 
 from the sidelines. Jump into any ride, and from a few different positions (nose, front seat, rear 
 seat) , experience your creation first-hand. While experiencing a few rides is a little underwhelming 
 because they lack the physical power and gravity that provide the excitement, the coasters and 
 most thrill rides are a blast to ride, and doing so never gets old. 
  
  Rides are more customizable than ever, with a variety of hues to fit your design scheme and color 
 theme. On top of the rides, you now also have ride events, such as water splashes or animatronic 
 sharks, to spice up the experience, and even more significantly, you can now create beautiful, 
 complex fireworks displays. Use the built-in music, or import your own, to give sonic cues for 
 beautiful, fascinating creations as personalized as the rides themselves. There are over a dozen 
 different types of explosions available delivered from four different mortar configurations, and 
 you can alter the colors to any hue you wish for each firework. The interface for these displays 
 is as simple as that of the rest of the game, and creating them is a game all into itself. 
  
  The economy has been significantly deepened for those into this aspect of their Tycoonery. 
 Not only can prices be set for individual items, but you can choose to have these items enhanced 
 (such as adding a lemon wedge to your soda) , and even decide how fully to implement the enhancements 
 (such as how much ice to add to your drinks.) Unlockables and researched items now includes these 
 additions, but as before, you can set research priorities to concentrate on aspects of your project 
 that interest you  or that help your current goals accordingly. Even the advertising campaigns 
 have deepened, and you can choose various media that fit your budget; television, radio, and even 
 different types of newspapers (campus papers, regional papers, national papers) can carry your 
 message to potential customers. You can also set up VIP visits to help increase your ratings, but 
 you need to be careful to give a good impression; as we all know, word of mouth spreads quickly 
 from the lips of a celeb. 
  
  Just because you build doesnt mean they come, so you still have to pay attention to your customers, 
 who now travel in groups. The individuals interact accordingly with each other, kissing, talking, 
 and in fact, their thoughts now run a broader gamut. You cant sort their thoughts as you could 
 before, which means you cant necessarily tell at a glance what it is thats keeping guest happiness 
 at current levels, but looking at a few groups should make things clear. Families make managing 
 customer happiness a little more challenging, since a park with a lot of kids means you have to 
 concentrate on their needs and shy away from the huge hypercoasters, while a teen infestation makes 
 getting those coasters up paramount. You even have to worry about the happiness of your workers, 
 who now have feelings of their very own. Let them perform any action available to them, and they 
 will love the variety of their tasks. Force them to clean up puke every day, or expect them to 
 do too much, and they will let you know. 
  
  The new, fully 3D camera is a work of art, and you can zoom in as far as need be, or all the way 
 out to see your entire park. The game will default to an easy-to-use isometric view when you arent 
 tilting the camera, making it a snap to reset your view. There is a lot of detail that you cant 
 afford to miss: watch the vendor at an ice cream stand reach to get his treats and hand them to 
 his customer, or zoom into your guests as they hold their stomachs in nauseous agony after a particularly 
 exhaustive coaster trek. The day/night cycle is very effective, and water reflects the environment 
 beautifully  even the flocks of birds that occasionally fly overhead. The rides themselves are 
 colorful, with realistic, fluid movement, and have a palpable sense of physics and dimension. Its 
 the lighting of the rides and gorgeous particle effects of the fireworks that steal the show, however, 
 and the nighttime displays are always stimulating. At higher settings, the framerate tends to dip, 
 particularly when the game is paused, but this is a minor infraction; Rollercoaster Tycoon 3 looks 
 terrific. 
  
  The sound is still as good as you will recall from the prior games, although the music has moved 
 from the roadside carnival feel to a corporate theme park feel, with more reliance on rock 
 music and ambient smooth classical melodies than the tinkling of a carillon. Your guests still 
 have a great time, and the screams of your fellow riders when you are in the coaster-cam still 
 manage to surprise us. Zooming in close to an attraction reveals a wealth of small details, whether 
 it be the creak of an opening funhouse door or the closing of the Enterprises cages. 
  
  Anyone with an interest in strategy/sim games should not hesitate to pick up Frontier's new modern 
 classic. Not only is it the best game in the series, it is quite possibly the best game in its 
 genre. Beautiful to look at, enormously entertaining, and never boring, players should prepare 
 to lose hundreds of hours to the best theme park title ever created. Its feature list reads like 
 a coaster enthusiasts dream, and economic simmers and casual players alike will thrill at the 
 easygoing depth found in all its facets. Our recommendation is simple and enthusiastic: buy Rollercoaster 
 Tycoon 3. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raging_Bull
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 31, 2004 6:36 am PT
Review:  At first glance you will notice that the game has finally made its way to a fully 3-D environment. 
 This should have been done with #2 but regardless it is done. First off it doesn't even seem like 
 a Rollercoaster Tycoon game, but once you dive in you will find familiar rides, shops, and gameplay. 
 
  
  I love the way the rides look, and the new ability to ride each and every one of them. It is quite 
 entertaining to build a rollercoaster from the ground up and then ride it yourself. There are also 
 different looks for your customers, and there are even groups of people that walk around. 
  
  If you have any interest at all in the previous games then definately pick this one up. The 
 new additions are great, the menu takes some time to get used to but once you do it is very accesible 
 and works quite well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrankyGuy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2004 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I've spent about 5 hours with the game and am so far very happy with it. Most noticeable is the 
 new graphics engine; while it isnt DOOM III its fine for this game. The picture is sharp and looks 
 almost 2D cartoon when anti-aliasing is on 4x. However, it plays very slow even on my hardware 
 and I'm running an Athlon 3.5GHz watercooled and an Nvidia 6800 Ultra. Particularly the Nightmare 
 theme park clocks in at a measly 15 fps or so. I'm guessing there are a few bugs left to be worked 
 out. Still most scenarios have been running fine so I can recommend the game if you've got some 
 serious hardware.
  
  As for game play -- It's almost identical to RC 1 & 2 with some minor differences. You can't tunnel 
 paths is the most notable. A few of the construction tools could use some work as well. There has 
 been a real improvement to the goals system and it now feels more like playing in a game than in 
 a sandbox. They've even added a sandbox, if you're into that.
  
  The game would have gotten a 9 from me but for the beta state its shipping in. Also note that if 
 you've got a firewall the game updater looks like a trojan horse and your firewall will flame you 
 for letting it download updates.
  
  The first time you hop in you mega coaster and ride it you'll forget all about these little gripes.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 29, 2004 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Great game everyone. I am not a huge fan of the tycoon games as they always fall short on the level 
 of detail I look for on simulators. But this game has not only maintained the quality of 1 and 
 2 but added more features and a HUGE upgrade to the graphics engine.
  I would recommend this game to anyone that likes to build scenery, build coasters, and micro manage 
 a business operation. 
  
  I would have given the graphics a 10 but there are still a few graphic glitches that im sure will 
 be worked out. This ones a keeper for me!
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
