-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rollcage
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/rollcage/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 28, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.4, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 165 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEE
Developer: Attention
Genre: Futuristic Racing
Date:     Mar 31, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rollcage is an extremely cool arcade racer that does just about everything right. 

 You've probably seen those radio-controlled cars you can bounce, flip, and spin because the top 
 and bottom are identical; when they land after a jump, they start trucking just as soon as they 
 get enough wheels touching the ground to create some traction. Now imagine that you could not only 
 race a vehicle like that, but that you could also use it to ram anything that gets in your way 
 - other cars, barricades, construction equipment, columns supporting massive buildings, you name 
 it - without taking damage. Add a couple of mounts for weapons and special items like missiles, 
 turbo speed, temporary wormholes, and even a tool that cuts off every competitor's engine, and 
 you've got a pretty good idea of what awaits you in Rollcage, an extremely cool arcade racer that 
 does just about everything right.  

 Rollcage developer Attention to Detail obviously didn't spend a lot of time concocting a back story 
 to explain why you and five other racers are raising all manner of hell on 20 futuristic tracks; 
 all I figured out from the cryptic manual intro is that "rollcagers" are renegades who've made 
 a conscious effort to make their sport as violent as possible after it achieved widespread popularity. 
 That could be viewed as a commentary on everything from music to art, but all I know for sure is 
 that it gives gamers the chance to do stuff they never dreamed of in an arcade racer.  

 This isn't the first racing game that puts you behind the wheel of an armed vehicle, but Rollcage 
 stands apart from the pack in several ways. Most racing games - even ones where you're shooting 
 at other drivers - put a premium on keeping your car on the track as much as possible. In Rollcage, 
 on the other hand, you can not only bounce and flip and always land wheel-side down, but you also 
 can drive along walls and even on tunnel ceilings. You might wonder just why you'd bother doing 
 that, but sometimes it's the best way to pass an opponent, as well as the only way to grab certain 
 power-ups. Then there's the whole notion of collisions. Sure, they slow you down, but hit the right 
 object - a column supporting a building, for instance - and you'll be long gone as your opponent 
 either gets buried in debris or runs smack-dab into a smoking heap of rubble.  

 Of course, you might prefer a more direct approach to slowing down your opponents, and that's where 
 the power-ups scattered around each track come into play. Homing missiles automatically target 
 the weakest part of structures, letting you bring the walls tumbling down without slowing your 
 own car down; you can also target a vehicle in front of you and flip it out of control. The time 
 warp slows down every car on the track except yours; leader missiles take out - you guessed it 
 - the lead car; the driller bores through almost everything in its path; an ice sheet makes opponents 
 lose nearly all their traction; and the wormhole lets you leapfrog past the car directly in front 
 of you. And power-ups aren't limited to offensive weapons, either. Turbo boosts your speed until 
 the scenery is just a blur, and the shield protects you from enemy weapons and decreases the chance 
 of spinouts after collisions.  

 Just like in Motorhead, the relatively humdrum car graphics in Rollcage are more than compensated 
 for by wonderfully detailed trackside scenery - assuming you've got time to admire your surroundings 
 while driving at breakneck speeds, that is. Vast cityscapes, barren volcanic wastelands, lush islands, 
 and busy industrial sites are the sorts of settings you'll be racing on, and with the exception 
 of some fairly cruddy 2D trees (common to nearly all arcade racers) , the graphics work is top-notch. 
 Even more visually impressive than the scenery are the weapons effects. Use the time warp, and 
 the entire display begins to undulate and sway in a psychedelic haze; fire the leader missile, 
 and you'll see brilliant trails of flames as it screams just above the track in search of the front-runner. 
 My fave? The wormhole - it slowly advances on the car in front of you before engulfing it and removing 
 it from your path.  

 You'll find all the usual race options here: League competition is the Rollcage equivalent of a 
 season; arcade lets you race on almost all the game's 20 tracks; and time attack lets you try to 
 top your own best lap times. A welcome feature is the inclusion of multiple difficulty levels; 
 it takes considerable practice to learn how to handle a car that can drive upside down on a ceiling, 
 but even the newest of newbies can compete on the game's easy setting.  

 Even on the easy setting, though, you'll run into one of the game's few drawbacks: You can get bashed 
 around so much that sometimes you'll just want to throw up your hands in defeat. Picture driving 
 bumper cars at 350kph, and you've got a notion of just how disorientating the smash-bang action 
 in Rollcage can be. Practice can help you avoid some of the show-stopping collisions, but even 
 the best drivers can fall victim to multiple collisions and find themselves out of the running 
 - unless they manage to lay their hands on a mighty power-up like the time warp or leader missile, 
 that is, and even those probably won't take you from last to first if you're running at the highest 
 difficulty setting.  

 Where Rollcage really disappoints, though, is in its multiplayer support. It's not that the game 
 doesn't offer multiplayer modes - the full suite of connection options are supported, including 
 TCP/IP and serial connections, and split-screen play is available for up to four players on a single 
 system. The real problem is finding opponents: Because Rollcage isn't supported on services like 
 Mplayer, HEAT, or the Internet Gaming Zone, about the only way to scare up some mano-a-mano action 
 is to pray that someone on Kali has a copy of the game. Psygnosis should seriously consider providing 
 at least a rudimentary matching service - a bulletin board for posting challenges or a chat room 
 - so its customers can get the most out of their games. No matter how good the single-player game 
 is, it's easy to envision just how much fun it would be to go up against human drivers.  

 Action hounds who like their driving spiced with some mayhem will definitely want to add this one 
 to their shopping cart, but even if you're not a fan of this sort of fare, you ought to download 
 the demo if only to see the brain-searing weapons effects and topsy-turvy action. And here's hoping 
 that Psygnosis puts a little effort into making it easier to find someone to use that wormhole 
 thingy on...    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ninjadxt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  Rollcage is arcade car racing game, similar game re-volt, wipeout, or mashed. Although is a few 
 years old, but still is one of my most favourite car racing games. It comprises few mods. The first 
 mod is time attack- here you can practise your drive, or improve your best times (coz every bonus 
 on this track is turbo) . Next mod is practise, this is race in you are learn to drive several power 
 cars, you have against you one opponent, but your main task is changing cars- and you find your 
 best. The last mod is a league, which is the most interesting mod in this game. Your main quest 
 in this game is win this league on both (easy, hard) . Here, we find the first mistake, cause this 
 league is very, very short on both difficulty and on easy is very trivial and for someone on hard 
 is very difficult to win.
  
  In options you find some bonus, which will be unblocked when you win some (or all) matches in the 
 league, for example is other direction of track (example mirror, or from left ...) , or demolition 
 mod, when two opponents in arena want to push out of the arena his opponent. The number of bonus 
 is four (+one special) .
  
  As you maybe understand, you have on choice from some cars and weapons.
  Cars: all of the car 
 have other characteristics: speed-max. speed which car can be driven without turbo (or with it) . 
 Acceleration: how long it will be until car from zero speed accelerates on maximum speed.
  Grip: how the car is gripped on track (immunity against weapons, too) . Power: indicates the power 
 of weapons, or their accuracy. Weapons: 1. turbo: for some moment you will be faster than the others. 
 2. searching racket- destroy everyone or everything on track. 2. three rackets- you shot three racket, 
 which destroy all that will be in front of them. 4. racket on first opponent-simple 5. slow motion- 
 bullet time, slow down everything many times, but you will be slower than normally, but faster 
 than the others (many times faster) . Bubble-shift away opponents who is in front of you, behind 
 you.
  
  You have choice of approximately 20 tracks on different milieu (Mars, in winter, in future town) . 
 All tracks is jin&aacute;, the funniest (the best, too) is that you can destroy almost everything 
 you see (buildings, trees, columns, stones ) . Your average speed will be about 195 mp/h and your 
 highest speed with turbo will be more than 350 mp/h . Beyond demolition can drive on st&amp;#283; n&aacute; ch, 
 or ceilings (some times its better, because there are accelerate laminae, what are strips liing 
 on tracks, ceilings or walls, and they make unexpected akceleration (one about 20-65 mp/h) , usually 
 they are more times consecutive in front of big jump, or very long straight square etc.
  
  Audiovisual elaboration is solid. Graphics is now substandart, but volume is quite good. Bad thing 
 is music, AI (on easy they are very stupid, but on difficult they are practically unstoppable. 
 Interesting is that they want win for every price, although price that they lose.
  
  The good/bad
  The good:1. high playable
  2. lots of fun 3. weapons and car characteristics
  
 4. demolitions and accelerate laminae
  5. driving on walls
  6. some others trifles
  The bad:1. only two difficulties
  2. short league
  3. on easy very low AI of your opponents. For 
 some people can be this game boring, but all of you which not, is good choice. Although have some 
 small mistakes, but it is fun. The biggest mistake is very short league. Because some people finished 
 league on both difficulties very quickly. Although this league is very short, but when you finished 
 that you unblock some new bonuses, which are good, too and you can improve and your time records 
 will be better and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobkrishnan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 14, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Innovative! Its not the first of its kind but i think that rollcage gives that amazing thirill 
 which you get while playing the carmaggedon series. First thing you note is that the cars are quite 
 different, know what? they can go topsy turvy upside down, and the cool thing is you can still 
 rive the thing perfectly without inverting controls (logically if you were upside down you will 
 have to turn left in order to turn right and vice versa) . The second thing you will notice is that 
 the circuits are futuristic and its amazing how it brings on the sensation that you are driving 
 somewhere in the future! The third thing you can notice is the amount of accessories you get while 
 driving in the game like weapons, speed-ups, shields, tele-portals, etc. Some of my favorite were 
 the tri missiles, the 1 seeking missile (this baby is cool, it races the shortest route in the circuit 
 to blow up (figuretively as you are invulnerable) the person who is in the first position, and the 
 speed-ups really help in the time attack and setting recordsin the game. My favorite track with 
 an unbeaten record of 14 (or was it 16, anyway it was an even number and many tried to beat it 
 and ended up failing!) seconds was the G-Force (its a straight track if you know when to turn and 
 when to speed up) . About the cars: this dosnt havea thrilling selection of cars, thought it was 
 fun to experiment with the acceleration, top speed, grip factors. Well i should say i never concentrated 
 in the music as i was so involved in the game! Summing up this is a great multiplayer to play with 
 you friends, brothres and sisters out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viveckvivu
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 9, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  Rollcage is a futuristic racing game that has cars which can be driven on both the sides Yes, these 
 cars are really amazing! Rollcage is a fast paced racing game of many tracks. This game also has 
 many power ups. You can get a power up as a shield, some massive and incredible weapons and some 
 futuristic weapons too. 
  Rollcage is so fast that it is impossible to drive strait. That is the bad part. The car gets out 
 of control and we zoom on the mountains and tunnels like crazy. We can also loose control and get 
 in the last position. 
  Above all, the graphics are good. The game idea is great and it; s a lovely game. So play the game 
 and ride your way through Rollcage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergantCross
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  The good: Yuri was useful when completing the last difficulty. Astonishing graphics (More better 
 than the PS) Cool controls than the Playstation.
  
  The bad: Don't just forget that the controls are hard to hold incase they disable it with a beep, 
 Expert level is kinda almost impossible to finish.
  
  Gameplay: I find it was everything put in shape but playing wireless network can be more fun to 
 enjoy chaos on tracks and battle fields.
  
  Graphics: More colourful and more texture has been added and it was kind the best game on PC.
 
  
  Sound: Highly immersive and musics can addict people much about deafeating yuri and facing her.
 
  
  Value: SOme controls cannot be easily handled by your key board but don't you use a joystick because 
 you can be useless at this game.
  
  Tilt: Perfect to play, and i say it's one of my best classic games in 1990's but i seem to enjoy 
 playing this game with worms armegeddon and Abes exeddous 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynn21
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 7, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Rollcage is one of the best race car games of the century. Highly addictive.... rollcage will leave 
 u strapped to your seat as you race around the track. 
  The neat thing about this game is that if u accidentally flip over and are about to crash.... u 
 can't. ^_- The car will simply turn over on the same wheels. 
  The scenery is amazing. You fell like your actually racing. 
  What's nice about Rollcage is that 
 you can either simply cruise around the track or race right to the finish line.
  This game is a instant classic, so either race to the finish or crash into a wall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainsticky
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 26, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This was a good game overall but I found the steering quite distressing. It would reverse when 
 I wanted it to go forward. The campaign and tracks were good but I wish they would say what the 
 weapons did, a better choice of weapons and more weapons on one track. And Why does everything 
 explode? The graphics are excellent the are brilliant especially considering you can change the 
 view. All in all I would say this is a good game and a good value for money. I wish they would 
 make a sequel. It would probably be twice as good as this one. This is a good game and if you're 
 pondering of buying it then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abhilash_123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  Psygnosis takes RC racing far beyond the imagination with this indestructible new battle racer. Though 
 its little hard on starting (controling cars) but cool on playing on&on.
  
  On brief RollCage is a marvelous game for multiplayers (SplitScreen) !
  
  All About This Game:-
 
  
  Game Modes:
  Players take on the role of one of a handful of slightly mad car pilots. The cars they drive aren't 
 your dad's Oldsmobile, by any means. In fact, they're more along the Mad Max line of thinking. 
 But even better. The cars are more like turbo-infused indestructible tanks designed to withstand 
 any damage done to them and drive against the forces of gravity. Players choose from a handful 
 of racing events. Championship mode tallies an aggregate of points over a series of races, and 
 enables racers to open up new circuits. Players can also go against a timer, and then vie against 
 their ghost cars afterward. And head-to-head play enables up to two players to play split-screen. 
 This is where the real excitement takes place.
  
  Gameplay:
  Folding battle action and racing into one seems easy enough, right? Well, as the great Jeff Chen 
 once said, "yes and no." Apparently ATD liked the over-the-top lighting effects and killer weapons 
 from games like Bloody Roar and N64's Turok, so it wove them into Rollcage. Gamers can pick from 
 a dozen or so cars (fewer at first) , each with distinct characteristics (handling, acceleration, 
 grip, top speed, etc) and a polygonal racer (all purportedly of devious background) , and then head 
 out into the race. You'll vie against as many as seven other cars who are bent on your destruction 
 and who have equal access to a slew of weapons.
  
  Almost immediately glazed blue swirls (i. e. power-ups) appear in the road to assist in taking the 
 lead. The power-ups range from super boost to a homing missile that targets the lead racer to slowdown 
 to a rain of bullets, time warps, missiles, and electrical bolts, among a parade of others. Like 
 Mario Kart, these aid in your cause, but can also be used against you. Knowing how to handle powerups, 
 discarding them or saving them until the last few seconds, or using them in the wrong turn, can 
 make or break you. It's a skill that's easy enough to learn yet takes time to master.
  
  The other key element to mastering Rollcage is learning the courses. In any racer, it's important 
 to scope out the circuits, but it's especially crucial in Rollcage. Because the cars can drive 
 upside down, sideways, or whichever way, the courses are designed to take advantage of this killer 
 attribute in devious ways. Powerups are located on the tunnel walls, ceilings and in secondary 
 pathways. Sometimes split paths don't always end up in the same places, such as one latter course 
 that forces the racer to hit a jump perfectly or hit a dead-end, and essentially end his or her 
 race.
  
  One last aspect of the game that really separates it from the rest is the cars' indestructibility. 
 Lined along the courses are skyscrapers, factories, houses and other annoying obstacles - and each 
 of them is fallible. The cars may hit a jump, soar through the air, and coming crashing down onto 
 a 20-story building, and it won't even scratch your car. But the building will tumble to the earth 
 and may even cause other cars to slow down, too.
  
  Graphics:
  Even with as many as seven racers on screen at one time, buildings collapsing, and lighting effects 
 charging the air, Rollcage has to be one of the best programmed games around. It's solidly built, 
 with no clipping, no seams in the roads, and almost nil slowdown. The cars in Rollcage move remarkable 
 fast, due in part to their compact design but also due to ATD's determination to keep a consistently 
 high frame rate. This racer burns down the road. The courses also reflect a wide variety of off-earth 
 courses. Drivers race across lava-torn planets, icy-cold snow courses, and a mix of earthen and 
 strange, alien weirdness. The particle engine renders up realtime smoke, extremely realistic sparks 
 (also seen all over the menu design) , and effective fiery explosions.
  
  Compact as they are, the vehicles look like a military fanatic's dream vehicle. The cars are made 
 of huge rims and wheels that are taller than the cars themselves. Essentially, these vehicles appear 
 like sleekly modified tanks, tailored to achieve extreme speed and maneuverability.
  
  Sound:
  The music is of the high-octane sort, fast-paced and laden with twitch. Two songs from 
 Fatboy Slim's "You've come a long way baby" album, Love Island and Soul Surfin' are in the game. 
 Other artists include EZ Rollers, Aphrodite, Hoax, Ed Rush and Nico, Pressure Rise, Ashley Beedle 
 Presents, Pascal, Freestyles, Les Rosbifs, Ratman and Dan Mass. The sound effects are also especially 
 of good quality, ranging from the screech of your craft to the missiles pegging the opponent.
 
  
  Overall, the worst thing about Rollcage is that it's only two player, which is hardly a complaint 
 given that most PlayStation games are one- to two-player. But wouldn't it be great if... Oh well... Not 
 to be forgotten, the single-player mode is fantastic, but it's the two-player mode that'll have 
 you jumping around like a nerd on coke and pop-rocks. It's an instant immersion into adrenal levels 
 of ferocious competition. If you haven't already figured it out, Rollcage is a highly intoxicating 
 battle racer that anybody in his or her right mind should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyp7711
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  Well, I got this game when signing up to a new ISP, so that's why my short description read:
  
  "One of those games you get free when you sign up to a new internet service provider.."
  
 
  The game in itself lacks replayability. There's no chance that you're going to enjoy playing this 
 game for long because for one, there's around 10 tracks, and 3 leagues. Once you've done this, 
 and played all the tracks, you've pretty much "beat the game". But this isn't particularly what 
 gamers are looking for. My opinion would be that gamers want a game that's going to take some time 
 to complete. Not a game where you've got one or two tiny levels that you just know you're going 
 to complete in what, a day? No, gamer's want a game that's going to take ages to do, that's going 
 to have certain interesting twists, and a game that's eventful and one that's got something around 
 every corner that you're not going to expect. Any game that has obvious storylines or no storyline 
 at all will always be boring.
  
  The graphics I must say are pretty good, but it seems that the designers of this game didn't focus 
 enough on the game itself, but aimed all their development into the graphic side of the game compilation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razashan
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Rollcage is not just Best Driving Game but i say that its Best in all of the game. Psygnosis should 
 launch Rollcage II. This Game will work.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Thats Just not me all say that Rollcage is Best Game :) 
  
  I Bought a CD of Rollcage but now i can't find the 
 
  
  I again say: '
  
  Rollcage is not just Best Driving Game but i say that its Best in all of the game. Psygnosis should 
 launch Rollcage II. This Game will work.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Thats Just not me all say that Rollcage is Best Game :) 
  
  I Bought a CD of Rollcage but now i can't find the 
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
