-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rome: Total War Barbarian Invasion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/rometotalwarexpansion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tons of new content and features.
 Vastly improved artificial intelligence.
 Religion is now a factor.
 A much more complete Rome: Total War experience.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The gameplay can be very challenging.
 Still a fair amount of micromanagement.
 Naval battles still feel abstract.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 10, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.3, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 2,868 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Creative Assembly
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Sep 27, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Barbarian Invasion adds a lot of new features and improvements to Rome: Total War, and the result 
 is a much more challenging and satisfying strategy game. 

  If you managed to create a mighty ancient empire in Rome: Total War and you're looking for the 
 next big challenge, then Rome: Total War Barbarian Invasion should fit the bill. The expansion 
 to last year's hit strategy game, Barbarian Invasion ups the challenge considerably from the original 
 game. And you'll discover that the decline and fall of Rome is much tougher than its rise ever 
 was.  

          It's supposed to be the decline and fall of Rome, but rewrite history your own way.    

  Barbarian Invasion introduces a ton of new content to the core game, as well as countless improvements. 
 The expansion begins several hundred years after the campaign in Rome: Total War. The Roman Empire 
 has become so large and unwieldy that it has split apart into eastern and western halves. Meanwhile, 
 barbarian tribes and migrations of powerful newcomers introduce challengers to Rome's supremacy. 
 You can play as either Roman faction, and you also can play as the barbarians themselves. The good 
 news here is that you don't have to "unlock" them first by winning as a Roman faction, like you 
 had to in the first game; these barbarians are playable from the get-go.  

  Pretty much any faction you choose will immediately highlight the main difference between Barbarian 
 and the original game, though. Barbarian Invasion is a much more challenging game, partly because 
 every faction starts out at some kind of disadvantage, and partly due to the improvements in the 
 artificial intelligence. For example, if you select any of the barbarian tribes, such as the Saxons 
 or the Franks, you'll quickly discover that you start with a very small amount of territory, and 
 you're surrounded by lots of potentially hostile neighbors. Meanwhile, things aren't much easier 
 for the two Roman factions, as Western Rome has a huge, vulnerable empire that's in decline, which 
 makes it hard to defend. Eastern Rome, on the other hand, starts off on a much stronger position, 
 but it'll need every resource at its disposal to fend off challenges from mighty rivals, such as 
 the Sassanids and the dreaded Huns.  

  In order to carve out an empire in Barbarian Invasion, you're going to need to balance diplomacy 
 and war to a greater extent than you did in the first game. That's because strategic-level artificial 
 intelligence has improved considerably from the first game. Neighbors won't hesitate to stab you 
 in the back if they see an opening, even if you're supposedly "friends." And when war happens, 
 the AI no longer sends armies at you piecemeal. Instead, it amasses huge armies and sends them 
 at you like some gigantic horde. Even on the "easy" difficulty level, the AI is relentless. For 
 example, it will keep the pressure on a besieged city constantly, forcing you to send a relief 
 force to lift the siege.  

          Battles are still full of carnage as thousands of men fight it out.     

  You can also 
 win and lose cities through revolts. If a populace is unhappy, it may decide it's time to switch 
 sides or simply rebel. Though you can manage the populace by constructing various buildings or 
 lowering the tax rate, one of the new features in Barbarian Invasion deals with managing religion, 
 which was an element that was somewhat missing in the first game. By the era of Barbarian Invasion, 
 Christianity, Zoroastrianism, and paganism all vie for followers. Religion is now a tool by which 
 you can keep your people happy by constructing shrines to their faith. It can also cause problems 
 for your side, as well. For example, if you capture a city with a different religion, you may cause 
 unrest, especially if the official state religion and the religion of the people are different. 

  There are many welcome improvements in the strategic portion of Barbarian Invasion, particularly 
 with the AI, which was always a bit too scatterbrained in the original game. That said, the naval 
 combat in the expansion still feels a bit random; you can wage battle after battle and hardly ever 
 see ships sink. Also, one perennial complaint still remains: When you queue up production for a 
 city, the game immediately charges you for every building you add to the queue, even though actual 
 production of many of those buildings won't begin for many turns. In other words, you're charged 
 when you order the building, not when production of the building actually begins. This raises the 
 micromanagement level a fair amount, since you might need to revisit cities constantly to add new 
 production orders.  

  The real-time combat portion of Barbarian Invasion picks up nicely from the original, and, once 
 again, you can lead huge armies in glorious 3D battle. There are some new formations and battlefield 
 abilities at your disposal, such as the ability to have light infantry swim across a river. The 
 biggest new battlefield feature, though, are night battles, and these are nice from both an aesthetic 
 and strategic aspect. Night battles look spectacular, and you see the flickering torchlight illuminate 
 your formations in the dark. You can also use night battles to divide up a superior force, as armies 
 with generals who lack the night-attack ability can't reinforce one another at night like they 
 normally do during the day.  

          The barbarians don't mess around. When they come at you, they really come at you.     

 
  Barbarian Invasion only ships with two historical battles, but the value of this expansion is 
 in the overall improvements it makes to the core game, as well as the sheer challenge of the new 
 single-player campaign. In many ways, Barbarian Invasion feels like a graduate course in Rome: 
 Total War, and it'll appeal mainly to Rome fans looking for a fresh new challenge. Meanwhile, newcomers 
 to Rome should familiarize themselves with the original game first, before tackling the barbarian 
 horde.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (103 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2009 12:00 am PT
Review:  I took it upon myself to take on the barbarian hordes as the Western Empire and man oh man what 
 a rollercoaster ride. I cannot offer any other advice than to read some walk throughs/game guides 
 before you take the mantle of any of the various factions, especially the WRE cuz those bad boys 
 have the whole world PO'd and gunning for them. I suggest to at least mod your game with one of 
 the many mods out there. I use "DarthMods 8.1" for this, I want to play "Invasio Barbarvm" but 
 it won't launch..... These mods take the vanilla game to new heights.
  
  Needless to say you can play as I did as the Western Romans and from 363 A. D to the end of the 
 game 476 A. D you are just battling to keep the empire from crashing down like it actually did. 
 I was totally convinced playing as the WRE was supreme folly. I read advice from this site and 
 others for strategy & tips and they worked, cuz the KEY to winning is stabilizing your economy 
 in the first few rounds and slowly getting your field armies (Comitatenses troops) trained and 
 assembled and where they are needed ASAP. The Huns are the biggest threat I thought and when they 
 arrived in my empire there were like 8 or 9 "stacks" of them and the ONLY two strategies that will 
 save you in battle with the hordes is either 1. forming a full army of yours into a cavalry square 
 with archers in the center or 2. picking and defending a bridge and let the bastards come to you! 
 I guarantee these both to work, I had nothing but victory after victory after suffering one major 
 loss to the Franks (which horded after I took their only city-bad move) . I used the square against 
 everyone except the Huns, they have way too many horse archers and they would just wear down my 
 infantry with their arrows. I defeated them in earnest guarding a bridge by a city named Equincum 
 and they were finally neutralized, if not killed.
  
  My other major tip to offer is DO NOT MESS WITH CONVERTING YOUR EMPIRE TO ONE RELIGION!!! Period. 
 I did that around the year 428 A. D with about 8 of my provinces in Gaul and the next turn ALL of 
 those MF's threw off the Roman yoke! Then it was like dominoes falling! The economic & political 
 crash that usually happens in the beginning, happened way later instead but by my own doing. All 
 those weak governors and disloyal generals switched on me and joined the Western Roman Rebel faction, 
 I was beyond angry, I was catatonic! lol Here I had beaten the short objectives, won the game but 
 kept playing and I was doing just great. Granted my Empire was fine for the WRE of 476 but paled 
 to what they really did in 100 A. D at their peak. Even though I had beaten them like 99% of the 
 times, The Eastern Empire is a hard nut to crack and their navy is too strong. I was stalled as 
 far east as Alexandria with none of Asia Minor, Persia, middle east or any of the Sarmatian lands 
 to the northeast taken at all. Of course, all the cities just don't produce $$ like they used to 
 and the raising of huge armies costs alot and takes time. Plus you have the northern borders to 
 constantly defend from the Burgundii, Lombardi and Saxons (My erstwhile allies, The Burgundii gets 
 props from me I never got attacked by them and they acted as a fine buffer state between Rome and 
 the Lombardi) . I was happy that after a few turns more I had either re-conquered some of those 
 rebellious cities with some nearby armies. A pleasant surprise was when three of those 8 came back 
 and did a "loyalist revolt" which was sweet they came back to the empire.
  
  At this writing the Empire is steady but not really expanding to my liking not like in RTW where 
 you just go all the way to Parthia and northwards too. This game is all about, keeping those armies 
 intact, getting your cash cow cities to produce more and getting those hordes to face you at the 
 nearest bridge! 
  
  Have fun with this one! I know I did, a few heart attacks are standard though it seems!
  
  
 "Rome's Finest!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AntoniustheGrey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 11:09 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War Barbarian Invasion is the expansion to the classic game Rome Total War.
  
  When I first bought this game, I was really unsure of what to expect. Previous Total War Expansions 
 were satisfying, but did not introduce anything to new to the game. Rome Total War Barbarian Invasion 
 on the other hand, is a solid title, and introduces new gameplay elements that got me hooked from 
 the start.
  
  The new campaign map takes form of the Roman World just like Rome Total War, expect this time, 
 the Romans are divided between the Western Roman Empire and Eastern Roman Empire, each commanding 
 huge amounts of gameplay.
  
  Now what is stunning about this game is just the pure diversity you will see in each faction, both 
 in the campaign map and in the battles. If you start as one faction, then beat it, then play as 
 another, I would honestly say you are in for a completely new experience.
  
  The Roman Empire factions are extremely fun to play as. You are already really powerful, but you 
 have to keep your power in check. Many of your provinces are threatend by unrest and revolt, so 
 you have to find a way to keep that under control. It adds a nice mix to the game. 
  
  There are also the Barbarian Factions, weak in number and in the amount of land they own, they 
 must stay hidden and make quick, decisive attacks when the oppurtunity arrises. They do have their 
 own advantages, such as, not having to worry about revolts or finances from the onstart, but you 
 will find military build up to be the main issue.
  
  Then Barbarian Invasion introduces something completely new, the Horde Factions. These factions 
 do not have set homelands from the start. They own no territory and instead travel in huge armies 
 numbering thousands. The goal of them is to either sack towns with quick attacks or find a new 
 homeland. Being a Horde factions requires a lot of strategy -- because you don't want to settle to 
 early; if you do, you lose your horde units. The only way to get them back is by becoming a horde 
 again, abandoning the town, and finding a new landscape. 
  
  This feature in the game is really entertaining. Because of these Horde factions, you will find 
 battles numbering the thousands very easily. These battles are amazingly fun. At first, it may 
 seem like too much to manage, but you will quickly find yourself enjoying these large battles.
 
  
  Something neat about this game is its story driven content. Certain events happen in the game that 
 really affect the gameplay. It keeps the game from going dry and is really fun!
  
  The only problem I have with the game is the religion feature that it introduced. Religion is a 
 major factor in whether or not the people in a town like your faction. You are either pagan, christian, 
 or orthodox. And then you build churches in regions to try and influence the people to convent, 
 this leads to a fixed percent rate of conversion which can really feel like you have no control 
 over. This problem is already being fixed, especially in the release of Empire Total War, but it 
 is nothing more than a slight annoyance in this game. Really, it isn't that big of a deal, but 
 it does stop me from giving the game a perfect 10.
  
  In the year 2009 there will be many, many great games. But if you haven't played this game, take 
 a step back and enjoy it. It is truely a wonderful game, and I think that it's awesomeness has 
 been significantly overlooked.
  
  9.5/10 easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bear-XX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  Just play this game back recently.... suddenly i felt like writing a review :) Well, there r improvements 
 from d previous installment...
  
  New units, faction.. new game options like u can sacked a settlement rather than settling there 
 or massacring those poor citizen.. lol....
  there r difficulty setting for each faction... the easy r easy... but the hard one r really hard.. i 
 try to fight hordes of mongols, but my main army got beaten to a pulp... well that's a really challenging 
 part... and the other one would the the loyalty of the generals.... they can betray you anytime but 
 that is based on their loyalty meter :P
  
  When u lost all of your settlement, instead of game over, you will get your own hordes. Now you 
 can feel how it is like to go around the map and plundering all any settlement you came across 
 :) )
  You will also receive special units (although i'm not so sure what so special about them.. lmao..) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Hoplite85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  Great expansion.
  the huge battles look as great as ever and the campaign will be very very hard to beat ( especially 
 as Rome)
  
  The AI has improved very well in combat as well as in the campaign map and diplomacy is more reasonable.
 
  
  there is a wide variation of troops and your strategy has to be completely re modeled than your 
 strategy in Rome Total War.
  
  new features such as Shield Wall and Horde give more exitement to the barbarian tribes and strikes 
 fear of you decide to be any of the Roman Factions, and you have to look out for the invaders from 
 the east
  
  the hardest faction to play as in my opinion is the western Roman empire since the have many of 
 the germanic tribes along their borders and tribes from Britain to start bombarding your settlements 
 over there.
  and the Western Roman Empire has probably the longest Border line and not enough troops to defend 
 against the countless enemy troops looking to loot all of their cities
  
  i really recommend getting this if you love Rome Total War 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: In Rome Total War: Barbarian Invasion makes a hell of a good title for the expansion 
 that covers the fall of the Roman Empire. Unlike previous Total War expansions, the invasion here 
 isn't speculative (as in the case of the Mongols) or exaggerated (as in the case of the Vikings) . 
 In this case, the Barbarians managed to demolish the political reality of a Roman Empire, at least 
 in the West. There are now many germanic tribes you can choose to play from such as the Franks, 
 Goths and Saxons. Also the Roman Empire is torn in two so now you are able to play either the western 
 or eastern roman empires. The eastern empire seems to have a slight upper hand at the start of 
 the game if you are playing that fraction since thats where histroically where most of the wealth 
 was at the time, while the western half was plegued with germanic raids/invations. There are new 
 barbarian tribes offer plenty of new units. The Celts can make use of morale-boosting druids or 
 the nearly unbeatable, purple-skinned Hounds of Culann. The Romano-British tribes can field mighty 
 Graal Knights or their own version of the Roman Legionnaire. There is also the usuall multiplayer 
 mode which you can play against some people for extra enterainment, along with random skirmishes 
 and also quick historic battles you can play. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics have not much been improved since the first game, though graphics still 
 look very detailed and colorful. Even though there are thousands of troops on the battlefield graphics 
 manage to run relativly smoothly. I also like the effects of calvery running in to infantry and 
 the infantry being trampled and go flying though the air.
  
  Sound: Of course the sountrack is awsome. It suits the games time period well and voice over again 
 are well done in this game. Other then that everything sounds the way it should sound in the game.
 
  
  Value: All in all Rome Total War: Barbarian Invation is a great expantion to the original which 
 again will provide you with hours of solid entertainment. I would highly recomend this expantion 
 to anyone who has the orginal game. This is one of the best RTS game ever to come out and I don't 
 see why no one should not play it... even in the internet cafes. I give Barbarian Invation 8.5 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazyGamer_24
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 13, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  In Barbarian Invasion it's the decline of Rome, barbarians invade and conquer some areas. The Roman 
 Empire is now divided into the western and eastern halves. You can play as the Romans or either 
 any of the barbarians because they're already unlocked from the start. The game has all new factions 
 like the Huns, Franks, or Goths and the AI has improved greatly having much bigger armies assaulting.
 
  
  The new features in the expansion pack are small, but good. You can now fight night battles with 
 soldiers having torches in their hands lighting up the night sky. If you are a barbarian tribe 
 you can become a horde where you're on the move looking for a new home to settle in. The civilians 
 that moved out are horde soldiers and if most of them die you new city might not replenish its 
 normal population. Last, but not least, religion is a major concept in the game.
  
  The bad is that you still can't fight naval battles and the results are still confusing. The game 
 doesn't really include much historical battles, just 2 only.
  
  It's a solid expansion pack and a great collection to your RTS games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnOBX
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This review speaks to both Rome and Barbarian Invasion. There are some differences, but the gameplay 
 is essentially the same.
  
  I'm a long time fan of strategy war games going all the way back to the first Strategic Conquest 
 game by Delta Tao. I love every flavor of Civilization, from Sid Meier's to Stardock, and games 
 like Stronghold. So, I was looking forward to playing Rome because I thought it had elements of 
 all of those classics. And it does. You have to build and maintain cities, raise armies and duke 
 it out on the battlefield. 
  
  But it just didn't grab me. Not in the way those other games did. For one thing, I never could 
 figure out what made one city a happy cash cow and another city a money pit full of pissed off 
 plebes. It seemed to have more to do with population than with infrastructure or tax rates (certain 
 buildings give moral bonuses; higher tax rates make people unhappy) . It just seemed kind of random. 
 The only way to conquer a city and not have a riot on your hands for ten terms seemed to be to 
 enslave the population or exterminate them. Me, I don't even like to step on a Sim Ant when I can 
 avoid it. 
  
  I played Rome: Total War through one time as the Romans and Barbarian Invasion through three times; 
 once as the Saxons, once as the Romans and once as the Horde... actually I never finished the Horde 
 game. I was just over it by that point. 
  
  So, as with most games, it's going depend on what the player enjoys and the sort of game they like 
 to play as to whether or not Rome is for you. By this point, the game is old enough where you can 
 find it fairly cheap on E-bay or Amazon, so it's worth checking out. I think part of my problem 
 was reading all these rave reviews, I had big expectations that weren't quite satisfied. Hope you 
 get more out of it.
  
  
  
  The battles are fun at first, but eventually I let the computer take care of the majority of them. 
 You tend to lose a lot more soldiers that way, but even a medium scale battle can last a half hour 
 or more. The same strategy worked almost every time. Keep a solid center of soldiers, flank the 
 enemy with some calvary, use your skirmishers to soften them up, then sandwich them. I'd say 90% 
 of the fights went down that way, the main exception being seiges where you could try to take the 
 walls in a couple of different ways.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beesu
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War Barbarian Invasion (R: TW BI) is one of my favorite expanison to any Rome Total War 
 game. Althought it doesn't give any new Campaign maps like in Medieval total war Viking Invasion 
 (M: TW VI) where you got the new Campaign map and factions. But besides no new map R: TW BI has all 
 new factions and all new units. I dont think there is one old unit you can create in the game
 
  
  Campaign map:
  The campaign map on R: TW BI is just like the one in R: TW except for new settlement placements and 
 New Factions. It is still in the briliant 3D and still looks amazing.
  
  Battle:
  The Battles in R: TW BI are more fun in my mind with the new units and special formations. out with 
 the old testudo and in with the Barbarian Shield wall. The 3D men still look amazing and makes 
 this one of my Favorite PC games (hey i still like R: TW) . Although this Expansion is alot harder 
 especially if you play as one of the crumbling Roman Empires.
  
  Hordes:
  To to Barbarian Invason is the Ablilitiy for some Factions to go into a horde after there last 
 settlemenet is taken. it makes the game alot more interesting as you see hordes arrive into your 
 empire. this can make for some tricky situations as to when you should stop hording and when you 
 should start.
  
  Night Battles:
  The new ability to night battle also makes R: TW BI one of the coolest games for me I like to see 
 my archers light up the night sky with there flaming arrows and sending my hidden troops from the 
 forest onto the unforunate victoms.
  
  Sound:
  The Music in R: TW BI doesn't really sound much different then that of the old R: TW in my mind. 
 But it is still amazing and worth listening to just for fun.
  
  
  My Score
  Graphics 9/10
  Gameplay 8/10
  Sound 7/10
  
  Overall: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nestly16
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This was a great game... Really exciting.. I describe it as Awesome... Extraordinary.. Greatness... 
 Total strategy game.. You can be an Emperor if you play this game.... You ROCK.
  This was a great game... Really exciting.. I describe it as Awesome... Extraordinary.. Greatness... 
 Total strategy game.. You can be an Emperor if you play this game.... You ROCK.
  This was a great game... Really exciting.. I describe it as Awesome... Extraordinary.. Greatness... 
 Total strategy game.. You can be an Emperor if you play this game.... You ROCK.
  This was a great game... Really exciting.. I describe it as Awesome... Extraordinary.. Greatness... 
 Total strategy game.. You can be an Emperor if you play this game.... You ROCK.
  This was a great game... Really exciting.. I describe it as Awesome... Extraordinary.. Greatness... 
 Total strategy game.. You can be an Emperor if you play this game.... You ROCK.
  This was a great game... Really exciting.. I describe it as Awesome... Extraordinary.. Greatness... 
 Total strategy game.. You can be an Emperor if you play this game.... You ROCK.
  This was a great game... Really exciting.. I describe it as Awesome... Extraordinary.. Greatness... 
 Total strategy game.. You can be an Emperor if you play this game.... You ROCK.
  This was a great game... Really exciting.. I describe it as Awesome... Extraordinary.. Greatness... 
 Total strategy game.. You can be an Emperor if you play this game.... You ROCK. This was a great 
 game... Really exciting.. I describe it as Awesome... Extraordinary.. Greatness... Total strategy 
 game.. You can be an Emperor if you play this game.... You ROCK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This expansion is very awesome. It adds many new factions and many new cities. The game also adds 
 new features. One feature that the creative assembly added to the game was a horde army option. 
 This allows certain factions who have been killed from all their cities to put all their people 
 to action and makes a new huge army. If you are a horde faction you have a lot of fun because you 
 have a huge army and can kill everyone easily. However, one thing that pisses me off about the 
 horde faction feature is that they are unbeatable. When playing a faction like the Roman Empires 
 these hordes piss you off and make you feel like you wanna play the orginal because this new horde 
 feature is very hard to hold off. The game now lets you build generals on the battlefield which 
 is very useful because now you can arm you cities up with generals and train allot of mercanieries. 
 The game also has 2 new historical battles which are very fun but not a lot. But, you can download 
 free new historical battles from the various mod sites. 
  
  I'd say this expansion is perfect except for the horde option [when used agianst you] becuase its 
 so dang hard to beat. But, with all the cheats out you can elimanate the enime hordes a lot easier. 
 Not perfect, but very close to perfect. I suggest that anyone who loves the Total War franchize 
 better by this game because it's a must buy for anyone getting bored of the original game.
  
  -Helloiseeu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Bezerker
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Rome was amazing (im still playing it) . Although Barbarian invasion rocks, it still cant live up 
 to Romes expectations. But i love it, Why? heres why...
  
  *light units can swim across rivers (solving the problem where people could stand at the end of 
 the bridge and win easily)
  
  *Spearmen can do schilstrom (best formation in living history)
  
  *Some good units can do shield 
 wall (the one used at hastings 600 years later)
  
  *Eastern roman empire has good units, WESTERN HAS AMAZING UNITS (unfortunatly in the campeign western 
 is extremely hard to play as)
  
  *Some nomads start off as a few HUGE armies in the campeign, and you can make them settle where 
 you like (its really fun)
  
  *lots of wicked new factions...
  
  Thats why! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saranaeth
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 20, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game ages ago and when i first played it i hated it. Not becuase it was a bad game 
 but becuase i was still in love with rome total war if you know what i mean. i left it for ages 
 and went back to playing rome. I eventually got fed up slaughtering gauls and greeks and tried 
 this game again one saturday afternoon. I played as one of the barabrian factions for an hour and 
 got hooked. It is now the main game im playing just now (while waiting for some DECENT 360 games 
 to come out) My favourite part is probably the night battles. Go to options, the click advanced, 
 crank the unit size up to huge (u need a good pc for this) then go to custom battle. Verse the 
 PC and give them a small village or a fort to defend with lots of peasants, have ur army filled 
 with elite (so they have decent range) heavy onagers and the best archers in the army, make sure 
 the time is set and night start the battle and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danevader
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 15, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok everybody I love the gameplay in this because it is exactly the same as most Total War games. 
 Just for the ones that don't know this mean mak an army, get as much money as possible, and try 
 to complete your campaign at the same time. The graphics in this aren't as good as the new Toat 
 War games but they still are pretty cool and can still blow your mind away. Also I like the fact 
 that in this games you have nomad tribes that come and try to kill you which I think is pretty 
 neat another elemnt I like in this game is that if you kill of all the Romans in England a new 
 faction is formed which comes and will try to kick you out of England. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabose420
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Rome, maybe believe to be the greatest empire ever built, an army thats purely profesional, generals 
 to command them, and engineres and slaves to build great buildings, and pockets as deep as the 
 sea. But now, the great empire is falling. Barbarians are attacking from all sides, Rome is split 
 into 2. Barbarians are moving in, pilliging every town and growing their #s. Rome is doomed, that 
 is unless you have something to say about it.
  
  Main Campaign
  
  The gameplay is almost exactly the same as in the original, with only a few new extras. There are 
 2 Roman factions, one controling the eastern contries around the Mediteranian, and one controlling 
 the west. like in the first, they play the same, but start at different areas. both sides, though 
 have a head start territories wise compared to everyone else, their armies arent doing so well. 
 Barbarians are already on the move with armies into your territoris, and you have to move fast 
 to keep them at bay. also, there is an added happiness feature in the cities. Religion is spreading 
 fast in Europe, many are following the ideas of a man thats changed the world, Jesus Christ. others 
 hold on to the old Roman Gods, and a few follow Older gods. depending on the official Religion 
 you state in your empire, cities will either be happy or very upset, depending if they agree with 
 you.
  
  New territories will probably be following Pegan gods, and your territories are mostly Christian. 
 they will be slightly mad at first and you'll just have to deal, or you can try to convert them. 
 destroying a temple that most people follow in that city will obviously cause problems, but after 
 a while they will be converted, either through new temples/churches or characters garrasoned there.
 
  
  On the battle field there are some new features as well. your infantry units can now swim across 
 streams where a bidge is usually needed. Also night battles are possible, and i think some units 
 fair better then, like some fair better in the woods, or dunes.
  
  But besides playing as the Romans, you can play as the barbarians trying to take them out. You 
 start with either a couple territories, or have none at all, but do have a couple very big armies. 
 Barbarians can do something after theyve taken a town the Romans cant, pillage the town, take all 
 the money from it, and recruit many more men from it and basicly leave the city a ghost town. this 
 means for people playing the Romans, it'll be harder to kill a factions, since all they need is 
 a army now to survive. Though, to do this they cant have a city controlled anywhere. doing this 
 is good if you want to just get to a specific place, or kill off an enemy quickly, such as the 
 Romans. For example, i was playing as the romans and a couple turns in, a town was surrounded by 
 armies, litterally surrouned by 5 FULL ARMIES!! i tried holding them off, since most where weak 
 troops with poor moral, but there where waaaaay too many. they overan the town quickly and pillaged 
 it, making it hardly woth going out of my way to take it back, and after that i could see just 
 how the Romans fell to these barbarian tribes
  
  GRAPHICS/SOUND
  
  the graphics are the same, with a little more detail. night battles are fun to play as a few of 
 your men hold torches and its cool to back up and see your army all lit up. the sound is as good 
 as the original game, men screaming at eachother and screaming in pain in battle and the sound 
 of arrows and artilary in the air. theres also the score from the original, and chages as the mood 
 of battle changes, as its soft at the beginning of the battle till the enemy moves close and charges, 
 then quickly gets fast and climatic, making the battles cinimatic.
  
  OVERALL
  
  R: TW BI is a great expansion and deffinatly expands the game. this is great to get if you have 
 the game as its very fun to play both Romans and the Barbarian tribes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 7, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Well, i was so impressed with the RTW that i bough this expansion with my eyes closed.
  
  Now, let me star by saying; this is not a bad game, moreover, creative assembly has worked a lot 
 to bring new features, and all the new stuff with this expansion. I have one thing to say; it is 
 definitely not as good as RTW. Why? because RTW was more balanced, every faction was equally same 
 fun to play with. In BI, nope. there are barbarians and Roman empire. Thats it. Everything was 
 going fine, until the horde came along. I was thrilled when i saw 5 full strength armies lay a 
 siege on one of my cities, and practically i had nothing to do about it. Weird tough, I thought 
 players never allowed to bring more than the number of army slots however this horde seemed to 
 began its assault by full strength With a minimum of 2 full strength armies???
  
  There are much improvements; +The religion system for characters and city order is a huge change. 
 Very well implemented.
  +New factions, new units and new tactics. + I can say AI has improved also. +Night battles is a 
 good improvement, also with the latest patch requirement for a general has been lowered to 4 starts 
 rather than 5.
  +Musics, sound effects and voice effects are still great.
  
  There are also flaws;
  -Short campaign option has been removed.
  -Old game has been permanently 
 altered so there is only one way back= a reinstall.
  -Farms still can not be demolished. So growth skyrockets and becomes a huge problem even after 
 an extermination event. -Happiness and Finance seems to be harder to maintain. You find yourself 
 building only happiness buildings but nothing else most of the time!
  -And the worst is: spawning of hordes. this really annoys me and gives me frustration but nothing 
 else!
  
  As a conclusion; it is a good expansion. But if you ask me, i definitely prefer the original: RTW. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thk123
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  At long last I have got round to reviewing this game. I wasn't expecting great things from this 
 game as I couldn't see what they could add. The most obvious thing being more historic battles. 
 Nope. An expanded campaign map. Nope. Who'd have though they would have practically completely 
 reworked the code for it.
  
  In the expansion you don't have to unlock all the cool armies, which I think is great, as most 
 players just changed the code so they were all there anyway. All the different armies have different 
 goals but are the normal stuff: conquer so many provinces including this one, that one and usually 
 Rome. There are, of course still custom battles but more on them later.
  
  Now, although the graphics haven't got any better, the same setting have much less lag on my computer. 
 So now I can have those awesome sieges where there are like 4 armies attacking and 4 armies defending. 
 This was discovered when my friend was the Huns, and at the start you start of with 10 armies. 
 All of these consisting of either 19 or 20 units. He then got 9 of these to attack the same settlement. 
 Now, admittedly it took ages to load, but when it had, it was as smooth as when you have 2 units.
 
  
  The story line starts just after the Roman Empire has peaked and is now about to fall. But, as 
 with all Total War games, as soon as you start playing it it starts to vary from what actually 
 happened. I mean if you can play as the Romans really well and your really sad, you could probably 
 play it to modern day. The problem being it wouldn't have any technologies. The main theme is that 
 the Huns are coming and they wipe out the Romans. Although, as I mentioned above, different things 
 can happen, this one is much more restrictive, it is much harder for the Romans to survive and 
 the most likely out come is that the Romans will be destroyed, who does the destroying can change 
 though...
  
  Game play. Now, you might be stupid and think the game play won't have changed much in the expansion. 
 How wrong can you be. The battles give greater detail to how your troops feel and their moral can 
 be effected by a much greater degree of things. I swear that onagers are more accurate, or, at 
 least, they certainly seem that way when being shot at by about ten units of them! Also their are 
 a whole host of new special abilities; for instance, some troops can now swim across rivers, most 
 spear-men, instead of forming a phalanx : which they do automatically, they now make a circle with 
 all the spears poking out. They can't move and I find it increasingly annoying that I can't put 
 archers in the middle. The big improvements is in the campaign, if your Commander has the right 
 trait then you can conduct night attacks. This, aside from being very visually spectacular, which 
 which it does: all units are carrying burning sticks so the battle has lots of little lights moving 
 around, flaming arrows and stones look amazing flying around in the back sky and the moon light 
 glinting in the river, OK I made that bit up; it gives the attacker a mild advantage: unless the 
 reinforcements general as the night attack trait then they can't join the battle, this good as 
 often you can take them on one at a time rather than all at once.
  
  The campaign has been re-done completely as well. As side from all the new traits, all the armies 
 are new, I don't think the map has changed but the province names are different. As I mentioned 
 earlier you don't have to unlock all the factions. This both good and bad. It means you can play 
 as any factions but it means some people will see it as pointless because your not gaining anything. 
 The AI is a lot better. They attack you, they make their mind up on whether to be allied or not, 
 based on your performance. Enemies apply pressure and guard hills, bridges, etc. For instance I 
 was marching towards a Roman city and saw that my army wasn't big enough. So, I drew some men out 
 of my cities to assist. As soon as I ended the turn the Saxons, who were also my enemy, jumped 
 out from being hidden in the forests and attacked my cities because they were now weak. It is all 
 together a much more enjoyable game and has meant I have played very few custom battles.
  
  The multi-player I haven't been on but I very much doubt it will be any different from the original.
 
  
  Main Strengths
  -The campaign is much better
  -The battles load quicker and play better on lower end machines
  -It follows the same winning 
 formula.
  
  Main Weaknesses
  -Only 2 historical battles
  -Still no editor
  -The games are in different programs so you can't play old Romans against new
  
  If your wondering 
 weather to get or not this section is for you.
  
  If you loved RTW and just want some more of the same. - Get it, there will be plenty of historical 
 battles to download if that is your thing.
  
  Only play the campaign - Get it. There is no excuse, it will be the best expansion pack you ever 
 bought.
  
  Can't be bothered with the campaign but I like the battles - Maybe, think twice about it. The battles 
 will load better and there is a whole host of new units, but no historical battles and now major 
 changes, it might be better to edit the old code (guide available @ http://rtw. heavengames. com/) 
 and make your own historical battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MYDMHD
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I realy enjoyed plaing it. The game was bet harder than RTW since
  you have to be prepaired for many other factions to attack you especialy the Vandals and the Huns 
 when they come with thier massive hordes.
  But I liked playing with the Western Roman Empire more because it was a hard challenge and I had 
 to face alot of barberians all by myself. But what I didnt realy like is about the horde armies 
 which are full of missile units mainly horse archers they kill the excitement of battles butI managed 
 that by two things. First, most of the battles i played with those armies were inside cities so 
 I will not be harrased by lots of horse archers. Second, I deafeted the Huns (the kings of archers) 
 by assassinating and killing thier family members to the last one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killajaps
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  I am glad that I pick up this expansion. As a Rome fan, I enjoy the original game a lot and this 
 expansion makes things even better!!
  Certainly, most things remain the same, but this is just an expansion, never expected a major overhaul 
 from it. The gameplay is a lot more challenging than Rome, instead of being on Italy and surround 
 by allies, you now have to face the many barbarians thats invading your lands. And when you fight 
 those Hordes , a new feature of the game, its inspiring and terrifying at the same time when you 
 see the endless tide of men rising from the horizon. There are also many fun faction to play and 
 they are more balance than Rome. Barbarians are no longer the underdogs that can only build minor 
 city, Franks for example, can build the same level of most building as Roman. Roman Infantry no 
 longer dominates everyone, most faction have some top units that are better than the late legionary.
 
  Overall Barbarian invasion provides a very challenging campaign, some cool new units and a lot 
 of cool new features. It might not totally change the game, but it's certainly worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Merry
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 17, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  the game itself is kinda plain not all the factions are playable and the hordes are too powerful 
 and overall the romans are weak compared to their counterparts in the original. i have enjoyed 
 the total war series and i'm not saying this one is the worst but by no means does that make this 
 one the best. I think that this one gives a little originality with the hordes but when you can 
 be attacked by thousandstroops at once is alittle unfair because hordes will take any province 
 they can and will sack them for the most part eventually they will settle but in order to kill 
 off one of those factions you have to kill of their entire horde. i don't like that if you take 
 their last city they should be gone. i also don't like how every sity for the romans is all in 
 the red on happiness you barely get past a turn and all your cities are rioting at once. it's an 
 okay game but it could have been so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 16, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Shogun, CA has done a great job of introducing Invasion expansions to each Total War 
 game. With Shogun TW, it was Mongolian Invasion , with Medieval TW it was Viking Invasion , and 
 now with RTW we get Barbarian Invasion . Each expansion has successfully introduced some fresh 
 new content, while maintaining the core game elements so it's easy to jump right in. Because RTW 
 was so amazing, it's pretty difficult to raise the ante with an expansion, but even though BI doesn't 
 really set any new benchmarks, it does introduce enough new features to make it worth a couple 
 of play-throughs. Set approximately 400 years after RTW, we find the Roman dynasty in decline, 
 and beset on all sides by (obviously) barbarian factions anxious to grab their share of spoils 
 from a crumbling empire. All new factions and unit rosters, plus some new concepts such as night 
 battles and religious influences, help make BI much more than just a re-hash of the original, and 
 fans will probably want to try out at least a couple of the different factions.
  
  About the only real drawback to the expansion is it's original price tag. At roughly $40, it's 
 a bit steep, particularly considering how many excellent mods are available for free. But now that 
 it's been out for a while, it should be easy to find a copy at bargain bin prices, so real RTW 
 fans will probably find it a worthwhile purchase.
  
  The Bottom Line... although Barbarian Invasion doesn't really raise the bar for Rome: Total War 
 to the same degree that the Rome: Total Realism mod did, it's still a solid addition to the Total 
 War family, and is certainly worth a look for anyone who wants a little more Caesarean carnage. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_fido
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 14, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Taking place hundreds of years after Rome: Total War, the expansion pack to one of the greatest 
 strategy games of all times entitled Barbarian Invasion has finally been released. After the split 
 of the Roman Empire into eastern and western segments, migrating barbarian tribes attempt to attack 
 Rome while its still rebuilding. While there are a few tweaks to the gameplay, the majority of 
 this expansion focuses on the many new playable barbarian factions and the new units for each class, 
 which makes for a great addition to this acclaimed series. The most notable addition is clearly 
 the inclusion of the barbarian tribes, and there is plenty of versatility here. Instead of starting 
 off with a great deal of land, the barbarian factions start off as hordes with little or no land 
 on a search for their own homeland. If your final settlement is under constant attack, it might 
 be a good idea to convert your entire population into a horde and find a new place to live. Hordes 
 dont have to pay any upkeep but they can only recruit mercenaries, so making your people nomads 
 should be your last resort. Each tribe has its own strengths and weaknesses, such as the Huns who 
 are skilled with their horseback archers while the Saxons have elite infantry units. There still 
 is the possibility of selecting powerhouses like the Western Romans right from the start to avoid 
 the initial turmoil, but if you dont play your cards right you could very easily wind up homeless. 
 Hordes generally have enough militaristic force to live off the plunder from their opposition, 
 but if too many factions are hording and not enough are producing goods a widespread economic breakdown 
 can ensue. The overlying principles of the campaign are the same at heart; you need to conquer 
 and build up cities while making sure to protect your entire empire. The addition of religion into 
 Barbarian Invasion will unite your people under a singular belief, creating an overall peaceful 
 environment without neighborly tension. Implementing certain religions can even further your technical 
 level, allowing for new structures to be constructed. Unfortunately, with religion youre bound 
 to have problems with non-believers, and its common for two quarrelling groups to create a large 
 scale civil war within your own walls! Because several hundred years have passed, new technological 
 upgrades including sanitation systems can be setup. People familiar with Rome Total War will still 
 feel right at home, but these few added features add depth to the management portion of the game. 
 Aside from the hundreds of new units that come with this expansion, several new enhancements have 
 also been included to make the wartime experience much more captivating. If a general is skilled 
 enough, he will be able to perform surprise attacks at night. Furthermore, if the opposing general 
 only has enough experience for daytime battles, his troops will have a lower morale and he will 
 be unable to call for reinforcements. This strategy will make it significantly easier for large 
 armies to conquer feeble cities without having to worry about hidden secrets.
  
  Other additions include the ability for troops to swim across large bodies of water, which can 
 be vital for a flank to be successful. However, swimming will leave your troops utterly defenseless, 
 making it easier for archers to bombard them with a barrage of arrows and neutralize the attack. 
 If youre feeling daring enough though, catching your enemies off guard with a water attack can 
 give you the upper hand in battle. Other battle tactics are also introduced, including the shield 
 wall that setups a contiguous line of shields that will stop rushing cavalry from dealing damage. 
 Aside from the main campaign, two historic battles showcasing epic scenarios can be played just 
 for fun. The final battle between the Romans and the Huns is difficult regardless of what side 
 you choose, proving to be a challenge even for the more skilled players. The other scenario relies 
 more on tactics instead of brute force when a general must be rescued after being captured by the 
 Saxons. It wouldve been nice for there to be a lot more scenarios because the included ones are 
 a lot of fun, but as it stands theres more than enough to keep you busy as it is.
  
  The single player campaign undoubtedly offers hundreds of hours of replayability, which is a good 
 thing considering that the multiplayer segment hasnt improved at all. Skirmishes are still the 
 only available battle type, and although there are plenty of new factions to choose from the online 
 component could still use more diversity. Like the original, Barbarian Invasion has an astonishing 
 presentation value that is unrivaled by most games in this genre. Seeing troops lined up from all 
 across the horizon is impressive, and as soon as the two sides collide a large scale blood bath 
 is sure to follow. The night battles create a more dramatic atmosphere and lighting up the skies 
 with fire arrows is a downright cool looking sight. The battle sounds hit the mark like they did 
 before with the initial roars of battle being followed by the groans of the fallen. The soundtrack 
 is fitting of the time period and helps emphasize the seriousness of the battle. There werent 
 any major changes in terms of the production, and quite frankly Rome Total War didnt need any.
 
  
  In conclusion, Barbarian Invasion is a great expansion to one of the top strategy games of all 
 time. The ten new factions along with hundreds of new available units will help give this title 
 new life, and even though the changes in gameplay wont make any new fans out of the series, Barbarian 
 Invasion delivers almost everything that fans couldve asked for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrBagman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  At first, I thought BI would be something like Viking Invasion and Mongol Invasion; something like 
 a short minigame of sorts. Instead, what I got is a totally new game, something that you might 
 consider a sequel to R: TW.
  
  Unlike Viking Invasion, this doesn't only feature a small part of Europe, and unlike Mongol Invasion, 
 there are many more factions to choose from. Barbarian Invasion is up there, an Expansion Pack 
 worth emulating, like Yuri's Revenge and The Frozen Throne.
  
  BI gives you a whole host of new factions, including the Romans, which are now splitted to two 
 different factions, The East and the West. There are also a host of different barbarian factions, 
 such as the Huns, the Saxons, and the Roxolani.
  
  A new feature in BI is Night Battles. Biggest difference here, the battle takes place at night. 
 [o:] , and that some generals tend to be better at night. Very effective when your enemy has a horde 
 of reinforcements, only to find out that they can't fight at night.
  
  Secondly, some factions have the ability to abandon their settlements and become a horde. This 
 makes gameplay much more interesting, since it doesn't end when your settlements are conquered.
 
  
  More on hordes. A horde comprises of everything a settlement has, from 'every young able to the 
 oldest wise-woman.' They become a huge army of sorts.
  
  Hordes, when they find a settlement, can occupy it, or sack it, stealing every last denarii, and 
 destroying pretty much everything it has.
  
  Sadly, there are less settlements this time around, and I feel that this makes travel much harder, 
 since there are less places to house your army. Also, you would be in a bind for money when you're 
 playing Barbarian alot, because of lack of settlements to pick up trade.
  
  All in all, BI doesn't dissapoint, but it could be better in some respects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War was much better (my opinion) . But Rome Total War Barbarian Invasion is much more 
 harder and too little factions to play for. Unlike RomeTW here you can't play for all of the factions, what 
 a dissapointment. Lets say here you play for the Sassanids BOOM in your face on easy level the 
 Eastern Roman Empire beats you up. Ok then I play for the Eastern Roman Empire and BOOM there again 
 in my face the Sassanids come and beat me up. Okay the Goths are a main target by the Huns, Vandals, 
 etc. With there HUGE armys they come beat you, you get the Horde ( a bunch of men men with no city) 
 and there BOOM Huns Horde beats you up.
  But still the sound and graphics are good. So 3 big problems....
  1. Too little amount f factions 
 to play for.
  2. Even on easy level too hard.
  3. It feels like the computer cheats.
  But overall the gameplay is good and graphics, sound. But still to be honest i'm dissapointed with 
 this game. I beat this game two time on easy level for Franks and Saxons. On medium I lose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deshields538
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 17, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  Barbarian Invasion is an expansion for the great game Rome Total War. It delivers the same great 
 gameplay and graphics but doesnt really cut it when it comes to the campaign.
  
  It takes place several centuries after the original with the Roman Empire in control of most of 
 Europe and the Mediterranean. However the Empire has split into east and west and now the barbarians 
 are knocking on the gates. In the campaign you can be both halves of the Roman Empire whose goals 
 are to stop the barbarians from taking over and eventually take over and become the sole ruler 
 of Mediterranean. However if you decide to become a barbarian faction your goal is to move into 
 the Roman Empire, settle there and create your own Empire to rule the world. One thing this campaign 
 does very well is the domino effect that the Huns had on these other barbarians. You can no longer 
 turtle up and slowly expand, especially if youre in the firing line of the Huns. Your choice is 
 either to try and fight the Huns or move into the Roman Empire. And if the Huns dont get you, 
 the other barbarians fleeing from you will. This provides a unique challenge if you play as the 
 western Romans and keeping the Empire intact would be a great achievement indeed.
  
  However this is not as immersive as the Rome campaign. You can easily end the campaign in a short 
 amount of time. Most barbarian factions can be completed simply by taking as few as 10 provinces 
 including your target provinces. There really isnt a chance to create a huge Empire. More like 
 a small barbarian Kingdom. Like I said, the Roman campaign is where the real challenge lies.
  
  There are a few features that make the campaign enjoyable, if a little short, such as night 
 battles, emerging factions and hordes. You can now battle at night with your men carrying torches 
 and all. The result is a visual treat with fire arrows and boulders lighting up the ground as they 
 travel. The emerging factions in the campaign are where an event or emergence of a date triggers 
 a fully fledged faction to emerge and try its luck for Imperial dominance. Finally some barbarian 
 factions have the ability to become hordes where the entire population packs up and goes in search 
 of a new homeland. This leaves you with several stacks of warriors to take your new homeland from 
 the owners.
  
  In short, the new features are a great addition to the game but are not that well implemented in 
 the campaign and so makes the campaign not as fun as the first and a bit boring. Online most people 
 play Rome so there arent many games to be found. It has the same great battles, sound and gameplay 
 but could have a much better campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 24, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  Two hundred years have now passed since the main campaign in Rome: Total War. With this expansion 
 pack, players can now control vast armies and over 100 new units as they battle across an updated 
 European map that now reflects the historical changes since Rome: Total War. Tear Rome apart by 
 leading hordes of barbarians or stand and defend the Empire as a leader of one of the two former 
 Romes, the Western and Eastern Empires.
  
  Gameplay: There's not as much variety here as there was in the core game. Still, the tactical battles 
 are amazing.
  
  Graphics: Still beautiful and compelling. The new units fit in well. I like the new night battles.
 
  
  Sound: As good as the core game. Battle sounds and music are done quite well.
  
  Value: Trying to topple Rome will take time. Once you're done, you can try to save it.
  
  For 
 fans of Rome: Total War, Barbarian Invasion is a sure bet. It offers more factions, more units 
 and a couple of cosmetic touches that will be sure to have you falling in love all over again. 
 Purists will lament some of the liberties taken with the history, but this is a game after all, 
 and we're willing to forgive some of the inconsistencies as "artistic license." What is less easy 
 to look past is the relatively homogenous nature of the barbarian factions. While there are some 
 key differences between those in the east and those in the west, it feels like so many variations 
 on a theme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generalchet
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War's sequel Barbarian invasion sets you, the player, in control of either an ailing 
 Western Roman Empire or a "defendable Eastern Empore of one of the invading barbarian "horde" factions. 
 
  With a good premise of destroying or preserving what you built in the first game Barbarian Invasion 
 has a good head start as a sequel. In addition, many new and exciting features have been added 
 in BI. 
  For example, religion is now much more important in controling your empire. You can now choose 
 from three major religions, Christianity, Paganism, or Zoarastrianism. If you choose for example, 
 Christianity in a pagan settlement the citizens will revolt due to the official religion being 
 contrary to their own. The same goes if you put a Pagan governor in charge of a Christian City. 
 So be careful of you leaders faith.
  Another great addition is the new and improved barbarians which now have an improved city biulding 
 platform and can have larger, and more influential cities then in the original game. Also, barbarians 
 now have horde mode in which they can pick up all their belongings and hit the road until they 
 find a new home (usually in Western Roman Lands.)
  Moreover, the game is more fun and challanging in general. The original Rome Total War on hard 
 was still a relative breeze. But barbarian invasion rectifies that situation well and that is one 
 thing that many advanced Total War players will love dearly. (Note: If you are new to Total War 
 play around with Rome first and then move onto BI) 
  The two drawbacks to this expansion are teh horrible skins on the units and the deduction of over 
 all cities and territories. The skins I don't mind so much but the less cities to conquer and control 
 really is frustrating (With them in I may have given the game a 9.3) . Some of the best cities from 
 Rome are now gone (and they still existed during this time period to!) . No more Messina, Rhodes, 
 Corinth, etc... Italy, Greece, Thrace (the area above Constantinople) and Egypt really got short 
 changed. So it was this drawback that really dissapointed me. However, other than that it is a 
 wonderful game and the emergent factions and the civil wars really add a new strategic depth to 
 it.
  All-in-all, Rome Total War Barbarian Invasion is a wonderful, challanging, and semi-historical 
 strategy game that is well worth playing and is incredibly enjoyable. It is just right for some 
 but it was almost but not quite there for me
  -Chet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War was a stellar suprise and ranks, in my opinion, as one of the best RTS games ever 
 created (while not forgetting about the first Total War game) . R: TW's first and only expansion 
 pack, Barbarian Invasion adds a few more enhancements to an already excellent game. 1) Adds nighttime 
 battles. This certainly makes gameplay much more fun, as you have one more setting to choose from, 
 though I can't really feel a whole lot of a difference from the original night battle that was 
 included in the original.
  
  The nighttime battle in this game merely makes a redo of the sky in terms of appearance and lighting. 
 The nighttime setting, simply put, looks more beautiful than the one found in the original R: TW. 
 2) Religion. Adds more depth, but unfortunately this makes the game feel a whole lot harder. Differences 
 in religion can add more friction between cities and their leaders. You'll get more revolts because 
 of this.
  
  Positives:
  
  1) More factions such as the Huns, Ostrogoths, Romano- British etc...
  2) Better appearance of 
 nighttime battles.
  3) A few more settings and campaigns.
  4) More depth with the addition of a larger role for religion.
  
  Negatives:
  
  1) A much 
 more difficult playing level for the single player campaigns. Some of them, might I add, feel like 
 a huge task to accomplish.
  
  2) Hardly any new additions for the historical battles section. BI adds only 2 battles. Conclusion: 
 Barbarian Invasion is a game worth playing only if you felt the original Rome: Total War lacked 
 something in appearance and content. With the few new additions here, this should be satisfying. 
 Sadly though, you'll end up finding much more harder single-player campaigns and no other valuable 
 additions. Here, you'll find only enhancements , which an expansion pack should be. In conclusion, 
 BI adds nothing too revolutionary to the series and to the original. It's just another worthy play 
 for the fans...
  
  - Corrosion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shav0r
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  In Rome, you fought the battles of the expanding Roman empire. Now, 300 years later, Rome is locked 
 in a desperate struggle for survival. Besieged on all sides and divided internally, the fall of 
 Rome is imminent.
  Consequently, playing Rome itself is challenging, although you start off with a number of regions 
 already under your control. However, you can also play as one of the Barbarian (hence the title) 
 nations. Some, like the Franks, start with only a single region and have to work their way up from 
 there. Others, like the Huns, take advantage of the new "Horde" system. If a Horde nation loses 
 its last city, their people will form a huge army (Usually about 4 full stacks) to find a new place 
 to live. The huns start out like this, which makes it possible to sweep down into italy in a few 
 turns and settle your warriors there.
  Another new feature is religion, which affects public order and the units you can build. Your generals 
 are also religious, and if a Christian army is commanded by a heathen general, this lowers morale.
 
  
  All in all, Barbarian Invasion is well worth the buy, as it introduces many units while removing 
 some of the more tedious elements of gameplay (no Phalanxes, so no more 40-Minute-pushing battles) . 
 It provides a lot of entertainment for its price, and the new features, like Religion, are wonderfully 
 integrated. So what are you waiting for? Lead your horde to Victory! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valeria_Vitrix
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Rome :Total War :Barbarian Invasion was for me an excelent expansion to Gamespot's best strategy 
 game of 2004. With Barbarian hordes, East and West Roman Empires, many more factions and of course, 
 the most epic real- time games ever seen! 
  That said, this game was considerably harder than Rome: Total War. Especially as the East or West 
 Roman Empires as you must deal with civil unrest, new rebel factions, barbarian hordes sacking 
 your cities, economic problems.... and thats only at the start of the campaign! This game takes 
 the legendary Rome: Total War to new levels.
  
  Rome: Total War Barbarian Invasion was much better than I could have predicted. A well earned 9.1! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_hate_rangers
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  This overall is a great expansion to Rome: Total War however there isn't much difference between 
 the 2 games except new units and factions and some new city names.
  The maps the same except the territory is set up differently than R: TW. However with new factions 
 like the Huns and Sarmations its hard not to get excited about this game and with now only 2 Roman 
 factions to play (Eastern Empire and Western Empire) its even more of a challenge especially as 
 the size of each empire is huge and very difficult to manage well highlighting the Western Empire 
 as nearly every city/town is on the edge of revolting.
  However don't let this put you off as it offers a new challenge.
  
  But be warned only get 
 this if you think you have mastered R: TW because if you are a bit of a beginner you will get a 
 big shock as you get 2000 strong barbarian armies attcking your capital and every city under your 
 control.
  
  Good luck and remember 'You were there for Rome's glory. Be there for Rome's fall.'
  
  Thanks:) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mk1234
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 4, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun but truly is only for real fans of the TOW series. Its Ai is much improved 
 but still leaves room for improvment. The graphics are still medicore at best but that should be 
 changed for the next installment. Many things though were real impressive I especially loved sacking 
 villages and stuff like that its nice to finally play on the barbarian side of things. I would 
 have to say that the addition of many diffrent tribes that represent many diffrent cultures is 
 done real well, but sometimes it feels that all the European tribes handle and preform the same 
 way it seem like their buildings are just the same thing with diffrent names. That's probably the 
 one thing that I would change. Overall this game was a great expansion that does what it was intended 
 to do and expand on what was already a real great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gargarensi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 14, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Barbarian Invasion, the first expansion pack for Rome Total War. The expansion pack introduces 
 many new factions except Rome (which in the time period, was in two) the two roman factions are 
 the eastern rome and the western rome. The army still has peasents, diplomats and such and now 
 have priests that chant and boosts your men's morale although they're pretty weak and will go down 
 pretty quickly which pretty much makes them a useless unit In this time, there is no need to beat 
 the campaign to unlock foreign factions.
  
  In this time, instead of destroying a faction by conquering all it's cities, there are hoardes 
 that can still keep the faction alive. It's really tedious to kill factions that come in hoardes 
 such as the vandals, huns and berbers since you have to kill every single unit in one army since 
 a hoarde usualy consists of 5 armies. And it doesnt help when you don't know where they are after 
 you kick their asses a few times which will resault in you traveling all over the map to just exterminate 
 one single barbarian peasent to kill a faction.
  
  It's nice that this game tries to make it harder by adding more soldiers to kill to fulfill a gamer's 
 needs but is still pretty easy to beat. The battles dont seem to be really hard since AI is upgraded 
 and would try their hardest to flank you. It seems all the do (like the first one) is go on a head 
 on charge, no consideration of the fact that my strong soldiers are ready to demolish the entire 
 army. They tried to make it hard by throwing a load of soldiers in a hoarde at you but if you destroy 
 each army one at a time, they don't do much damage to your forces.
  
  Not much chage to gameplay, sounds or graphics. Music changes differing what is happening during 
 the battle and fro the swooshes of arrows and swords clanging on shields, to the sounds of thousands 
 of men marching, the sound remains awesome. Still the same kind of game as the first one. Although, 
 in the campaign, you can attempt to make a night attack. But your commander has to have enough 
 experience to do so. The sea battles are just the same as the first, random generated. Although 
 it would've been great if Creative Assembly implemented a sea battle system. It would add some 
 strategy to the game and also get away from the repetitive land battlesbr /&gt;
  
  So, Barbarian invasion can be fun to all but can wear out pretty quickly. You should rent it first, 
 the game should take no less that 10 hours to beat to the experienced gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan809
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War Barbarian Invasion is a good game with a few new features. For instance in the 
 battle map; there are new formations such as a shicltrom, light units can swim, and of course there 
 are night battles. This doesnt really spice up the game but its nice to have. In the campaign map; 
 of course there are new factions such as the Goths, Franks, Huns, and of course the Western Roman 
 Empire and the Eastern Roman Empire. Another new thing is relegion and loyalty. Relegion is a factor 
 that can help your happiness in a settlement or lower it. For example your Christian general takes 
 over a pagan settlement; you will lose happiness in that settlement if they still have a pagan 
 temple, shrine, etc. because thei relegion differs from the general, but you can demolish their 
 temple and build a christian one instead. And loyalty. Loyalty is a tribute that only Romans and 
 Goths have. It shows your general's loyalty. (The higher it is the higher the loyalty) If for example 
 that general is on a rebelling settlement and it revolts; if your general has low loyalty rating 
 he may join the rebellers. To me the campaign is less fun than the RTW one because if you play 
 the Western Romans they start with a bankrupt treasury and settlements are rebelleing everywhere 
 (which is historical) or if you play one of the western barbarians you can get bored after a while 
 as the western Romans wont put up much of a fight. (they start off with bad money their settlements 
 are rebelling and their fighting off 1 or more enemies what do you expect) And if you play the 
 other factions... oh go find out yourself! The sound sucks but you can modify it to make as good 
 as Rome again thats why I gave that score. Lastly there are two historical battles but they are 
 really, really fun. If you get bored you can download some mods at these sites: totalwar. org (go 
 to the forum) twcenter. net again go to the forum and stratcommandcenter. com . At twcenter. net and 
 stratcommandcenter you can download a mod called Chivalry: Total War at its first beta version. 
 Its a fantastic mod that trasform RTW or BI to a Medieval mod. (more time eras will be downloadable 
 later such as high era) Mind you it still has a lot of bugs and glitches but a patch will soon 
 be released this month. (perhaps next week) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I guess this is kind of a hit or miss game and it depends on your taste I guess. You may like this,... you 
 may not. I never seemed to get a very good grasp on it so of course that effected my enjoyment of 
 it. The concept of playing the barbarians really appeals to me, but how it is handled really didn't. I 
 really didn; t like how when you would settle a city it would like disband a good portion of your 
 army at all and the fact that your guy pretty much didn't create any children when they weren't 
 settled didn't really make any sense to me either. They should have at least made it so you could 
 make camp on map like nomadic people do in the real world or something. Oh and the reason that is 
 important that you have children by the way if you didn't fugure it out is that your general do 
 age and die off eventually so if you have no children your tribe will have nobody to take the role 
 of leader and your tribe will die out.
  If you like Rome though and are looking for a new challenge,.. a much bharder one I might add,.. then 
 go ahead and get this game. Like I said you may like it.
  I would still reccomend it despite my personal issues with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terial1901
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This game seems just like the original one. The only new things that I could really notice are 
 the Different (Though if you look Oddly Familiar) names, Seemingly different factions, and New 
 limits of troops in an army.
  It My Perspective it consists only of Spoofs coming from the First Total war game. For instance: 
 The Names of the Factions are new, but they all consist of the same maps and if you look carefully, 
 The nearly exact same Family Members and territory placement as in the first. 
  Such as the fact that you can see in certain places where the Seleucid Empire Was, pretty much 
 everywhere, all you see is a different name, and a different flag.
  So I can see absolutely nothing unique in this game whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 25, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good game that anyone in to RTS should get,
  
  Graphics: the graphics in the game have been much improved from the original and are nice too look 
 at. They are very detailed.
  
  Gameplay: The Ai in the game has been improved and you will find fighting much more challanging 
 then the original. Insted of enemies coming at you in small armys they come and attack you in huge 
 groups. The Roman Empire has been divided in to east and west and you can play either of them along 
 with some of the major babarian tribes at the time like the Hun, Saxon, the Celtics, Goths Ect. 
 If you are new to the game I suggest you play the orignal before you move on to the expantion. 
 The only thing that I think they could of improved on is the Navy Battles and have more fractions 
 and thats about it.
  
  Sound: Great song effects and speeches. 10/10
  
  Value: The replay value of this game is great. I played this game over and over again and have 
 not got board of it.
  
  Anyone who is looking for a quality RTS should get Rome total war expantion with the origianl. 
 I give this game 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenzev
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 7, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is not bad... entirely new units, new abilities, new campaign play and new factions 
 makes gameplay funner and more challenging. Considering you have gained a hold on the other factions 
 in Rome Total War, this time you have now all of these new factions to play and master, each with 
 their own strengths and weaknesses. The campaign is fun from time to time, but its the same as 
 before, and you can find that factions, are not so aggressive really. Also the horde units seem 
 to be just wondering around, never really settling right away. That to me gets annoying because 
 they come on into your territory, and attack an just leave and go on to somewhere else. Also some 
 units are too overpowered. The unit, berserkers, is considered by many, from what I have seen, 
 to be over powered. 
  
  The realism in the game is not too great as well, although the fighting is very fun and the action 
 in the game brings you in, it is not too well realistic. An example is in night battles. You have 
 soldiers carrying torches and you are invading a city. The guy with the torch falls on a building, 
 no fire. Or when catapults throw flaming rocks and they hit a tree, no forest fire, which to me 
 is pathetic.
  
  As for graphics, they aren't the greatest. A lot of the soldiers have blurred out faces and there 
 bodies do not look so great. The graphics seem to be worse than the original Rome Total War. 
 
  
  As for music and audio, it is superb to me. The music is very invigorating to listen to and matches 
 the mood of what you are doing. The clashing of swords and etc. also adds to the great soudn effects
 
  
  Al in all, the game is good and multiplayer and single player is fun. The battles are fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chanzhengjie
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 3, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  An interesting game nice graphics. Good use of history. The saxons are not bad. I love the sassinds 
 empire. The sassinds have the powerful heav calvary with the elephants troops could dominate the 
 entire world. The romans troops well the organising has change from different class of troops. But 
 i still prefer the old ways in which the troops are organised. The hastai, tirarri and velties. But 
 with the new addition of the barbarian hordes are nice. I hate those pirates. when i play the saxons 
 i didn't clear them up when they are small, now they are a big problem to me. Those stupid pirates 
 have more than 1000men. This sux setting back my war production plan. Now only have to build navy 
 power and increase my navy fleet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: posiedonblade
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 1, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  I thought Rome: Total War couldn't get any better. I was wrong. Barbarian Invasion adds many new 
 dimensions of gameplay that make the existing Rome formula even better. The ability that barbarians 
 can leave their settlements to become hordes is great. Religion has now become a prominent force, 
 as settlements can be pagan, Christian or Zoroastrian (the Sassanid Empire religion) . The different 
 victory conditions for each faction also are nice, because I was tired of having to always take 
 over Rome and 50 other random settlements. You also don't have to unlock each faction, they are 
 all available from the beginning. Unfortunately, the game only adds 2 new historical battles (one 
 didn't even happen) and doesn't allow you to fight ship battles (just like the original) . The music 
 is fairly boring and repetitive, but overall I consider this to be a good value. If you loved the 
 original, you'll definately love Barbarian Invasion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 1, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  Barbarian Invasion continues the tradtion of outstanding Total War expansions. There's so much 
 new content packed into this one CD that it almost feels like a new game. You get 20 new factions, 
 several new gameplay features, improved graphics (especially shadows; you'll notice a distinct 
 improvement while playing in a forest or city) , a vastly improved AI, and new campaign with the 
 potential to last you months.
  
  In case you haven't heard, Barbarian Invasion is hard. Very hard. Especially as the Western Roman 
 Empire; it's by far the hardest campaign I've ever played, and I've played some pretty hard mods. 
 I didn't understand how hard until I played it; as the Western Roman Empire bankruptcy and rebellions 
 across half the Empire is a very real possibility, and very few cities start out with public order 
 above 75% (Hell, not even Rome does.) It will take all of your managerial skills to pull the Roman 
 empire out of its death spiral and muster a force strong enough to simply quell rebellions and 
 defeat a small barbarian faction that threatens you at the start of the game. But this isn't nescessarily 
 a bad thing; indeed, I've never played a more fun campaign.
  
  The AI has also changed for the better. The list of improvements is far too long for me to say 
 here, but let me just say, the difference is fairly substantial, and the game only improves because 
 of it. Overall, the patch that is shipped out with the expansion is very good; certainly well above 
 average.
  
  The quality of the graphics, while marginally improved have not changed much; but that's not something 
 you'd expect from an expansion anyway. The sound however, has barely changed at all whatsoever, 
 and while the original game's soundtrack was both excellent and immersive it will leave people 
 who bought the game a while ago wanting something more.
  
  And, if you're into this kind of thing, there are tons of cool mods being released for the expansion, 
 including an Asian fantasy mod (reserve your judgement until you see the absolutely orgasmic screenshots; 
 the mod's name is Blue Lotus) , a Medieval mod that should be released in a month or two, and a 
 Lord of the Rings mod. So even if you get sick of playing Legionaire there is still plenty of content 
 out there to keep you busy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElPatronTribal
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 10, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The addition of Hordes in the game is a good way for people just getting into Total War to be able 
 to survive for a little longer. It also adds a different approach for the more skilled players. 
 The graphics of the game aren't that bad and the game play it self is mostly start forward and 
 easy to pick up. It is a pretty solid game that can provide many hours of gameplay with the wide 
 variety of starting societies as well as a good range of troop types. No one society has a real 
 huge advantage over the others and therefore keeps the game play at a balance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  The game wasn't bad, lots of changes than RTW, like new units, and settlements are placed in different 
 areas now, the units seem to offer a more flexible army type than before (i know, seems impossible) . 
 The new battle types can be fun, like the night battles, not very much difference, but still fun, 
 just something to do when you're bored, even though the soldiers holding the torches look like 
 their wrists were broken in a 45 degree angle, and they should have caught their shields on fire, 
 at least a couple.
  
  The whole new loyalty can be pretty fun, of you're against the romans, just stand down until they 
 finally rebel, and take the settlement, you get to keep your powerful roman ally, and you get a 
 settlement. But if you're an enemy of ROme, it kind of sucks, the start out with a bunch of huge 
 armies, so if they don't like you, or you offend them, they'll send massive armies and just wipe 
 out all of your land.
  
  The new horde thing isn't all that great, they're hard to manage, and it just makes the campaign 
 last 10 minutes, unless you actually try to take a settlement. 
  
  Overall I think that Barbarian Invasion was alright, strays really far from the first game, but 
 still alright. DOn't but it unless you find it for around $20... ( ^.^)  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomisSandthief
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War Barbarian Invasion is a good sequel to the original. It is set at the begining of 
 the Middle Ages and is not that historically accurate. Do we ever expect to find a game that is 
 historically accuracte. Definitly not. Do not play this game if you want something that is historically 
 accurate, instead go pick up some history books. This game give you a good feel for the problems 
 encountered in this time period by the Roman Emperors. The Empire is falling apart with civil war 
 and to top it off all the barbarians want their pieces of land back. This creates a challenging 
 game if you play as the Romans but a very easy game if you play as the barbarians. If you liked 
 the first game than this is a must have it is a refresher for a game that will get old if you played 
 it already for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This Expansion adds to the depth of real life incidents in time. I like the new, and well thought 
 up extras they added in this game. This game is ranked my number one game of all time! I just noticed 
 today my FPS was low today, and had to tweak a bit to get them higher. I'm averaging around 50 
 I think. I didn't think this game would be that demanding. I guess it is. I'd recommend this game 
 to anyone (again) that is fascinated with medieval, and ancient history war battles. The ability 
 to command such large armies still has me drooling, and in complete utter happiness that I own 
 this title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  The good: The new content, namely the barbarian hordes are fun to play with. Naturally I started 
 with the Huns and it was a blast, the play was totally different from that as say, playing as Romans. 
 The night battles, when u have it is freaking awesome, but I keep forgetting to activate it : (. 
 The battles are as usual, the highlights of the game and they dnt disappoint. Seeing the Huns in 
 a calavry charge will get your blood flowing in a good way. 
  
  The bad: Nothing much to fault here. There's a fair amt of mircomanagement involved in building 
 up your cities, but veterans of the game shouldnt have problems with this at all. And playing as 
 Western Rome, even on easy mode, is damn frickin HARD. This is not a complaint, just an observation. 
 I played thru using most of the other civilizations and Western Rome is light years ahead of those 
 in terms of difficulty.
  
  Verdict, if u are a fan of Total War, this is a no brainer. Buy the game. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -daniel-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't play R: TW before, then you probably poor or don't have a clue about video games. 
 This masterpiece can easily be count as one of best strategy games ever to the best series there 
 is.
  
  RTW combine real time strategy with turn based game like civiization.
  After you move your armies on the turn based map of europe, you will go into a real time map and 
 there you will fight with hundreds or thousends of soliders.
  
  The barbarian invasion add a few good improvment to almost perfect game.
  You can choose to play 
 number of barbarian tribes or trying to save whats left of the roman empire by either playing with 
 the westren or the eastren empire.
  
  There are many new units in the game and one of the most important one is the horse archer that 
 have the abillity of firing archers and than run quickly (Its a very powerful unit that alomost 
 have no competetors) . 
  There is also the new elemnt of relilgion in the game but it's less important and have little impact 
 on the game.
  
  The diffuclty is very hard, espaiclly when playing with the roman but with huns and others as well. 
 
  Another thing that need improvemnt and fast is the economy system in your cities that will broke 
 you and eventually make you loss the game.
  
  The graphics are well and the sound is really nice too.
  Overall this is a must have game in 
 every respectble house with gamers from 6 to 90.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Those who enjoyed the immersive Rome: Total War are now able to enjoy the sequel Barbarian Invasion.
 
  
  Though it takes a while to get used to the fact that you no longer control the powerful and united 
 Rome, you learn to manage with what you have.
  
  You are able to play a new campaign as either the West/Eastern Roman Empire or are one of many 
 barbarian hordes.
  
  Playing as the Romans is considerably more difficult when you have to worry about the Huns, Saxons, 
 Celts, Franks, Berbers, etc. and even other Romans! Still, this game is great fun if you're up 
 to the challenge.
  
  And if you prefer wandering from territory to territory burning villages, pillaging cities and 
 murdering townsfolk along the way, you'll enjoy playing as one of the roaming hordes.
  
  You may not even be a barbarian (at least not in your mind) , but you may share non-Christian beliefs. 
 If this is the case, you are able to spread your religion and your culture across Europe.
  
  Though this game is a lot of the same old stuff, it's still fun if you're a Rome fanatic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daifu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 7, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Barbarian Invasion introduces several new elements into the Rome: Total War equation. Night battles, 
 religion, swimming units, improved AI, horde units and more robust diplomacy. 
  
  In the course of the last 3 campaigns I've fought - at least 100-120 battles - I've fought zero 
 night battles that I didn't initiate. The only one I initiated was with the only family member 
 I had who was a "Night Fighter", and apparently he didn't pass the gene on to any of his other 
 family members. Its a cool option, but doesn't seem fully integrated into the main campaign game.
 
  
  Religion has a larger impact on the campaign game - in my most recent campaign a Christian family 
 member took over as faction leader - whereas all his predecessors had been Pagans. This managed 
 to push 5 of my provinces into rioting, and one into civil uprising. It was expensive to say the 
 least. Conquering regions of different regions than your own takes more resources - tearing down 
 cathedrals to build pagan shrines costs money afterall. 
  
  Swimming adds another level to the bridge battles - allowing attackers.. or defenders to cross 
 over and flank the enemy - at the risk of a very exposed, slow and tiring crossing.
  
  The AI, while improved, still has problems. Horde armies surrounding a castle, for instance, will 
 run all the way around the walls, getting sniped by towers the entire way, in order to enter a 
 breach in the walls. I've seen enemies cut their numbers by 50% in this purely suicidal technique. 
 Noted improvements include less tendency of the enemy generals to charge in first and die.
  
  Some factions now become hordes when their lands are conquered. This leads to armies of several 
 thousands of mediocre units that can overpower their enemies with cannnon fodder. The catch being 
 that if you use up all that cannon fodder (that is actually your civilian populace given spears) 
 then you have no people to populate your new found homeland.
  
  Finally, diplomacy. Immediately you'll notice other factions approaching you and offering trade 
 rights, alliance and map information. Others will demand you become a Protectorate. Some of the 
 overtures from other nations seem arbitrary at times (such as a faction with one remaining province 
 - entirely surrounded by you armies - demanding that you pay them money and become a Protectorate) . 
 Rival factions will also use assassins with much more enthusiasm. My most recent campaign almost 
 met with ruin when 5 of my generals were assassinated in consecutive turns. 
  
  Overall I am happy with this game. I have played it through at least 3 campaigns so far, and I 
 plan on making it last until Medieval 2 comes out this fall. Sure it has its problems but they 
 are minor and the fact that Creative Assembly is so commited to this franchise keeps my faith alive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemania56
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 9, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I liked this. It wasnt super but it was good. I liked the new addition of night battles. I also 
 liked the new armies. The graphics were great as usual and the gameplay was good. The only thing 
 i didnt like was the sound. As usual in a Mideavil game the sound is not going to be very good. 
 The music was old and sounded cheesy but otherwise this was a great game. Well worth the money 
 paid for it. I liked this game a lot and if you didnt well all i can say is too bad. GO BUY IT 
 NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmperorMudd
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 5, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Barbarian Invasion is the first expansion pack for the classic game Rome: Total War. Now some of 
 you die-hard Total War gamers might remember that all expansion packs in the Total War series are 
 about invasion. Mongol Invasion, Viking Invasion and now Barbarian Invasion. That title isnt lying 
 to anybody. In this game you can play as either the crumbling Western or Eastern Roman Empires 
 or a barbarian tribe trying to survive and make a homeland.
  As an expansion pack you can expect some good graphics, good game play and good sounds. Notice 
 the good part. This game doesnt live up to the very high expectations that we had for it, but 
 knowing Creative Assembly (the creators) it isnt that bad. The graphics are pretty but the unit 
 designs are nothing special. As usual you find the colors of each faction are all identical, no 
 variation whatsoever. That means that the Western Empires units are all red and yellow, the Goths 
 are all orange and black and the Celts all green and red. Luckily most of the unit models arent 
 bad.
  The game play is the most important part of this game for any Total War fan. Like in vanilla RTW 
 the diplomacy is shallow without the abilities to really convince your neighboring nations of anything 
 other than trade rights, alliances, map information, etc. This is a disappointment because CA promised 
 better diplomacy in-game. The enemy AI is borderline retarded. Although it is noticeably better 
 than RTWs, Barbarian Invasions AI defiantly tries to pull some brilliant military maneuvers like 
 charging their general into a wall of spears or running their units parallel to your battle-line. 
 Disappointing yes, but on Very Hard difficulty levels the AI will annihilate you if you are new 
 to this game and even offer a very, very difficult challenge to the experienced Total War gamer. 
 Diplomacy and effective management of your empire will take a while to master if you are new.
 
  The coolest new feature, in my opinion, is the advent of religion. Each faction can chose between 
 generic paganism (multiple gods for each faction) , Christianity, or the eastern Zoroastrianism. 
 Each cities unrest and well being is directly tied to the religion of the settlement. For example 
 if you capture a city where 90% of the population is pagan and try and build a church, you are 
 going to have a rebellion on your hands.
  So now you know. Generally good game that has a few disappointments (but thats what modders are 
 for) . You will have a fun and most likely life consuming experience playing this game. So go and 
 burn Rome to the ground. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrettreen
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  I clearly saw many things that needed to be worked on like the overpowered hun horse archers and 
 the Eastern empire being much better (and having infantry as good as the wests) . The barbarian 
 tribes however were well portrayed as just normally a bezerk military force with a little more 
 organization thean RTW. The Sassinids were also shown very well with their cataphracts and immortals. 
 All in all this game was very good but it could have been a lot better. The graphics on BI have 
 not improved like i wish but what can one hope for from Creative Assembly. And i can not believe 
 they make you write 100 words lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jenniemerc
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 2, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  The difficulty increase is good, but with the leave the home and stuff, a single Goth town of Dacia 
 will withstand the hole Huns and Vandals invasion, killed 10.000 of them with only one town on 
 medium difficulty, so they never got to Rome lol
  The difficulty can still go up, don't have a problem with it.
  
  The focus more on battles 
 and less provinces to control is good, never liked a big empire anyway.
  The cavalry is nice, AI has improved but it's not that smart, so 2 warlords on a ambush mission 
 will decimate the enemy lol.
  It's all in the stalking tactics, all in all, pretty nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksr_rules
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This game feels a little rushed after playing Rome : Total War. Some factions were exactly the 
 same as other factions unlike the original where every faction had at least a few unique units. 
 Some of the factions that would of been the most fun to play were emerging factions and could not 
 be played without a mod. The graphics are the same as the original and some of the new things they 
 included were night battles, new formations and roman rebels factions. They also aloud barbarian 
 factions to upgrade there cities as far as to hug cities and let them build stone walls (most factions) . 
 All those new things were well and good but it dosnt make up for the fact of little diversity among 
 the factions. i dont think this game is worth buying at full price but the price probably dropped 
 by now so just get it if you have the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamak7
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  graphics is the same as in the Rome: Total war i thought that the graphics would be better tha 
 in the latest version of Rome :TW...
  
  game play is quite hard to entrain but when you know all the basics you will be unstoppable!!!
 
  
  Sound is good but at this point i'd like to say is quite boring when u fight against rebels and 
 the music is like you are walking in the park... :) )
  
  in this patch i like that there are lots of new units and few new races... also there are things 
 like day and night, generals have night vision and many others...
  
  In conclusion i'd like to thank for people who made this game. I think this game will become greater 
 than Need for Speed : Most wanted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irulehexen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  476 A. D, the last emperor Romulus has been kicked off the throne. No longer are the Romans supreme 
 over the Mediterranean Sea, but held in thrall by the Visigoths. Now only the Eastern Empire or 
 the Byzantines stands as vanguard against these incursions.
  The first difference between the expansion and the original, is that this game has change and continuity. 
 The logo of the game where ROME once stood in all its glory and magesty, has been reduced to decay 
 and is now a barren imaginifier with a grotesque symmetry and that of a death knell as to hath 
 decreed of a doom to have befallen the capitol. Tribes such as the Ostro and Visigoths threaten 
 the very entity of the Roman Empire. The Alemmani, Vandals grow bolder each coming year.
  Also, in the game play you can see the new Roman tactics and units. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tutonicknight
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 17, 2005 1:04 am PT
Review:  When I heard that Rome: Total War was getting an expansion, I thought that 
  Barbarian Invasion was going to be what Viking Invasion was for Medieval: Total War. In Viking 
 Invasion not only do you get a new campaign, but you also get a lot of added material for the original 
 game like: more fractions to play as, the ability to have more than one army be the same nation, 
 and more unit types. In Barbarian Invasion, everything that's new is centered around the new campaign 
 except for a tiny bit of new stuff for the original campaign like: armoured general's bodyguards, 
 the new lighting effects from fire arrows an fire catapult projectiles, and a bit better AI. I 
 like the new campaign just fine, but I would of liked more stuff added to the better original game, 
 mainly being able to play as ALL THE FACTIONS. There was only one true eastern faction to play 
 as in Rome: Total War's campaign and that was the Parthians, it would have been fun to play as 
 the People of Pontus or the Armenians. Barbarian Invasion is a good expansion, the new night battles 
 are nice and the new factions are pretty neat too. I had wished for more but it's still worth playing 
 if you really liked the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 16, 2005 5:37 pm PT
Review:  A very good expansion. I played 2 full campaigns (at different difficulty levels) . Although this 
 was enough for me, as there wasn't really that much variety from the RTW, it was still easily worth 
 the $30, because for a while there... I was hooked again. 
  I played as the Byzantine (eastern) Roman empire. I would recommend it, as you have many rich cities 
 in your empire to begin with. One of the improvments from the first game is that it is easier to 
 keep the citizens in your cities from rebelling, because there are far more ways to add happiness 
 points for your citizens. Academies, and even wall upgrades now add points (unlike the original) , 
 as well as extra religious upgrades (abbey, etc) . 
  I can't speak for the western roman empire with regards to rebelling.... but why would you play 
 them to begin with? History had them kiss their asses goodby at the time this game takes place. 
 I didn't much care for playing as a barbarian horde either, though I'm sure some would like playing 
 either of these factions.
  In all, if you really liked RTW, you will like RTW BI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustLoginMeIn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 14, 2005 5:08 am PT
Review:  The expansion pack adds a few good stuf to RTW. It is an expansion after all.
  
  Good stuff
  +Horde unit types
  +The difficulty (because there are horde units, some factions 
 are more difficult than others etc etc)
  +Different winning conditions (the one big thing missing in RTW)
  +Diplomats and the AI against 
 sieges and onagers has improved
  +Berserkers rage (though it isn't reallistic)
  
  But there really could be more stuff. Something more new. The expansion is just an improvement 
 of the old game. There should be also at least one totally new feature. But as always the save 
 these stuff for the sequel, not the expansions. Things I would like to see:
  
  -Something like Rome Total Realism (a nice mod for RTW) recruiting system. Or a little different 
 recruit system. The rate in which you build armies and conquer is extremely high. You build armies 
 fight, conquer and continue conquering. This isn't that reallistic. For two reasons. First I don't 
 think the soldiers would battle for years for you to build an empire. Also the people, being from 
 various nations wouldn't be warlike all the time. Neither all the goverments and the men in war. 
 I mean historically the romans did built a great empire. As did the greeks with Alexander the Great. 
 But there all also examples that the people/soldier/governors were agains expansion and conquering. 
 For example before Alexander the great managed to built an empire the greeks were against uniting 
 and conquering lands. Even when the Macedonians managed to unite the greeks and lead an army the 
 Spartans where still against.
  This could be reflected in the game with many ways. First a penaldy, maybe a random penaldy, in 
 loyalty because of war. As in Civilization IV. Not being able to recruit soldiers from newly conquered 
 cities right away. A morale boost, or morale penaldy when you battle and your soldiers don't want 
 too (if they want or don't want would be valued by randomness, generals traits/rank, if they fight 
 against allied/hostile factions, etc etc)
  -The whole allies/neutral/enemy faction. The diplomatic system in general. I don't believe it was 
 that simple even in those pre-mass media periods. Yes, maybe you could betray your allies but this 
 didn't happen all the times. There where strong alliances. If you betrayed an alliance then some 
 penaldes should, in random way occur. Maybe your soldiers will have less morale because they don't 
 fight for a just reason. There should be a value how "nice", "good" allies a faction is to you. 
 Also you should be able to organize campaigns for conquering lands with your allies. Not just ask 
 your allies to attack a faction. Anyway, you know what I mean. A more proper allies/enemies diplomatic 
 system.
  -More strong diplomatic features. As ceasfire for 10 turns (civ IV) . And such things
  -Different 
 AI for different factions. Some factions did't want to conquer. They just didn't. They where defensive. 
 That would increase the strategy of the game since some factions would hold strong defenses but 
 wouldn't want to attack your low protected cities. Some factions could be revengfull. If you attack 
 them you will play.
  -Heores. Not fantasy warcraft-style herores. But famous leaders like Gaious Ceasar. Simply they 
 would add great bonuses in all battles. And so you would have to protect them and especially take 
 advantage of them. That will make more realistic the time and you start conquering.
  Anyway, I just say these because there are very easy to be created and added to the game.
  
 
  Anyway, nice expansion, really worth playing, but not a very great one. It just adds some improvements 
 (well, it is an expansion after all) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bieeshka
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 10, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  When you usually see an expansion on the shelves, it's guaranteed to be not as good as the original. 
 It's either washed out, too easily, or just crappy. Barbarian Invasion however, is none of the 
 above. While you might think that $30 is high for a mere expansion, Barbarian Invasion is more 
 than a mere expansion. It is a new experience.
  The layout and overall gameplay format is the same. Lead armies, build empires, and rule the world. 
 Yipee! There's just a catch - instead of conquering left and right like in Rome: Total War (RTW) 
 and moving on to the next province - you have to hold on to the provinces as well. In fact, if 
 you're one of the two Roman Factions (East and West) , that is all you will be doing. At this point 
 in history, Rome is being seiged by Barbarian Hordes - and falling apart from civil unrest. The 
 first game I played was as the Western Roman Empire. Easy right? Ha! Joke's on me. I lost half 
 of my provinces due to unrest with 15 turns. My empire was splintered into provinces in random 
 places. It took many more turns for me to actually solidify my empire and not lose provinces from 
 unrest. On top of that, barbarian hordes are everywhere - the new Horde function can do wonders 
 if you play as the barbarian factions. They can sack cities without having to take over them - 
 gaining more loot and destroying EVERY building in the city. 
  Aside from the Horde function, there are also a few new additions as well. While you can lose cities 
 because of popular unrest, you can also gain cities from unrest. Loyalists will lead the city in 
 revolt and hand you the key! Speaking of loyalty - it plays a big part in the game. Generals now 
 have levels of loyalty that need to watched carefully. I lost a great, powerful army to a disloyal 
 general who joined the rebels. Such carelessness can be heartbreaking and devastating. Also, religion 
 plays a big role in population happiness. If you build buildings contrary to the people's religious 
 preference - you will have unrest. Also, the governors religion plays a role - if his people are 
 one thing and he is another, unrest can occur. Finally, there are the infamous night battles. In 
 order to partake in one, you have to have a general with the Night Battle Ability. These battles 
 are awesome and if the enemy general doesn't have the ability - you can have one heck of an advantage. 
 
  For those who are new the RTW franchise (for lack of a better word) , I would reccomend spending 
 some quality on the original RTW for plenty of practice. Also, those who are looking for a good 
 fuddy duddy around game, I would not recommend this game - it's a thinking game. While it's not 
 a brain killer - you need to be able to anticipate a lot more things and be able to handle a crumbling 
 empire. If you don't do as the Romans did - be cocky, fall apart and disintegrate - you can build 
 an empire that will rival even the mighty Roman Empire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdpaliden
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  For anyone with Rome: total war, buy this now. If you haven't played Rome: total-war yet, play 
 it first. if you have, once you learn the new factions you'll jump right into it.
  The Romans are the toughest all around, strongest, most tech and the most enemies. Both East and 
 West are surrounded by enemies and are ripe to pillage.
  The 'Barbarians' have closed the gap and have much in common with Rome in its early years. Their 
 ability to make siege weapons eliminates the edge of their 'civilized' counterparts.
  The hardest part is that if you fight against Rome and you don't have many allies and/or a lot 
 of territory, there's virtually no nation on even footing with the Romans.
  Unfortunately, the game is like an explosion; good impression however, it wears off fast.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ridino
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  The game seems fine, with new interesting features like religion, generals training, new geography, 
 and all the stuffs well known. This was the game expansion I've been waiting for since RTW was 
 out, but I must admit that the global product quality of BI is decreased a lot compared to RTW. 
 The game use crash quite often, no matter the system configuration, directx, drivers and so on. 
 I spent weeks trying it on different platforms, from oldest to newer and no way to play the a full 
 gameplay.
  What can I say apart that I spent money for nothing?!
  The problem apply also to RTW with both patches 1.3 and 1.6! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easternrome
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 1, 2005 12:59 am PT
Review:  I was in absolute enjoyed when I was marching from Al-Mohads territory through Jerusalem, Edessa, 
 Lesser Armenia, Anatolia, and ambushed by Khans Troops at Trebizond. hell of a Joy . and now, 
 after Pergamum, Nicomedia, Palmyra and Rhodes are diminsihed... and others surprisingly new settlement 
 and faction, i must say that, this game, were made by the spirit of dead troops which spread from 
 Galatia until Arabia Inferior. Praise Lord !!! I am 100% sure, the next will be Caliphates Total 
 War. ah, the fundamentalist religious? dont bother, skip political and religious consideration 
 ... Medieval isnt good enough ... the graphic, sound and value itself, pretty louzy ... and eventually, 
 victory lies in my desk, and there is nothing that i can do but dealing with my insomnia to rule 
 my faction!!!
  
  (duke of Kydonia) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 9:33 am PT
Review:  Rome total war barbarian invasion is the exspansion pack too one of the best RTS games in the history.
 
  
  Ok there are four stuff you can check out here Main campaign, Custom battle, quick battle and Historical 
 battle. 
  In main campaign you can choose too play as the western romans and the eastern romans. There are 
 also barbarians here like the vandals, goths, franks, saxons and more. There are also a persian 
 faction that is called Sassadians.
  
  The start year of this game is much later than in the original. You will start the game in 363 
 AD. First time youll play a battle you will see that this game is much harder. The AI is more advanced 
 too. Now some of your troops can also swim now which is a great new thing. In the original your 
 men would just die right away if they even touched the water. Some of your troops now will also 
 disband when you reach a new homeland The have a white wheal over themselfes. There are also some 
 really cool night battles too. and if you want a little bit easy campaign you better try the franks 
 or goths. If your dieng too play as the romans you should play the Western romans as its a little 
 bit easier.
  
  a thing that is not so fun is that when i played a bridge battle i saw that some of my horses goed 
 right threw a bridge or right threw even a stone wall. This should have been fixed. And sometimes 
 the horses will just stop when they swim i can see them walking but nothing happens. The multiplayer 
 can also get quite laggy sometimes which is annoying. One thing that is also sad there are friccin 
 me only 2 historical battles. The videos in these historical battles looks great. But first thing 
 you will notice the camera is very slow at zooming and too fast in turning this is very annoying. 
 They are also a little bit unbeatable. Its like its 100% losing. I tried and tried but i failed. 
 
  
  Barbarian invasions night battles looks amazing its nice too look at all the fire from the torches. 
 The night battles are the ones that looks best.
  Day battle looks just like before great graphics. But nothing else. The charachter faces looks 
 still very ugly. The troops looks good. And it seems like the developers wanted the troops too 
 looks identical too the troops that were that time.
  
  The sound here is Amazing. screaming and battlecries. And much more. The loud sounded general and 
 the dangerous sounding berserkers. Its absoulutely amazing. There are also good campaign music 
 with some good old classic music. Superb job on the sound.
  
  You will get very much for your money here. There are plenty of factions too play as. And there 
 are plenty of replay value. When i was done with the Sassaidians. I played as the saxons and then 
 im now working too build the roman empire tough and strong. And when you done with the campaign. 
 You can play Custom battles you can pick everything you want how strong the walls is. The weather 
 and much more. You can also check out some other factions here too. But sadly there are only two 
 historical battles thats very sad. But there is even one more thing you can do and that is too 
 play Multiplayer. You can play up too 8 players now not 6. That means more action more fights. 
 But i think you should not play more then with 6 as 7 or 8 can make it lag. Great value here much 
 too be found.
  
  My lasting appeal is that this is a game with great gameplay you can play as many factions and 
 stuff. And you will get much for you money. Yes the game has some mistakes but lets hope the few 
 mistakes are fixed in a patch. Overall this game is a must buy for everyone who loved the first 
 game. 
  
  Ok Bye all leave me alone because ive got too save the romans from being destroyed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikey007
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:18 pm PT
Review:  That 1st statement is a biggy, think about it. 'The best game ever played!'
  If you havent played RTW yet, what are you doing here? Bludge school, take a sicki from work, 
 do what every you have to do, just play this seriously addictive beautifully created, deeply strategic 
 game.
  
  But this review is about the expansion & while i did have fun whilst playing it, i was left feeling 
 a bit empty. Lets look at the P & C's:
  
  Pros: 
  
  * New units. Nicely skined, good variety etc.
  
  * Much harder game play. 'Very hard' setting 
 is now literally, 'very hard' this is the best fix for me, vanilla RTW was WAAAY to easy.
  
  * Bugs fixed. Personally i think they should of been fixed with 1.2 patch but anyways.
  
 
  * Religion is a new feature, while its not an over dominating force, it can effect happiness in 
 settlements if say you have a Catholic leader in a Muslim city.
  
  * Night battles. Ive only played 1, but gee it looked swell!
  
  * Hordes! they look big & 
 tough & are an interesting new feature
  
  * Swimming units. No more crammed bridge battles, light units can now swim around the sides which 
 i think it a great strategic addition
  
  Cons:
  
  * Too similar to vanilla RTW in terms of once you get x amount of settlements, youve basically 
 won the game. Your raking in 1000's of dinary per turn & no faction can possible defeat you unless 
 you loose on purpose
  
  * Barbarian factions all a bit too similar, not enough variation in units.
  
  * Hordes! they 
 look big & tough, but in reality, their not. 1/2 are made up of peasants & they are just like fighting 
 an enemy with 3 full stacks. Nothing new if you play mods like SPQR
  
  * Little to no elephants ; ( they are only available in 1 or 2 provinces. i used to love sending 
 a search party to find mercenary elephants around the globe, but alas, no more.
  
  * Iluminity Cataphracts (Arabian armored horsemen) are like ancient battle tanks! i swear 1 small 
 unit of them routed 1/2 my army! bit unrealistic i say.
  
  Conclusion
  
  BI is an ok expansion, i must admit im not that interested in the barbarians & i find them less 
 interesting to play. i would of preferred an expansion like Viking Invasion for Medieval total 
 war where the campaign map has been changed, the time line has been dramatically changed & there 
 was a bit more of an aim to the game. Crushing Rome at the barbarians is a piece of piss.
  
  Still, BI does bring some good new featured & bug fixes to the table, which im sure the mod 
 community will lap up (once 1.3 patch has been re-patched, dont ask) . If your just looking for 
 some new gameplay & you dont want to spend any money, download the mod i uninstalled BI for, SPQR. 
 Its action packed & everything ive always wanted RTW to be. But in the future, most up-coming mods 
 will be using BI so your going to need it anyway.
  
  Give it a go, you wont be disappointed in the long run.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hallithk
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2005 2:01 am PT
Review:  This game is superb in every way new campaign, lots of new units and now the enemy dont send small 
 armys at you it send huge armies most of the time , one time i was playing 15000 enemys attacked 
 my at the same time and that was fantastic, this game is totally a worth playing for every one 
 especially for Rome total war fans. I have been playing this game for more than a month and every 
 time i play it something new can happen.
  This time in Rome total war BI barbarian factions play more role in the game and they are less 
 barbaric (i think) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irvine78
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I remember living in West Texas and getting my hands on a copy of Shogun: Total War for the first 
 time. I bet I spent most of my free time in middle school playing that game and its Mongolian Invasion 
 expansion. True classics. Then when I moved to Hawaii I noticed Medieval: Total War on the shelf 
 of the BXtra for $25 dollars, and since that time I think I've just about played the grooves off 
 of the disk. Grab these two games at any chance you have.
  
  Rome, the first release, had a few elements that disappointed me. From a historical perspective, 
 there are many things in this game that are simply baffling. It is the Hellenistic Age, and the 
 Ptolemaic Dynasty has already been established in Egypt, but they are still resorting to antiquidated 
 infantry? The Sarmatians are Scythians? And Rome divided into three families? No. And a few gameplay 
 elements were frustrating as well; naval battles NEED to be worked into the next release, and I 
 would have really liked being able to use some of the other factions.
  
  I reserved Barbarian Invasion, and it arrived two days late so I already had built up some superfluous 
 hype. The first thing I noticed was the extremely dumbed-down manual (Which I attribute to Creative 
 Assembly's submission to Sega Europe) and more factions I could not use. Sure, there are some new 
 ones, but you can't play as the Celts, the Lombards, Berbers... frustrating.
  
  And then you start playing. And no matter who you start with, in a matter of three turns you are 
 almost guaranteed to be in war and completely bankrupt. 
  
  So you start as another faction, the one that was owning you. And wouldn't you know it, the weakling 
 that was you moments ago is now owning you, and you are entirely broke.
  
  The game has a certain feeling of impossibility. Utter impossibility. Sure, in reality these were 
 the early Dark Ages and things were really going to pot. But even with the difficulty set on easy, 
 expect to be pushed to the edge of reason relatively quickly.
  
  And the best remedy? Play as the barbarians. They don't need to hold land, they just roam the countryside 
 slaughtering populations. This element of the game is fun, but only for so long. In fact, it also 
 does much to negate your desire to play as a settled faction; why worry about diplomacy, an economy, 
 and keeping your populations happy when you can travel and pillage at will?
  
  It's a good expansion to a great game, I just wish certain elements of the game could have been 
 worked with a bit more. And I do blame Sony. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legumo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that i am a 50% fan of the TOTAL WAR series, however ROME TOTAL WAR changed that 
 and i loved it, finished the compaign and played it again and again, endlessly.
  
  I purchased BARBARIAN INVASION, the first thing that strikes me is the Night battles, those are 
 awesome, what pisses me off is the engine, sometimes it results are impressive, however the textures 
 arent of that high of a quality, you need to enable ANISOTROPIC FILTERING to get decent looking 
 filter of the terrain even @ High or Highest, this has always been so.
  
  I have an Athlon64 3500+ , 1GB RAM, nVidia 7800 GTX, and i can play with all eye-candy enabled, 
 so the next thought is wonder what happend if this game was using the DOOM3 engine or F. E. A. R engine...... now 
 that would be superb.
  
  It's a hard game, but it can be made to be PICK-UP & PLAY, if you enable ARCADE battles, No Time 
 Limit , etc..... even that make it a MEDIUM 2 HARD game.
  
  great new things are included in BARBARIAN INVASION, it'll eat your time out, and as usual replayability 
 is huge, but i still feel something is missing.
  
  If you loved ROME TOTAL WAR, the buy BARBARIAN INVASION, money well spent, no regrets, just dont 
 expect an ENGINE upgrade or something, although i admit the game is smoother and a bit better looking 
 that the original.
  
  MIXED FEELINGS...... GREAT GAME!!
  
  BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSS383
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 1, 2005 9:54 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War Barbarian Invasion is the follow up expansion to the Rome: Total War base game. 
 This semi-history-based game covers the time span after the breakup of the mighty Roman Empire 
 and the subsequent barbarian invasions of the remnants of this empire by all sorts of smelly, hairy 
 peoples. The game also covers the emergence of Christianity and some other religions that affect 
 game play in a new way. A new patch 1.3 for original RTW has also been added in the expansion 
 which doesnt add hardly anything to the original, which I wanted. The small changes are mostly 
 in the AI realm but there are a few other tiny changes, which arent worth getting into.
  While this game is based on historical events, it isnt a strict historical simulation of ancient 
 warfare so dont think of it this way if you are a strict history buff. Many people have gone crazy 
 over nit-picking the game, and have created mods for your enjoyment. This core game however does 
 come the closest to any game Ive ever seen to recreating the feeling of huge ancient armies fighting 
 it out. 
  The expansion doesnt change the core objective of the original game, which is to fight, strategize 
 and expand while building up your cities and towns, but it does add some tweaks and new concepts 
 to the mix. Religion and loyalty are two major things that have been introduced to the game. In 
 the original all religions were set for each faction but here religion is somewhat flexible and 
 can affect your generals and cities in different ways. Each faction starts with a specific religion 
 but this can change over time due official religious change and transfer of religion by missionaries. 
 Religion can affect things such as what traits your generals gain over time and how loyal your 
 citizens are to you.
  Loyalty is another factor that has been introduced in the expansion. Loyalty causes a few things 
 to occur in the expansion. The first is settlement rebellions, general rebellions and settlement 
 defections. The first two occur quite a lot in the new game if you arent careful and can be quite 
 annoying. The settlement defections can work both ways, helping you regain a lost town or causing 
 a defection to another power.
  These new features are neat but Ive found them to be more of an annoyance than anything else, 
 but to some it could just be more strategy in the mix. The AI in the new game is MUCH more aggressive 
 and a little smarter than the original. You will be fighting defensive battles more frequently 
 than in the original too. Barbarian Hordes have been added as another feature thats pretty neat. 
 Whole factions will pack up and Horde into a big army and pillage everywhere then resettle in 
 a new place later on. Cool for you if you are playing them, but a great challenge if you are not. 
 Lastly for major new features are night battles. Its a great strategic tool if your general ever 
 gains the ability to attack at night, which doesnt come very often. I think its mostly a fun feature 
 since it doesnt happen often.
  And at the last brave souls, the graphics and sounds are pretty much the same as the original 
 so they arent a big new feature. Overall the game is almost the same as the original except with 
 a markedly increased difficulty level due to the Hordes, increased battle occurrence and the much 
 more aggressive AI. The religion and loyalty also come into the mix to make the game a little more 
 strategic but also harder. It didnt improve the original noticeably which many would have liked 
 but it did add another side to RTW. This other side will give veterans some new campaigns of enjoyment 
 and new comers a bigger wad of must-have RTW goodness.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayhem1976
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 29, 2005 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Very nice expansion to the original but a little too challenging in some aspects of the game. With 
 Rome: Barbarian Invasion some of the factions such as the Western Romans, are so dysfunctional 
 that their cities have such uncontrollable debt that failure is often deemed inevitable. The hordes 
 are cool but frustrating to the point of - why bother controlling cities in a particular region? 
 The new units are great, I actually love the new factors of religion and rebellion, and the night 
 battles are pretty cool. The AI has improved but only to an extent.
  So I still love the game, but my will to play it was greater in the original version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFfReAk320
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'm a HUGE fan of the original Rome: Total War. It's my favorite strategy game of all 
 time, and the fact that I'm a total Roman history geek probably adds to the cool factor for me. 
 However, I was not quite as impressed with Barbarian Invasion. For one thing, this game is excessively 
 difficult. Even playing as the Huns, who are easily the most powerful force on the map, I still 
 had to play my cards exactly right to hold enough provinces to rule the world. Barbarian Invasion 
 presents a few new ideas that would have been nice in the first game. You can read about all of 
 them in the official review, but my personal favorite is the ability to create a horde out of your 
 armies if you don't possess any cities. You get a huge bonus of soldiers to your armies, and you 
 can sack cities once you defeat them in battle. I particularly enjoyed attacking a city, sacking 
 it, then moving my men out again, creating a horde again, and sacking the city again. Lather, rinse, 
 and repeat as many times as you can get money out of the city, and you've got all the money you 
 need to take on the Roman Empire. The night battles were another great addition, and I noticed 
 an improvement to the battle engine in general, so kudos to Creative Assembly for those, because 
 they really make the game seem more complete. My major gripe about Barbarian Invasion was that 
 the Roman campaign was incredibly difficult. While I realize that holding the Western Roman Empire 
 together was very hard at that point in history, even pulling my troops out of Britannia and basically 
 fortifying Italy wasn't enough to prevent my faction splitting into two and the barbarians eventually 
 sacking Rome. The game was advertised as giving you two options: take over Rome (and with it the 
 entire world) as a barbarian, or defend Rome from the invasion and change the course of history. 
 It seemed to me that the former was the real reason why anyone would want to play this game. Unless 
 you like a very time-consuming challenge, don't waste your time with the Roman campaign, it's way 
 too hard and obviously not intended to be beaten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n99127
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2005 1:37 am PT
Review:  Like the previous Total War expansions, Barbarian Invasion eschews the historical setting of the 
 original game for an entirely new one. In this case, Barbarian Invasion gives you the opportunity 
 to tear down the crumbling Roman Empire that you built up in Rome Total War. 
  
  Gameplay has changed somewhat from the original game. Archers definitely seem more powerful and 
 their presence on the field can easily change the tide of a battle. Barbarian factions have the 
 ability to abandon settlements, creating massive armies that, despite their low quality, can pose 
 a major threat. Barbarian Invasion also adds the ability to conduct night battles, which look really 
 cool graphically and give generals with night-fighting an advantage, but otherwise play out just 
 any day battle. Overall, Barbarian Invasion provides much of the same gameplay that made Rome Total 
 War such a great game to start with.
  
  Unfortunately, Barbarian Invasion suffers from some major problems. The main problem is that the 
 Barbarian Invasion campaign, particularly the Western Roman Empire one, is rather difficult. Even 
 on lower difficulty settings, a player will often find himself in debt, surrounded by massive barbarian 
 hordes, and fielding a miniature army. This problem is most readily apparent to any gamer who has 
 played the Western Roman Empire Campaign on Very Hard Difficulty, for on the second turn on that 
 campaign, half the cities are in revolt and the player is thousands in debt. While the campaigns 
 in Rome Total War were quite easy, Barbarian Invasion has gone to an extreme and has made the campaigns 
 too difficult for most players. Also, anyone who plays the game long enough will eventually run 
 into a memory leak problem in which the game eventually slows to a crawl (people with a lot of 
 memory may not face this problem) . Such a technical problem certainly hinders the gameplay experience 
 and should be resolved in a patch as soon as possible.
  
  Barbarian Invasion adds quite a bit of new content, including the new campaign, new units, new 
 buildings, and new factions. While the underlying game is still the same, players will have to 
 develop new strategies to adjust to new gameplay features in the expansion. The expansion is clearly 
 a welcome add-on to Rome Total War, but unfortunately the problems that plague the game detract 
 from the gameplay experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brealeygp
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 24, 2005 1:54 pm PT
Review:  The first chance i got i (not literally) rushed to the local non nameable store to buy this. Forking 
 over my 25 i (again not literally) rushed back to my abode, loaded it with mouth-watering anticipation, 
 & was won over... by the into movie. The first thing i notice on the menu screen is that unlike 
 with medievil & shogun, u cant play the old Rome map with the new disk. The Republics in the past 
 i guess, move on to the barbarians. 
  
  If u dont know this is the time when mass migrations of Eastern peoples to the fertile West brought 
 the already split & troubled Empire to its knees, & infact ended the Western part. With that in 
 mind there is a brilliant setting upon which to build, but to be honest I found myself soon nostalgicly 
 looking back to the glory days of the Republic, & not because i couldnt keep the barbarians out. 
 to the far East start the Huns & the Vandals, nomads looking for a place to call their own, only 
 its far more cost effective not to. As the mighty vandals i displaced the sarmations, goths, franks, 
 brigantes, & almeni as well as destroying the Saxons, sacking Constantinople & crushing the forces 
 of the West, all without taking a city for my own.
  
  However, upon deciding to settle i found to my horror that within 10 turns of settling in Spain, 
 i was bankrupt & had no men, they having all become citizens of my new cities. Money is constant 
 problem with this game, the only real way to make it is to sack cities, which only the hordes can 
 do. As the Franks i was overjoyed that my capital & only city (all the tribes have 1 city at the 
 start only) was sacked by the Huns, as it meant my barbarian hordes (spawned cost-free armies) 
 could rain havoc upon the undermanned West. 
  The East & Western Empires have a mountain to climb just to stay alive. As well as all those pesky 
 tribes there are traitorous generals, religious strife & economic obstacles (no1 wants to trade, 
 just to kill) which all add to making it neigh impossible for all the but the most capable to rule 
 as the great empire. Sacking cities too is rather annoying, for the reciever that is, as once sacked 
 the city becomes a rebel province, often with a large force inside it. This is only really a problem 
 for the East & West Romans as its just another problem, especially if the province in question 
 is a wealth generater like Constantinople.
  
  One final niggle i have is that unlike with Rome where there was the long & the short campaign, 
 Barbarian only has one. While you dont have to conquer 50provinces as in Rome, numbers instead 
 ranging from 10-30 or there abouts, this is an uphill struggle as there are considerably fewer 
 provinces to conquer then before as well as most factions (playable & non playable) have to take 
 the same key provinces (each faction has about 3) to win. While this may encourage conflict which 
 im not complaining about it does rather annoy me that all the tribes, horde or otherwise, seem 
 to look West for the non key land, making conflict constant & unproductive. 
  
  However, despite the negetives i do not believe that i wasted my money. While 5 off would have 
 been better in my mind, its still a game in itself & a game worth experiencing. It will test you 
 more then Rome did, but though you may get frustrated, if you percevere then Barbarian Invasion 
 will restore your confidence in what is undoubtably the best RTS/turn based franchise on the market. 
 The fact that ive played it so little is that i have better games to play.
  
  (forgive the spelling errors) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TotalWar212
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2005 11:56 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War: Barbarian Invasion is a great game for lovers of RTS. Myself I am one of those 
 people. This game has new additions that make this one of 
  the best expansion packs ever. For me, this is and RTW is right up there with Half Life 2. You 
 will never get bored with all the playable factions. On my computer, (beefed up) the battles are 
 simply stunning. 3D everything, 7000 soldiers on the battlefield, pilums flying, elephants trampling. 
 For those History buffs you might have some quarrels with historical accuracy, but I find little. 
 There is just so much to do this game is just so cool. I can say no more but, BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BulletProof727
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 8:52 am PT
Review:  My first thoughts were that this was going to be just a modification to Rome: Total War with new 
 textures and more units. I was very wrong. 
  
  Barbarian Invasion offers a lot more than Rome: Total War. First off, there are hordes. Hordes 
 are a civilization after there homeland has been wiped out. Hordes can plunder their way across 
 the world until they find a new home. Another new feature is night battles which are a work of 
 art. Thousands of units marching in the dark with lanterns looks simply amazing. It looks incredibly 
 real and intimidating to see an entire enemy army marching towards you under torches.
  
  The new units and new formations are really cool too. The shield wall formation done by spearmen 
 is like a dark age "phalanx." Hardly any shield walls break and it is fun to push into the enemy 
 line with your giant phalanx of sheilds. The new factions also offer hundreds of new units which 
 are very fun to try. Although, the eastern and western roman empires are a little weaker that expected 
 after their huge buildup from BC to when the game starts. 
  
  The enemy A. I. is much less stupid than in Rome. The A. I. now uses flank attacks a lot and tries 
 to hold you at choke points when you are sieging a city.
  
  Overall a very fun and challeging experience. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyrsson
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2005 1:34 pm PT
Review:  What can I say... as a huge fan of Rome: Total war, Barbarian Invasion has just added to the pleasure 
 offered.
  
  Having completed the original a number of times as the Romans, using time tested methods, I was 
 looking for a true challenge. I've now found it. Playing as the Huns has left a lasting impression 
 on me, especially as to just how tough heavy cavalry is!!
  
  If there is any complaint I can lay again the game is that the Romans (either West or East) are 
 now a lot weaker than I thought they would be. I know that the units are true, and that the great 
 legions that Rome had used to conquer most of the known world had broken up, but they do not seem 
 to be the battle tested troops I would have expected. Still, it's great fun to see them running 
 before your armies!!
  
  Overall I have to rate this as one of my favourite games. More often than not my wife has come 
 into my study to find me yelling at the computer "Run you fools, run!". I would happily recommend 
 this game to any fan of RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reggy15
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2005 1:59 pm PT
Review:  In Rome Total war you start and the beginning of the romen empire entering a golden age and it 
 would seem that not force could destroy you not even rome itself . Now in Barbarian Invasion you 
 are the romen empire and every thing is falling apart from the inside and to make matters even 
 more desperate there are tens of thousands of barbarians that want to tear you limb from limb . 
 While playing Rome Barbarian Invasion i found it is only a matter of time before you are destroyed 
 .
  
  + New units
  + The Religious aspect adds a new level to the game that i enjoy
  + I like the new AI
  
  - It is hard to keep your empire together and that can become annoying 
 fast
  - I was hoping to play as the celts or the romino-British teams 
  
  In the end it is worth playing but it does not do the original Justices 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 5:44 am PT
Review:  Barbarian Invasion professionally delivers what it's designed for, what any true expansion should 
 be without reinventing the whole game: the same construct, including nifty features enhancing an 
 already polished war game, now set in the late Roman era with all the new units, beautifully rendered, 
 the new factions and conditions required.
  
  The new campaign map now boosts a scenario starting at 363 AD until 476 AD - the Fall of Western 
 Rome involving all the barbarian migrations. It's still two turns per year, so the new game is 
 much shorter than a long vanilla imperial campaign - though you don't have the choice of a ''shorter'' 
 one this time. The sole victory condition becomes very specific to each playable faction ( non 
 playables have each one coded too ) , ranging from 10 to 34 settlements. Needless to say, playing 
 as the imploding Western Roman Empire harness the greatest challenge of all by far, to the contrary 
 of the original Roman families from the republican era which were easy to pick. The developers 
 have successfully recreated the darker feeling of an embroiled Barbaricum raging across Europe........ Depending 
 of the faction played, the ''official'' limit ( 476 AD, around 225 turns ) is now a winning race 
 to tackle with. Of course, we still have the option to continue after that.
  
  If you're reading this, chances are you know well the first - so let's go to the new features:
 
  
  ---Night battles: aesthetic, think about the night bombardment of Jerusalem in the movie Kingdom 
 of Heaven! But really useful if attacking/defending with a general having the ability and the AI 
 hasn't. If you bring too many reinforcements, it would still be better to wage the battle normally 
 in the daylight.
  ---Swimming: cool if managing to encounter enemies adjacent to rivers & bridges.
  ---The variable 
 victory conditions: specific to each faction. No longer the choice between a long and short campaign, 
 as the limit now requires the player to speed things. Yet speeding things in BI can be very hard 
 considering the resources and measly gold brought by the early trade.
  ---Training Warlords: 5th level barracks. Very cool addition, though the player might just need 
 2-3 additional ones to complete a successful thriving in Barbaricum.
  ---Hordes and faction emergence: probably the feature that may alter the most your gameplay experience. 
 When a horde enters your territory, be prepared for several turns of challenging hiatus to the 
 expansion, even conceding temporarily one or two settlements to weaken the horde in the meantime, 
 at the expense of the frontier campaign.
  ---Religion: herald the arrival of Christianity, thriving alongside Paganism and Zoroastrianism. 
 Nice, yet not that crucial to deal with for the experienced players. The conversion process is 
 easy and may take a few turns.
  ---AI improvements: Neat overall, both strategic and tactical, ensuring the franchise to stay on 
 top of the hill ( there will always be some hardcores and fanboys who will complain about it not 
 being able to mimick ALL the moves a human player can do...) .
  ---A semi-cheat is now tweaked: ''abandon settlement-give it to an enemy-recapture it the same 
 turn-exterminate''. Partly fixed, now only under certain circumstances the AI will accept your 
 ruse ( settlement gift in order to quell an unbearable disorder ) . The player must deal with civil 
 disorder in huge cities the hard way, as it should have been intended from the start.
  
  Fear not, RTS addicts that might not welcome all the new micromanagement options, the game offer 
 tactical battles as marvelous than before, plus some lighting effects added and thousands of units 
 maneuvering at the same time - which make it, with Rome, the most demanding strategy game in the 
 market at the release. 
  
  From a technical standpoint then, BI displays the very same engine than Rome's. One year later, 
 critics may scrutinize deeper some minor caveats, yet both the strategic map & the impressive RTS 
 battles remain a visual treat, enriched with the same audio track ( add-ons within the latter wouldn't 
 hurt our ears a year later ) .
  
  Now to the ones complaining about the naval battles becoming even more ''abstract'' ( quoting Jason 
 ) , well it seems the developers at Creative Assembly made the right choice. They had to consider 
 the historic accuracy ( though we might argue a game is not about realism ) . Admittedly, around 
 300-500 AD warfare was most entirely inland - except for transport - as very few naval encounters 
 were reported. So..... better luck next time, with a hypothetical Napoleon: Total War!
  
  In short, Barbarian Invasion targets the hardcore community and brings to them, Total War addicts, 
 what they reasonably expected. The title brilliantly recreates the atmosphere of a fascinating 
 yet darker era of human history, much neglected in the past . Unfortunately, by being such a challenging 
 recreation of Barbaricum released in Fall 2005, this expansion is poised to be totally inundated 
 in the civ waves brought by Civilization 4 and Age of Empires III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrkenji
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 18, 2005 2:21 am PT
Review:  As a total war/ Total warrior series fan and veteran i have played through several of their games, 
 starting from Shogun Total war to Rome Total War Barbarian invasion. 
  
  While playing Rome Total War, i had mixed reactions. The game itself was great, but i felt it was 
 too easy, as the Barbarian factions were underrated. Even hordes of them could be destroyed by 
 the war machine that was Rome. I thought that archery was a bit bugged and that battles lasted 
 either too long (because of chasing the enemy down with cavalry) or too short. On the other hand, 
 the seige weapons were entertaining, the battles itself were great and the destruction on the campaign 
 map were amazing.
  
  In barbarian invasion, The RTW expansion pack, all these issues have been addressed. The fights 
 have not increased in size or entertainment, but it has maintained its charm and wit that i found 
 in Rome Total War, with a new morale system and some new units.
  
  But I also think that the add-ons in the campaign map are great. Some barbarian factions start 
 off in unqiue locations. For example, the Huns start off as a horde, and their main objective is 
 to settle in a land. This is also a new feature: Hording. The whole faction packs up and gets ready 
 to move. There are also some great moments in the campaign map for instance: As the saxons, i invaded 
 the Celts in their homeland. The first two settlements went down easy, and there was only one left. 
 But one turn later, a huge rebellion of Romano - Brits had been raised and i had to fight all the 
 more harder to maintain my grip on England. Religion has also been introduced and night battles 
 are just a pleasure to see. :)
  
  The only complaints i have on Rome Total War: Barbarian Invasion is that the graphics have not 
 improved, the sound has not changed and there are many things they have yet to address: Like sea 
 battles and Seiges. I expected more, but i was also suprised at how good the end product was.
 
  
  Overall, i love this game. I love Rome Total War and i love Rome Total War Barbarian Invasion. 
 Buy this game, its worth the money and its well worth the time. This game has all the wit and intelligence. 
 Thank you CREATIVE ASSEMBLY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGTPoopypants
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2005 1:26 pm PT
Review:  to the people who complain that this game is difficult well all i can say is thats the whole point 
 its an expansion it shouldnt be easier.
  
  i love the new campeing map i got bored of the rtw one 
  
  to ppl wondering where the greeks 
 and some of the other factions went well the answer is that they were assimilated into the roman 
 and some of the other majour empires of the time.
  
  i would highly recomend this game to any one whos a fan of the series, likes history and likes 
 rts games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantbebetter
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 17, 2005 10:28 am PT
Review:  What can I say? This game is just as good as the original Rome: Total War if not better.
  Game play- The game play is very fun. The turn based part is awesome. This is where you move your 
 armies and navys around the map, construct new buildings in your cities, train new units, use 
 your spies to spy on your rivals, use your assassins to kill enemy generals or sabotage important 
 buildings in their settlements and use diplomats to make alliances, get trade rights, get map info, 
 persuade to get money or even bribe other characters to join you empire. On the other hand in the 
 real time part is where you lead your solders into battle and try to cripple you enemies. Some 
 units have special attacks or formations, for example archers, ballistas and onagers can use flaming 
 missiles and some units can make a shield wall. Your general can rally broken and routing units. 
 His unit is very power full, one charge with his unit of cavalry can change the outcome of the 
 battle.
  New stuff- There are almost none of the same units from the original game, but that is a good thing 
 because I think the new units are more useful that the old ones. Also Now some units can swim across 
 rivers but don't try to order them to swim if their exhausted because they will drown and if to 
 many die they will rout and leave the battle field. Next some of the barbarian factions can become 
 hordes after they lose their last settlement. A horde is when a whole factions population gets 
 up and moves. While your a horde the men of your population become solders, but you don't have 
 to pay them to fight. Also if your a horde if you capture a settlement you can chose to settle 
 down in it or sack it. When you sack a settlement you pretty much destroy it and take any thing 
 of value. The last new thing (which is my favorite) is night battles. You can only have a night 
 battle if your general has a special trait, but if he does and your enemy doesn't it can change 
 you chances of wining dramatically.
  GRAPHICS- The graphics are still mediocre, but the great game play makes up for them.
  This game 
 is one of the best strategy games of all time. If your a fan of the Total War series or a beginner 
 you will definitely have a load of fun playing this game. YOU MUST HAVE THE ORIGINAL ROME: TOTAL 
 WAR TO BE ABLE TO PLAY THIS ONE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holydoom9447
Rating: 6.9
Date: Oct 16, 2005 9:19 pm PT
Review:  i love the total war series but the recent addition is Too HArd honestly i wish the campaign was 
 easier as the battles are VERY entertaining (especially night fights!) 
  
  the new barb factions also have real killer units like berserkers which fling my troops in the 
 air :O. the old familiar factions also are gone (where did the greeks go?) religion also is a factor 
 to overall happiness now yup -whats zoroastroism by the way? ignore the masses and they leave you 
 ,dmg your buildings ,maybe kill the governor (that happened to me once) . you suffer huge monetary 
 losses every turn often too unlike the original rome 
  
  i'll just brave through the campaign for now hmm... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiling_bull
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 16, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  What is RTS? In most RTS games, if you management to secure more resource, implying you can pump 
 out more troops faster, you win!!! It is mostly about resource management, fast clicking and hot 
 keying. Where does the strategy part come in? 
  
  Then comes TOTAL WAR series. With a smaller number of troops, using the terrain, manoeuvre, as 
 well as taking effects of moral, a smaller army can rout a much bigger army. On another hand, winning 
 a battle does not necessary mean winning a war. Resource need to be managed in map level, whereas 
 tactical skills will help to win battles.
  
  For fans of TOTAL WAR series, RTW is definitely a superb addition. It has mobile arty, wide varieties 
 of troops and much more strategy planning involved. You can now place ambush, or station yourself 
 at choke points as compared to the past TW series where you just conquer province to province without 
 control on the terrain that you will be fighting.
  
  Barbarian invasion further improves the whole gaming concept with improved AI, both in battles 
 as well as strategic-level. This increase in difficulty level makes victories more tasty and satisfying.
 
  
  Addition of troops swimming in shallow water is a great concept. This adds realism to the whole 
 game play. In the past, defending the bridge is always a breeze. With swimming coming into play, 
 it allows the commander to do flanking movement. 3 cheers to the developers!!! The only problem 
 I observed is that units that can swim no longer run across the bridge. They just love to jump 
 into water. This is frustrating, but still bearable.
  
  Changing to a horde is a great concept too. By allowing a horde to raze towns and moving on, it 
 mimics the true barbarian hordes closely. The hordes add a lot of fun to the player. The border 
 is no longer so easily defined. When a horde appears at your border, you will be faced with a challenging 
 dilemma of confronting this massive army, or pray hard using diplomatic means to let them pass 
 through peacefully. Its really a wonderful concept. 
  
  As for night battles, it is quite a feast of the eyes. Visibility is reduced and adds excitement 
 to the game. 
  
  Overall, RTW is an excellent game. Barbarian invasion just adds extra ratings to it, and adds great 
 replay ability to the TW series.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigi05
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 16, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  ok, i just got the game today, but it is freakin awsome, the gameplay is definetly harder, and 
 even on easy, the battles are harder, the AI is better, and most important, the two roman factions, 
 eastern and western empires, are weaker than the barbarians in some cases! the hordes are very 
 powerful, dont mess with them until they've settled, then the peeps go back into the population! 
 anyway, over all, this game is more than what i expected, a must get expansion. one change is the 
 elephants are gone, no more exploding units due to elephants! *sobs*! this game still gets a 9.7 
 from me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukedeutsch
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 16, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I counted the days until this game came out. When it came out early, I just had to have it. I installed 
 it and played it, expecting better action than the original R: TW game had to offer. Sadly, I was 
 somewhat dissapointed.
  Don't get me wrong, this game is fun. But the gameplay is nearly impossible on the easy setting... I 
 haven't even tried it on anything else. This game could have been a million times better, I don't 
 know why I don't care for it, I just... dont get the same feeling that I got from R: TW. 
  Other than the strangling difficulty, the gameplay is nice, the AI isn't dirt stupid like they 
 were in the pre-expansion, and there is actually some strategy involved in battles. 
  The graphics are a snitch better than Rome, one of the neatest things is the ability to have night 
 battles. The pyro seems to have improved, as well as the character models.
  The sound is pretty good, but I think that the games' music score could use a bit of updating.
 
  The value of this game is well worth the $30 cost, if you enjoy pulling hair from your skull as 
 your troops are slaughtered in the field and your treasury keeps falling no matter what you do.
 
  This game is pretty nice, hopefully they will come out with a patch that will do something about 
 the treasury, money is a very cruel problem, especially for the Romans who start the game with 
 no more than 1000 denarii and plummeting! 
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 481989
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin, I'd like say that I'm a little disappointed with Gamespot's review. First, it comes 
 2 weeks late. Then the reviewer rates it an 8.2 and doesn't really clearly explain why.
  
  But whatever. Onto my review. Barbarian Invasion continues the tradtion of outstanding Total War 
 expansions. There's so much new content packed into this one CD that it almost feels like a new 
 game. You get 20 new factions, several new gameplay features, improved graphics (especially shadows; 
 you'll notice a distinct improvement while playing in a forest or city) , a vastly improved AI, 
 and new campaign with the potential to last you months.
  
  In case you haven't heard, Barbarian Invasion is hard. Very hard. Especially as the Western Roman 
 Empire; it's by far the hardest campaign I've ever played, and I've played some pretty hard mods. 
 I didn't understand how hard until I played it; as the Western Roman Empire bankruptcy and rebellions 
 across half the Empire is a very real possibility, and very few cities start out with public order 
 above 75% (Hell, not even Rome does.) It will take all of your managerial skills to pull the Roman 
 empire out of its death spiral and muster a force strong enough to simply quell rebellions (which 
 WILL flare up, no matter how hard you try) and defeat a small barbarian faction that threatens 
 you at the start of the game. But this isn't nescessarily a bad thing; indeed, I've never played 
 a more fun campaign.
  
  The AI has also changed for the better. The list of improvements is far too long for me to say 
 here, but let me just say, the difference is fairly substantial, and the game only improves because 
 of it. Overall, the patch that is shipped out with the expansion is very good; certainly well above 
 average.
  
  The quality of the graphics, while marginally improved have not changed much; but that's not something 
 you'd expect from an expansion anyway. The sound however, has barely changed at all whatsoever, 
 and while the original game's soundtrack was both excellent and immersive it will leave people 
 who bought the game a while ago wanting something more.
  
  And, if you're into this kind of thing, there are tons of cool mods being released for the expansion, 
 including an Asian fantasy mod (reserve your judgement until you see the absolutely orgasmic screenshots; 
 the mod's name is Blue Lotus) , a Medieval mod that should be released in a month or two, and a 
 Lord of the Rings mod. So even if you get sick of playing Legionaire there is still plenty of content 
 out there to keep you busy.
  
  Overall, Barbarian Invasion is an excellent game and an great use of $30 bucks, and also a great 
 reason to pick up the original game if you haven't yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: football11f
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 15, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  It's been two years since I got my hands on Creative Assembly's epic title Medieval Total War. 
 Upon playing my first campaign as the old-school Byzantine Empire, I thought to myself: "man, this 
 is the game I've been waiting for all my life." Now, two years later, that opinion hasn't changed.
 
  
  The Total War series certainly is revolutionary and, even more than its original title: Shogun 
 Total War, Medieval was its breakthrough. Yet Medieval's awesome gameplay was melded with that 
 nifty thingermabob known as "3D" with Rome Total War last September, and the result was something 
 truly fantastic. 
  
  Rome's expansion, Barbarian Invasion, has to step into some very large shoes. The incredible successes 
 of both Medieval and Rome created a vibrant, picky online community. 
  
  This community, while creating awesome mods and maintaining a friendly environment online, pointed 
 out alot of issues with the original game- known as "Vanilla Rome Total War." The main issues were 
 the "weak, stupid AI" and the "sloppy skins." Barbarian Invasion is expected to solve these issues.
 
  
  I can safely say that it has accomplished the first one. The AI has significantly improved- by 
 golly they actually form and march in a straight line- yet the skins are hardly worth bragging 
 about. The community is already up in arms about the Sassanid's bright turquoise outfits which, 
 according to some, have "burned their eyes out." To me, the skins could certainly be better yet 
 I wouldn't call it a "failure" like many have labeled them.
  
  To me, the greatest improvement is the campaign. In Vanilla, the campaign got old very fast. The 
 Romans were far too overpowered, the AI was stupid (I guess the concept of sailing was foreign 
 to sea-fairing Carthage) and the battles were generally easy. 
  
  Barbarian Invasion, however, isn't like this. The Roman factions are not so overpowering, are incredibly 
 difficult to manage (especially the west) and the hordes add a whole new dimension of difficulty. 
 There is nothing that makes you want to throw the computer across the room than 5 full stacks of 
 Huns storming into Greece while you're busy with Persia.
  
  All in all, Barbarian Invasion is a worthwhile buy. Beyond its sloppy skins and lack of strong 
 new features, the improved campaign and overall strength in battle AI make up for it. The soundtrack 
 is, like Vanilla's, fantastic and the battles look as pretty as ever. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr8one61
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 14, 2005 5:37 am PT
Review:  I don't know what some of these other people are thinking. This is an expansion pack, if you didn't 
 notice, and there isn't going to be a slew of new changes in it. BI lived up to exactly what I 
 expected. The AI is much improved and the new lighting is awesome if you have high end video card. 
 The only complaint I have about BI is the horde. The horde is too powerful and can rip across the 
 entire map killing everyone off. Of course there is a few bugs here and there but what newly released 
 game doesn't have a few bugs? Overall, excellent "expanision." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peace_7
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 14, 2005 2:25 am PT
Review:  I probably spent more time playing Rome: Total War than any other game on any other system. I could 
 not stop playing, I would carry my laptop with me everywhere I went. And even when I had every 
 single city I still wanted to replay it with other factions. Now with the expansion I can get my 
 Rome fix with a few nice changes. You don't have to unlock anything in the expansion and who you 
 pick affects the difficulty. All the units are different and once again every single detail is 
 as historically accurate as it gets. It's fun and educational all in one! A few things were improved 
 for the expansion: the AI is improved and enemies come at you and defend with several armies so 
 if you actually want to win the battle you'll need a few thousand men at times, the cities don't 
 seem to riot unless they are really unhappy (no more rioting constantly even though you have everything 
 possible built in a city and seem to be doing everything right) and you can enter cheats as many 
 times as you want (I recommend just using the money cheat when needed because the empire is in 
 tough enough without having to worry about money) . Keeping the empire together or rebuilding it 
 is even more difficult than initially building it up was and I'm looking forward to fighting off 
 all barbarians and keeping the Roman empire alive and well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slkdfh
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 13, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  In my opinoin one of the best games that has diversity in but fun and entretaining BFME was alright 
 but this has all a RTS/ Stragey game needs to haveIn my opinoin one of the best games that has 
 diversity in but fun and entretaining BFME was alright but this has all a RTS/ Stragey game needs 
 to haveIn my opinoin one of the best games that has diversity in but fun and entretaining BFME 
 was alright but this has all a RTS/ Stragey game needs to haveIn my opinoin one of the best games 
 that has diversity in but fun and entretaining BFME was alright but this has all a RTS/ Stragey 
 game needs to haveIn my opinoin one of the best games that has diversity in but fun and entretaining 
 BFME was alright but this has all a RTS/ Stragey game needs to haveIn my opinoin one of the best 
 games that has diversity in but fun and entretaining BFME was alright but this has all a RTS/ Stragey 
 game needs to haveIn my opinoin one of the best games that has diversity in but fun and entretaining 
 BFME was alright but this has all a RTS/ Stragey game needs to haveIn my opinoin one of the best 
 games that has diversity in but fun and entretaining BFME was alright but this has all a RTS/ Stragey 
 game needs to haveIn my opinoin one of the best games that has diversity in but fun and entretaining 
 BFME was alright but this has all a RTS/ Stragey game needs to haveIn my opinoin one of the best 
 games that has diversity in but fun and entretaining BFME was alright but this has all a RTS/ Stragey 
 game needs to have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephenvoisey
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 13, 2005 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised at the original review, and did not agree. I felt the overall game has been simplified, 
 removing many of the town and cities for example. Combat has yet again been sped up to unrealistic 
 levels and the unit balance is so badly tuned, it could be considered broken. For example, playing 
 the Western Romans, it is possible to beat an army of 2000 men with just a single general unit. 
 A whole group of generals can wipe out entire nations.
  
  Textures are worse than in the original, looking rather garish and bright. The fact that the original 
 campaign has been removed is also a real let down.
  
  In the medeival add on pack, the original product was enhanced, and a new campaign was introduced. 
 BI, takes features away. Overall it felt like Creative Studios were holding back features for the 
 next product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westy159
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This is without a doubt a great game. Its fun, addictive and has an amazing replay value. If only 
 the Creative Assembly had spent perhaps another 2 weeks on it, then it could of been an absolute 
 masterpiece.
  
  You see, behind all the glamour and glory there are a few annoying technical issues. There are 
 a numerous amount of bugs, including archers firing at your own troops backs if they stand a bit 
 too close and irritating things such as your own men not moving when you command them to. Do not 
 worry though, bugs such as the last one do not happen very often at all. But its things like this 
 that stop Barbarian Invasion from becoming the magnificent game that it could of been.
  
  However, if you ignore these and just play the game you will see how fun it can really be. It's 
 a must have for Total War fans. Even if you own Rome Total War and thought 'Yeah it was pretty 
 good' then i recommend it. 
  
  If you desire more of the intense, remarkable and incredible gameplay that we got from Rome: TW 
 then the Barbarian Invasion expansion pack is the answer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvnwnd1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2005 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Look, this game is amazing expansion pack. If your a fan of the original you'll love it. I can 
 see fans not thinking that it is that good, but it does really grow on you. At first it seems like 
 little difference, but the new additions make it just how it should be. At first it looks like 
 very little work was done, and anyone who has played the rome total realism mod ( masterpiece!) 
 will probobly think that, but I promise you it does get better. Keep at it, and you'll begin to 
 appreciate the subtle changes that make this a great, immersive, game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karlazeo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 12, 2005 12:27 am PT
Review:  When i went to the store looking for the game and found it, then i already knew, that it was going 
 to be a great game. i couldnt wait to play it. when i got home and started playing it. a few days 
 earlier i finished Rome: total war and when i started playing the barbarian invasion i felt like 
 i was moving on with my troops there where i stopped in R: tw 
  The game itself is the best one in total war series to date and it really shows itself in front 
 of the other strategy games. It's complexety of civ mixed with total war gives you the R: tw with 
 the expansion barbarian invasion
  The graphics are great and you wont have any problems that the game lags if you have a weaker computer. 
 I tested it on 2 computers. A 1ghz with an intergraded 64mb graphics card and a 2 ghz P4 with 256mb 
 graphics accelerator. Both the machines could easily display 3000 units at one time.
  The sound is awesome, if you have a 5.1 sound system and looking for a great game to play with 
 it, then this is the game for you. But if you own a 2.1 system that's not bad either. The sounds 
 itself are pretty realistic, even the sound of your troops marching into battle makes you think 
 that you are powerful and you have a large army.
  If you like strategy games with good realistic battles and all kinds of different armies and combat 
 areas, then this is the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Centurion
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 11, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  As Rome: Total War revolutionized the mix between Turn-based gameplay and 3-D Real-time strategy, 
 Barbarian Invasion adds a whole new twist to the game. Personally, I find Rome: Total War the complete 
 package, and an great game overall. It contains new features in both gameplays, and adds tweaks 
 on formations in battle.
  A huge new feature would be religion. Throughout your campaign, you can choose your official religion 
 to help soothe your people's needs, and many more things.
  Barbarian Invasion is excellent and amplifies the intensity of the original. The game feels harder, 
 as AI has been drastically improved. This is definantly a must-buy for all Real-time Strategy fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Che_Guevara1990
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 11, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  The campaign is good because in R: TW you had to build up the Roman empire.... In this campaign you 
 play Romes' Downfall. There are over 100 new units and new factions as well. The main point for 
 me would be the night-time battles, they are amazing. All you can see is the torches from the units 
 and when you have quite large armies then this is a really good effect. The units look stunning 
 (if you have a good graphics card) but if you dont have a good enough one for top end prefrences 
 then it still looks really good. All in all this game is a great Stratagy game and will make anyone 
 who has played R: TW right at home!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2Apunisher
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 6:31 am PT
Review:  Spend many hours on Rome: Total War and i think that is not hard enoght,
  i played on very hard gameplay Difficulty and hard battle Difficulty.
  and i pwnd the pc all 
 the time ... 
  the AI in the game is not organized ... i mean all that they do is to come 
  from the front , sometimes they outflank but generaly the pc plays like "Rome: Total noob".
  
 
  i dont understand why in the review was sad :
  "The Bad
  The gameplay can be very challenging"
  
  for me its the good part .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafarsadik
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 11, 2005 4:18 am PT
Review:  It sure is good to have the expation finally in my hands and all the new features are really good. 
 I mean managing the religion plus having to take care of your growing empire (and I do mean taking 
 care of, not just having one) will keep you guys busy for a long while and it's quite rewarding 
 undertaking huge battles that will lead you to either building or maintaining you empire.
  One thing I was hoping it would be better was the naval battles, I know it has been already meantioned 
 but still I would have loved it if the naval part was somewhat more elaborate.
  Well all in all this is a good expation and I would defenatly reommened buying it.
  Gil 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neel_ror
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 11, 2005 1:22 am PT
Review:  An amazing expansion to a legandary series! TW: barbarian puts you in the final days of rome! remember 
 rome was not built in a day nor was it destroyed in a day! The best part being the barbaric powers 
 being given equal emphasis, but with aoe3 and civ4 comin up this might be the wrong time to release 
 this game.!!! I do hope ther r more expansions coming up for this game as the graphics engine is 
 one of the best in business and is not to be wasted. The sound is really good making you feel the 
 barbaric chants as the huns approach with their trademark tactic of hit and run. Such realism is 
 rarely seen regarding the number of games that have been created to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waikit25
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2005 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Rome Total War just half a year ago and i was blown away by the graphics and 
 gameplay. It was amazing. Large scale battles, great sound effects etc. I was looking forward to 
 the expansion thereafter. When it finally released, i wasnt disappointed with the expansion. New 
 races & new units though the same gameplay. It was enough to get me hooked to the pc after work 
 every day. :p Good job guys. 
  
  I have played the expansion for a few days now and i have noticed some minor bugs such as slowdown 
 of graphics when playing the expansion while the graphics were adequately smooth in the original 
 game. I had to lower the graphic options to run the game more smoothly. but anyway keep up the 
 good work guys!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theruben_basic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 10, 2005 8:24 pm PT
Review:  So it's good that the game has much better AI... but it's bad that that AI adds challenge to the 
 game? What the hell? That makes no sense whatsoever. The improved AI (while not brilliant by any 
 means) makes the game a lot better than it used to be, and I'm dying to know how A) that can be 
 bad, and B) That can be great and bad at the same time.
  
  Anyway, I love the expansion pack so far. The horde feature for the barbarian factions is great, 
 adds a whole new dimension to the game. The challenge here is very good, and very fun. What a crappy 
 and unprofessional review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaimera
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Although this is essentially the same game as Shogun Total War was many moon ago, raising a massive 
 army and conquering the known world with it never does get old. I particularly enjoy this expansion 
 because of its emphasis on the Germanic tribes, which in its original state were nothing more than 
 a bunch of pants-wearing spearmen. I love every Total War game and I'll continue to play them for 
 weeks straight until they stop making them! Any fan of history would do well to get this game and 
 see what happened first hand, even if the game is just based on "best guesss" assumptions and little 
 flavor addings here and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gulyas
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2005 12:46 pm PT
Review:  At first, sorry for my english. I played with Saxon's and Frank's at hardest level. Almoust every 
 bug's from Rome was corrected ( like enemy's Army stay at center of City when you attack them with 
 archers) . Enemy Army dont make suicide atack on walls when you traying to run the blockade, and 
 many more... List of new units are not amazing, but is very interesting. New Buildings are also 
 freshing and interesting. Sea Battles are terrible. I made experiment; Every time when I load a 
 game before battle, I get completely diferent result from that battle. One of bigest objection; 
 YOU CAN'T PLAY WITH EVERY NATION'S IN GAME, ESPECIALY WITH MY FAVORITE'S, SLAVS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottchen
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2005 6:15 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of Rome Total War, played most of the faction's campaign, and the roman ones quite 
 a few times. I was very excited about this expansion pack, but i have to say playing as the Eastern 
 Roman Empire, so far has been fairly dissappointing, compared to the original Rome Total War. The 
 amount of units trainable on the roman side has been decreased, the Roman factions are very hard 
 to play in the beginning. There are now less provinces, and the provinces are huge, so cities are 
 very far apart from eachother, makes that simultaneous siege on 4-5 cities impossible. The limit 
 on provinces is 200 so hopefully modders will unlock some. The battles are still just as fun, if 
 not a little better with the night battle addition. But the strategy map just isn't fun as the 
 original. If you haven't played the original Rome Total War, i highly recommend you do that, and 
 skip out this one. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
