-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rome: Total War Alexander
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/rometotalwaralexander/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Grueling campaign lets you know why Alexander is called &quot;the Great&quot;.
 including a turn limit adds a great sense of urgency to every campaign battle.
 strong mix of new nations and units.
 new multiplayer options jazz up online combat with two-on-one and three-on-one games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Campaign is about conquest-in-a-hurry, which means more emphasis on battles and less on turn-based strategy like diplomacy, building, or consolidation.
 Extreme challenge is refreshing, but could be off-putting for beginners and serious historical buffs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 7.6, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 943 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Creative Assembly
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Jun 19, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It may be a bit too fast and furious, but this extremely challenging expansion depicting the conquests 
 of Alexander the Great is a fantastic addition to the Rome: Total War family. 

  Alexander the Great supposedly once said, "There is nothing impossible to him who would try." Well, 
 he never played his namesake expansion pack for Rome: Total War. This latest, download-only addition 
 to The Creative Assembly's long-running series of historic epics is so spectacularly difficult 
 that even the legendary Macedonian conqueror would have a rough go of subduing those pesky Persians. 
 The game provides an illuminating lesson on just how tough of a task the monarch set for himself 
 when he journeyed out to conquer the known world in 335 BC, and it's a splash of cold Grecian wine 
 in the face of Total War-series veterans who think they've done it all.  

          The great man himself, about to ride Bucephalus into battle.     

  The add-on's scope 
 is a bit more limited than the previous Rome: Total War expansion pack, Barbarian Invasion, as 
 befitting its download-only distribution at a cut-rate price of $14.95. For that fee, you get one 
 campaign encompassing Alexander's blitz of the Near East, six historical battles from Alexander's 
 early career, and new multiplayer options, where you can set up two-on-one and three-on-one matches 
 and tournaments online.  

  This content is more than enough, though, largely because the campaign is so challenging that most 
 players will spend many, many hours experimenting with different ways to beat it. It changes the 
 focus of the original Rome: Total War by dropping any pretense of building and diplomacy in favor 
 of a 100-turn slugfest that favors battles over Rome's turn-based deliberation, so if you're expecting 
 lots of political intrigue and empire-building, you might not find what you're looking for. This 
 is a Macedonian rush to get Big Al roughly to the border of India while holding 30 provinces before 
 the clock runs out and the gods spirit him away to Olympus (or he gets drunk and dies, depending 
 on which version you want to believe) . While you still can play around with fortifying conquered 
 towns and setting up garrisons (there is no diplomacy available at all here) , to do so means that 
 you'll never occupy enough areas before the sands run through the hourglass and Alexander's life 
 comes to a youthful end.  

  Needless to say, getting to the promised land is not easy. The odds are stacked against you from 
 the very start of the game. Play opens with the Macedonian treasury deep in the red and the capital, 
 Pella, sandwiched between Persian armies on the eastern side of the Bosphorus and a pesky Illyrian 
 barbarian force to the northwest. Go gung ho into Asia to take on the Persians right away (which 
 you feel pressed to do, given you're on a clock and supposed to be heading east, not west) and 
 the Illyrians can cruise in and take Pella. Devote too much strength to the Illyrians, and the 
 Persian army and fleet to the east go on the offensive.  

  It's tough getting established in Asia with a reasonably strong army, let alone blitzing all the 
 way into India. Armies get whittled down constantly. Even though you start with a massive force, 
 it gets hacked apart in short order since you're forced to fight one big battle after another. 
 You have no way to properly rest and rebuild, either, as a scorched-earth policy is necessary to 
 raise cash for troops and to ensure that you don't wind up with revolts in your rear that you have 
 no time to go back and deal with. This is more than a bit ahistorical. History buffs might find 
 it strange and off-putting to lead Alexander's armies to crush his neighbors, since this doesn't 
 mesh with the mercy that the real Alexander showed to conquered cities or the conqueror's cultural-fusion 
 policy (it's hard to merge Greece with Persia when you're slaughtering every Persian you lay your 
 eyes upon) . But there is no other way to wage war here. Play the benevolent conqueror, and you 
 inevitably wind up fighting a war on two fronts later in the game.  

          Gather enough phalangists, and you'll soon find out that the top Persian units aren't immortal 
 after all, despite their name.     

  For reinforcements in Alexander, you're stuck with either building and bringing up troops from 
 core Greek cities such as Pella and Sparta or hiring mercenaries (after you sack enough cities 
 to rebuild your treasury, of course) . Neither option is entirely effective, though. By the time 
 you get past turn 50 or so, your main army is so far to the east (or at least it should be) that 
 it takes forever for troops from home to reach the front lines. And, as in all Total War games, 
 mercenaries are often unreliable, especially in vast numbers. You can easily get to a position 
 where you're fighting battles with just a few hundred Macedonians backed by four or five times 
 that many mercenaries.  

  Still, it isn't all bad. When you have them to deploy, Macedonian troops are the best in the game -- their 
 morale is superb, and they are universally good all-around units that can attack and defend extremely 
 well. Two really stand out. The Companion heavy cavalry are absolute killers from the flanks and 
 have solid armor that makes them better than average defenders against spearmen. And the phalangist 
 spearmen are flat-out devastating against, well, almost everything. They never seem to break, and 
 their long spears can chew up enemy infantry, cavalry, archers, and spearmen alike. Deploy enough 
 of them, and they can make short work of even Persia's new Immortal heavy-infantry units and the 
 Indian elephants.  

  That said, the campaign remains tough. It's well worth playing, though. The focus on the battlefield 
 arguably makes play a bit less engaging than the typical campaign in the original Rome: Total War, 
 but the turn limit adds an incredible sense of tension to every single battle, right from the opening 
 skirmishes. Games can be run through pretty quickly, too. So even though there is a lot of luck 
 and experimentation required to get to India in one piece, you can zip through a full campaign 
 in a couple of evenings of play. This really cranks up the replay value.  

  New multiplayer and skirmish rules enhance the replay factor, too. Being able to set up lopsided 
 battles and wage war in multibattle (best of three or best of five) tournaments adds new wrinkles 
 to online play and solo skirmishes against the computer. Unfortunately, these rules can only be 
 used with the expansion and its Macedonian, Persian, Indian, and Barbarian factions, not Rome: 
 Total War or the Barbarian Invasion add-on.  

          Illyrian barbarians are no match for Alexander's heavy-cavalry Companions.     

  Of 
 even more interest is the minicampaign depicting six of Alexander's earliest battles. You start 
 by subduing the Greeks and then ravage the Anatolian coast to kick out the Persians. Like the primary 
 campaign, the minicampaign offers battles that are incredibly tough, particularly the last two 
 against the Persian king Darius III and his elephants. An added plus is that these battles are 
 hosted by acclaimed British actor Brian Blessed (best known for his fantastic portrayal of Augustus 
 in the BBC adaptation of  I, Claudius ) . His lines lend a lot of drama to the overall presentation, 
 even though he chews the scenery so much that battles veer toward the campy at certain moments, 
 such as when units are routed.  

  Alexander brings a lot to the table for its $14.95 price tag. Although the battlefield focus makes 
 it a little too fast and furious for methodical conquerors who want their virtual empires to stand 
 the test of time, this isn't what Alexander the Great was all about. So the expansion based on 
 his exploits isn't about building something that lasts, either. Still, this is a must-play addition 
 to the Rome: Total War family, especially if you're looking for a challenge.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Hughesm
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  After switching on the game, I hoped that the game would be a good one: which it was. However the 
 difficulty of the game is your choice and I fear that if you set it to the easiest level (which 
 I did) it will be far (and I mean far) to easy. However to myself, just the thought of conquest 
 is good enough for me. The trick is to do exactly what Alexander actually did in HIS conquests. 
 The historical battles are a bit annoying because you need to complete one before you can go on 
 to the other. One huge, unfortunate feature of the game is that it is very quick, resulting in 
 quick conquest. That means once you have completed (which I did in 3 hours) it you cannot play 
 it again because you know what's going to happen whereas in the Rome Total War and Barbarian Invasion 
 you have a longer campaign and choice of different factions. This leads me to my next point. The 
 game Alexander is quite restricted; it lets you only play as one faction (the Macedonians) AND you 
 have a time limit. But overall it is quite a good game and I would recommend it to Rome Total War 
 fans and historical dudes who like this sort of thing (as do I) . So thanks for reading my review 
 and I look forward to writing more for Gamespot. BYE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 4, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: While Alexander's fierce advance was every bit as impressive as those of the Mongols, 
 Vikings and Germanic barbarians, it's less the story of an inevitable clash between two warring 
 people as it is the story of the ambitions and achievements of Alexander himself. The game starts 
 after Philip's death and just as Alexander is poised to move against the Thebans. Once you manages 
 to secure things in Greece, he'll be free to move against the Persians in the east. To win the 
 campaign game, you'll have to capture at least thirty kindoms. Where previous expansions have allowed 
 players to take charge of one of a number of empires during a crucial moment of conflict, this 
 expansion is strictly limited to Alexander's campaign against the Persians. Given the limited nature 
 of the campaign, there are only four new civilizations here. The two heavy hitters are Alexander's 
 Macedonians/Greeks and Darius's Persians. Far to the east you'll discover the Indians and a variety 
 of barbarians but don't really have much power or much of a role in the overall map. City building 
 is pretty much the same comcept as pervious games and so are the battles. Of course there is the 
 multiplay part of the game which you can play.
  
  Graphics: I have to say that again the graphics are well done in this game. Everything is well 
 detailed and colorful on the campaine map and even the battles, which are quite smooth even though 
 there are thousands of troops moving around on the battlefield. 
  
  Sound: I have to say that the soundtrack is well done again and suits the game well. Also the voice 
 acting is not bad either. All in all the sounds in this game sound the way it should sound in real 
 life.
  
  Value: All in all this was another enjoyable expantion to the Rome series with again great replayablility. 
 The only thing i did not like was the lack fof fracions you could play..... espcially in the middle 
 east. In the end I give this game 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddy_purpus
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  That Total War envelopers are selling games like these and the almost the hole series at 39.99 
 almost all the games they have done :P. . .
  including the best RTS game i have ever played . . . 
  Rome Total War . . .
  I could play as 
 the Julii , The Brutii or The Scippii :P
  I own Rome Total War with BI expansion , Medieval Total War 2 and its new expansion The kingdoms 
 . 
  i Will get the TOTAL WAR ERAS soon . . Just to get this Expansion Rome Total War Alexander . . 
 . 
  This games make the difference from those that don't create a new form of playing . . .
  I did 
 play the Age Of empires games . . .
  and I still like them . . .
  but its only that they dont innovate the gameplay . . .
  they did a fine Job at Age of Mythology 
 . . .
  and at Rise of Nationes ;)
  But sometimes . . .
  you got to have CREATIVE AND INNOVATIVE . . .
  now . . .
  i have noticed that the creators 
 of AoE and AoM
  are working on HALO WARS . . .
  I have seen the screenshots and they look awesome ;)
  ...
  thats all i had to say this time 
 . . .
  
  
  if you want to have a friend who likes video games like these add me at myspace
  
  
  its
 
  
  wx3 dot myspace dot com / eddyzero4life 
  
  
  
  i will wait for more guys like me to talk about games and that. . .
  
  
  
  thank you =)
 
  
  
  
  
  xExdxvxaxrxdxox
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Wow. I did not notice how cheap this game is. 20 bucks!!! Thats a great price. But you pay for 
 what you get. The campaign is only the campaign of Alexander [unless you mess with the files which 
 I did and now I got all the factions] . You play as Alexander the Great and you must elimanate the 
 Persian empire. The campaign is extremly hard. I think you can only win with cheats. Anyways, you 
 start out with two cities and two large armies and a small army led by a captain. And you must 
 conquer the world in only 100 turns! Sounds hard, well it is. Another excellent feature about this 
 game is the new historical battles mode. You play them as a missions. Once you complete one, another 
 one is unlocked. They are also very hard.
  
  Unfortantly, there are only 4 factions in the game. Persia, Macadonia, Barbairain facts, and India. 
 All fun factions though. Once you beat the game theres nothing to do. So only if your a hardcore 
 Total war fan whos looking for a hard game buy this. If you want a long-fun game like the original 
 rome total war then back off this game.
  
  -Helloiseeu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomisSandthief
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War Alexander leaves me with a bad taste in my mouth. While I do have my undergraduate 
 degree in Ancient Greek and Roman Studies do not think that I am grading this game on historical 
 accuracy. I understand that the gaming license requires a certain level of historical inaccuracy 
 to create a balanced and playable game. That being said there is plenty to complain about with 
 the Alexander expansion which has nothing to do with historical accuracy.
  
  I am writing this review with the mind frame that anyone reading it will have played the original 
 game and possibly the expansion so bare with me. One of the largest problems I had with the game 
 was the size of the map. With the original and Barbarian invasion we are supplied with a huge map 
 to explore and conquer. When creating a game based on a campaign which we know so much about it 
 is tough having only one city on all of Greece, Two for all of Egypt, so on and so forth. My second 
 large problem with the game was the little things. Everyone comes to enjoy the little things which 
 movies and games do right. It is like having the actual streets of Las Vegas to play on or historic 
 accuracy of a Captain's shirt on a movie. Little attentions to detail greatly enhance the admiration 
 fans feel for movies and games. It is like wow they took the time to get the little things right. 
 I felt that playing this game the creators hadn't even picked up the most basic history book on 
 Alexander's campaign and instead were creating the game based on an 11 grade history course they 
 took ten years ago. For example the game has Sparta being under Alexander's control which it never 
 was in real life and the Immortals wearing armour. Not that something like that has any impact 
 on the game whatsoever, it simply conveys to me a basic lack of understanding on the basic material 
 of the campaign. However on the flip side it is very good that they did not make the game exactly 
 like the history of Alexander. I found my knowledge of the campaign did not help me very much. 
 The largest wrench thrown into the works was the barbarian factions. I left as small a garrisons 
 as I could behind and pressed farther and farther into Asia with the maximum amount of troops at 
 first. However very quickly I found several of them sacked by Scythians from the North. While this 
 was never even close to happening in reality the addition slows down your armies exponentially 
 as you must constantly watch your rear or divert a large force to defeat them. This slows down 
 your advance into Asia nicely and makes it very difficult to complete your conquering in only ten 
 years or so. On the hard difficulties it is impossible to complete the game by the time Alexander 
 died in history. However this does create something to work towards and keep me coming back to 
 the game to expand apon.
  
  If you like slowly building up your empire your going to have a very tough time with this campaign. 
 Nothing about it is slow. You start with only Pella and Sparta as cities with an army far to large 
 to be supported in the game by only two cities. If you don't conquer at least two cities within 
 the first five turns you are going to be in a huge hole. (This is not historically accurate whatsoever 
 but in real life Alexander did spend almost all the money which he brought in which you will to 
 with no doubt.)
  
  What the Alexander campaign lacks in detail and breath it makes up for with cunning design. Without 
 a doubt Creative Assembly did not spend a lot of time making this game. No one can fault them for 
 that as they had bigger fish to fry (like making Medieval II) . To create a proper Alexander campaign 
 would have taken the resources and effort of an expansion like Barbarian Invasion which was probably 
 not in the budget. Instead we get a cheep expansion which shows the ingenuity of the staff at Creative 
 Assembly. This expansion has everything you need to be pulled in and wonder where the time has 
 gone. It does the basic work to put together a game which will satisfy everyone and make you dust 
 of your copy of Rome Total War and beat it all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_fido
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  So all roads lead to Alexander, eh? At first, youd think this was like Viking Invasion; after 
 all, this is the Barbarians of the North sweeping down to assault the civilised states. Yet, theres 
 a difference. In BI, you had a predominance of power and could live off pillaging the towns you 
 assaulted; here you have a tiny but well-trained army taking on the might of the the Persian empire.
 
  
  You need to conquer and hold 10 key cities across an enormous area within 100 turns (around 50 
 years) . That is, you need to conquer Asia before young Alexander pops his divine clogs. From the 
 off, Alexander needs to neutralise threats from the Lydians to the north and secure the Thracians 
 Byzantium, before moving into Persia proper. As his fleet is pitifully small, this must be done 
 quickly (we waited too long and found ourselves washed up on the shores of Egypt) . Once there, 
 youre isolated and surrounded by huge Persian armies. You have to rely on funds from home, slavery 
 and the plentiful but disloyal mercenaries to maintain your armys impetus. If you falter, your 
 income will dry up, and youll be wiped out. Its a great device and we welcome it.
  
  Blessed Alexander
  Beyond the overweening sense of historical importance, this expansion doesnt 
 add much. Yes, theres the new Asian map to play on. However, there are only four new factions: 
 the various barbarians, the Persians, the Indians with their elephants and naked female archers (!) , 
 and Alexanders own indomitable Macedonians. Theres no new game mechanic, like Barbarian Invasion 
 introduced, save for the new ability to fight decidedly unbalanced multiplayer battles.
  
  Wed love to have found out more about the cities we were attempting to conquer, seen a ghost overlay 
 of the actual path of Alexander, year by year, so we could see how we compared (and inevitably 
 how far we had fallen behind) . And the Brian Blessed tones dont counteract the effect of the still-randomly 
 Australian Romans popping up in the Help menu.
  
  Creative Assembly has rested on its laurels; it should have followed Alexanders example and moved 
 swiftly into unknown territory. Instead, it looks like well have to wait for Medieval 2 for new 
 challenges. A nice idea, but theres not enough expansion about this pack for our liking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwarz24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War Alexander is an amazingly fun game. The historical battles are fun and I like the 
 way you sequentially unlock them. To beat the historical battles, you really need to think it out, 
 unlike the other Total War games. The campaign is a real challenge, conquer most of the known world 
 while defending your homeland from barbarians and never letting Alexander die. And you have to 
 get that done in under 100 turns. It's a lot of fun. They should have had more than 4 factions, 
 but all in all it's a great game for any Total War fan's collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffinballow
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War - Alexander
  One of history's biggest conquerors gets a small expansion.
  by Steve Butts June 20, 2006 - Reformats aside, Rome: Total War hasn't left our hard drives since 
 the day it was released. Neither has the massive Barbarian Invasion expansion pack. When we heard 
 that the gang at Creative Assembly were working on a second expansion for the game, focusing on 
 the career of Alexander the Great, we were understandably excited. We've just spent the entire 
 weekend playing through the new expansion and, while it's always good to get more Total War action, 
 we were left wishing this latest offering had been a little more filled out. Still, for only fifteen 
 bucks, it's hard to go wrong. At first, we weren't even sure this was a Total War expansion. It 
 doesn't have the word Invasion anywhere in the title. While Alexander's fierce advance was every 
 bit as impressive as those of the Mongols, Vikings and Germanic barbarians, it's less the story 
 of an inevitable clash between two warring people as it is the story of the ambitions and achievements 
 of Alexander himself. Where previous expansions have allowed players to take charge of one of a 
 number of empires during a crucial moment of conflict, this expansion is strictly limited to Alexander's 
 campaign against the Persians. Given the limited nature of the campaign, there are only four new 
 civilizations here. The two heavy hitters are Alexander's Macedonians and Darius's Persians. Far 
 to the east you'll discover the Indians and a variety of barbarians but they're really marginal 
 powers that don't factor too heavily into the overall scheme of things. Continuing the trend started 
 in Barbarian Invasion, Alexander will have to contend with plenty of unsettled rebel armies as 
 well. The game starts after Philip's death and just as Alexander is poised to move against the 
 Thebans. Once he manages to secure things in Greece, he'll be free to move against the Persians 
 in the east. To win the campaign game, you'll have to capture thirty territories. Though you'll 
 have to hold a few specific territories, capturing thirty territories is basically the same as 
 capturing the whole map so you really won't have to worry too much about getting the right territories. 
 You will however have to worry about achieving your goals within the 100-turn time limit. (Since 
 Alexander's conquests lasted only 13 years, the game dispenses with the year-by-year system and 
 just progresses turn-by-turn.) The campaign game is still dominated by city sieges but there seems 
 to be much more fighting in the fields this time around. As Alexander's forces move east they'll 
 encounter smaller garrisons supplemented by numerous enemy armies moving in between the cities. 
 It's not infrequent to have to take out one or two armies before assaulting the city itself. Just 
 as the real Alexander had to secure freshly conquered areas before moving on, so too will you have 
 to determine what type of empire to leave in your wake. The danger of rebels is severe enough to 
 make it worth considering putting cities to the sword when you take them. The extra cash you get 
 for this definitely helps to boost Alexander's horrible economy. Since the invasion progresses 
 along a single line of attack, you won't need to worry too much about building up the areas you've 
 already conquered. Just leave a token garrison and push on. This approach means there's not a lot 
 of room for strategic maneuvering but it also helps you build up a massive army of seasoned veterans 
 who are capable of beating larger armies. The Alexander focus seems too narrow, in my opinion, 
 as it really only tells the final chapter of the conflict between the Greeks and Persians. Where 
 previous expansions have told the story of massive conflicts between different peoples, this one 
 just tells the story of one single campaign during a much larger war. When you consider that the 
 developers might have included the Persian Wars and the Peloponnesian Wars, the single campaign 
 featured here seems a little light. If nothing else, it would be cool to at least play as the Persians 
 as they try to hold back Alexander's advance. HINTS HERE
  Rome: Total War Alexander Genre: Strategy Publisher: Creative Assembly Developer: Sega Release 
 Date: 19.06.2006 Minimum System: n/a Type: Fighting Reality Factor: Realistic Real Time: Real Time 
 &amp; Turns Map Size: Global Extra: Management Combat Status: Militaristic Management: Minor Economy 
 Age: Historic Review Downloads 1 movie We play Rome: Total War Alexander... Alexander the Great, 
 one of the most brilliant general in the Western civilization is being relived in this second expansion 
 of the Total War Series, Rome: Total War  Alexander. This downloadable addition to the Total War 
 series features fast-paced action that will bring you along the journey through the life and achievements 
 of Alexander the Great, one of the more brilliant generals of his time. Before going to battle, 
 learn to think and acts like the greatest general of the Western Civilization, Alexander the Great 
 The game introduces 4 new facts in this expansion pack. One fact is the Indians, who go to battle 
 strong with war elephants and numerous bowmen Real-time epic scale battles and historic setting 
 with focus on details make the Rome expansion pack a worthwhile addition to the Total War series.
 
  
  It starts off with the impressive Shogun: Total War, where the promise of a journey to the Western 
 Civilization initiates. It builds up the excitement in the Medieval: Total War. Finally, it makes 
 a full turn into the third expansion pack, the downloadable Rome: Total War, which features the 
 brilliance of the general, Alexander the Great.
  
  This boosts the exciting Total War games by adding as much as 30 hours of fun by introducing 4 
 new factions: The Macedonians, they are people, who are willing to kill and go to battle in combination 
 with heavy phalanxes and strong companion cavalry. Their fighting spirits make up for their weakness 
 in force. The Persians, they control the waters with strong port towns and very strong troops of 
 all types. They also seek assistance from mercenary troops that add to their power on the battlefield. 
 The Indians, they are difficult to tackle because of its many bowmen, war elephants and charioteers. 
 The Barbarians, they begin outside the Macedonian to hurt enemies with their sickle men and skirmishers.
 
  
  This game is also available with more than 60 new units including Persian scythed chariots, elite 
 immortals and the famous units from Alexanders faction such as hypaspists, phalangists and companion 
 cavalry.
  
  Tackling the enemies is not really such an easy task because you fight against your enemies while 
 ensuring that in 100 turns, you will need to end a campaign. Quick thinking and reflexes may thus 
 be necessary to ensure victory in the battlefield. As Alexander, you will need to en a campaign 
 in 100 turns with a limited time. However, do not despair, you will learn to speed up you pace 
 by keeping pace with the adrenalin rush in this action packed game The companion cavalry in Alexanders 
 troop will boost your chances of being victorious in numerous battles Players of Rome: Total War 
  Alexander needs to learn tactical abilities because most of their factions are faced with being 
 outnumbered almost all the time. Tactics may come to play most of the game. Strategic maneuvers 
 may not be as much use if you are slow, because you may lose many of your men in that fast-paced 
 actions in this downloadable Total War expansion pack.
  
  Having enough number of armies fighting on your side will ensure you can go through any campaign.
 
  
  As the game progress, oppositions will get tougher. This may sound bad for your campaign; however, 
 players often prove they learn more of Alexanders ability facing all the enemies as he goes on 
 the battlefield.
  
  If you want to ensure you will not allow the action to go on a screeching halt, you may train to 
 think and act like Alexander the Great through the six new historical missions available in this 
 expansion pack.
  
  It chronicles some of Alexanders key battle, giving you enough hints on how to best face the enemies 
 on the battlefield. These historical missions will thus help you understand the game more and be 
 able to fully enjoy the battles as it unfolds during the game.
  
  Whether playing against the AI or on a multiplayer mode, Rome: Total War  Alexander will prove 
 to be fun-filled and exciting. It will keep you in your sit longer than you probably thought you 
 would.
  
  The journey through time and taking part in the war that started from Macedonia to Greece using 
 the new campaign map will add to the effectiveness of this tactical game.
  
  To add thrill to the tactical maneuvers and fast paced action in Rome: Total War  Alexander, the 
 excellent graphics of this game and the well-written plot will keep you wanting for more.
  
  As if all these developments in this Total War expansion pack is not enough, the developer 
 add excitement by providing high-quality movies featuring the voice of Brian Blessed. He is the 
 talented actor seen on Flash Gordon, Alexander and Star Wars: The Phantom Menace.
  
  Playing alone or with your friends, the availability of using varying modes set-ups such as 1v1, 
 2v2 and 3v1 will keep you in awe. This third addition to the Total War series promised to give 
 boost to the exciting on-line gaming, it did not. It gave the Total War series a wonderful mark 
 by topping the scale of being one of the best online games ever to grace the cyber world. The Macedonian, 
 one of the additional factions in this game is another hard to beat faction because their weakness 
 in force is compensated by their ready to kill attitude Barbarians, another new faction in Rome: 
 Total War intends to beat the enemies with their sickle men and skirmishers For my cheaters...... CHEATS 
 HERE.
  
  Password than Effect create_unit settlement/charactername unit_ID amount exp/armour/weapon process_cq 
 settlement auto_win attacker/defender Attacker or defender automatically wins the next auto resolved 
 battle add_population Y X Adds population, where Y is the settlement name and X is the amount process_cq 
 settlement Finished the building queue in the settlement add_money 40000 Receive 40000 denari. 
 process_cq cityname Complete all buildings in queue in 1 turn. toggle_fow toggle fog of war on/off. 
 bestbuy 10 percent cheaper Units. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPumbliQ
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  Ok i love Total war and Rome was great but this expansion cannot be compared to the original Rome 
 Total war. You can see your timer in the lower left corner and that disturbs me. Its like they 
 suddenly cant bend history a little, Alexanders grandson cant take on the Persians but barbarians 
 can conquer Rome and reach North Africa. If Alexander dies you will loose the game wich is a huge 
 bummer if you are far into the game and forgot to save. Good graphics no superior sounds or gameplay 
 but good and you can now kill your own cavalry by running into your own spears. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rometw_rules
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War Alexander is a very good game and worth buying too! You start with only one faction 
 which is Macedon not like the other games that you started with factions from 3 and above. When 
 you'll stat the imperial campaign you command the best general of all time ALEXANDER and other 
 generals of Alexander. There are 5 new factions that include  
 are the factions your going to meet in the imperial campaign but you won't meet the Indians they 
 didn't exist when Alexander started his campaign but eventually they will appear. The game is hard 
 on normal level so it's a good challenge ;) . There are historical battles too. There's another thing 
 that is not same with the other total war games. In the historical battles you start with one historical 
 battle and when you win you'll unlock another one and so on. If you closely see the illyrians logo 
 you'll see that they've got the Greek's Cities logo and they are barbarian tribe this is because 
 the illyrians are the Greeks but before the Greeks Cities were formed. The graphics are really good 
 so as the sound is and gameplay good. If you're new to this games i insist you of buying total war 
 eras collection i'm saying this because the Total War Eras Collection has most of the games of 
 total war including Shogun Total War, Shogun Total War Mongol Invasion, Medieval Total War, Medieval 
 Total War Viking Invasion, Rome Total War, Rome Total War Barbarian Invasion and Rome Total War Alexander 
 with other words every single games exept the new game MEDIEVAL TOTAL WAR 2. The pack also contains 
 art work, a poster of Medieval Total War 2 cards, dvd, music cd (including all the music the games 
 of total war have) and the instruction booklet. The total war eras collection is a must buy because 
 it's got all the games and stuff but it also is very cheap!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralDK
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 19, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of Rome: Total War - the only thing i've really missed, is Alexander the Great. I 
 know he was not roman, but his battles are famous.
  Now he gets an expansion, and that's fair. In the expansion you can completely concentrate on his 
 conquest of Asia.
  
  The Macedonian army is in many ways the world's best, but the Persians are so many in numbers, 
 that it's difficult to get started. If you don't attack the Persian Empire at once, Asia Minor 
 will become full of enemies.
  
  Actually the campaign gets boring when you've destroyed the Persian armies and taken Babylon. From 
 there it's just city after city. When the main campaign is done. you can play some of the greatest 
 of Alexanders battles. The battles are historical accurate, and the AI even does as Alexander's 
 enemies did. REALLY nice! The game is even better if you've seen the film Alexander. When you've 
 finished the game you might find it a bit too short, but the experience was surprisingly good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War -- Alexander brings to life the meteoric rise of one of history's most brilliant 
 generals: Alexander the Great. The expansion offers an epic addition to the Total War series boasting 
 more that 30 hours of gameplay and will feature a brand new campaign game map, spanning Alexander's 
 unification of Greece and his subsequent conquest of the Persian Empire. The expansion pack will 
 also include six new historical battles portraying Alexander's triumphs against the Greek, Persian, 
 and Indian forces. These new battles will also be available for online and LAN multiplayer use. 
 More than 60 new units are also now available, including Persian scythed chariots, elite immortals, 
 and all of Alexander's most famous units, including the Hypaspists, Phalangists, and Companion 
 cavalry.
  
  I'm always glad for an excuse to revisit Creative Assembly's Total War series and the Alexander 
 expansion is definitely a welcome addition. The new units and the new campaign let players fight 
 in one of the most celebrated campaigns in all of military history. As always, the gameplay and 
 graphics really bring the experience to life. Still, the limited nature of the expansion keeps 
 it from being a must have addition for those who aren't quite as hungry as I am for new Total War 
 content. Containing none of the breadth of new units and new strategies that the Total War expansions 
 have been known for, Alexander feels more like a mission pack. Thanfully, the &pound;8.50 price 
 tag makes it a lot easier to accept but, if you're like me, you'd rather have paid twice as much 
 for content that would last a little longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmhiggy
Rating: 6.4
Date: Sep 30, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  its a good expansion but i do not think it was worth &pound;14 i would have preferred to expand 
 the orignal empire game to include the ability to play the other barbarian tribes. on the plus side 
 i love the way you have to constantly push in order to keep up the scale of attack no time to dawdle, if 
 you so much as stop for longer than three turns the old dear pops up in the window to tell you 
 that you are behind and tardiness will not be tolerated. its also great to be able to play with 
 more units and the greeks have thier own slant on how to fight battles so you have to adapt or 
 die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_hate_rangers
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 23, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  When i heard that an Alexander Total War game was being released my first thought was ''Oh Yes!!!''. 
 However when i played it i was quite disappointed, sure it was a challenge but that and the fact 
 it was about Alexander the Great was the only reason i kept playing. The graphics and gameplay 
 were pretty much the same, where you have your cities and need to create armies to beat the other 
 factions. The only difference with Alexander is that you are trying to complete the campaign in 
 100 turns and you only have two cities and a small fleet and a small army and your opponents-The 
 mighty Persian Empire, barbarian tribes and The Indian Empire with their elephants. This game is 
 for Total War players who have experience playing Total War games and should only be bought when 
 you feel you have mastered RTW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kavehmj
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  
  
  
  : 
 
   : Creative Assemby
  : SEGA
   :
 
  
     :
 
  Game Spot: 8.5
  IGN: 8
  Game Rankings: 82
   : 
 8.3
  
      
   Total War   
 2000    Shogun: Total 
 War   .  
     
     
     
      
  .  
     
      
      
    
     
     
 .     
  Expansion Pack    
   Shogun: Total War Wallords edition  
      
      
 .
      
     
       
     
      
  Medieval: Total War .   
   2002    
      
      
 .    
 Medieval: Total War     
      
     
      
      
 .     
  (  2003 ) 
  Expansion Pack    
     Medieval: 
 Total War Viking Invasion    
      
   .  
      
     
     
     
    
     .
 
      
     
      
 Total War    
     
     
    ...)  
     
    
    
      
  .   
      
     
      
      
    
      
 ....  .
      
   Creative Assembey   
     
   Total War   
 Rome: Total War    
   Activision (  
  Call Of Duty)     
     
  2004   
      
    
     
        
       
 .
      
     
   . 
    
     
  !)  
     
   .  
     
    
     
     
 .    
    . 
     
  ( 
     
      
  ...)   
   .  
     
     
      
     
   
    2004 (  
    
   1384   !!!) 
  .
       
     
      
 Barbarian Invasion   . 
  SEGA    
      
 Avtivision     
 Rome: Total War     
     
  .  
 Barbarian Invation     
      
  .   
  400     
   .  
     
    
      
       
  ( )  
  (    
     
     ) 
  (    
      
  )    
 .    
     
    
     
  .   
    
      
     
    .
 
    Expanion Pack  
     Rome: Total 
 War Alexander     
     
      
  Rome: Tota War  .  
 Creative Assemby     
      
     Total War 
   Medieval 2: Total War   
      
     
    . 
     
     
    .
 
  
   Creative Assemby   
  Expansion Pack    
 Rome Total War     
      
     
   .
       
  .   
      
     
     
    . 
     
      
 2400       
     
   .
  
  Game Play     
    . 
      
    
       
    .  
      
     
   
 )  . 
     
    
      
   .  
     
     
      
      
   . 
     
       
 ...   . 
     
      
 .
  
  Camping     
     
  . 6   
    
      
      
     
   .   
      
     
      
  .   
      
       
     
     
 .   
     
      
  .  
     
      
     
     
     
  .  
     
     
   
      
      
    
    .  
     
      
     
     
     
     
     
     .
 
  
     
   .  
      
    
     
 .    
     
    
    . 
      
    
     
     
     
     
 .     
      
    
      
   .  
    
      
     
      
      
     
     
 .
  
     
     
  .    
       
      
      
      two-on-one 
  three-on-one  .  
      
      
     
     
     
  ....  .
  
       
  5    
     
     
       
  .    
     
      
      
 (    
     
  ...)  
      
   .  
     
     
     
     . 
     
     
      
     
    .
 
  
     
     
     
 .   
     
       
   . 
      
      
      
     
     
  .   
  Barbarian Invasion    
     
       
   .   
     
     
     
      
    .
 
  
     
     
   . 
     
     
     
      
 .   
     
 .    
     
     
     
   ( 
     ) . 
      
      
     
   .  
     
      
  .
  
      
     
    . 
     
     
      
    
      
 .    
    
    
  .   
    
     
    .  
     
     
      
       
       
     
     
  .   
     
     
      
 .    
      
   
     
      
 ...    
      
   (  
 )   
    
    . 
      
     
    
      
     
  .
  
     
      
     
      
   . 
       
     
    
      
   .
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
      
     
    Expansion Pack 
     
 .    
      
  Barbarian Invasion     
     
 Expansion Pack      
     
     
 .   Creative Assemby 
     
    Rome Total War: Alexander  
     
      
     
   . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 4, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  The Good : A Great Gameplay with fast placed campaign were the dominating rule is Must Conquer 
 1st then make Deplomacy's later . You get to manage the armies of The Great Alexander , he who 
 had took Egypt from the Persians & fought them real hard & almost kicked them out of Asia . With 
 limited turns , u sense the urge to play as faster/harder u can , were can feel the burdon on ur 
 back getting havier each time to make a turn . The Graphics are good & they offer us nothing new 
 than the 1st 2 parts ( Rome Total War / Rome Total War - Barbarian Invasion ) . The Sounds are 
 also good , & they are still the same . !!! Only new Gameplay which is Too Fast & Furious .
  
  The Bad : The Game is too fast , which means if u loose the track of ur time & dont move fast 
 , then u will loose the advantage over the game , & it will end when Alexander Dies , so play fast 
 !!! . Since the Game seems to be too fast , then it bairly focus on diplomacy , it is War All the 
 Time . The other bad thing that I found is with the other armies that u can choose them ( if u 
 change the file options ) were they are all of the same color so when u are in a battle with another 
 army , u wont be able to find out which is urs & which is not ( this is only when u play in another 
 Nations ) . 
  
  Note : The thing about Alexander's death is a rule in the game & cannot be override only if u change 
 the file option , any way , this is a rule in the game sicne it is about Alexander , so it cannot 
 be considerd as a bad or good thing , it is a rule & u must except it so that's y it is too fast 
 . 
  
  If u like Total War games & mor importantly Rome Total War , then this game is a must get game 
 , since it represent a great expansion & should by it even it u dont want to play it ( I know it 
 is confusing ) . It is not a long game & not a normal game , it is a Short Game Since it have a 
 Fast Game Play !!! Get It . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  R: TWA takes the same graphics and play engine as RTW and RTW Barbarians and adds a slightly different 
 twist. Aside from the new factions and units, the biggest change is Alexander's campaign. Unlike 
 previous campaigns where you have generations of your family to play through, you have about 13 
 years (100 turns) to complete your goal... taking persia and 10 specific cities. The story is historically 
 accurate, even if the battles and your city development isn't as much.
  
  Gameplay - Since you have played RTW, there is nothing new... just a slightly faster pace and the 
 feeling you have to do something NOW!
  
  Graphics - Solid, but nothing special, every unit looks the same and that does get a little old
 
  
  Sound - Not bad, not special... each unit has something it says, but nothing to exciting.
  
 
  Value - I wouldn't spend 30 bucks on it but since the download is available for 15 from the totalwar 
 website... not bad for an extra 30 hours or so of game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 23, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  ts a fast paced expansion, 100 turns, to take the armies of Macedon across the Hellespont, throughout 
 all of Persia, and then finally into India - the objective - domination. Sounds like fun, read 
 on...
  
  You start out of course in Macedon, having only Pella and Sparta as your two means of income, a 
 few troops (some stationed already across the hellespont) , and an objective to crush the Persian 
 empire under King Darius - who you'll find out isnt exactly up to par in terms of leadership. You'll 
 find out fast that by no means this will be an easy task, since your surrounded by barbarians to 
 the north, a heavy Persian fleet compared to the miniscule amount of ships you start with (which 
 will hamper your income further) , and the vast armies of Persia are ready for your ingress.
  
  Once you secure a foothold for some additional income in Greece, its time to start taking risks 
 - as Alexander did - by sending what little he had to capture the Persian empire, and from there 
 is where all the trouble begins. In order to succeed, you virtually have to eliminate the civilian 
 population in every city you encounter. By the end, Alexander the Greats name will turn to The 
 Butcher, and you feel as if you really didnt make a difference, only being a maniacal tyrant seizing 
 the world by means of the sword. If your looking perhaps for a ceasefire, you wont find it - no 
 Diplomats to help you in this one - its an all out slugfest. All it comes down to is kill an army 
 or a city, move your main army out of the city (maybe leave a few in so the city doesnt revolt) , 
 hire some mercanaries, recruit what you can from the conquered cities and repeat until you win.
 
  
  I wont get into anymore of the main game, only stating that it kind of gets boring since its the 
 same old same old - kill until you can kill no more, with no historical reference at all (maybe 
 more added text pertaining to the life of Alexander or the occasional cutscene would have made 
 this expansion more enjoyable) . Not to mention, he should have started with more "real-life" generals, 
 since Alexander had an ample supply of great men around him, whereas in this expansion they only 
 person of any interest is Parmenion (who starts the campain already in Persian territory just north 
 of Miletos) .
  
  I had some gripes with regards to the main campaign, such as after I defeated the entire Persian 
 army and conquered all of their cities, no message came up stating their faction had been destroyed. 
 I was also unimpressed with Darius being a completely useless general. He may have fled in real 
 life, but he was still a commander, whereas in this game the Men of the Hour I can recruit are 
 leaps and bounds above him. As well, in the real historical context, Alexander was constantly harassed 
 by guerrilla tactics (much like our forces in Iraq are experiencing today) , but in this expansion, 
 I found most of the so-called harassers got stuck up in a corner of the map and decided not to 
 attack, which actually let my armies move right on by without and interference. Not what I was 
 expecting.
  
  My biggest gripe however was the fact I was unable to actually attack the Indian empire, since 
 the one city in the bottom right corner I was unable to achieve access to - not to mention the 
 one Indian city I could see was under rebel control. Sorry, Alexander fought the Indian empire, 
 so why couldnt I?
  
  The single player missions are well done and somewhat difficult in comparison to the Rome Total 
 War ones (although not enough of them and quite short) , except for some historical references (like 
 the placement of the battle of Salamis nowhere near the actual scene) .
  
  I was also somewhat uninspired by the lack of "new" units that were in the expansion. They were, 
 for the most part, the exact units as in total war with new skins. As well, the graphics engine 
 is starting to show its age, especially after seeing the trailer for Medieval 2 Total War.
  
  Is it worth $15, in my opinion no, maybe $10. I was expecting much, and the only extra bonus 
 compared to Rome was Brian Blessed's voice, which didnt make me feel any more apart of the game 
 than without. This is not the best expansion - it seems at most like a money grab. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bouwen007
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  Wow, that's the first thing i said when i played this game. It's the third game after the original, 
 barbarian invasion and now Alexander. It's pretty hard but that makes the games. It's even chalenging 
 in the "easy" setting, what migth be a bit to hard for the younger players. If you stil haven't 
 bought th rome total war game you should really do it if you like rts's. The unigue thing of thias 
 game are the great ammount of units. The graphics are again very beatiful and the sound makes it 
 sound like real!!! The tilt is very high and i just can get enough of it!!!!
  
  Goodbye, Matthijs 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
