-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rome: Total War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/rometotalwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 23, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 9.2, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 13,510 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Creative Assembly
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Sep 22, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rome: Total War is the very definition of an epic strategy game. 

  Rome: Total War is the third Total War game from England's Creative Assembly, and, to make a long 
 story short, it's the best one yet. It was naturally expected to build on its illustrious predecessors, 
 which featured epic-scale real-time battles and impressive attention to historical realism and 
 detail. Shogun: Total War was a promising start for the series, while Medieval: Total War built 
 on that promise to create an even more engrossing strategy game. With Rome: Total War, Creative 
 Assembly takes the next step, and it's as much a revolutionary step as it is an evolutionary one, 
 thanks to a beautiful new 3D graphics engine that makes the series' tactical battles -- featuring 
 thousands of soldiers -- better than ever. The results are nothing short of spectacular, helping 
 make Rome: Total War the very definition of an epic strategy game.  

          Where do you want to go today? The ancient world beckons, if you're brave enough to take 
 it on.     

  As in the earlier Total War games, there are essentially two distinctly different types of gameplay 
 in Rome. There's the overarching turn-based campaign in which you conquer cities and provinces, 
 make improvements, and move armies around the map as you expand your empire, and then there are 
 the real-time battles in which you use tactics and maneuvers to crush your enemy in combat. After 
 the helpful and informative tutorial campaign, you can tackle the main imperial campaign. You play 
 as one of three powerful Roman families -- the Julii, the Bruti, or the Scipii -- attempting to increase 
 the size and glory of Rome and shore up your faction's power and influence. As all three factions 
 are Roman, there's literally no difference between them in terms of units and building types, though 
 they do have different responsibilities. The Julii must deal with the Gauls and Germania to the 
 north in a difficult, landlocked campaign. The Bruti are required to deal with the remnants of 
 the Greek city-states and expand the empire to the southeast. And the Scipii are tasked with subduing 
 Carthage, Rome's great nemesis to the southwest.  

  At least, that's the principle goal of each faction. But there's a fourth, unplayable Roman faction, 
 one that can influence your course during the campaign: the Roman senate. The senate will order 
 you on missions, from blockading a hostile port or conquering a city (and perhaps exterminating 
 the populace, depending on the level of enmity between Rome and the faction in question) to forging 
 a trade deal or an alliance with a foreign faction. It's up to you whether you actually obey the 
 order, as sometimes the senate will try to stretch you thin on purpose. If you carry the orders 
 out successfully, you stand to gain a monetary reward, a useful new military unit, or influence 
 in the senate. Failing to carry out missions earns the displeasure of the senate and affects your 
 standing with that body. By and large, though, the senate missions help to focus the otherwise 
 huge scope of the campaign -- instead of being faced with the monolithic task of trying to conquer 
 Europe, you can instead look forward to accomplishing a long series of short-term goals.  

  It's helpful to perform senate missions because they can affect an improved feature in Rome: Total 
 War -- families. Each of the three Roman factions is essentially one huge family, and your generals 
 and governors are related to one another by birth, marriage, or adoption. These are the leaders 
 of your faction, and they all have traits -- strengths and weaknesses -- that define their abilities. 
 A strong general may have an excellent command rating, but his disdain for bureaucracy would make 
 him a poor governor. Meanwhile, an otherwise strong governor may have a dislike of farming, which 
 would affect the agricultural output in the province he's in. But if your family members are selected 
 to hold important senate posts, they'll gain influence and abilities once out of office. This introduces 
 a limited role-playing component in the game, as you actually care about trying to further the 
 careers of your family members so they can serve you better.  

  In addition to traits, family members -- not to mention your spies, assassins, and diplomats -- can 
 all attract retinues. These are the hangers-on who surround important people, such as advisors, 
 mentors, bodyguards, lackeys, sycophants, and more. Each of these can affect your characters' abilities. 
 For example, a wrestler can improve a character's influence (by being able to literally twist arms) , 
 as well as provide added protection against an assassination attempt. You can actually collect 
 and trade retinue members among your family, so you can transfer them to where they're needed the 
 most.  

          You'll draw your faction's leaders from the family tree. Make sure not to kill off your 
 heirs in battle.     

  Families are also critical because only family members can serve as generals. You can assemble 
 armies without a general, but they'll be poorly led and will likely fare badly in battle. But with 
 a general, the army's fortune can change. A general with a high command ability is a powerful force 
 in battle, as a well-led smaller force can defeat a poorly led larger force most of the time. On 
 the other hand, the fact that generals are drawn from the ruling family can be dangerous, because 
 you need to make sure there are future generations of leaders and generals. A disastrous battle 
 can wipe out whole branches of the family tree, cutting down promising young sons before they can 
 sire heirs. This can have a crippling effect later on in the campaign, when you find yourself short 
 of qualified generals and governors with a huge empire to manage. It makes for an excellent incentive 
 to try and preserve your generals, rather than treat them as easily replaceable fodder.     
 

  Thankfully, when you're short of governors, your cities will be taken over by the "automanager," 
 which is represented by an appointed official who runs the city in your name. You can give the 
 automanager certain priorities, such as to follow a military or financial policy, and it will go 
 about constructing the building and units required. (You can also turn on the automanage functionality 
 in cities that do have governors, if you don't want to micromanage at all.) The computer is generally 
 good at doing what you tell it to do, and this should appeal to players who don't want to spend 
 a lot of time on the campaign map. But if you're a fan of grand strategy and want to control every 
 detail, you'll want to make sure you have plenty of family members at your disposal.  

          You can choose to autogenerate battle results or fight the battles personally. In most 
 cases, it's easier and simpler to autogenerate the smaller fights.     

  When you're not busy trying to crush your opponents, you can try to spy on, trade with, and subvert 
 them. The diplomacy system has been completely overhauled since Medieval: Total War, and you now 
 have a lot more options at your command. These include forming alliances, bullying your neighbors 
 into becoming protectorates of Rome, and bargaining for trade rights. You can also dispatch spies 
 and assassins to probe for weaknesses in enemy defenses, or to take out a key enemy general before 
 a crucial battle. And in a nice twist, you can plant spies in your  own  cities, where they'll 
 help keep unrest in check by acting as a secret police of sorts, rooting out the troublemakers. 

  The early to middle part of a campaign game can be quite tough, as you'll be hard-pressed on many 
 fronts without a lot of resources at your disposal. In one particularly brutal game, our Julii 
 faction found itself waging battles with Carthage, Spain, and the Gauls on three fronts. However, 
 if you survive and defeat your enemies, you'll eventually have enough resources and momentum to 
 deal with most other threats. The next big challenge occurs when civil war breaks out and you must 
 march on Rome and defeat your rival Roman factions for control of the empire. This late-game development 
 is particularly challenging, as all the core Roman cities have grown to massive size, and their 
 close proximity to one another makes it easy for factions to throw advanced units at one another. 

  The imperial campaign runs from the early days of the republic to the peak of its power, a period 
 covering approximately 270 years. Given that each turn represents six months -- there are summer 
 and winter turns -- this means a campaign game can last more than 500 turns. That's surely an epic-scale 
 length, and a campaign can easily consume days, if not weeks, if you decide to play out all the 
 battles. There's also a smaller campaign that only requires your faction to conquer 15 provinces 
 and eliminate your principal rival or rivals. And in addition to being able to play as the three 
 different Roman factions, you can also tackle the campaign game as a foreign faction, such as Carthage, 
 Britannia, or the Gauls. The only prerequisite is that you must crush the faction in question during 
 a campaign in order to unlock it as a playable side. This is a bit annoying, as you'll probably 
 have to play several campaign games to unlock all the playable factions. But these factions are 
 worth unlocking, because they have access to unique units in the game, including chariots, elephants, 
 and axemen. Also, not every faction in the game is playable, so be careful not to get your hopes 
 up.  

  The campaign itself takes place on a beautiful 3D map that depicts a living, breathing world. Tiny 
 caravans travel the roads and highways, while ships ply the trade routes between ports. During 
 the winter turns, snow covers most of Europe, and that has an effect on units moving and battling 
 in those conditions. But, most importantly, the new map is easy to read and is a big improvement 
 on the board-game-like maps found in earlier Total War games. There are terrain features such as 
 valleys and rivers that serve as natural strategic choke points on the map, and you can place armies 
 in those positions to block them, thereby protecting your cities from sieges. You can also hide 
 armies in forests, which allows them to ambush passing units, to devastating effect.  

          The Romans are at the gates, and they've brought gigantic siege towers to scale the towering 
 walls of this city.     

  Ultimately, the turn-based portion of Rome is an excellent strategic game by itself. Its only flaw 
 is the relatively weak naval combat. Unlike the land battles, you can only autogenerate the results 
 of naval battles -- you can't control them or even watch them play out. The results are a bit unpredictable, 
 as you're guaranteed a win only if you have overwhelming numbers on your side. This makes sense, 
 since a battle between two comparable fleets should theoretically be a toss-up, but you'll still 
 feel somewhat helpless at not being able to jump into the battle and help turn the tide in your 
 favor. Furthermore, the results of naval battles are often reported incorrectly -- the number of 
 ships reported sunk usually doesn't match up with the number of ships that actually remain. And 
 in certain circumstances, it's possible to get a fleet permanently stuck in position, rendering 
 it useless and a drain on your resources, though we rarely encountered this bug. So the naval battles 
 in Rome: Total War are underwhelming. However, the terrestrial battles most certainly are not. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (530 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SerbWarrior
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 6:53 am PT
Review:  Ave, Caesar, morituri te salutant!
  (Hail Ceasar, we who are about to die salute you!)
  
  
  **** me, when i remember how much hours i spent playing this game...
  How many times i watched 
 the Gaulic cavalry charge the Roman infantry...
  How many times have i watched my enemys die in front of the spears of my Spartans...
  Many, many 
 times!
  
  The ancient times of great Rome and Greece, the ancient times of the proud Gauls and Britans, and 
 the proud Germans...
  A time i would love to live in...
  It was a time where, perhaps, logic, technology and art prospered the most in human history...
  
 It was a time of advance...
  It was also, a time of war...
  Where enemys where mercilesly butchered...
  There was no Geneva convention, or so called crimes 
 against humanity...
  No public schools either...
  Ah, life was simple back then...
  
  Rome Total War one of my favorite and best strategy games, i have had the pleasure of playing!
 
  But then again... I played every Total War game in the series...
  And EVERY one of them was a ****ing God send!
  It would seem that Creativ Asembly simply can 
 not stop making good games...
  
  Trust Dimitri... When you see heavy cavalry charge into a band of poorly trained and ill equiped 
 (not in that way equiped) pesants...
  You feel like you are there...
  Now, if you are a girl, or some crack/pot smoking pacafist/peace activist...
  You will scream...
 
  
  Rome Total War, shows how not every new game is an amazing game...
  Rome Total War shows that a game 5 years old, can still be one of the best in its genre...
  
 
  Now lets focus on the gameplay...
  
  There are 4 modes in Rome:
  1) Campaign mode (take over the world)
  2) Historical battle (Fight a historicly accurate battle)
 
  3) Custom battle (Choose your enemys and your own forces and fight)
  4) Multiplayer (Multiplayer)
  
  Campaign mode:
  
  There are two overviews of the Campaign 
 mode...
  When you are in battle you will fight in real time...
  
  World map:
  
  When on the world map, you will play turn based, expanding your empire...
  You will move your mighty 
 armies around, and an armys movment is defined by its movement points, if you have a lot of cavalry 
 you will have more movement points, there for, you can travel further in one turn, if you have a lot 
 of catapults you will move less in one turn...
  Now your troops can be lead by a General, or a capitan...
  If your troops are lead by a General 
 they will gain many bonuses depending on the Generals traits and expirience...
  If a capitan leads, no bonuses...
  You can build, and expand your towns in turn based mode... i. e. 
 world map...
  You must build may buildings in your towns and cities if you want a sucsessful empire, you will 
 also recruit many diffrent types of units in the city baracks, stables or docks...
  You can use agents (diplomats and spies) in the world map...
  Diplomats are used for... well... diplomacy, and 
 spies... well for spying....
  Their effectivness will be defined by their skill, the more they practice and acomplish in their 
 arts, the more effective they will be!
  
  Battles:
  
  A battle will start, when you move an army and attack the enemy...
  If you have a general within 
 an army, your soldiers will fight better, or worse, depending on the general...
  If you attack an enemy city, you will go to a siege battle...
  Now there are 2 ways to win a siege, by 
 starving the population of the city, or by wining in battle...
  If you choose to starve the population, a few turns will pass (this depends on the food reserves 
 of the city you are attacking) and the enemy army will surender....
  If you choose to battle, you will have to have at least one siege unit if the enemy has walls...
 
  The siege units are:
  1) Ram (destroying the gate)
  2) Siege tower (going to the enemy wall and send your troops)
  3) Ladders (climbing the enemy wall)
 
  4) Tunnel (your soldiers will dig a tunnel that goes under the enemyes wall)
  
  Siege units will have to be maned by your soldiers...
  Also siege units will take some time to 
 build, but this depends on the size of your army...
  The longest one needed to complete is the tunnel...
  The shortest ladder...
  
  Factions
 
  
  You will have quite a few factions once you complete the campaign with the three starting Roman 
 factions...
  1) Gauls
  2) Germans
  3) Britania
  4) Chartage
  5) Greece
  6) Seleucids
  7) Egypt
  8) Parthians
  
  The three starting Roman factions are in fact 3 Roman families striving 
 for power, domination and expansion...
  The Julii
  The Brutii
  The Scipii
  
  What the 3 Roman families will have and the other factions wont is the senate...
  If you aplease 
 the senators, by acomplishing missions they give you, you will recieve rewards, troops, money etc, you 
 will also gain respect from the Senators, but if you become too powerful, the senat will start to 
 despise you, and order the 2 other families to attack you if they arent destroyed... In which case 
 its civil war, you will win by destroying the Brutii, Scipii and taking control of Rome, thus destroying 
 the Senate!
  
  Custom Battle
  
  In the custom battle, you will choose the season, time and place of where the battle will take place...
 
  You can also choose if it will be a siege by adding a city on the map, or just a straight head 
 on battle....
  You can also choose to play with any faction you want, as well as the faction you wish to fight!
 
  
  Historical battle
  
  Features a few historical battles, that shaped history! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epochend
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2009 6:00 pm PT
Review:  As it was going from Shogun to Medieval, I resisted buying Rome for quite a long time; not only 
 because I never believed my computer would play it properly, but also because the Roman setting 
 didn't appeal to me very much. Eventually I caved in and got it, and safe to say I was firmly in 
 the mindset of a Roman Emporer within minutes... (Note: I bought a set that included both of the 
 expansion packs, so this review applies to them too.)
  
  ~
  
  Pros:
  
  + Revamped Campaign Movement: The campaign map has changed massively, being much less like Risk 
 than its predecessors and allowing for far more intricate troop movements - the level of strategy 
 (not to mention difficulty) that this adds cannot be underestimated.
  
  + Intricate Empire Management: There's so much more detail than ever before, you can spend forever 
 just perfecting every last segment of your empire. More than ever, this side of the game truly 
 matches up to the battles, leaving the overall gameplay very cohesive and strong.
  
  + Improved Diplomacy: There are infinitely more options in terms of diplomacy than in previous 
 games in the series, allowing for far more meaningful interactions with other nations.
  
  + Varied Battles: There is an even greater variety of locations to fight in than there was in Medieval 
 - the big innovation here is that battles will take place in the exact place your armies meet on 
 the campaign map, meaning you'll fight in all sorts of interesting new situations throughout the 
 game (watch out for those forest ambushes!) .
  
  + Improved Sieges: Sieges are much better than those of Medieval, thanks to the immense level of 
 detail in the towns you defend, and with decent preparation it is much more viable to attack cities 
 head-on than to starve them out, which is a big change from Medieval and Shogun.
  
  + Devestatingly Addictive: As with the previous games, Rome will devour your time with a merciless 
 efficiency I've never seen in any other series...
  
  + Varied Factions: There are a great deal of differences between all the factions, from the senate 
 missions of the Romans to the looting frenzies of the barbarians, and you'll have a unique experience 
 every time you start afresh.
  
  Cons:
  
  - AI: When you're facing a particularly good general, the AI is often ruthlessly, devestatingly 
 clever in picking your plans apart. In all other cases though, and sometimes even when you're facing 
 such a high-ranked enemy, the AI is far from smart; and if you have a good deal of spearmen, you'll 
 rarely find yourself losing any battles at all. On the other hand, you have to make sure your reinforcements 
 are never controlled by the AI, or they'll charge themselves to a certain doom while you stare 
 on helplessly...
  
  - Dodgy Siege Pathfinding: Your units have incredible trouble navigating towns and cities effectively, 
 often getting stuck, breaking formation, or wandering straight into the enemy at the worst of times.
 
  
  - Awkward Naval Combat: Besides the fact you can only auto-resolve naval battles, it's incredibly 
 hard to actually sink a fleet, forcing you to chase them down repeatedly over many turns.
  
  - Plodding End-game Pace: It's a fairly unavoidable curse for a game like this, but towards 
 the end of the game the pace begins to drag severely, thanks to the huge amount of micro-management 
 your massive empire will require, along with the lack of diplomacy compared to earlier periods 
 in the campaign (though you can choose to play a shorter campaign if you wish) .
  
  ~
  
  The AI issues are a bit of a shame, because they let an otherwise spectacular game down. Nevertheless, 
 this is a brilliant evolution of the Total War series, and you should make it your business to 
 own it if you don't already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vj23
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2009 3:30 am PT
Review:  The game looks fantastic but i believe that it has been over-rated because of the long wait for 
 the next instalment since Medieval. The battles are a bit quick and the turn based section seem 
 a bit too slow. Also the missions that the game assigns to you are a bit too tough most of the 
 times. There has been significant improvements over the previous Total War games but the game also 
 has allot of stability bugs (surprised none mentioned that - I own 4 different PC's and I played 
 it in all 4) . 
  The game crashed occasionally and for some reason the bigger your Empire gets the heavier the game 
 gets (I mean I know why this is happening but I hoped we would be passed those issues concerning 
 today's hardware and the time the game took to be released) . 
  Also I wouldn't call it historically accurate either. 
  All in all it's still two classes higher 
 than the rest of the competition but there is still along way from perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ajspeed_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Its been about 5 years now since this game was Released and at the time of release i wasnt really 
 appealed to at as I wasnt any good at Strategy games (and Still Arent really) . But It was on Sale 
 at the Time so i thought what the hell? This was back in the Day when big games came with 5 cds 
 to install so it took awhile but once that was all done thats when i got into it. From the get 
 go i wasnt to Sure wat to expect from this kind of strategy game and i had Played Medieval Total 
 War before it and found it to complex but with tutorials ready to go I went through that to see 
 how id go about playing this one and For starters the game looked great you were easily able to 
 draw the game camera down to soliders eye level to view battles from their Perspective and the 
 interface made alot more sense.
  
  When It Came to Battles they seemed huge a vast improvement from the previous game, but the Feature 
 of the game that really caught me up was the map strategies of Building cities up and creating 
 Giant armies that would either protect you or fight for you. Unfortunately in campaign mode they 
 only allow you to Play as 1 Of 3 roman houses but if they didn't really do that its not Romes war 
 now is it?
  
  Though campaign mode can take hours it of your life as there is so much to do and conquer it feels 
 much more like Epic game and that you are leading a great military power, no matter how many time 
 you were beaten it never really seems to lose its freshness.
  
  I recently Bought my own copy of Rome Total war: Gold Edition seeing as the previous copy was not 
 really mine I set out for my enjoyable time consuming strategy and since its so cheap now its worth 
 pay the tiny sum to keep yourself occupied with a strategy game that keeps growing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAZZER7
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2009 9:35 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome game. Simply put. There is so much strategy and options. The game has just the 
 right amount of depth and is very welcoming to new-comers to the genre. 
  
  The story and beginner stages unfold very nicely and keep you hooked. Building an army, adding 
 the right general, cavalry, archers and infantry, then watching them rank up as they win battle 
 after battle for you. It makes it so heart breaking when you then lose your men by not protecting 
 your flank or being too fool-hardy and charging them into battle when they are exhausted and under-strength!
 
  
  It makes you really feel like a Roman general. The game is challenging and tough but not too tough. 
 Battles never seem to feel old, in fact you tend to get a sense that you're always learning new 
 strategies. You certainly learn what not to do.
  
  The only criticism is that the enemy ai can be a little lacklustre sometimes. It's easy to have 
 them confused and at one point in a battle I had them charge/retreat about 10 times by swinging 
 my cavalry round behind them which did break the immersve feel. 
  
  Overall a very well polished game, well thought out and very very addictive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idkxaboutxname
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 10:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutly amazing. The battles are incredible, this game allows you to create hundreds 
 of amazing battle sequences that you will enjoy over and over, the world map sequences and the 
 management is easy once you learn what to do. The game has several diffuclties that allow you to 
 have a good challenge to were it's not to hard or to easy and has tutorial that really does a good 
 job of teaching you the rope of this deep, fun game. Controlling your units in the heat of battle 
 is very good with the unit not getting hung up or simply not doing what you say. The units can 
 very detailed or not depending on the way your settings are, which come very handy to were almost 
 any computer can run this game so all can enjoy.
  
  This is a flat out must buy for any who have a computer whether you play computer games or not. 
 I never play computer games and this was my first and i definitly didn't regret it. for 20$ how 
 can you go wrong.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaijui
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  this game is a sheer masterpiece from its great playability and addictive campaign, the only problem 
 i saw was the fact that the 4 Roman teams have multiple variations of units when some factions 
 (like the Gauls) have almost no unit variations, making the Romans completely dominant in the game. 
 however the game still possesses that little something that keeps you playing it. you could not 
 tell that this game was from so far back with its great gameplay and realistic graphics with a 
 keen AI. this game is a game that is recommended to be installed on your computer than to be left 
 in an old dust box but not to be bothered to buy because of the new "Empires Total War" is sure 
 to be a huge hit and should become the best Total war game out. 
  
  please message me is you have any questions about the game, i am here to help and would strongly 
 advise you to at least play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buzzcrow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  I have had Rome: Total War for quite a while now and I have only recently got back into the swing 
 of it. At first I found it too difficult so I stopped playing it all together. But now I can't 
 stop playing it!
  
  Where can I start!? The battles that you fight are simply incredible! All those triarii spearmen, 
 velites and onagers galore to command at my finger tips! The adviser can be quite annoying but 
 at first he is actually useful if you listen to him, I learnt that using fire arrows, for example, 
 can weaken enemy morale. It actually feels almost real because the units can get tired the more 
 they fight, and as numbers decrease, they become less efficient etc. The best part about battles, 
 personally, I think is shooting the charging enemy down with hundreds of flaming arrows!
  
  If fighting isn't your thing, then city building is sure to put a smile on your face! After all, 
 you need these building to produce magnificent armies! You don't have to fight, you can choose 
 to automatically resolve battles if you wish, just be sure your doing the right thing, sometimes 
 it's a lot easier doing it yourself. The different buildings can affect your people, like placing 
 a shrine to Jupiter can make people happier, for example. Again though, the adviser is quite annoying.
 
  
  The only bad points I have to point out is that the advisers are quite annoying after a while, 
 eventually you will hear the same things over and over and over again. Also, there are all these 
 scrolls and graphs and information that are pretty pointless but do make it seem very challenging 
 and realistic.
  
  Overall, bad points aside, if you love Romans, strategy games or need to pass by a lot of time 
 this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bob_Jenkins
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is a very good game. It starts out slow and kind of boring, but once you have a 
 couple settlements, it is so fun. You make money by taxes, conquering, treaties, and other things. 
 Once you are the leader of the biggest empire in the "world", it is really fun to just go around 
 and destroy all the little countries. If you don't keep your people happy, they revolt, so it is 
 not just all out kill everybody. You actually have to keep working on the cities that are already 
 yours. After you beat it the first time (using one of the three Roman factions) , you can beat it 
 again using the faction that gave you the most trouble, or the coolest faction. In my opinion, 
 the coolest faction has to be Carthage - they use elephants who destroy everybody. Even the graphics 
 are good. On the main map, you really can't beat them. The world map is extremely accurate to Europe, 
 Asia, and Africa. On the battle map, the only thing wrong is that the soldiers feet are blocks 
 and everything far away is a little fuzzy. But, all in all, this is a great game and I would recommend 
 it to anyone who likes Total War Games, Roman Empire/Middle Age games, games that you are in control 
 of everyone in your country/faction, or anyone who is looking for a good challenging game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shenoko
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I don't think there is a better war simulation game out there. Rome Total War combines epic large 
 scale battles with diplomacy and management. I love this game but that is not to say it does not 
 have its flaws. It may have some of the most strategic battles I have ever seen, but I after the 
 first 10 or so hours I found myself wishing I could give my troops better commands. I tell my men 
 to fall back so I can ambush the enemy, and instead of the orderly retreat I wanted, I get my whole 
 platoon of men suddenly turning around and running as fast as they can. This results in them dieing 
 as fast as lemmings. This lack of a more advanced control over your men is the only thing I could 
 find to criticize. The rest of the game is a beautifully executed masterpiece, and you should buy 
 it if don't already own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  played that board game? risk, were you conquer the world? well, this is a very imroved version 
 of risk on the PC, best of all, you dont have to clean up the pieces! and theres little animations 
 of the soldiers moving. you also get to fight the battles in real time instead of rolling a dice! 
 the game combines RS with TBS! (turn based stragtegy)
  
  the main map, is where is like risk. build a civilization, expand it, conquer the world. you have 
 a variety of factions to choose from with various soldiers in each faction, your RTS soldier preferences 
 will effect gameplay. the battles will take a while. so there is also an auto fight feature, which 
 will caculate the victories and losses, but in auto-battle you will almost never kil off thier 
 whole army. but you are MUCH more likely to get prisoners in an auto-match.
  
  prisoners, you can release them, to gain chivalry for your general, if using a family member, or 
 you can execute them to gain dread. also, you can sell them into slavery, and they will be used 
 as citizens in your cities.
  
  You can unlock the next city level in your city, which in a city, you can construct buildings and 
 recrit soldiers. but more is open to you depending on your city level, and the next city level 
 is available for purchase each time you get a certain number of citizens.
  
  (the construction is not in real time, and it takes a certain amount of turns to build certain 
 structures)
  
  unlike that really crappy RTS europa unaveralis  .  you should get this game because it educated 
 you on rome! thats right, a FUN educational game! it gives a faction overveiw when you select a 
 faction, giving you a breif history of the faction.
  
  also, during the years that pass by, events happen, which occur on the exact date that it actually 
 happened in reality.
  
  
  
  
  
  Buy the game! you wont be dissapoined, cept for maybe a few glitches.
  yes, you have money to 
 recruit and construct stuff with, the soldiers have a unit upkeep, so intelligence will guide you 
 through the game. not intelligent? well check out gamespots game guide in the cheats & hints section! 
 have fun!!! this game began the total war series' greatness. so if you like this game, check out 
 other great titles from the creative assembly such as Medieval 2: total war! 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luketheduke324
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  awesome awesome awesome!!!!!!!!! i love it! its like lord of the rings only better becuase its 
 history. i recomend it to all you RTS fans oyt there!! its no.1 :) bla bla bla bla fhwe hjh wiehf 
 w huehf hwe uih ewh uhwe hh hwefioh wh hewoi fhoiw h o hiohe wofhohwieofh o hiofh hief oi hio io 
 hi hio hfioh eio hoe w ho howehiofh hh oihefioh owhfiohwof jj io hifweh i fhio fji jio hfoi foiw 
 jeoijf iowhioho hfoihwefh i fiwefhiowfh ofiof iofwfio hiowh ioefiohfio hf jfiofhioh fj i fieow 
 fj f fhwofiofj j ojfoiejf fh oewhfh hfhef h heioh eo hwiofh iohfoofhio fhiofh owifh oh foiofhoif 
 hoifhf hi hf ioh foif hhfio ohi oiefiow ih fowhf ef o ffofwihfiow fi hf hfhiowhef iohh fiohfiowhefoi 
 hoiwhfoie ewhhioiioef hoe fkhwieoh i h eiojhe io io hiowehoi fh jwhdeo u howhfe ioho o hioeh foijh 
 io hioaheio fhowhf hweo fhweofjwioefh iow hfoi iohieow hiow fhiow fhiowhf iohioejhiof hlaj iowehf 
 ioeh ioehf hofjoieh ooh ieohiofh ioehf iowehfwieofj ioweh ioweh ioehfwh fiowhefioewh oewfjiwiofhai 
 jefioj hie hj iopj oje oif joejfehfij ei fhh ehif hieo fhiohf ehiofheoghehf uh h hwh bgiwf o hhfh 
 h fih fiow hohfwio j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dell11
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I rated this game a 10, not because it was flawless or without any errors of any kind. I rated 
 this a 10 because it is, in my opinion, the best of its class, RTS, out right now. Considering 
 when it came out, the graphics are great, you can zoom right into battle and watch them duke it 
 out. Honestly its just flat out fun. You have many different factions to play. From 4 different 
 houses of Rome, to the barbarians of Germany, to the philosophers of Greece. Anyone who enjoys 
 RTS should play this game. It allows great control over your soldiers, The general's speech at 
 the beginning is great. Heck, I even love the quotes during the loading screens. In the end, no, 
 I don't play it 24/7, sometimes i don't feel like playing it at all, but whenever i feel like playing 
 a good, quality RTS that i can count on as being fun I always come back to this one. Overall, its 
 just a very very fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliblabla2007
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  I hope you'll forgive me for writing such a long review, but this game is very complex, and I need 
 to write a lot just to summarize each aspect of the game.
  
  Rome: Total War is the third game in Creative Assembly's amazing Total War series. It's also the 
 first game in the series to use a fully-3D engine, and brings with it some other improvements.
 
  
  The campaign map stretches from the British Isles in the northwestern section to Ancient Egypt 
 in the southeastern section, or Northeast Africa. At the southwestern section, Carthage shares 
 Northwest Africa with the Numidians. In the opposite end of the spectrum, Scythia occupies the 
 Northeastern section of the map.
  
  You can choose to start the game as one of the three dominant families of the early days of the 
 Roman Empire, either the Julii, Brutii or Scipii, in the year 273 B. C.. Each of these families 
 conquers and managers their third of the Empire under the supervision of the Senate and People 
 of Rome, the governmental body of the entire Roman Empire and the faction with the power to order 
 each family under its control to carry out its will.
  
  The SPQR will order you to perform certain missions to further its own agenda and the agenda of 
 the Empire. Depending on your success rate, you'll either be rewarded for success or just not punished 
 for failure. If you've got a good track record with your assignments, the former will turn out 
 true. If you've got a bad track record, you'd better hope you don't fail any more missions or else 
 they just might order the other two families to attack you.
  
  The Julii family are tasked with conquering those factions to the northwest of the Italian Peninsula 
 (where the Roman Empire starts off) , namely Gaul, Germania, Britannia (in the British Isles) and 
 the Spaniards residing in the Iberian Peninsula. While these factions are easy to defeat due to 
 their low-tech nature and their vastly inferior economic potential, the rewards you gain for conquering 
 their lands are rather unsatisfactory, as they tend to be underdeveloped.
  
  On the opposite side of the Italian Peninsula, the Brutii start off from the eastern end and are 
 tasked with defeating the factions residing in Eastern Europe - such as the Greek City States, 
 Macedonia, Thrace and Dacia. Beyond that, you can also cross the Aegean Sea and attack the other 
 Cities and Islands still under Greek control, and along with that you can steamroll through the 
 Pontii, the Parthians and the Seleucids, assuming they haven't killed off each other by the time 
 you get there.
  
  Finally, the Scipii, who start off on the southwestern end of the Italian Peninsula have to advance 
 in that direction, destroying the rising empire of Charthage - the rival of the Roman Empire - 
 and the Numidians in their path. Because the territory in this area is extremely limited, a Scipii 
 player will often find himself expanding into Julii territory (the Spanish Peninsula) or expanding 
 towards the east where the stagnant husk of Ancient Egypt resides, but it is still a powerful faction 
 and could be considered a rival to the Roman Empire in its own right.
  
  At one point in the game, the Roman Empire will go through the Marion reforms - historically, this 
 would happen in 107 B. C, though you can get it as early as 240 B. C. if you construct an Imperial 
 Palace quickly enough. This converts your "self-equipped Citizen volunteers" army into an army 
 of professionals, their equipment and training all paid for and managed under the state. Effectively, 
 this drastically improves the power of the Roman military, as the new Legionaries are considerably 
 superior to the original soldiers in terms of discipline and equipment.
  
  But let's not get carried away with writing a book about Roman history. Let's talk about the economy, 
 the military, the diplomacy and the espionage systems. And also, the family system.
  
  The settlements in the game have five tiers (four for Barbarian factions) - Village, Town, City, 
 Large City and Huge City. Moving up the tiers will improve the quality of life, military production 
 potential, economic production and such for the city. However, be careful to keep your city population 
 in check, because if it gets out of hand your income and public order goes down drastically, until 
 it riots (the city gets damaged) or rebels (the city is no longer under your control and it creates 
 an army to rampage across your lands) against you.
  
  You can improve public order by building a variety of entertainment, religious, law enforcement 
 or public health structures. These structures will curb unrest and squalor, but it won't help if 
 the population grows too much anyway. If it's dangerously close to rebelling, then you can either 
 lower your taxes or start training large numbers of garrison units, but if your garrison's already 
 full and you can't lower your taxes anymore, the city's gone.
  
  Besides the economy and military system, there's also a diplomacy and espionage system - you can 
 train Diplomats to negotiate ceasefires with your enemies, form alliances with neutral nations, 
 start trading, demand or send tributes over and such. You can also bribe armies that are destroying 
 your property with no army of your own to stop them, but that costs a beefy amount of denarii if 
 the army's particularly large and it doesn't work if the army is lead by a Faction Leader or Faction 
 Heir. A diplomat's skills improve as he negotiates.
  
  The espionage system works with two units - Spies and Assassins. Generally, spies are supposed 
 to infiltrate settlements, forts or armies and provide information about them to the player. They 
 can get detected and executed, and their subterfuge skills will increase if you get more succesfull 
 infiltrations, so it's recommended to perform operations with a low chance of detection - usually 
 due to weak law enforcement - to improve the spy's subterfuge abilities first.
  
  Assassins are supposed to kill leaders, diplomats or spies - the chance of success is, as with 
 the spy, related to the subterfuge and killing skills of the assassin in question and the quality 
 of the law enforcement. And as with the Spy and the Diplomat, his skills will get better as he 
 performs more successful missions and as with the Spy, he can also get executed if caught. He can 
 also sabotage buildings to disable them until repaired.
  
  Lastly, there's also a "family system" in the game. The members of your (hopefully) vast and growing 
 family will reproduce and create new members as time goes on. Male members can be used as governors 
 or generals, whereas female members will be used as brood-mares and you can marry them off to get 
 even more male members. Just be careful to ensure that your still-fertile family members stay alive, 
 because a smart enemy can perform assassinations to wipe out the family (and when the family dies, 
 the faction loses by default) . The family being referred to is the governing body of each faction.
 
  
  Each member has some stats for his Command, Management and Influnce skills. Command skills improve 
 the ability of the general to lead an army to victory, and improves the morale and fighting ability 
 of the army. Management skills improve the member's governing skills, and if he does well in this 
 department he'll be able to improve the income and lower the costs of the city, among other things. 
 Influence helps the member when it comes down to his popularity and bodyguard size, and it's there 
 mainly to protect the general from danger.
  
  Related to the family system is the Traits subsystem. Each male family member possesses a set of 
 traits that define the bonuses and detriments he provides to armies or towns as a general. Some 
 can become corrupt if your empire gets too rich - some can become shining examples of upholders 
 of proper moral values. They can also become shining examples of obese people if they get a well-developed 
 gluttony trait. Traits can develop differently depending on the environment the family member is 
 subject to.
  
  The other subsystem of the Family system is the Retinue subsystem. Basically, male members add 
 new people to their retinues as time goes on - these can be orators, slave merchants or even body 
 slaves. They also add strengths and weaknesses to the effect a family member has on his surroundings, 
 and like Traits, the ones he gets depend on his performance and surroundings.
  
  Onto the military system - each army contains twenty "unit cards" capable of holding 1-60 units 
 each. Depending on your settings, the soldier count of each unit can multiply as much as 4 times, 
 meaning you can have armies holding as much as 4 800 men. However, most infantry units in the game 
 have 40/80/120/160 men each, and any infantry unit with more than that (usually at the 60/120/180/240 
 mark) tends to be much weaker.
  
  There are several different forms of infantry - I'll separate it into melee and range for simplicity. 
 The "melee" infantry consists of Light, Medium and Heavy Infantry, and some examples of these classes 
 of infantry can go into special formations such as the Testudo ("Tortoise" formation for Roman 
 Legionaries only) while others can go into "Phalanx" formations which are only for anti-cavalry 
 specialist spearmen units with several-meter-long spears or pikes. These heavy armour formations 
 tend to slow down the infantry units and reduce their flexibility but benefit them by increasing 
 their defensive capability.
  
  The "ranged infantry" units consist of Skirmisher, Slinger and Archer units. Skirmishers are essentially 
 Javilineers, normally carrying 6 javelins each. Slingers have have about 40 slingstones each and 
 are used for the sole purposes of bombarding entire armies with their small, but powerful slingshots. 
 Archers carry around 30 arrows and have the longest range of the bunch. All of these are to be 
 used as support units, while the melee infantry are intended as the mainline units.
  
  On the cavalry aspect of the game, each unit should have 32/64/96/128 horsemen, with the tougher, 
 heavier cavalry units - chariots and elephants - possessing 18/36/48/72 units - though that's a 
 count of men, and the heavier elephant units can contain as many as three men on their backs, effectively 
 tripling the number shown without increasing the number of actual units. Most cavalry units are 
 melee-oriened, but there are horse and skirmisher cavalry units designed to harass an enemy army 
 and then retreat. The heaviest elephants can carry up to two archers and can use that as a softener 
 before the elephant slams into the enemy.
  
  Cavalry are also used as bodyguard units for the generals - they have more hitpoints than their 
 normal counterparts, and they generally start with 12/24/36/48 (for horse cavalry units, chariots 
 are different) horsemen. From there, the size of the unit can expand depending on how much influence 
 the general has. The bodyguard unit is extremely powerful, but it should not be used on the frontline, 
 because it is extremely valuable as you can't train or retrain it, and the general leading it can 
 die if caught in the middle of a fight. And you don't want to lose your generals, unless they have 
 terrible stats.
  
  Generals can establish forts to hold locations on the campaign metamap which aren't covered properly 
 by any cities around. Forts will dissapear if abandoned, but if a unit is left inside a fort, it'll 
 stay there. Armies in general can also construct Watchtowers, which are purely for watching over 
 an area and are not intended as defensive structures. It's cheaper than a fort, however, and it 
 doesn't go away when not maintained.
  
  Armies can lay siege to settlements and forts - while doing so, the target is blocked from receiving 
 aid or reinforcements, and units cannot move out without first driving away the besieging army. 
 A siege will last as long as the grain stores in the walls of the city - if those are drained, 
 then the attacker takes control of it. In the process, some of the buildings and the garrison are 
 damaged, so it's recommended for a garrison to retaliate against a siege force immediately if it 
 has a chance of winning. If it loses, the attacker gets control anyway.
  
  A siege is a convenient way to take city, as it causes no losses to the attacker. On the other 
 hand, it takes a lot more time to receive control of the city, and the city will end up in bad 
 shape anyway. Any damage incurred to the structures and units inside can be repaired in a turn 
 or two, but the damage done to the surroundings takes much longer to go away and it reduces the 
 economic output of the city.
  
  In each battle, the player can arrange his forces in a formation before actually starting it. During 
 this phase, you can't see the opposing army, but it's better than starting out with your army all 
 over the place and then spending half the battle trying to rearrange your troops into a workable 
 formation.
  
  That's about it. If you haven't fallen asleep yet, you have nothing more to fear - I'm pretty much 
 ending the review here. Just buy the damn game already, it's going to be a worthwhile purchase 
 no matter the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yomama51
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok ppls this is an awesome game. it is very deep and engaging. PLUS who DOESNT want to take over 
 the world??? the graphics are STILL amazing, Even in '08. IT ALSO TAKES PLAVE IN THE AWESOMEST 
 TIME EVER. OK whoever said it doesnt work with Nvidia cards wtf are u talking about. I played it 
 with an Nvidia card forever. ur prolly the only person asking for that on the forums ur talking 
 about to turn ppl away. To the ppl that say it is boring.. U clearly have no taste/tiny attention 
 span. u can skip the following of movement in the options (or speed it up by pressing space) . AND 
 u can tell the AI to do ALL the cities for u! u can just do the battles. U ignorant arses. This 
 is the BEST game and series EVER. dont even say u dont like it... i dont believe u ^^ . Well thats 
 it. Too Bad the min amount of letters to post is 800. im not good at writing reviews. =/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MInoAquiles
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  The game in it self is extremely annoying to finish, but it is worth the wait. you can control 
 waste armies across the battle map and on the campaign map. you can have empires from Persia to 
 Great Britain.
  
  Each faction have their own culture and different ways of fighting. The thrilling of playing alliances 
 to later destroy them is absolute! The game can be additively, but in the end you get bored for 
 some month before wanting to play it again, but that's the case for most games. this game makes 
 you also learn a lot about ancient history and it is worth it for those who takes history lessons.
 
  
  
  this game is demand also a very good computer to run properly. even today is this game hard to 
 master graphicly speaking. this says just how great potential total war games in the future is 
 going to be: D I am looking forward to them all: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viruks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  This review is brief on most aspects of the game covering mainly the striking features of the game 
 that stood out for me. There are enough of reviews explaining in detail the technical side of the 
 game and what actually makes it so Great. So here is my opinion on this Amazing Game; 
  
  I started playing this game when it came out back in 2004. But looking back I feel as though I 
 should praise this game still. I am interested in Roman history and enjoyed movies like gladiator 
 etc. but wasn't so much of an RTS fan back then. However I gave this game a chance. I became instantly 
 hooked and immediately loved it. As soon as you start your campaign and join one of the Roman families 
 you are (well I was) instantly hit with the need to Conquer. This game is extremely immersive and 
 sucks you in right away in the years BC. 
  
  The armies on your map are huge, the diplomacy, the battles, the assassinations, betrayals of other 
 factions, the growth of your cities, and the satisfaction of your hated enemies trampled. The ambition 
 to become the Emperor of Rome and take over the Senate is all in this extremely immersive and well 
 developed RTS game. You can play your campaign quickly and complete it pretty much in one day if 
 you just hit your primary goals or you can seriously immerse yourself in this game and conquer 
 all of Europe and so on to become ''The Imperator''. There are quick battle features to the game 
 such as; historical battles that are very interesting, you can sort of feel yourself to be Julius 
 Caesar or Hannibal during those events that have taken place 1000s of years ago and experience 
 their triumph or defeats. Or may be change the course of history and see where some of these generals 
 gone wrong and correct their mistakes during some of those insane battles. 
  
  The Battles themselves are extremely well designed and graphically, back in those days just blew 
 me away. The numbers on the screen you can have in real time, and have all run smoothly is just 
 breathtaking. You see individual infantries trampled by cavalries and elephants, killed by arrows, 
 burned, crushed by flying rocks, fireballs; the sounds of thousands of arrows flying pass and hitting 
 targets, the screams, the panic, the sounds of hundreds of hooves galloping at your outflanked 
 infantry, battle cries of your legionnaires, the mood setting music all is brilliantly implemented 
 on the battle map that makes you want more of it. 
  Easy controls, and very responsive units, sometimes may make the game feel easy, nonetheless the 
 game is very strategic in many ways on the battle map as well as on the world map  like a chess 
 board. There are many ways how you can manipulate your enemies, stalk, hide, ambush, defend, hold 
 off, skirmish, diplomacy, assassinations, executions etc aahh, it's all in this game and very well 
 executed, the siege battles are interesting and intense ( as cities can be huge) , Also as you socially 
 and economically progress this plays a huge part in your political strength and the strength of 
 your armies. The morale of your soldiers play a big role in this game and the outcome of the battle. 
 All this depended on the constant upgrade to your armies, your generals as they have a huge influence 
 to your troops, and likely to win against all odds if your general's status/respect among his troops 
 is very high. Your troops will stand alongside your general to the last man if his influence is 
 high enough or their morale will simply be broken in the beginning stages of the battle and your 
 troops will rout if your general is a wimp and loses his nerve for a brief moment. The game is 
 also fun to play with other players as you can learn different strategies etc, well this game is 
 too immersive to go on. I was going to make this short but as you can see this game brings too 
 many great memories playing it. 
  
  All in all, I really recommend Rome Total War. It may not be as fast paced as some other RTS games 
 But if you feel for some historic, Roman conquering, immense, strategic and very detailed battles 
 in a Very well made, classic RTS game then this Game is for You. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  Rome total war, while not a full Real time stratergy, is still an amazing game. the main part of 
 the game is the well disiplined units, the great factions and the great single player game.
  lets start with the single player game, at the start you choose one of the 3 roman families, the 
 Brutii the Julii and the scipii, then you get given a small amount of money to begin your seige 
 on the world, the campaignes map is set up into turns, until you assualt a city or get attacked 
 by a rival nation, basically you select a building and choose whether to focus on military or on 
 economy, this takes careful planing to maintain a Civilisation.
  the skirmish, instead of building a city and assualt you rivals, you get a budget to hire and upgrade 
 units, then jump right into the action, this is a good idea if you just want to have a quick match.
 
  
  all in all it is a great accomplishment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Rome Total War is the third installment of the Total War series. It has been one of the 
 most highly anticipated games to come out for 2004. With a lack of games which has a classical 
 age theme to them and with all the hype around this game at the time, I could not wait till this 
 game came out. Anyways to the game, just like the previous total war games. You choose your fraction 
 and then try to dominate your neighbours, something like risk where you move your armies around 
 the map. This time the theme is ancient Rome along with it's conterparts and such, unlike the first 
 medival game where you must dominate the whole of the euro map, thankfully, Rome: Total War includes 
 a shorter campaign that you can finish in a day or two. You simply pick any of the game's factions 
 and set out to conquer 15 territories and eliminate two of that faction's historic rivals for example 
 The Scipii must eliminate Carthage and Numidia if you are doing a short campaign. If you want something 
 quick there is also a historic battle or random map to choose from. Anyways about the battle, the 
 battles are even grander and more detailed then previous Total war games. So you really see infantry 
 being trampled and fly through the air when calvery smashes in to them and see infantry individually 
 move in accordence when fighting. For a siege, rather than merely assaulting walls around a central 
 keep as in the previous game, this time around you'll be fighting in the streets of a fully rendered 
 town which is pretty neat, but it just takes longer. Like While Medieval: Total War emphasized 
 your family members as generals and brides-to-be, Rome: Total War takes things a step further. 
 Each of your settlements requires a governor in residence and, unless that governor is a member 
 of your family, you can't select which units and structures are built. Family members (Males that 
 is) can also be generals to lead armys in to battle and will increase the moral of the soldiers 
 and rally them. Also if the general is high ranking enough he can also lead night attacks on cities 
 which i found to be very intresitng. Lastley there is a multiplayer options which you can choose 
 from to play up to four people at the same time which is fun.
  
  Graphics: When this game came out, the graphics where just spactaular. It was just eye candy to 
 see the map so well done. Also the landscape and the sheer number of troops on the battlefield 
 impressed me and how smoothly they moved. Overall the graphics are really well done and great to 
 watch.
  
  Sound: The sound is very good in this game. The soundtack suits the game quite well with the ancient 
 theme going on. Also the voice over in this game are also quite well done too. All in all everything 
 should sound the way it should sound.
  
  Value: All in all this is a very, very good game. It has very high replay value because you can 
 play as diffrent fractions and it has loads of just random histroic or random map and a highly 
 addictive multiplayer to keep you busy for a very long time. The only thing I did not likes the 
 the ship battles. They need to be improved apon. Other then that I highly recommend this game. 
 I give this game 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex126612
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  It was a very enjoyable game and almost the most beautiful game I've ever played!
  I'm a professional Iranian player of strategy games, but I've never played such a good game!
 
  It was a very optimistic start for the long journey of the historic strategic games and I must 
 congratulate to the Activision game producers for their best job!
  In this game we can go through the past thousands of the years in the Roman territories to explore 
 their power to reach the most parts of the world!
  Also in this game we saw various new things that we'd never seen it before; e. g. its camera or 
 its huge detailed world map.
  Its wars were professionally produced; so every player can enjoy a very significant fight through 
 the game that will make everyone funny!
  In the end I'm so proud and glad to play this game; I love it and I advice it to anyone who plays 
 strategy games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng1294
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Theres a lot to say about Rome Total War. It's just plain awesome! Rome Total War features a campaign 
 mode where you play as one of 3 Roman factions known as the Julii, The Brutii, or the Scipii. There 
 is an unplayable Roman faction called SPQR (Senate and People of Rome) and they will give you missions 
 and tasks to do throughout your campaign until you decide to defy them and gain people support 
 but we'll get to that later. Anyways you play as the Roman factions and you fight various enemies 
 that include Greece, Macedon, Egypt, Gaul, Germania, Carthage etc etc etc. You can unlock a bunch 
 of these factions by destroying them or beating a Roman campaign. As a Roman faction you are supposed 
 to gain popularity with either the senate or the people. You conquer cities and build up your economy 
 and military. You can reign supreme ruler of the ancient world using Diplomacy, Espionage, and 
 military might! Your campaign is all run on a Risk style map but it's living and breathing. It's 
 turn based too. Then when you fight your battles it transfers you over to a battle map that looks 
 similar to where the battle started on the campaign map. This is where it becomes awesome. You'll 
 use tactics that real generals used and use the same types of units and weapons they used too. 
 If a unit of soldiers gets scared its flag will start flasing white and run away. You can even 
 use the same formations that all these other generals used too. Before the battle begins though 
 you have a deployment phase where you can position your soldiers exactly the way you want. The 
 game is truly epic. I got this game for Christmas and I'm still playing it. This game is awesome 
 and I recommend it to anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total war, is a real time strategy combined with Turn based, world map conquering. 
  
  There are various different modes to playing Rome, you can choose to do skirmishes, take part 
 in real life historic battles, or change the course of history in the Campaign. 
  
  Campaign - 
  
  The campaign allows you to choose one of three families
  - Scipii
  - Julii
 
  - Bruti
  
  Each of these families are allied together and keep Italy/Rome protected. You as one of the families 
 must build romes empire, hold off barbarian raids and capture enemy towns for the glory of the 
 Roman Empire. The two modes of gameplay are fairly simple. The first mode that you will experience 
 in the campaign is of the Generals view, you look over a huge map which contains your cities and 
 enemies. You must look after your towns, build and move your armies across the map and look to 
 see where your opponents armies are moving. The second is the real time battles that take place, 
 if your attacked or decide to attack on the world map. This is usuely where you see Rome's true 
 form, your entire army is placed before you ready to control and attack whatever you think neccisary. 
 
  
  The campaign mainly consists of taking over regions and making sure rome stays safe so its a pretty 
 simple quest line. You are given missions by the Senate who do give you rewards, though these missions 
 are not crucial to the story and you can decide wether you want to complete these missions or not, 
 although deciding not to can lead to the Senate disliking how you do things... making things more 
 difficult.
  
  Historical Battles-
  This is just based on Rome's RTS warfare, where you lead armies into battles such as Troy, so on 
 and so forth, and is a fun extra to the game. 
  
  Custom Battle- 
  Choose an army, face up to about 7-8 other armies in the ultimate stand-off. This is basically 
 Rome's skirmish section. 
  
  Quick Battle - 
  Instant Action gameplay.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Graphics- 
  The graphics 
 in the game are beautiful, units are realistically detailed and light shines off their shields 
 and weapons, buildings are realistically destroyed and people... realistically die. Charging horses 
 from a distance at full speed knocks enemies down instantely and sends them flying, its an awesome 
 spectacle, much like a Ridley Scott film.
  
  Sound/Soundtrack-
  The soundtrack is epic, sounds like it was made by Howard Shore or Hans Zimmer, providing excellent 
 music for losses, fighting and general gameplay. The sounds of the battles are fantastic, great 
 voice acting, and sound effects.
  
  Overall - Possible the best RTS ever, its a stron competition between this and Age of Empires and 
 is a great, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I haven't exactly finished the game since there really isnt a linear campaign that ends with the 
 credits scrolling but I thought I should get on here and review the game for anyone whos interested.
 
  
  First off, I'm not exactly a gigantic fan of the Total War series, at least not before this game. 
 Sure I played both the Medieval games but I always got bored after a few days playing the same 
 campaign. I just really didn't see the point of conquering Europe as a whole in the middle ages, 
 I don't know, maybe the fact that it just seemed historically inplausable that you could do such 
 a thing stopped me from going further.
  This wasn't the case for Rome Total War though. I guess because I'm a fan of the roman empire and 
 that period of history in general, the game was just appealing to me. 
  
  I love the fact that you're part of one of the roman families rather than the entire roman faction 
 and take your orders from the Senate, it just makes the game that more goal oriented. The fact 
 that you interact with the other familes as well as the Senate also gives plenty of room for civil 
 war, which i also thought was great and historically accurate. In fact, the people and senate will 
 both think of you in a certain way, and that will define your actions towards the other families 
 later on.
  
  I also really enjoyed the different kinds of roman units, from the simple legionary cohort all 
 the way to the nasty Praetorian legions, really epic feel to them. Thank god you can also unlock 
 all the other factions if you complete the campaigns. Im currently playing the Greek Cities and 
 I'm really enjoying the Spartan or Hoplite phalanx formation its amazing how many you can kill 
 in that formation. Each nation has pretty much their own unique units and strengths. I was utterly 
 dissapointed when my somewhat 250 romans and 7 star general were suddenly attacked by over 1500 
 barbarians. I thought I had lost the entire campaign because it was my best general but I ended 
 up running away and forming up on top of a nearby hill covered by trees. Wow did my troops stand 
 their ground and decimate the enemy. Strategy is unbelievably imporant in this game.
  
  I'm looking forward to getting the expansions and playing those out, then maybe look into the mod 
 comunity and download some free ones, I hear that theres tons of great mods out worth to check 
 out.
  
  I really recommend this game to anyone who even slightly enjoys strategy. It delivers an epic chill 
 even after days of gameplay in my opinion, tons of replay value even after completing the 3 roman 
 campaigns. Get it, its a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnny_vicious
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin, I must mention that ive read a few reviews, most good and some people that just 
 doesnt understand how to play this game.
  
  I mention the playability of this game in my header due to the fact that I got this game two years 
 ago and I still play it on many occasions.
  The first time I sparked up a campaign I easily got into it, even without the tutorials (of which 
 are still very, very good) .
  The layout was easy to read and it wasnt complicated at all.
  As time progressed though, I learnt more and more about this amazing game, such as little extra 
 features (i. e. the minor details you can observe about the settlements, giving you that little 
 extra knowledge on how to manage your empire a little more effienctly) .
  Ive played a campaign that took me up to 3 months to get anywhere near complete dominance europe 
 and yet I still started another campaign as another faction, hoping to beat my last campaigns stats.
 
  
  The graphics, for its time are simply amazing.
  Im still amazed at some of the scenes this game can produce.
  The scale of the game is truly 
 impressive, okay you may experience a clone effect with the platoons of soldiers, but its hardly 
 a bother considering the variety of troops that end up in the fray in the heat of it all.
  Although, you do need a good machine to play this to its full capacity (such as extremely large 
 battles with all the settings set to very high) , although you can still enjoy it thoroughly without 
 a proper gaming rig.
  
  The sound is also very good, the generals give a unique speech at the beggining of every battle, 
 the speech normally mentions who your up against, how outnumbered you are and a few other things, 
 followed by the cheering of your troops and then the clashing of their spears against their shields.
 
  This is just one aspect of the sound thats within this game.
  The music is also spot on for many situations, with some of the music simply breathtaking and bings 
 a tear to your eye (such as a huge defeat on your behalf) .
  
  The gameplay is very, very good, with a smart AI to add.
  The AI is normally very sneaky and 
 deploys many tactics to take you by surprise, especcialy on hard mode.
  its very much how you would think war was like back in 250 BC.
  
  I end of the note that, this 
 game is simply amazing, as I have said many times and im sure you'll be able to find a copy of 
 this game for under 10, which at that price is brilliant for what your getting.
  Especcially with all the mods that are out for it, which will boost the game beyond that years 
 worth of gaming and onto a lifetime of playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsox07
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is absolutely fantastic because it gives you the chance to rule europe and wipe 
 out your enemies. The game gives you a choice of three roman families the house of Julii, the house 
 Scipii and the house of Brutii. You get to make allies by using diplomats and discuss political
 
  issues. Although it can be frustrating when you have to always take turns, apart from the fact 
 that the graphics are great, when you zoom up close on your army they look pretty much dated. This 
 has an excellent soundtrack to the game even though you cannot understand the words. It also has 
 great tutorials to help you learn how to play the game. Rome Total War can also be frustrating 
 when it comes to fighting your enemies on the battle field it can be a little bit too quick. Rome: 
 Total War is a classic. 
  
  Graphics - The environment is amazing, apart from the army that looks dated.
  
  Gameplay - 
 It's absolutely brilliant this is much better than Age of Empires.
  
  How long the game last's? This will last you quite a while so you won't get bored easily
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend-of-Evil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  The Total War series is known for its realtime-strategy based historical kill 'em alls. But until 
 I played this game at an Internet Cafe I had not so much avoided the series but just not cared 
 less about them. This game, simply put, is great. I wish I knew the man who invented history lessons, 
 strategy and video games as one, for he'd be happy with were it's come.
  
  The graphics in Rome : Total War is a customizable masterpiece, with settings on hand at ALL times 
 to change the resolution, graphical intensity of all things in the game, so at best, you should 
 be able to play this game slowly at its full-res stardom. Each unit in the game is finely detailed 
 (this can also be changed) , and the perfection of the battlefield variables is amazing, your units 
 can get tired, winded, exhausted, very tired, fresh and warmed up, as well as there being extra 
 counts of variables like Morale, Strength Ratios before the battle as well as a kill 'em all speech 
 by your general, which becomes slowly more inspirational and less jibber-jabber as your leader's 
 command, management and influence skills rise.
  
  The sound is more dramatic then I expected or hoped for. It is continuous, and it cues music with 
 action in the battlefield very suitably, as well as having some woman singing latin im presuming 
 through most of the campaign map. Let me tell you about some of the factions you can play.
  
  The House (s) of Julii, Brutii and Scipii are the three factions you can start playing as. Now, 
 the aim of the game can be one of two things. Short campaign, be the first faction to own 15 provinces 
 and outlast or destroy your faction's main enemy. Long campaign, become the emperor of Rome, own 
 at least 50 provinces. Now, obviously the Long campaign is one hell of a workload if you like playing 
 on VH/VH for maximal realism in the battles. Don't fret, if you get bored you can start over with 
 another faction, some of which you unlock from destroying them in the campaign, however you must 
 destroy them yourself to unlock them, otherwise nothing happens.
  
  You can additionally play as The Greek Cities, Gaul, Carthage, Germania, Brittania, Seleucid Empire, 
 Egypt, and a few more (haven't got that far yet) . This gives the game excellent replay value, with 
 each faction having similiar but unique units for themselves, and there own languages.
  
  Rome : Total War is a brilliant game, truly, I have enjoyed it, and will continue to enjoy it until 
 I have beat it with every faction on VH/VH (extra mod's here I come)
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  Sound - 8/10
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Overall - 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brightjules
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best strategy game i've ever played, in my life. Whether you're playing 
 as one of the Roman families or as one of the other un-lockable civilizations, the action never 
 stops. An advantage to this game is that it takes a really long time to beat it, possibly weeks 
 and weeks of playing. Even so, it doesn't take a master to play it, since it's structurally built 
 with different difficulty levels, that way anyone can play it. Another advantage to this game is 
 that it's cheap and does not require a very powerful computer to play it. For maximum graphical 
 advantages, however, I would recommend a graphics card. This is the ideal game for anyone who has 
 or does like Age of Empires or any related games, as the battles are like super-upgrades, with 
 possibly (depending on the computer) thousands of units in a single battle, and the special effects 
 of some units on others (for example, hoplites against cavalry) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaku_Abumi118
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Rome total war was a game that i was unsure about before. usually when i hear a games coming out 
 and there's a lot of hype it turns out rubbish so i avoided Rome until i found it in a three for 
 ten and i thought why not.
  i began playing it and thought it was fairly average but it just dragged me in. then i started 
 modding. 
  for any one wanting the game i can highly recommend downloading Roma surectum as a mod, as it improves 
 the game play and unit choice 10 times. On the game itself there is a massive selection of factions 
 to be unlocked a large amount of historical battles and a huge selection of historically accurate 
 units, plus the amount of mods out there allow this game to have almost limitless possibilities.
 
  for any strategy game fan or anyone wanting a classic game this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathsGaze
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  Comparison to other titles:
  
  Rome Total War takes the struggle for power in the Ancient ages to a new level. With a free-style 
 campaign, devastating AI (Assuming you don't play on easy) , excellent multiplayer support and strategy 
 that puts shame to every other games out there, the Total War series always keeps gamer enraptured, 
 but this is beyond that.
  
  Free Style campaign:
  
  The Senate asks you to capture a city 10 years away, while you're army is in tatters after defeating 
 a Gaul invasion. You gaze despairingly at the mission statement and... shrug and completely ignore 
 the mission, smashing someone completely random instead.
  
  That's right, the campaign is free-form! Do whatever you want! Destroy the Gaul when you're supposed 
 to make a peace treaty with them! Kill rebels for the heck of it while the Senate gets annoyed! 
 
  
  The only downside to the free-style campaign is that when you deliberately ignore too many orders, 
 characters without much influence in Rome may find themselves being questioned, and less stable 
 ones may commit suicide over the shame. Ah well. Still, it is hardly mandatory if you complete 
 one mission out of every five.
  
  Cities:
  
  Instead of illogically making buildings in the middle of a battle (Like in traditional so called 
 "strategy" games like RiseOfNations) all buildings are made on the campaign map, and then can be 
 seen (in full size, unlike certain games, where soldiers measure up to a horse) on the battle map!
 
  
  Strategy:
  
  This is where Rome: Total War really shined. In other games, flanking an enemy is useless, perhaps 
 losing them 0.1 seconds as they turn around, but in this game, it makes a difference.
  
  If you charged the best equipped legionnaries from both sides with peasants, say goodbye to the 
 legionnaires. The outcomes are:
  
  1. The Legionnaries rout before the charge hits them. No one can fight 240 peasants surrounding 
 them.
  (That's right, units actually lose courage and high-tail it off the map. Units that rout make more 
 units panic. The trickle becomes a flood.)
  
  2. The Legionnaries fight for a few seconds then flee.
  
  3. The enemy commander tells them 
 to retreat himself, so that he can use the later in the campaign.
  
  4. They are cut off from the world, facing certain death amongst 200 peasants, trying to flee but 
 being cut down by a barrage of pitchforks, screaming for mercy. Yeah, that is seriously cool to 
 watch.
  
  The best strategy is always to make your opponents rout. I am unable to describe the sheer... dare 
 I say it.... l33tness of the strategy. With one unit of cavalry, and 3 units of peasants, the legendary 
 player like myself (Ho hum) can decimate and army of legions.
  
  There are problems though. For instance, there is no multiplayer campaign mode, just a battle mode.
 
  
  Another one is that... uh... no, there is not other. The graphics are l33t. Like really l33t. Nice 
 graphics. This game earns a 9.0 because I played Company of Heroes, and that had even l33ter graphics.
 
  
  *Note* As a rule, I only add/subtract 2 points over graphics. This game lost one point fo graphics.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cambi7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game three years ago and I still play it every now and again. This game is simply 
 amazing. The graphs still sand up and the gameplay is very well balanced.
  You starT of as one of three Roman families. These play the same apart from the odd unique unit 
 that is unique to the respective family. Playing as a Roman is all fine and dandy but when the 
 real fun starts is when you unlock some of the other factions. My personal favorite is Carthage, 
 yes for the elephants. These other factions add tonnes of replay value.
  I said at the top that this game is better than Med II. That is just my personal oppinion. It may 
 be that Roman history is more appealing to me or that it just got annoying in Med II when you were 
 not able to distingish between your units and the enemies.
  Apart from two other games ("Zelda and the Ocarina of Time" and "Resident Evil 4") this is my favourite 
 game of all time. The fact that the other two are not strategy does say something.
  
  THE BEST STRATEGY GAME OF ALL TIME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: williamwillkil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  I got this game the other day and I was quite surprised. I don't usually play games made by Sega, 
 so I was at first, reluctant to play it. But when I did, I was quite surprised.
  
  First off, i do Ancient History as a subject at school, so a game that involves Ancient history 
 is pleasant to play, and anything that has to do with Ancient Rome is great.
  
  First off, I was taken back by how great everything looks. I love how you can go up close to the 
 units and see all the arrows flying towards them and what it is like when they hit other units 
 with their spears, swords or anything else. The animations with the units is fantastic, and you 
 can turn off synchronisation on/off with the units. Personally, I have it turned off so that each 
 one of them moves at their own time and it gives a feel of realism for the game.
  
  I love when you have Elephants or Horses and then charge them into enemy Archers or enemy Militia 
 and then total carnage occurs when they run into everything. It is just great. 
  
  Speaking of the battles and such, they are really easy to do. If you play games like Age of Empires 
 or anything similar, then you will have to learn how to control the battles, which is quite easy 
 to do and the tutorial pretty much tells you what to do anyway, and it is a great help, if I might 
 add.
  
  There are times when controlling the units can be a bit hard, since they might not run when you 
 want them to or they might get themselves stuck behind buildings and other objects. 
  
  Another thing that is slightly annoying is how your units run away all the time. This is particularly 
 annoying if I am in a big battle and I desperately need those troops to stay with me, but then 
 they start to surrender.
  
  The campaign is awesome and there is so much to do in it. All I have to say is that you should 
 try it out for yourself.
  
  The multiplayer is great. I do hope that there was the whole world map thing available to you instead 
 of just the battles, but I really love the battles, especially with my friends.
  
  All in all, a great game. Gameplay is good, controls are good, and with a few minor tweaks, the 
 game could be great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hector599
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time - you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time - you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazyGamer_24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  In game Rome: Total War you'll play as 3 Roman families which are supposed to expand its borders 
 and make it a glorious empire. As you'll play you'll receive mission from the senate in Rome to 
 take over cities, blockade a port, or reason with another faction to do something. You will have 
 allies with you in the game which are SPQR (the senate) , and the other families which are the Brutii, 
 the Scipii, and the Juilii families. But later in the game they will turn against you in a civil 
 war to dominate Rome. LAter in the game as you crush enemies you can unlock some of them and play 
 with them in the Imperial campaign. The game also has other modes like custom battles (factions 
 are already unlocked in custom battle) , a quick battle, a historical battle, and a tutorial campaign 
 if you have never played the Total War games before. There are also things that other strategy 
 games don't have like troops morale and stamina and terrain actually effects troops.
  
  In the game there are at least 15-20 different factions with their own unique units to play as 
 with different or same abilities like Roman legions, Greek spear men, Egyptian chariots, or even 
 powerful Carthaginian elephants! There are also some noncombatants you can recruit like spies, 
 diplomats, or even assassins. Generals in the game which are family members can govern cities or 
 fight battles. But be careful if that general dies before he produces offspring then a family branch 
 might die off and never have sons to fight or daughters to marry.
  
  For the economy or resources all you have to do is charge a tax rate not collect resources. In 
 construction buildings provide bonuses, protection, or getting new units. If you charge a high 
 tax rate the civilians might get rebellious, riot, or even conquer your own city. There can even 
 be plagues or natural disasters.
  
  In order for a battle to happen you must move one of your characters to attack another one or they 
 come to you. The battle deployment scroll pops up and tells you the ratio strength of each army 
 and which can win. You can choose to auto-resolve which lets the computer calculate the winner 
 or fighting the battle on the map. You can besiege settlements as well with huge siege towers, 
 ladders, and rams try to break into the city. In order to win you must hold the central plaza or 
 kill or rout all enemy units. In battle you must give your soldiers orders to attack who, fire 
 at will, guard position, or withdraw from battle to fight again another day. What makes it realistic 
 is that each unit has morale and stamina. If your troops run a lot they might get tired or if troops 
 are overwhelmed they might break off and flee for their lives. But you can use your general to 
 rally them and bring them back in the fight if it works.
  
  The graphics and sounds are just great, you see beautiful sceneries with grass, trees, water and 
 buildings. There are hundreds of soldiers fighting for their lives with the sound of clashing swords, 
 shields, arrows, spears, and orders from men yelling march as boots thunder the ground. The music 
 changes every time from a marching theme to fighting theme.
  
  There are some flaws to the game. When navies attack each other you can't even fight them, they 
 only can be auto-resolved and some of the results of the battle won't make any sense at all. The 
 units are all clones with not really any distinct differences to their faces. It also might look 
 strange when you tell a whole group of people to chase one unit down.
  
  Rome: Total War is the best RTS game of its year I really recommend you get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Could not say enough superlatives about this game. Why I never thought to get it back in 2004 is 
 beyond me but i got this in Jan 08 and love every bit of it! Everything that could have been said 
 about this masterpiece could have and has already been said, I'm sure! This and the great Medieval 
 II game are just like so many wonders of the ancient world-AWESOME.
  
  You may already know the gameplay, blah blah blah, but we all love to command thousands of warriors 
 in a desperate battle for the control of a major city (like Rome or Carthage) while actually running 
 your empire. Make sure of course to watch what the enemy factions are doing because next thing 
 you know you have 3 Brutii legions landing on a beach near your capitol with you just commanding 
 a half strength legion. It all takes patience and planning and more and more patience. I started 
 this on jan 12 and to this day (may 13) I have yet to finish the Imperial Campaign. Granted I took 
 the required 50 provinces ( have like 65) but I want to take the whole MAP and smash those traitors 
 from the Brutii and Scipii factions! 
  
  I have not loved a game so deeply since I first got introduced to the original Ghost Recon but 
 my playing days with this one are going to be long and sweet. if you have NOT picked this game 
 up yet do so today!
  FYI, mods for this game are in abundance too, I play the Darth Mods version and it rocks. Recently 
 I got the "Roma Surrectum" mod and was totally blown away. You need to definately get that one 
 too!
  
  "VICTORY AND GLORY!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Impossible
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is absolutely fantastic because it gives you the chance to rule europe and wipe 
 out your enemies. The game gives you a choice of three roman families the house of Julii, the house 
 Scipii and the house of Brutii. You get to make allies by using diplomats and discuss political
 
  issues. Although it can be frustrating when you have to always take turns, apart from the fact 
 that the graphics are great, when you zoom up close on your army they look pretty much dated. This 
 has an excellent soundtrack to the game even though you cannot understand the words. It also has 
 great tutorials to help you learn how to play the game. Rome Total War can also be frustrating 
 when it comes to fighting your enemies on the battle field it can be a little bit too quick. Rome: 
 Total War is a classic. 
  
  Graphics - The environment is amazing, apart from the army that looks dated.
  
  Gameplay - 
 It's absolutely brilliant this is much better than Age of Empires.
  
  How long the game last's? This will last you quite a while so you won't get bored easily
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hockeytx27
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is awesome, better then any other games made by the total war sega. this game has a lot 
 of voilence, and strategy combined together ibnto a wicked nice game. i will admit, the problems 
 are simple, 1 getting money is really hard!!!! 2 overthrowing the senate is easy, but it takes 
 a while to get the peoples support 3 armies are limited to 20 cards, 4 while all of the civivlised 
 nations have like 40 differant peole they can chose from, the barbarians only have like 10. 5 this 
 i think is the worst problem with all of the total war sega. you cant play as all of the nations 
 in the games. the posivitve is almost endless however. 1 instaed of getting a max of three cards 
 like in medevil 2, yu can only get opne solider. also that one solider can take a while to be made, 
 but you can get a unlimted amount of that one solider, unlike medevil2. 2 there is 102 regions 
 to conquer, and you can draw a almostunlimited amout of gold from about 50 of those with trade. 
 3also there are no factions that cannot be killed like the pope in medvil2. also you can get SPARTANS, 
 PRATRIONS, SCARED BANDS. and almost possibkly the best soliders in all of the games of the total 
 war sega. overall this is a wicked awesoime game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkkyle10
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Rome total war is one of the largest games you will ever play, a single session can keep you going 
 for days in your empire's attempt to conquer the ancient world.
  The Good
  -Great Graphics
  the graphics in this game are spot on, with visible lighting and incredible 
 detail on the units. the only problem that i know many people dislike is the clone armies of identical 
 faces. One other thing is that the battlefield, roads and definitley the background, could have 
 done better. If you ever besiege Athens, the huge hill has a road travelling up at an 80 degree 
 angle!
  -Strategic Map
  this is where all of the world comes together. this part of the game is turn based, and here is 
 where diplomacy, army movement, and assassinations occur. Great graphics, but still CLONE ARMIES!
 
  -Battles
  The battles are where this games meat and potatoes really are. Thousands of troops fight it out 
 in a full on battle royale, archers flatten infantry, are run down by cavalry, elephants dominate 
 on all fronts.
  a note on elephants. these are by far the deadliest thing next to a berserker on the field. horses 
 are crushed, and on the charge be sure to zoom in and watch the bodies fly. This part of the game 
 is very fun, but I want MORE! If you have ever seen the siege in lord of the rings, that is what 
 I want, not four thousand troops, forty thousand! I was very disappointed to find the battle size, 
 especially after that collossal fight in the opening cutscene. THAT IS WHAT I WANT!
  Multiplayer
  A bit of a letdown, don't get me wrong the fights are great, But for ROME TOTAL 
 WAR 2, I want to see a mini campaign, like a power struggle in the italian or german areas.
  All in all, this is a must for anyone with a lust for mass scale carnage, but watch out for elephants! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonchase
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  hell yea its the best total war game ever it OWNS all the others and medieval 2 sucks compared 
 to rome total war (i still have only unlocked the carthaginians after having it for 3 years) it 
 is the hardest game for pc i have ever played but capturing rome is a bit two easy if u ask me 
 i captured it with one general one unit of war elephants one long shield cavalry and one unit of 
 skirmishers with a set of ladders even with the best city problem it was and still is the BEST 
 pc game EVER damn i need 287 more letters umm oh yea the super infantry (sacred band etc) are a 
 bit two powerful they never die and when they do when they are fighting those armoured elephants 
 after the battle they revive from the dead the only real way to win agenst them is to send your 
 own super infantry eg arcani but you got to love those little suckers going on scuicide runs without 
 the suicide just the mass death like i said this is the BEST PC GAMES I HAVE EVER PLAYED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numbersss101
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  Ahhhh, the total war series, first off this game has better AI than its medieval 2 counterpart. 
 Today I'm going to talk about gameplay, most of the faction, story, AI, graphics and replay value. 
 (All of these are using the 1.00 version I don't update it cause I could not support long downloading. 
 My internet sucks couldn't go online for more than 2 hours)
  
  Gameplay and AI : The gameplay is quite simple actually, build a empire, build a massive army, 
 build a good alliance with another faction (which is quite rare) , and conquer Europe. To build 
 an empire, you need more population. More population = upgrade for city = better buildings = more 
 money and better soldiers. All of these takes place on a map more like civilization style in turn 
 based but when you battle an army or siege a city, all these things would zoom in and go into real 
 time. Now I'm gonna talk bout the AI. AI is smarter than the medieval 2, dunno why. If the enemy 
 has calvary, they would often flank you and if they have archers they would most likely shoot you 
 to death. The Spartans are quite weird, when I always fight them they seem to always be in phalanx 
 formation no matter what which makes them easy target. Really easy. The enemy AI is very stupid 
 during siege battle. This always happens to me whenever I destroy their battering ram they would 
 often retreat, even though they have a siege tower and their army is full of infantry. This kinda 
 sucks cause most of the time I have no calvary to kill them, but if I have I have kill an entire 
 army which kinda sucks cause 1 cav kill 7 spartans. But there are times when they are smart. There 
 this time when the entire army only have cav, my entire army was Roman infantry. I won but sustained 
 heavy casualty so I had to retreat back to my base to retrain. This how the battle went, the enemy 
 was charging a frontal assault I was lucky they didn't flank. My roman infantry carries javalins 
 also so I managed to kill most of the before they reach me. That was my right side not my left. 
 My left sustained the most casualties, I saw the enemy general charging towards me. I put my formation 
 like a box. The left right and bottom is my infrantry and the top is where the enemy would come 
 in. Once they come in they would be easily surrounded but I've only done this against the spartans 
 which only have infantry. So the general went into the box. I told myself "easy kill heehhehehehe" 
 but once they enter, I forgot to turn off the javalin thingy and they threw javalin . Guess what, 
 they didn't hit the general they hit each other! I said "********** ****** #%#^#" but I managed 
 to stop it in time and the general died. Blah blah blah blah, I won. Yeah but I stop my campaign 
 on destroying the Gauls. 
  
  Story: Well, theres not much of a story here. So not much to talk bout. Next subject!
  
  Faction: 
 Ok, even though I play the game for more than a year already, I didn't play all the faction. So 
 now I'm going to talk bout the Romans. These guys are quite easy. They are split into 3 diff faction, 
 they are not different in any way only colour and where they are stationed. They are quite balance 
 and well disciplined. A mighty army if you know how to use them. Spartans ( greek faction) . The 
 spartans are quite ok..... not much strategy in using them. Only strategy is using phalanx formation 
 to defend in open field battle and siege battle. Killer machine but are quite weak if flank. The 
 British faction and the Gauls are barbarians mostly ( no offense) they mostly use brute force but 
 are easily demoralize. Seriously very easy. Well, I'm just too lazy to write a whole thing bout 
 this cause can take up forever.
  
  Graphics: I don't really care bout this part but it quite okey even today standard.
  
  Replay 
 value: Theres always alot of replay value but its mainly up to you whether you wanna to continue 
 to play again or just quit. 
  
  Pro
  - good AI during open field battle
  -great strategy game
  -can be very addictive if you love strategy games
  -quite a reasonable 
 amount of faction
  -always have a different tactics to use agaisnt different enemies.
  -fun to watch 1000 soldiers wacking each other
  -can be used as a history lesson? 
  
  Cons
 
  -lack of sleep if can too addictive
  -AI is dumb during siege
  -quite a long learning curve is never play a civilization based game or any strategy game
  -not 
 much replay value if you don't like this type of game
  -beginners would die from upkeep after the 30th turn due to lack of management.
  
  Main point: 
 Goood game, still love it buy it if you love strategy games! I've played more than 200 hours actually 
 most likely around 1000-2000 hours =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greentree92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  * Very good graphics
  * Sound isnt to bad, neither is music
  * Quite cheap
  * Campaign is pretty good
  * AMAZING Battle maps, like really great
  
  
  THE BAD:
  * 
 NO BLOOD!!!!
  * Cant play all factions ( I think you can on barbarian invasion though...)
  * Elephants look kinda bad and scare easy....
  
  It's highly addvised that you do the tutorial 
 first, especailly for the campaign map...
  
  Game over all is great. Fighting lokks realistic enough. Really good if your into the Roman times 
 like me. Barb Inva is the same kinda ecept you can play as barbarians which is alright...
  
  If you have ever seen "Gladiator", its like at the start when they are fighting in the bush 
 against barbarians. 
  
  Theres catapults, thats always good.
  
  Runs slow if you have like more then 3000 soldiers on map. Thats another great thing, having bout 
 1000 guys on your team plus you can have allies assist you if they are really close by. You can 
 also fight on walls, so over all, a great game and cant wait for Empires: Total War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alien025
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  It was my first Total War game and it was amazing. Simply put, you can almost feel you are in charge 
 of an large army and go kick ass and pretend being a superior strategist.
  
  Rome take the series to a new stand point where you don't fight with just hundreds of people, but 
 thousands. and the number of strategy involves are limitless.
  
  Graphic are good, control are not the very responsive type you get from starcraft or C&C series, 
 there is a "delay", but still smooth. A midrange PC should have no problem running this game at 
 high nowadays.
  
  However, if you play for hours, the AI sort of gets very predictable and you will easily out smart 
 them.
  
  If you get bored of the game, get Mod, there are plenty of choice outside.
  Again, great value, great improvement from the last game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharvie
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Screams of soldiers' broken spirits whittle the battlefield arrows pierce through the skies above 
 and hitting with deadly accuracy. Cavalry ploughs through your broken lines of soldiers. This is 
 Total War and it's never been so much fun.
  
  Creative Assembly is back with another Total War game that focuses on the trails and tribulations 
 of the rise and fall of the Roman Empire, and this game is perhaps their best effort yet.
  
  Rome: Total War is split into two main gameplay components. A campaign map which allows you 
 to control the movements of your armies, the management of your cities and the creation of new 
 units. The second element of the game is 3D battles where you play out battles with hundreds of 
 soldiers fighting one another on a detailed landscape while you manage the advancement of your 
 units. The tactical element to the game is omnipresent as you think about your movements: you do 
 not want to run cavalry into a line of spearman do you?
  
  The game has all the modes you would expect: single player campaign, multiplayer battles, and a 
 prologue campaign for beginners. This is a short campaign that introduces you to the basics of 
 the game. The game differs with past Total War games, so it is not only focused for beginners, 
 but for veterans of the series so the transition to the Imperial Campaign is a whole lot smoother.
 
  
  You start the Imperial Campaign with the choice of three Roman factions: the Julii, Brutii and 
 Scipii. The additional factions are unlocked for play when you defeat them in the campaign, or 
 just by completing the campaign. Each of the Roman factions are situated in different areas of 
 the Italian peninsula. Each faction therefore has the responsibility of dealing with different 
 factions. The Julii must contend with the hordes of Gauls, Britons and Spaniards. The Scipii will 
 spend most of their time sweating it out in Africa facing the Egyptians and Carthaginians while 
 the Brutii are faced with the challenge of facing the phalanx loving Greeks and Macedonians.
  
  Your primary goal is to expand Rome's glorious empire across the uncivilised world by force 
 or diplomacy. The Senate and Rome itself is a AI-controlled faction that will give you periodic 
 missions like blocking a port or seeking out trade rights. In return for completing these tasks, 
 you will be rewarded with things like cash or units. You position with the Senate and Rome will 
 also increase and as you become more popular with the people the campaign takes a dramatic twist.
 
  
  Once popularity is gained, you have the opportunity to take Rome and become the Emperor of Rome. 
 This is not an easy step to take, however. Your rival Roman factions are also vying for the prestige 
 of Emperor and will fight you to get there. Managing all your cities, while overcoming relentless 
 sieges and attacks is tough, but is the cost you must pay to become victorious.
  
  The new campaign map has drastically changed from previous games'. The new map contains beautifully 
 towering mountains, lush forests and detailed rivers and streams. The map's little details like 
 trade carts journeying down roads and wild animals scattered around also makes the map impressively 
 detailed. Another excellent feature Creative Assembly has added is the ability to engage and enemy 
 on the campaign map, only to see the same terrain in the right places on the 3D battle map. The 
 little details like this is what makes Rome: Total War a winner.
  
  Another notable difference to the campaign map is the removal of the "game board pieces" that represented 
 your armies in the previous Total War games. Your armies are represented by soldier icons which 
 are immensely detailed.
  
  The game has also embraced a watered down RPG-type system in relation to your Generals, Governors 
 and family members. Your named characters will gain different traits, both positive and negative. 
 Creative Assembly also added in a few humorous traits that'll make you smile. These traits can 
 be gained through different situations, for example, your General may gain the Confident Commander 
 trait by winning a certain number of battles making him a more prolific commander
  
  The sound quality of the game is also fantastic. The musical score in the campaign is excellent, 
 so good in fact that I soon ran out and got the game's soundtrack. The music stays true to the 
 time period - you won't find any Aerosmith in this game. The sound effects in battle are also perfectly 
 conducted and everything sounds as it should from the clanging of metal to your General's scream 
 of morale boosting wisdom.
  
  For newbies of the series, the game allows the player to assign a whole lot of the gameplay to 
 the AI. If you don't want to manage the economy of all your cities, you can chose to have them 
 auto-managed. Battles also have the option to be automatically resolved which can be helpful if 
 it is a battle you don't particularly fancy playing.
  
  The only thing that stops Rome: Total War from being perfect is a few bugs and minor peeves. Sometimes 
 you may find soldiers in a group facing the wrong way, or clashing units merging for a second. 
 It's nothing a patch can't fix but shouldn't be happening in the first place. While navies have 
 taken a more dominant presence in the game, naval warfare is still automatically resolved, something 
 that is to be changed in the next Total War game.
  
  Despite the tiny flaws Rome: Total War is a must buy for anybody looking for a fresh look at a 
 RTS game. Creative Assembly have created a remarkable game stuffed full of replay value and the 
 ultimate Roman experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anguille02
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  The game has everything a strategy gamer wants but many aspects are badly implemented. Spies, Murderers 
 and diplomat require a lot of micromanagement. It all made sense in Shogun and Medieval as the 
 maps were like board games... but with the new map it's just not right. Other games have made it 
 much more clearer and easy (see Spartan or Knights of Honor just to mention 2) . The pace of the 
 game is also very slow... this is due to the camera following each unit move on the map. The Menues 
 for the cities were much better in the first 2 games. Finally, the greatest disappointement is 
 the weak AI. It was already too easy to win in Shogun and Medieval but now it's really just way 
 too easy... no challenge. The battles are great but unfortunately, as it's never necessary because 
 the battles are easely won, i almost don't play them. Still it's a decent strategy game... it's 
 just not THE strategy game claimed by so many... they're just impressed by the flashy graphics...
 
  
  Will keep on playing it because it's fun... and that's still the most important thing in a game... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_Kin
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  You havent really seen historical strategy until you've played a game from the Total War series. 
 This game rocks!
  
  You can play as a Roman family who controls part of the Empire and help extend Rome's borders. 
 There is even a famliy tree screen where you can see who are going to be the future leaders of 
 your armies. 
  
  It almost feels as though you are like some kind italian gangster family who'se growing on power, 
 except its way back in ancient times... but the feeling is still like you are the Godfather of 
 your Roman family :)
  
  You have various other nations to deal with. It is even possible to unlock some of these nations. 
 So you can choose to play as them (such as the Egyptian Phaorohs, or Germania, or others) instead 
 of the Romans and see if you can build a stronger empire than the Romans or anyone else. 
  
  It is great for people who like the idea of bulding a great empire from the comfort of their 
 little chair in front of their computer. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kweeni
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome! Realy the best total war game ever made! One day i got a demo of this game 
 and it was awesome! So i diseded to buy the full game. Once i bought it i installed it on my pc 
 and played it. and
  DAMN! This game was even better then i taught it would be! Singleplayer campaign is so awesome!!!!!!! 
 You can pick ur own faction, manage your own cities, conquer other lands, and more!
  And you can creat your own custom battle and fight it! or you can just play a historical battle, 
 of wich some of them a kinda hard but fun!
  the online is ok but when u sometimes join a game it freesez and its realy anoying when that happens 
 this is one of the best games ever made, so if u like strategy games or like the roman empire or 
 just like old fashion battles you definitely must buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beesu
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  Rome total war is not only the best looking game (when it came out) of the series but also has 
 the easiest campaign map to play on. I remember on my Medieval Total war when I was controlling 
 ever settlement except Sicily (because the boats are very annoying) I also took the game out a 
 smashed it, but I found a better solutionI gave it to a friend . Any ways on to the review
  
  THE CAMPAIGN MAP:
  The campaign map in Rome Total war has not only became easier (thanks 
 to the 3D engine) but the moves are a lot more realistic. If you want to avoid a battle so you 
 can attack an enemy town you can easily move you mouse button around the Enemy army destroy there 
 town before they have a chance to react. The boats on this game are much easier as well. You take 
 an army, click on the boat to transport them on, click the boat on the land you want them to get 
 off at and then its done, boats moved, army moved, everyone's happy .
  
  THE 3D BATTLES:
  The new 3D battles really spruce up the game. You can now move very close to the action (you can 
 see there 3D faces) and see each soldier battling to the death. Its really a great thing to watch 
 as thousands of 3D men go at it to kill each other.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound in this game is very great the music changes all the time and you will never hear the 
 same song twice in an hour if game is left to run without being touched.
  
  OVERALL SCORE:
  My overall score for this game is 
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10
  SOUND: 9/10
  GAME 
 PLAY: 7/10
  OVERALL: 8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Logic_Wins
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Rome TW is a testament to what makes PC games great. Replayability is off the charts with unique 
 campaigns for all 12 factions. 
  Not only does R: TW provide a beautifull turn based game rich with color, depth and tactical planning, 
 but battles are an RTS freaks wet dream with literally 1000's of units crashing on the screen, 
 seiging castles, and leading charges. This game has been reviewed many times and i think it's obvios 
 how great it is. If your looking for a game with Charictor on an EPIC scale look no further. Rome 
 total war went where no games have gone before, deep stratigic elements frosted with HUGE braveheart 
 style battles. A must have for anyone that owns a PC and enjoyswar games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hock3yl1f3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War is an amazing strategy game that combines the two best strategy types: real time 
 and turn based. Set in ancient roman times, this game has hundreds of hours worth of game time. 
 Rome features a huge vareity of units, factions, and battle landscapes. Best of all it includes 
 a good amount of history mixed in to the fun. Just don't think you'll pass history class by studying 
 with this game. 
  
  Historical Battles: Rome includes (i think) 10 historical battles. These battles were real battles 
 from ancient roman times that you can re-live. Usually you play the out-manuvered side and you 
 have to somehow win a battle that back then was lost. Very fun and challenging for those who have 
 a good understading of the game and basic tactics.
  
  Quick Battle: Basically you click this button and it randomly picks two factions and two relatively 
 equally matched armies and gives you one (for me it usually is a faction ive never played before) . 
 Then you battle it out. Not that hard but fun for a quick game as the name perfectly describes.
 
  
  Custom Battle: My favorite! You pick the armies, factions (up to 8) , landscape, and whether its 
 a regular battle or a siege. Very fun, great for practicing, and seeing thousands of men on the 
 screen
  
  Battles in general are very realistic and require a good amount of strategy unlike many other games.
 
  
  Multiplayer: Same thing as custom battle except w/ friends. Yay a real challenge (unless they suck 
 of course) :P
  
  Campaign!!!: This is the main part of the game. You choose a faction and then go out upon the world 
 looking for dominance. At first you can only play as the three roman families but after you unlock 
 the others have fun with those. In the campaign there are two parts: the turn-based world map were 
 you manage your cities, conquer others, and use diplomacy and espionage. Then you go into the regular 
 real time battles to fight off to crush your enemies. This will require a lot of time though and 
 remember save, save, save. 
  
  Down Side: Crashes a lot so remember SAVE! Naval Battles are non-existint ( i mean they are there 
 but you cant play them they atomatically resolve) . gamespy is a virus on the disc (if u dont download 
 gamespy and then go into the rome: tw folder ur virus protection kills a virus) !! 
  
  Amazing and a must buy. Go get it NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironman1001
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Just flat out amazing. This game brings thousands of soliders to your command to real life armies. 
 This game is amazingly history correct. In the campain you can biuld your own settlements our just 
 destroy your enemies settlements and countries. You start out as Rome and you build your settlements 
 and conqer the world with your armies. When you destroy another faction though you can start another 
 campain and play as that faction, like Greece, Gaul, and Carthage and lots of others. When you 
 biuld your settlements you biuld walls, plantations, barracks and a ton other things so there are 
 alot of possibilities. Also in the campain you can recruit diplomats and assasigns so this also 
 makes it very strategic for you and your enemies. In the combat you choose from a huge range of 
 archers, soliders, calvery, artillery and siege weopons. You can fight on ground, bridges, attack 
 castles and huge settlements with touring walls, or you can defend your walls and settlement. You 
 can have several armies in an single player and online so there are huge armies all fighting each 
 other at the same time so its survival of the fightest. The online is great just like the single 
 player. Im not going to so anymore, just go get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  The best game ever. This game rocks out loud! At first this game was weak but after a while of 
 playing this game became a classic which kept me locked into playing for 2 years! The campaign 
 in this game is suberb. Theres tons of campaigns to play. The TBS here is easy and is mainly based 
 on war. Whenever you fight a battle in RTW you command the army you built and you battle the army 
 the enemy built. The game is by far my favorite game. Also theres a free-mode where you can build 
 armies and face off against enimes. Mods in this game are very cool. They add factions and much 
 more. In addition mods can give you battle like the battle of 300 and much more. Online play is 
 another good thing about this game but since most people are playing Medieval II Total War there 
 is not a lot of people platying online. 
  
  So if you want two years wasted out of your life [becuase your playing this] then buy this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghoulred21
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Many of you old gamers out there have probably played age of empires or other games of the type 
 . You all must've fought some type of old civilization and probably conquered it but I always 
 thought that it's missing something , you can't get the feeling of battle when u only got 30-40 
 units on the map and that's tops .The years have passed and someone (god bless his soul ) thought 
 that we can do better and they did ROME .
  Rome total war is one of those unique games that will keep you on your toes for as long as you 
 play it .It can never get boring and it can always surprise you with something .From the moment 
 you step as a faction leader and lead your people into the very heart of Europe ,till the day you 
 conquer the whole empire ,you will have to face many moments of happiness ,sadness and of course 
 the feeling like your action really counts .
  The gauls are attacking from the west ! No problem we just mobilize the 3rd legion and crush them 
 .
  Your allies betray you and are coming against you ! We make new alliances and we march against 
 them .
  Those are one of the few things you will have to face within this game .You will face the world 
 politically and military ,nothing is impossible . You can make your way into Rome in any way you 
 want ,you want to assassinate the senator who just keeps you from taking the spot ,then by all 
 means have your best assassin take care of It ,just make sure his well trained or else it may backfire 
 and lead to some really nasty issues ,or perhaps you want to do it the bloody way and conquer all 
 of Europe and some more ,then do it have every capable man to join your ranks and destroy any 
 of your enemies ,but perhaps you want to do it the diplomatic way and become emperor by showing 
 everyone that you can solve even the most unsolvable issues in the empire ,whatever be the path 
 you chose .. i can guarantee you will love every moment of it .
  "Veni, vidi, vici !"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahammut125
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War. It allows you to do anything, from generate a battle to controlling a vast empire 
 spanning Europe and beyond. From the interesting tutorial to the Roman Civil War, you can't help 
 but be drawn into it.
  
  In the campaign, you start out being able to control one of three Roman families, each controlling 
 a mere 2 territories placed to show you where your main conquest missions will be. The Senate will 
 constantly be bombarding you with missions to do anything from conquer a city to obtaining trade 
 agreements. Howeer, you could easily choose to ignore these missions, as they only offer rewards, 
 no punishments. However, as you gain more and more territory, the People will like you more, while 
 the senate, after a point, will like you less. This is when they start punishing you, occasionally 
 even telling you to have your faction leader commit suicide for 'the good of the Republic.' It 
 is also around this point that you will gain enough popular support to attack your Roman allies 
 and start a Roman Empire. Once you conquer 50 territories and Rome, you win.
  
  However, this is not the end of the campaigns. In fact, it is only the beginning. After you play 
 through once, the game unlocks most of the other factions so now you can play as one of 12 or 15 
 factions, with the same objective though. Besides the campaign, there are battles. You can battle 
 in the campaign, or historical battles, or you can even create your own battle from a multitude 
 of available maps and all factions, playable and non-playable.
  
  In the end, Rome :Total War is a game with high replay value, and will continue to be played by 
 many for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_E_D
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is a truly awsome game. The graphics are way ahead of there time, the campain is 
 epic and the battles are amazing.
  
  The campain last for about a week if you play obsesivley and non-stop. You have to consider more 
 than just having a massive army and killing everyone; you have to use spys, diplomats and, my favourite, 
 assassins! One downer for the campain is the annoying advisers, but you can switch them off.
  
  The on battle maps are amazing, all the troups are very organised, which is strange when you 
 are the barbaric Germans. The effects of weapons are really fun to watch, espeacially the flaming 
 rocks and arrows. The 3D maps are huge, but they are limited by the red line.
  
  The graphics and the sound are very well made, I play on a laptop and the sound still comes out 
 nice, clear, and realistic. The graphics are very nice and crisp, except when you zoom too close 
 on a bridge, then you sought of go under water. The smooth textures are great, the only downside 
 comes when you are in a battle that involves four or more armies, then you get some serious laaaaaaag!!
 
  
  All in all I loved this game, I would recomend it to anyone who has played any Age of ... or ...: Total 
 War games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettuceman44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is the very definition of deep, high scope, and epic. You start off the game picking 
 from 3 different roman families. After this you will then be taken to the campaign map, and this 
 is where you will move your armies, attack settlements, and basically manage everything, but actual 
 fighting. You will be building up an empire. There are many different provinces to take, and the 
 map will remind you kinda of Risk. When you attack an enemy, you can control your troops, and then 
 you get zoomed in on the battlefield. The units look great! It looks so awesome to just look at 
 your troops march down the battlefield. No other game gives you this scope and awesomeness of the 
 ancient world. This is one rts game you cannot miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyfon_Gump
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I got this game played forever and learned the best tactics for me which have to be phalanx and 
 elephants. The campaign was great without question, all the historical empires and their locations 
 were great, the historical and greatly varied units, very good sounds, the graphics at some times 
 were a little weak but that may have had something to do with a computer running it at a little 
 over its minimum requirement, and the fact that the game is enormous. Also the online play wasn't 
 great but i don't enjoy a game like this online very much. This game will continue to be played 
 for years to come because it's just that good. It has to the best strategy game I've ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masenko007
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  As I said, what more can you ask for? This game had it all. Well, everything for those who enjoy 
 the strategy based games. The turn based strategy appealed to me, then I played it, and MY GOD! 
 the battles!! I havent been so excited in a long time! The chance to see your cavalry actually 
 charge into the lines of legionaries, sending them flying. The way men actually catch fire when 
 hit by flaming arrows... Its an awesome game. Sure, its not historically accurate, but show me 
 one game that is TOTALLY accurate. One of my favourite games of all time, even though im yet to 
 play Medieval 2. Which I want to do. Rome: Toatal War should be classed as one of the best strategy 
 games available for war gamers today 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -bluemonkey-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War pits large armies against each other while employing plenty of strategy to keep 
 you going for a long time. Its massive battles with thousands of troops fighting for dominance 
 is something not many other games display. Of coarse, with that said, it doesn't lack strategy. 
 In fact, every faction (with probably over 20) has its own strategy, from a mass of barbarian units 
 to fully equipped Greek phalanxes. The campaign is extremely long though rather fun. But sometimes 
 you have to stop your campaign against Gauls to deal with a Greek city that must be taken, or you 
 feel like you lack something to do without the Roman senate telling you what to do. Of coarse it 
 poses several problems. One of the most annoying is when you charge with cavalry they stop to move 
 several feet just before hitting the enemy lines and have no power. Other problems hinder the enjoyment 
 of the game, but do not affect it drastically. This game will leave you satisfied and there is 
 almost always a different faction or strategy to use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurtus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  All the strategy games of years past have lacked one vital element of realism that of which the 
 Total War game series articulate and expand upon one hundred fold. That is the realistic battling 
 which has better emulated real world fighting of centuries past, then any other games. Only in 
 this game can you have two battalions of gemanian axe infantry plus a maxed out general and his 
 calvery beat 500+ horses by 'scaring' them into an unpreventable retreat and wiping them of the 
 map. This was the very situation I faced while trying to move cavelry to boost up my attacking 
 armies. The single player campaign has differing levels of difficulty seemingly determined by which 
 roman faction you start as. Many times taking over cities are a matter of destroying an entire 
 factions worth of armies and then having to negociate the citizens happiness through the buildings 
 you construct there and taxes you collect. I have played hours and hours with all the roman factions 
 and the best method leading towards total domination in my opinion is a bliztgrieg type movement 
 where through a turn baced system you destroy a faction as early on and as quickly as possible 
 before they are able to recover. I remember starting as the blue Roman faction (the one in the 
 middle of the lot) The house of Bruni its maybe called. And taking over 8 or more cities within 
 the first 2hrs with my kingdon spanning as far as Larissa on the weastern side of the Greek penninsula. 
 Although alot of fun is gained through upgrading your troops and buildings and constructing massive 
 fleets to cut off enemy trade roots, the reason for R: TW's being is the massive scale fights with 
 your enemies. On the stratagy map your armies are symbolised as a single man holding a flag of 
 different style depending on the calibre of your army. When you see an enemy you have the choice 
 of retreating back a few spaces or attacking. (Ultimatly the range an attacking army has over a 
 stationary one, on the Strat map is greater, so if the attacking one is determined enough a battle 
 will be fought.) Upon attacking the battle music starts and when the loading finishes the battle 
 map will be of the same style as that in the strat map, be it a tundra field in germany, forest 
 -snowy or summer, even a sheild volcanoe. The stratagy that goes into fighting a battle is insane. 
 The stamina of the army effects its fighting ability so when the army is charging over long distances, 
 up a hill or they have just been fight a long while their ability will decrease. Men hiding in 
 forests will have substantial cover from projected missiles. Some armies appearence alone (germania 
 and elephants of Cathage) is enough to strike fear into the hearts of the enemy, decreasing its 
 moral, increasing the chance of a spontaneous retreat or a grave lowering in attack ability. But 
 the most vital factor other then what your army actually consists of is how you use your calvery 
 and your general and his men. By having the General close to your men and by him fighting beside 
 them will increase the moral of the men, helping them to face frightening enemies preventing them 
 from retreating and losing moral. Manuvering cavelry can break the enemies lines making them suseptable 
 to attack or by flanking the enemy while your men and general are fighting in the front lines. 
 These stratagies and more may help you to defeat a much stronger enemy. With having up to 1200+ 
 men in a single army manurvering and keeping an eye on somtimes 5 diffrent fronts and applying 
 diffrent stratagies can somtimes be difficult. So in terms of learning curve i'd say that its similar 
 to learning poker, 5 mins to learn and a life time to master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rolando
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Well... It's just a great game!
  Since the begining, I was amazed with all the detail putted to the game, both strategy and battle 
 map. The graphics are really cool, the battles what can I say... hard to describe... Impressive!!
 
  
  The battles are really inmersive... watching you cohorts move forward to slaugther the enemy, controlling 
 everything is kind of hard... but that's the point.
  
  The sounds incredibly add feeling to the game... hearing your general shout of war... really great 
 man.
  
  This is a highly addictive game for me... really keeps me on my seat until late at night.
  
 
  The story is very well represented, lot of detail into it.
  
  Activision, Creative Assemby... you did a great job with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leesius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  to me this game is great because it's immersive and in depth the graphics are great and the gameplay 
 is extremely addictive. i hope that they will also release this for the xbox 360 so that console 
 gamers get the chance to see what this game has to offer but as usual it's the controls that would 
 be the main problem. the game is also educational but controlling all those units in combat and 
 seeing all thos characters on screen at once is reat the game to me is a real roman empire a game 
 no pc owner should be without as well as being able to buy the expansion barbarian invasion all 
 in the one box is a must for ne body a true testiment to strategy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DHReese
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most enjoyable RTS games ever to grace the PC. Creative Assembly has been building 
 on each of their previous games, and this one is totally awesome. It provides a great mix of Real 
 Time and Turn Based play which makes it totally interactive. Simply, a must buy. Even though I 
 grew up on C&amp; C and Red Alert, I was able to just sit down and totally become infatuated with 
 this game. From MASSIVE siege battles to sending elephants stampeding through an enemies ranks, 
 this game has it all. Wide range of nations also adds to the mix. Only downside would be only one 
 map for campaigns, even though you can change your faction. Historical Battles are a nice add on 
 as well. In Conclusion, if your an RTS fan, pick it up, and if not, you need to try it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOML
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  The game play is the best i have ever seen. unlike other RTS games this one allows you to actually 
 build and empire and create not just armies but legions upon legions. you actually get to rule 
 a faction of the Roman empire, from raising taxes and constructing cities to training and equipping 
 you military and navy. You can battle from the shores of Europe the the gates of the middle east 
 . you can either adopt men into your family or simply have them the old fashioned way. wither way 
 you can build up your generals and appoint them as Governor if they don't have the battle field 
 spirit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonwolf1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total war is based on the Hellinistic periods and when the roman republic is begging their 
 campagn of conquest. There are many aspects of this game that I reveal, including gameplay, graphics 
 and sound. The gameplay of the main campaign is fun. The map isn't very accurate and is too small 
 in scale of detail. The gameplay can get a bit dull while playing in campagn, as there are many 
 repetitiveness. There are lots of features in campagn but there isn't enough to keep the game feeling 
 realistic. In battle mode combat is quite fun when comanding different troops and using different 
 stradegies. But the combat is average, not that great. Enemy AI is below average mostly. Factions 
 are all basically the same, with 'few' different skins and stats. The accuracy of the units are 
 poor in some factions. This game would be a lot better if all factions were different, as it will 
 bring the use of being different factions more effective.
  Lots of content, especially if you get the espansion, but needs more to fill the game with realism.
 
  8/10 Graphics are pretty good. There are some minor glitches but its actually really good overall. 
 8/10
  
  Sound is good too. There are many voiceacting, speech and combat sound.
  8/10
  
  Rome: Total War is overall in all aspects, is a good game. I would not recommend people who 
 are interesting in histor to this game. Maybe people who like playing war games and turn base stradegy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karam9
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  this game is so cool 4 strategy&amp; conquest lovers just imagine a hole world to conquest and 
 tons of city's to upgrade and alot of solders to train :)
  
  gamplay: rocks u will control the huges army of rome and do almost whatever u like with it .
 
  graphics: the graphics is perfect and got alot of details.
  
  in this game u will be fighting like real and put ur own strategies on the battlefield and outside 
 it 2 alot of units 2 use alot of strategies 2 create its avery big game ispend about 3 months playing 
 it u will get addict cuse there are alot of factions 2 try alot of things 2 do and alot of realistic 
 battle 2 fight these game is amust buy 4 war&amp; rts lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fueledonmusic1x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total war is a new and true type of RTS games. Instead of having individual units or a small 
 band of units, you'll control from as little from 40 to 200 in one battalion. This game truly lives 
 up to expectations and you won't believe that there is a game out there like this one.
  
  Gameplay: Excellent. Since there is 2 parts to the game which is the turn base strategy and the 
 in battlefield you'll have to really think and use your brain to outsmart your enemy and annihilate 
 them. You'll have to use smart strategies to flank enemies and find weak points. You'll be able 
 to control infantry, spearmen, calvary, siege equipments, and missle units. One complain i have 
 though is the enemy AI can be stupid at times.
  
  Graphics: They really did a nice job with the graphics to this game. The enviornments look awesome, 
 and the unit's detail are great as well. 9/10
  
  Sound: As epic as any war themed movie, although you'll find yourself laughing at the horrible 
 dialouge and accents.
  9.5/10
  
  Replay Value: You'll come running back to this game in a week's top if you ever take a break from 
 it, OR you're busy playing medieval.
  10/10
  
  Overall, Rome: Total War is a great definition to epic strategy games out in the market right now. 
 You can pick it up for only $15 and if you can also get the expansion for only an extra $5.
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: templargunman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War was amazing for me when it came out, I had hours of fun running my Julii into the 
 ground! I never actually won the game, but it was massive amounts of fun, it's still fun, especially 
 now that I found a strategy to make money. When I got Medieval II total war, I noticed nice features 
 that weren't in Rome total war, but I won't grade it based off a game that was designed to fix 
 or update Rome. When I used to play it, my main problem was is that I couldn't keep track of everything, 
 my brain didn't run like that yet. Going back and playing it recently with a bit more RTS skill 
 I found that the game became a lot easier. For one, I didn't surround Rome with over 10,000 troops 
 every WHILE expanding my empire at the same time, which probably helped my income, but the game 
 is definitely designed for more mature minds, because it really requires you to pay attention to 
 tiny details. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardheartman
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 25, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  Amazing graphics, good sound, tons of stuff to build and twenty-tons of stuff to look forward to. 
 Diplomats, spies, units, assassins, ships... But as you play, it gets repetitive, boring and the 
 novelty of the graphics wears off. The battles are definitely the best Ive ever seen in any strategy 
 game. Controlling large number of troops on a 3-D map that you can completely control the camera 
 view was impressive. The graphics were extremely smooth on my system even with everything maxed 
 out.
  The campaign part of the game was not good and i prefered dont play that. There is only one objective 
 in the campaign, and that is basically to get gold. The one and only way to get gold is by capturing 
 territories, and it becomes very frustrating.
  overall this is a good game, but no for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Plainly stated, Rome Total War is one of the greatest turn-based strategy games I have ever played. 
 In the Rome Total War campaign, you play as three Roman families. Each of them have their own advantages 
 and disadvantages, and each has their own goal, such as conquering Gauls and Germans in North for 
 Julii. The campaign mode will probably take you more than at least 20 hours to finish it for one 
 familiy.
  However, what really stands out from Rome Total War is its very complex and strategically challenging 
 gameplay. If you dont know about the Total War games, in the campaign mode, all the maneuvering 
 of your armies takes place on a big map. The big map is where all the management of economy, diplomacy, 
 and seeing the development of other factions take place. However, what really is awesome are the 
 battles in both campaign and non-campaign. In the campaign, in order to conquer new places, you 
 have to engage in the Total War battles. These battles are reality-simulated and you actually get 
 to set your formations, control and watch your troops destroy your enemy!! Because the battles 
 are what I really find the most awesome part of Roman Total War, I often play the non-campaign 
 stuff so I can get right into the battles. Non-campaign stuff would include instant battles, historical 
 battles, or customized battles. Instant battles are where you are given an army (consisting of about 
 150-300 troops) from a random faction versus an army from a random faction controlled by the computer. 
 Historical battles are battles that Total War simulates. For example, the Siege of Sparta by Pyhrrus. 
 Basically, you are put in the shoes of Pyhrrus and required to conquer Sparta. Customized battles 
 are what they say they are. Battles that you get to customize yourself. You can pretty much do 
 anything, choose your own map, choose your own faction and units, etc. From my perspective, I believe 
 that the customized and historical battles are the most fun. They are challenging and allow you 
 to try out a lot of things. The problem with instant battles is that even though the armies are 
 equal in strength, them because you could never choose what map you wanted to play and any new 
 strategies you wanted to test out. Just didnt seem as interesting as customized and historical 
 battles.
  Other than the problem of instant battles, I thought Rome Total War was a pretty awesome game. 
 What really stood out to me was the battles. If you are a person who doesnt like always fighting 
 and instead like the building up type of strategy, then there is campaign for you. Rome Total War 
 in general improved a lot on the previous Total War series, providing tons of new content and gameplay, 
 and should be a definite must get game for anyone who likes strategy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lathan94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all and i mean IT ALL. The battles are more than epic their lengendary. Each battle 
 can be massive. I think you can have battles with up to 40000 people in them but my pc would blow 
 up if i did that. Anyways its battles are realistic to a degree you troops have morale, stamina, braveness (i 
 guess you could count that one as morale) . Your enemy may have 3500 troops moving into you country. 
 To bad you only have 1000 troops on researve you think your doomed WRONG. With smart tactics such 
 as flanking, killing enemy general, utilizing your troops advantages and disadvantages you can 
 win this battle. After you defeat your enemy and kill abou 2000 of them and their general they 
 may be so crushed that the enemy army is forced to retreat into their own country to get retrained. 
 That then gives you a chance to gather your forces a total of 2000 and capture the city right on 
 the border of their country and yours. By using tactics and the other stratagies once again you 
 can come out victorious (unless they have walls then you have to adopt an entire new strategy) . 
 Imagine how fun this would be to play from the senario i just went over. The empire building in 
 this game is also quite enjoyable. I reccomend this game to anybody who likes games that are more 
 than epic their LENGENDARY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I weigh the options and want to go ahead and give this game a 10. I really did like it. It gave 
 you an interactive map with character (army) representations. The grand roman people stood over 
 the territory they occupied under the AI and name of the general and Army. That was great. You 
 had spies and people trying to assassinate them. If an assassin killed a general then a soldier 
 appeared on the map. It worked vice versa if you killed the general of someone else. Another great 
 thing was that you could actually visit the cities that you built in a three D scaled thing. That 
 was great. Then finally was the world domination. You could take rome and the rest of the world 
 and get it all the color that represented your country. You could train generals, armies and the 
 like. You have sea power as well. You could try diplmacy. All of those things made it really great. 
 The only thing that I did not like about this game was that when you went into the battle, the 
 characters looked more like stick figures. The characters on Age of Empires looked better. Other 
 than that, this game ruled. I also thought it lacked in comical death of AI's. In Age of Empires 
 and Stronghold. The AIs would get there butts pitched up in the air and they would make funny noises 
 when they died. Other than these two minor things. It was almost perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wigster666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 20, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Rome total war is an amazing game for everyone who loves epic rts's and even those who dont. The 
 campaign can eat into your days very easily with out you even noticing and multiplayer is great 
 fun. The gameplay is great fun (a little bit challenging at times) , but it is fresh as your constantly 
 changing from managing your economy to fighting all out wars. multiplayer is all out chaos if there 
 is more than two people playing in your server. the graphics may not be cutting edge but they are 
 still very pleasing to look at. All round a brilliant game, everything is well balanced and it 
 will keep your attention for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swat1913
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  You can play as pretty much any faction from the romans to the egyptians and conquer the land with 
 your generals and mighty armies. The campaign map is 100% accurate and the graphics superb however 
 if there are a hell of alot im talking about like over 30000 men in a battle it may lagg or even 
 crash if your computer can't handle it which is a small problem. Multiplayer battle are intense 
 and the superior strategist will always win none of that command and conquer i got a better unit 
 haha i win crap. The special units for factions are pretty cool like the britons get chariots that 
 are lethal against cavalry and several units have special formations and abilities like warcry 
 for most germanic units. In conclusion this game is the PWNAGE get it when you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allin567111
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Rome what can i say its awsome. Rome total war is the greatest game to date no matter how old it 
 gets it will still be me number 1 game. the game takes hours away from you and it is time well 
 spent before you know youve conquerd europe. and destroyed numerous civilisations. Rome what can 
 i say its awsome. Rome total war is the greatest game to date no matter how old it gets it will 
 still be me number 1 game. the game takes hours away from you and it is time well spent before 
 you know youve conquerd europe. and destroyed numerous civilisations. Rome what can i say its awsome. 
 Rome total war is the greatest game to date no matter how old it gets it will still be me number 
 1 game. the game takes hours away from you and it is time well spent before you know youve conquerd 
 europe. and destroyed numerous civilisations. Rome what can i say its awsome. Rome total war is 
 the greatest game to date no matter how old it gets it will still be me number 1 game. the game 
 takes hours away from you and it is time well spent before you know youve conquerd europe. and 
 destroyed numerous civilisations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hercules1209
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Great strategy game, being a fan of real time AND Turn based strategy i had hours of fun, just 
 trying all the factions and their tactics and units. This is a must play for strategy gamers or 
 if you just like to see massive armies of thousands of soldiers dueling it out on open battlefields 
 or in a epic siege. Tons of fun. Awesome new additions to the game like family members and being 
 part of Rome or being a Southern Empire. Wide selection of units. If you like giant battles, or 
 a civ like game or even if you just want a realistic tase of history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_jay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Prepare for the great battle of Rome! Because RTW will take you to the Europe and you will actually 
 feels like a fighting a real war here, RTW offers a real-time battle and a task of managing your 
 conquered settlements. You will start the game with only 3 factions namely the Julii in the north 
 of Rome who will deal with the Gauls, the Brutii in the east who will fight the Hellenic/Greeks 
 and Scipii to the south who will crush the Carthaginians the 3 factions will be given some missions 
 by the 4th faction of Rome the SPQR, you can obey them to increase your rating with them and get 
 the important seats in the Senate or ignore them. As you conquered many settlements the SPQR will 
 give you impossible missions, just ignore them because they are scared of your faction and thinking 
 that you are a threat to the Rome. When you finished the campaign either the long game (capture 
 50 settlements) or the short game (capture 15 settlements and outlast given enemy faction) you 
 can unlock some new playable factions. The game will consume real time and can take you up to 4-6 
 days of playing or a week when you fight all your battles. Be sure to fight the battles and don't 
 skip it specially at early game to reduce the casualty on your soldiers. Also don't skip your meal 
 when playing RTW reports say that its highly addictive that it can make you forget your meals. 
 ENJOY THE GAME AND BE FAIR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevilDog1110
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is the most comprehensive, accurate, and enjoyable strategy game to date. You can 
 chose from over 10 playable factions such as Gaul, the Greek City-States, the Britons, and three 
 Roman families, all of which existed at the time of the Roman Empire. All factions have units unique 
 to their style of warfare, and every unit is strong in one aspect of battle and weak in another, 
 or at least not as strong. For example, spears are effective against cavalry, but have vulnerable 
 flanks. The effectivness of your troops against the enemies are all factored into the outcome of 
 a battle should you choose to have the computer resolve it for you. But you could also fight the 
 battle yourself, controling each unit individulally. When your not on the battlefield, you are 
 taking control of your empires diplomatic, military, and civil affairs. You can send diplomats 
 to foreign factions in hopes to secure alliances or to establish trade routes all while menuvering 
 your armies into a position to attack should diplomacy fail. To unlock all the playable factions, 
 you need to achieve the victory conditions of one of the three Roman families. Once you have done 
 so, all the other factions that can be played will become an option. You are free to conquer anywhere 
 from the British Isles to the Middle East, from North Africa to Russia. All over the vast map are 
 over a dozen factions, all working to build their own empire. All factions are able to form alliances, 
 which means that if you attack a faction with a powerful ally, you had best be ready, because the 
 allies will work together to defeat you. In summary, Rome: Total War is an exceptional game that 
 allows you to immerse yourself into the time of the ancient Romans and try to achieve what they 
 did and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZKingdomHFAN3
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War is an amazing game that simulates battles fought during the Roman Times. This game 
 requires strategy and a well planned way to run your faction. It's not as easy at it looks trying 
 to run your own faction. You get to be different branches of the Roman family. You must run your 
 faction, make the people happy, make the Roman Senate happy, and make sure you don't get invaded 
 by every country out there. Make alliances to help each other out, then if you want, back-stab 
 them. This game is all about getting to the top and eventually overthrowing the Roman Government. 
 The graphics are beautiful and the way this game plays is great. When you enter battles, the graphics 
 provide an enjoyable experience. You can either choose to go into battle manually, or resolve it 
 with the computer. The Voices and Sounds are great, too. The simulation is very real and very close 
 to history. You have the whole world to conquer, so you better get started 'cause its going to 
 take awhile! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 04ecrawf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  rome total war is a great game, which me and my freinds have innocently whitled away hours playing. 
 well the game, the graphics are all right but the game play is excellent. you can go a variety 
 of armys from rome the britan and play in either campain mode which will take a few months (if 
 you have a social life) or play a custom or historical battle. my favourite thing to do is get 
 1 unit of pike man and put them against a bridge and then get the enemy to attack you, it doesn't 
 matter what they have cause it can't get past.
  anyway there is no reason why you shouldn't get this game because it will work on your system and 
 it's about a tenner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War (often abbreviated to RTW or Rome) is a critically acclaimed strategy game comprised 
 of turn-based strategy and real-time tactics parts in which the player fights historical and fictitious 
 battles within the Roman era. The game was developed by Creative Assembly and released on September 
 22, 2004. A demo of the game was released on August 23, 2004 and is freely available for downloading. 
 It features a playable version of the Battle of the Trebia, with the player taking the role of 
 Hannibal.
  
  The game features large-scale battles of ancient armies with thousands of warriors. The main innovation 
 is a brand new high-quality 3D graphics engine able to render over thirty thousand men on a single 
 battlefield. Another prominent feature is the integration of the strategic and tactical views - 
 the landscape for the battles is the same as seen on that particular spot on the strategic map 
 where the armies meet.
  
  The player can take roles equivalent to those of generals such as Hannibal Barca, the Carthaginian 
 general during the Second Punic War, the Gallic warlord Vercingetorix, and Julius Caesar. Among 
 the playable factions are three Roman families (Julii, Brutii, Scipii) , which are available from 
 the start of the game, and the free Greek city-states, Carthage, Gaul, Britannia, Germania, Parthia 
 and the successor states of Alexander the Great's Empire: the Seleucid Empire and Ptolemaic Egypt, 
 all of which must be unlocked before they can be played. Like Medieval: Total War, there are also 
 many non-playable factions, including the Dacians, Numidians, Scythians, Armenians, the People 
 of Pontus, and Spanish which can be enabled by making a minor change to one of the game files. 
 Despite a degree of factual inaccuracy in order to facilitate artistic license, the historical 
 setting of the game gives it a potentially educational content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 23, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War is just as good as people say it is an it's the best strategy game I've played. 
 So if you like strategy go for it, but be warned, the battles on Rome Total War may be really awesome 
 and anyone can have alot of fun from the historical battles, quick battles, custom battles, (best 
 kind of battles) and the campaign battles but, the campaign is highly complicated, and so i come 
 to that part...
  
  The turn based game of Rome Total war has a very slick and intuitive design and is far better than 
 that of the previous total war games but there is soooooo much to it, to much for the average brain 
 to comprhend. You have so much economic, political and military managment menus that cover absoloutely 
 everything a ruler of an empire has to control. Heres a list of things you have to take care of 
 in the campaign game...
  
  Constructing buildings
  Recruiting Units Managing taxes
  Understanding your family tree
  Doing what satisfies the popualce of your cities so a riot doesn't 
 break out!
  Keeping a good standing with the senate, (if your playing as 1 of the 3 Roman factions
  Reading 
 your end of turn report (this contains **** of profits current balance, trading profits, tax profits 
 and on and on and on!!!
  Coping with natural disasters
  
  And there are literaly thousands more things you need to think out in your empire I couldn't list 
 them all. It's like being Gordan bloody brown!!!!!!, but instead of ruling merely 1 country you 
 may, If you get that far in the campaign, be controlling over 50!!!! It's madness. Sure the auto 
 manger can run your cities with several priorities in mind but firstly, that only takes care of 
 your cities, wich is like 10% of what you'll be doing in the campaign and secondly, It's rubbish!!.
 
  
  So as I said before, if you concentrate really hard on the campaign, the results will be much better 
 all the way through. I've sucsessfully done this before but I can't keep full on concentration 
 for more than half an hour.
  However, If you can cope with the complexity you'll love the no pain no gain campaign as well as 
 the battles, In wich case I fully reccomend this game to you, but for the rest of us, this is still 
 reccomendable, but we'll have to learn to put up with the turn based struggle If we are to fully 
 enjor RTW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kickinurazz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War has been a huge hit since its release. I have enjoyed playing this game so much 
 that I am waiting for RTW2. This game is very historically accurate, and it is great in depicting 
 the Rise of Rome. You get to start off playing as 1 of 3 different Roman Factions, Julii, Scipii, 
 and Brutii. Rome Total War really shows how fun it is to conquer Europe, over and over again. I've 
 conquered Europe about 5 times over now and it is still fun. The multiplayer is alright online, 
 but it is only battles which is good, but playing Europe online would be alot more fun if it were 
 possible. Even after MTW2 came out I am still playing this game because being Rome is so fun! This 
 game will remain a fun game that I can always go mess around on and kill some Gauls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandmon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total war is a good mix of Turn based City Managment and a Real Time Strategy that is more 
 different that other Ordinary RTS games. As the title says it is set during Aincient Rome, in the 
 Republic period of Rome.
  
  Gameplay : Gameplay possibilities are very wide in this game. To keep you busy there are 2 Different 
 Gameplay types when playing the main Campaign. One would be the Turn Based Gameplay. In this, you 
 need to manage your Cities, move your Armies and so on. The other is the Real Time Strategy Gameplay. 
 instead of conventional RTS games, here you control Detachments or Units. Each consisting of many 
 men (depending on how much you set it, either Small up till huge Huge) . Both Gameplay types support 
 each other. What you do int he TB one will effect the RTS side. You can either go from them straight 
 or have the Advantage of Height. Talking about height, this game takes into notice almost everything 
 that effect the real battlefield. From Fatigue, to Paper Rock Scissors and Morale. Each of this 
 effects if you are gonna win or lose. If you are gonna be careless, your carelessness will pay, 
 which results in the loss of the battle, even when your numbers are Higher.
  For Difficulty its Really Easy at Easy Difficulty but then puts you to the test in the Higher Difficulty.
 
  
  Graphics : The Graphics are awesome. Although they take up a lot of resources because of unit count 
 and detail, even at the lowest setting the game looks great fro 3D.
  The units look Crystal clear and the land Scape wonderful. When a whole army is coming running 
 for you, a trail of dirt is left behind them as its supposed to be.
  
  Sound : The clash of Steel, the marching of footsteps, the singing of distant birds and the voices 
 of your men is heard very well. There is much variety in sound that you won't get bored of it for 
 long. Also the music really adds to the enjoyment of the game, and each music track suits the moment 
 it is played really well.
  
  Replay Value : This game really lasts you a lot for a Single Player RTS game. The Campaign lasts 
 you a month or 2 to conquer Europe and 2 months after you finish you want to do it again. The Battles 
 by themselves make you want to play again, because its not always the same battlefield. Its always 
 a different Battlefield and a different Challenge.
  
  Overall : This game shows how Pre Modern Era Games are meant to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mortis_Noctem
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Once you play this game for the first time and experience any battle, you will believe that you 
 just installed the greatest Epic War Game there is, but in about 1/2 weeks, assuming your a avid 
 gamer, you will be disinstalling it to make room for something else, not that the game isn't a 
 classic, but maybe I should explain better. The Total War series has never let us down when it 
 comes to battles, and Rome Total is their greatest achievement in that aspect, but unfortunately 
 the city ruling may be letdown, especially with the inevitable discontent of the citizens. The 
 bloody battles make the Multyplayer mode in the game some very interesting and entertaining stuff, 
 but the lack of variety in combat system (still the basic Infantry beats Cavalry , Cavalry beats 
 Archer , Archer isn't really all that useful since they kill your own units, although now they 
 added Heavy Infantry and Cavalry, still works the same) . Also the cultural variety is none existent, 
 all they do is change the models and names between Barbarian Buildings , Roman/Greek Buildings 
 and Desert Buildings (You'll see that a Germanic temple, that has virtually the same benefits as 
 a roman temple, will be equal, in model, to the Spanish, Gallic and Dacian temples) . In conclusion, 
 awesome game, really worth whatever you may pay for it, easy to learn, the best choice if your 
 looking for a quick affair with some violent battle scenes, yet once you played with one faction, 
 you have played with them all and a few weeks later you'll be buying something else to occupy that 
 Gigabyte of Space on your PC. But the game is awesome, I suggest that you buy it, just don't expect 
 it to be The single greatest game in the world, that I shall play forever . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themaazandar
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  When you first load the game and start playing, you can't help but say WOW! at everything you see. 
 Amazing graphics, fantastic sound, tons of stuff to build and twenty-tons of stuff to look forward 
 to. Diplomats, spies, units, assassins, ships... But as you play, it gets repetitive, boring and 
 the novelty of the graphics wears off. The first 100 turns are exciting, not just because the game 
 is new but because its fast - because you are weak, with many enemies and a senate that demands 
 action. The first battles are fun because you get to zoom in and see the beauty of the graphics, 
 of the soldiers, of the rain of arrows and the catapaults, the charge of the cavalry, the marching 
 sound of the legions, the seige engines as they manouvre, the battle for the wall, the flanking 
 of the enemy...
  
  Then you realise that graphics are just graphics, that the A. I is stupid, that the battles are 
 practically yours to win unless the computer cheats and finally, that its taking just too long 
 to conquer the world. Add to that the fact that capturing settlements is a lot lot LOT easier that 
 retaining them and getting a decent profit out of them, and you just want it all to end. It honestly 
 becomes more of a job than a game at that point. Sure there are a few treats here and there. You 
 can patiently build an army of catapaults and watch in delight as you destroy the enemy with an 
 engineered meteor shower. But they are few and far. My advice: Rent this game and enjoy the initial 
 moments, then cast it aside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connoisseurs
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 1:58 am PT
Review:  Ive had Rome for 2 years now. When I saw it at a friend's house I had not seen much. 2 years after 
 I still play it. What stimulated me to write tis review, is the fact that I had a few hastati ( 
 roman basic infantry ) level 8 and 9 out of 9 (2 and 3 gold bars) , retrained them ( so added new 
 men to the infantry ) hoping for full top-class hastati. However, the game took into account the 
 new inexperienced men and brought their level down to 3-6 out of 9 ( 3 bronze to 3 silver bars) 
 level.
  
  That is the level of thinking in this game.
  
  Gameplay: extending family is a nice touch. the detail of thinking is (as above) huge. Battles 
 are thrilling if not as much as medieval 2 seems to be, although it was made 2.5 years before!
 
  
  Graphics: The campaign map is beautiful. Again Medieval 2 is slightly better. The battles are quite 
 good, and look like (Oblivion on a mid-end computer) .
  
  Sound: nice, contemporary songs, good sound efects. The assassination has a sword sound followed 
 by the gurgling of blood.
  
  Value: Now it is incredibly good value. At the time, for &pound;36 it was a bit less so. its still 
 worth every penny.
  
  Tilt: Very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minglis
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  A fantastic rts experience, Rome: total war is a must buy for any real time strategy fan. It has 
 the perfect mix of diplomacy, turn based strategy and action and real time battles. Every aspect 
 of the campaign is incredibly fun and easy to pick up, however it will take a great deal of time 
 to master it all completely which is a testament to how great the gameplay mechanics are. From 
 the battles on the open land, the exciting sieges, to builstrategies for conquering the globeding 
 your empire and laying out your , rome total war is a quality game that will keep any rts fan occupied 
 for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danevader
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  As you may all know the Rome Total War series was the best Total War game you could get before 
 Medieval II Total War came out but even with its somewhat poor graphics it can still stand up to 
 Medieval II Total War. As far as the difficulty goes the game is perfect because if you do a S. P. Q. R 
 say then you will in no time at all become the emperor of Rome like I did. The only thing that 
 would be bad about this game is that if you take over Rome and have an enourmous amount of provinces 
 and gold ahead of time Julii and Scipii will fall like dominos and then you have to face the problems 
 with the rest of the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedijoe91
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 8, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  you first start playing the game and its easy to get the hag of. the controls are just as many 
 other strategy games and therefore relatively simple. the detail on this game is magnificent, from 
 everything from celtic warcrys to the seperate tiniest blades of grass.
  
  The campain mode lets you play to start off as 1 of 5 factions, each a large faction from the roman 
 age. You can chose from Roman house of Brutii, Roman house ofScipii, and Roman house of Juli. they 
 all have the same units and buildings and only differ in their gladiator units. also available 
 are the Carthiginians, with whom you can upgrade to units like massive armoured war elephants, 
 and Gaul- the celts. each faction specialises in different areas for their own reasons.
  
  the campain involves you having the build up an empire, conquering 50 of the other factions and 
 then rome itself, and its not easy. the units get better as time goes on and as towns grow you 
 can build new specialty buildings.
  constantly you have the opportunity to send an army into battle, whether you are being attacked 
 or whether you are the attacker etc. this provides the game with a massively exiting campain.
 
  
  the graphics themselves are just as incredible. the detail is almost over perfect, although at 
 times certain glitches do kick in. but they are nothing. in comparisin to the good, the bad is 
 miniscule.
  
  I would definatlety recommend this game to any stragegy and history fans, and this game is a treat 
 whether or not you are into the historical side. You will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bholmes16
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This game takes you on an unbelievable journey into ancient Rome as the Julii, Scipii, and Brutii 
 families fight for power and dominance. You can choose to conquer with one of those Roman families, 
 or you can choose various other factions like the Egyptians, Germans, Galls, etc...
  When I first played the game, it literally blew my mind. Well, not actually because I can still 
 think, but it really was a huge leap above any other game I had played until that time.
  Even as newer games come out and display their graphic muscle and intricate stories, Rome: Total 
 War will remain a pervasive masterpiece forever because anyone who plays it will realize how staggeringly 
 ingenius the gameplay and design are.
  So, play this game. It will change your life for the better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarcios
Rating: 10
Date: May 23, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  this game blows you away gets u ADDICTED, while i am in school i wanna play it every second of 
 the game. It has awsome graphics and battles that are realistic. It is actually like you are in 
 history only its pixels so yeah. I give it a ten! and i think anyone who has an up to date computer 
 it will run smoothly. Everyone who i show it to just... well just says... wow...... So you get 
 my point, hehe. and i am not a total nerd, i skate and go out alot, i dont spend all my time with 
 games, its just something i like. i just got this game so i am crazy about it, it will get boring 
 at some point, like all games. It is a little hard but after a little practice you can get it. its 
 just the cycle of games, so i recommend this game to anyone and urge you to get it, it is in many 
 stores. GET IT GET IT GET IT NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing and bar far one of the best strategy games ever made. Its beautiful, and 
 absolutely brilliant. There is a great campaign and a great multiplayer where you can do countless 
 different scenarios. Just talking about it is making me want to go play it. You can micro manage 
 your armies and build massive forces to destroy your enemies. The graphics are just great the fighting 
 is beyond amazing and the strategy is phenomenal. I have nothing bad to say about this game except 
 it you will constantly be yelling This is Sparta! at the game when you are fighting. I cannot recommend 
 a better strategy game, wish however they would have made the Spartans look a little tougher than 
 they did Its a great game and I would say as soon as you are done reading go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictorMazzi
Rating: 9
Date: May 10, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  I think that is better to try playing Rome!!
  
  All players that like Strategic games should play because Rome: Total war is one of the best strategic 
 games ever! A lot of people consider it The best ! Rome total war is done to be appreciated also 
 from that players that don't have a lot patience.
  
  Is possible to play immediately and play a lot of battles!! Or is possible to play the campaign 
 mode!
  
  Game play: really good and easy, also very intuitive.
  Graphics: Creative have made a really a good job! Good details and nature details.
  Sound: Well 
 done. On battle is great to hear battle sounds and voices! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodshed17
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 10, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  If you love RTS games then you need to get this game. Its amazing I just got it a couple of weeks 
 ago and cant stop playing. I cant believe I didnt get this game sooner. This game has lots stuff 
 including campaigns which will take you days and are loads of fun. Plus you can choose from many 
 different factions and people. Overall you should really get this game if you like RTS games set 
 in roman times. Its great and you will not regret buying it. Plus its only like 20 bucks!! GET 
 IT NOW!!!!!!!!! and have fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampyre_Prince
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 6, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  Although taking me a while to get used to this game, Seeing as how i'd already played every other 
 total war game, I'd been waiting for ages for this game to actually be in my possession. I now 
 constantly play this game. For hours and hours on end. Maybe not every day but constantly play 
 it.
  
  I started playing it and thought.. Hmmm maybe this won't be as good as I thought., But then I learned 
 most of the key features in the game. I had soon changed my mind after that. I mean let's take 
 one thing for example. If you are the romans then the Legionaires... Well Principes, CAN infact 
 go into their Turtle formation which does stop arrows and javelins from getting to the troops themselves. 
 Although it is suseptible to a flanking cavalry unit. But enough of the history lesson.
  
  The graphics in the game aren't perfect but are pretty darned good.
  
  The sound is lacking 
 alittle but is still clear enough and you can hear the troops when they enter battle with other 
 units.
  
  The game is quite cheap nowadays.. It was alittle more expensive when it first came out but well 
 worth it.
  
  So yeah anyone who enjoys abit of mass destructive swords, bows, spears, horses and what not then 
 I'd definatly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yelir55
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War is one of those games that will keep you playing it for years to come, despite it 
 being from a few years back. Starting out in the tutorial would be a smart choice, as this game 
 is quite intricately made. Once you have got basic gameplay down, playing the game obviously comes 
 next. You can select from a few different modes when playing Rome: Total War. First is quickplay, 
 which puts you in a randomly set battle of your difficulty choosing. Then comes custom battle, 
 which allows you to set a vast amount of factors that will affect gameplay, as well as choose your 
 faction and units and ditto for npc enemies / allies. The main venue of Rome is campaign mode. 
 Choose your faction, and get ready. You will start out as a small cluster of provinces in the melting 
 pot of Europe, North Africa, or the middle east, depending on your faction. You are then set free 
 to begin expanding your city states to the greatest empire of its time. This will be no easy task 
 though. Your empire will be tested non-stop to see if it has what it takes to rival Rome's imperial 
 magnificence. Throughout the near 400 year time period of gameplay, you will endure revolts and 
 uprisings within your kingdom, invaders who want everything you have, plagues that can wipe out 
 cities and their economies, and assassination plots against the royalty of your land.
  
  But don't get too distressed and think that the game is out to kill you. The advanced diplomacy 
 system allows you to open up trade with far off and distant lands, become allies with other budding 
 nations, ask for assistance in wars against you enemies, and many more diplomatic choices. You 
 will also have the chance to conquer territory. You will start by building new buildings such as 
 cavalry stables and barracks to start expanding your armies. Use a good general of yours to command 
 the soldiers, and wreak havoc through enemy territory. Harass enemy trade routes, lay sieges to 
 enemy cities, and should you capture the settlement, exterminate the populace to quell any resistance 
 against your cause, along with other options.
  
  Rome: Total War has an immense amount of different units to choose from too. Use Roman Triarii 
 to conquer the masses, or if you prefer speed use Egyptian Chariot Archers to kill the enemy from 
 a distance. From Barbarian Naked Fanatics and haunting Druids, to Eastern War Elephants and Scythed 
 Chariots, to the prestigious Greek Hoplites taking form of the great phalanx, Rome Total War has 
 the best variety of anything around. Couple all this with amazing graphics that immerse you deep 
 into the gameplay, you may think that you are actually there, back in time. Anybody who who likes 
 excellent strategy, or just epic battles with plenty of fighting should buy this game. It would 
 be a historic mistake not too... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo_commander9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  This is my favorite RTS game out there! The Cinemax, the Graphics, the GamePlay, and the Camera 
 Views, they all go hand in hand with each other to make one outstanding game, which is liked by 
 many, if you haven't played this game, then you are missing out. This game could easily be named 
 one of the Greatest games of the year . For the price you pay, for this game, it gives you countless 
 hours of enjoyment!! Its wonderful!! Go buy this game today, and you'll be having fun for ages!! 
 Activision knew what they were making, when they made this magnificent game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabose420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Rome, one of the most powerfull empires the world has ever known. they conqured almost all of europe 
 and lands surrounding the mediteranian sea. by doing so they have shaped the modern world. now 
 with Rome: TW, you can control this mighty empire, crush those barbarians, teach the Greek a lesson, 
 and show Egypt, that theres no more room for ancient empires.
  
  IMPERIAL CAMPAIGN
  
  When you first start, your only allowed to play as Rome. Rome is split into 4 factions though: 
 the Senate, their unplayable in the main game, but are available online and skirmishes; Brutii, 
 a powerful family in Rome and control the heel of the boot of Italy; Scipii, another family who 
 contol the tip of the boot; and Julii, another family who controls the northern part of Italy. 
 Any one of the factions play exactly alike, just choose depending on where you want to spread your 
 empire to first or the color you wish to be.
  
  Your main objective now is to control 50 territories and take control of the Senate and become 
 Emporer of Rome. This is as hard as it sounds if you dont think right. To attack the Senate though, 
 you'll have to win the heart of the people. To do this do what every famous Roman has done, conquer! 
 Depending on where you start, the Senate will give you missions to direct the growth of your empire. 
 doing these missions will get you gifts from the senate, such as some gold are superior units.
 
  
  The obvious way to do this is to grow your army. RTW has you start off basic, but allows you to 
 grow with a tech tree. build buildings to make better units or give better economic bonuses. to 
 access higher buildings your city will have to grow. after reaching a certain population in a city, 
 you can expand it to build more superior buildings, wich in turn give you more superior units for 
 your army.
  
  Your army, unlike other RTSs, cant just be built and the sent to attack the enemy and just watch. 
 You send your forces out to attack a city or army and you then go into the battle map. this is 
 where the real time part of the game comes in. your units in the army that is being attacked or 
 attacking will show up on the map, in the exact #s on the main map. to win these battles you'll 
 need strategy, not #s. I can tell you ive beaten an army 2500 strong with 1000 many a times. many 
 things lead to a victory like this: Superior units who wont flee so easily, a better tactical postition, 
 better layout of your troops, and a better attack or defence plan. after each battle, units that 
 did well will gain experience. this adds to their moral and not sure what else, but do better of 
 course against raw recruits, which adds some tactics on the map of which armies to use, a new raw 
 army fresh to the field, or your battle hardend experienced troups. As you tech trees advance, 
 you can give upgraded weapons to your troops, giving them more damage or defence. For newbies to 
 the genre or game, they might have to get used to actually using their brain to defeat enemies. 
 though if they wish they can use the automatic battle button to automaticly decide the battle, 
 where only units and your generals ability to lead will count, and wont count terrain as much. After 
 youve beaten a couple of factions, they will be available to play with in a new campaign, such 
 as the greek of egyptions.
  
  Playing as the other factions is a bit different than playing as the Romans themselves, as now 
 they'll become your top enemy as you have to take rome away from them. theres about 3different 
 groups of factions, as they play similar to eachother with simillar unit types, but have differnt 
 start areas and slighty different tech trees. you've got your greeks/egyptions that have primarally 
 spearmen that use the phalanx position and have building tech trees that closely resemble Rome, 
 and consist of the following: Greek cities (der) , Macadon, Seluid Empire, Egypt, and Carthage. Another 
 group are the Easteners, that primaraly use a unit thats very weak and low moral, but has a large 
 # of units for a group, using sheer #s to win then moral and tactics really with calvary. Barbarians 
 reside north of rome, and have the shortest tech trees in the game, but since you dont spend much 
 on building, you can focus your money on building your army. they act simillar to Easteners with 
 large but weak armies and calvary, but are close to Rome, for better or worse, consisting of: Gaul, 
 Britania, and Germania.
  
  Though, as you play as the non-Roman factions, you see some big differences. you have no senate, 
 and no allies at the start that will actually stay loyal to you till you turn on them, and no bonuses 
 for the Senate missions. also, their are less characteristics for your generals to gain that add 
 to their command, influence, or managment skills they gain from being in the Senate. This is the 
 major difference between the Romans and other factions, but isnt too much to be an all god like 
 advantage for Romans. Just makes them all the more formatible enemy to take down, or ally to have 
 in your conquests.
  
  But, besides using your armies to take over, you may use diplomacy, that is if you have the right 
 people to take your one sided intentions into fine words to trick your enemy its the other way 
 around, or a nice big pocket works too. Making diplomats makes this possible. they can be used 
 to forge aliances, make trade routes, bribe armies, and give gifts to sway other factions. those 
 that have good trade and a deep pocket purse, can use them very effectively as you can bribe invading 
 armies to disband, or join your side if the units are simillar to your own. you can also call on 
 aid from spies and assasins. use spies to scout out locations, check out an enemys garrison before 
 an attack, and can be used hopefully to open the gates to your army if you attack that city. they 
 are not seen on the map by your enemys, and you can not see your enemys or allies spies either. 
 if you manage to find one, you better take him out before he can see something else. An assasin 
 will help with this. they can kill enemy generals, diplomats, spies, and other assasins as well. 
 experienced assasins can play a very big help in your conquest, and can cripple a city set to be 
 invaded as they can sabatoge enemy buildings. destroy their market to cripple trade, then barracks 
 to slow down recruitment so their garrison wont be as strong when you arrive. kill their general 
 so their troops arent effectively used and fall back easily. either way you use them, they can 
 be vital to your defensives, or your attacks.
  
  all of these characters, diplomats, spies, and assasins, add some depth to the game as war isnt 
 all about the soldiers, as diplomacy is always in the backround.
  
  SKIMISHES
  
  Besides the Imperial Campaign you can set up custom battles or play historical ones that the game 
 provides. in custom battles you can set up the place, armies, and the units in them for your battles. 
 you can even set the statistics of individual units. you can really bump the #s up in these battles 
 as i dont really see 2 huge armies facing eachother much on the campaign. you can also practice 
 tactics in the different areas on the map, like practicing battling in the open fields where its 
 usually full action between the armies, or in the forests of northern Europe, where it becomes 
 different skirmish battles devided by the trees and setting ambushes in them to trap your enemy.
 
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  Online, you can play skirmishes againts friends and foes, from feild battles in the forest or dunes, 
 to seige battles ranging from forts to Rome. you can play up to 8 people, but a large # of people 
 will cause large amounts of lag due to the large #s of units on the field. 2on2 or 1on1 are very 
 fun to play, and you can try out your tactics learned in the game online.
  
  GRAPHICS/SOUNDS
  
  the graphics in the game are very nice. The game doesnt lag with large #s 
 of troops to much. 4000-5000 is a largest that wont lag unless in the heat of battle or fastforwarding. 
 6000+ is where it will lag up a bit on some computers. better comps should do fine offline and 
 will lag a bit online. the sounds of the battlefield sounds realistic... to what i can tell anyway. 
 charging units will yell to terrify the enemy, and you'll here screams as they're cut down. you 
 can here the firing of arrows and artilary behind you army as well. all very cool
  
  OVERALL
  
  the game is great for any RTS fanatic. although some of the building options could 
 be tweaked a bit like fater building when theirs a large amount of slaves or people in the city, 
 or having your allies actually do something, its still all very fun and very addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  I think that is better to try playing Rome!!
  
  All players that like Strategic games should play because Rome: Total war is one of the best strategic 
 games ever! A lot of people consider it The best ! Rome total war is done to be appreciated also 
 from that players that don't have a lot patience.
  
  Is possible to play immediately and play a lot of battles!! Or is possible to play the campaign 
 mode!
  
  Game play: really good and easy, also very intuitive.
  Graphics: Creative have made a really a good job! Good details and nature details.
  Sound: Well 
 done. On battle is great to hear battle sounds and voices! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwarz24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War overall is a great game. It breaks away from the traditional strategy games, much 
 as the other Total War Games have. The Creative Assembly has done a great job with the graphics 
 for this game. It could be the best looking strategy game ever. The only this game lacks is a map 
 creator. The campaign is very good, and the 3-D Map with movement is very nice. The battle game 
 play is very good, and it does not follow the traditional rock, paper, scissor type game. You really 
 have to know strategy to win a battle. You can't just amass a huge army and kill everything. If 
 you completely surround a Spartan Hoplite unit with cavalry, it will slaughter your cavalry, you 
 won't slaghter it. you need to lure the Spartan Unit by one cavalry unit, and then flank the unit 
 using your other cavalry. The fact that there a a lot of civilizations to play as in battle and 
 in the campaign is good. You have a lot of variety in units and buildings. The only thing that 
 I am disappointed by is that you can't do naval battles and control the ships, it is just automatically 
 battled out. Overall, Rome Total War is a great game and is defiantly worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GibboViper
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say about Rome total war that hasnt been said already?. Straight from the beginning 
 you try to make your faction the most powerful. Building up cities, which will fuel income and 
 building cities that, will produce crack troops for you in the future. Conquering neighbouring 
 enemies and weakening other close villages so that eventually you can take over vast amounts of 
 land and eventually rule the world. You start as one of three factions, the Julii, the Bruti or 
 the Scipii and to begin with each are allied to each other. Rome itself, SPQR faction standing 
 for Senatus Populusque Romanus, the Senate and People of Rome is unplayable and later in the game 
 you will have to take over Rome, and when you do, you will have to fight off your roman allies 
 who now become your enemies.
  
  Upgrading your troops, towns and cities is a major part of the game. In cities that you value, 
 it is is always best to build stonewalls, the higher the better to keep out invaders. This will 
 also give you time to bring back reinforcements and troops from near by cities which may take a 
 couple of turns to reach you. Eventually, your armies will spread across the hemisphere dominating 
 and conquering all, and the battles are just a joy with some of the best graphics Ive ever seen 
 for this type of game. I didnt get bored of this game at all and still play on a regular basis. 
 You will need a powerful pc for this game, a solid graphics card and lots of free memory to really 
 enjoy the smooth graphics and game play. There Isnt a bad thing I can say about this game so you 
 really have to try it for yourself. Experiencing is believing, and I certainly feel that if i had 
 been alive at the time of the roman empire, then my strategies would have seen my proud self crowned 
 as the great mighty Caesar himself!
  Hail Victorious Rome Total war !. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffinballow
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  At the top is info. At the bottom is help. in the middle are cheats. Your wilcome.
  
  
  Rome: Total War
  From muffinballow
  Jump to: navigation, search
  This article or section 
 does not adequately cite its references or sources.
  Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. (help, get involved!)
 
  This article has been tagged since December 2006.
  RTW redirects here. For Release to web, see Release to web.
  Rome: Total War Developer (s) Creative 
 Assembly Publisher (s) Activision - Original
  Sega - Current Release date (s) September 22, 2004 Genre (s) Real-time tactics, Turn-based strategy 
 Mode (s) Single player, Multiplayer Rating (s) ESRB: Teen (T) PEGI: 12+ Platform (s) Windows Media 
 3 CD - Original
  1 DVD disc - Gold edition System requirements 1.0 GHz Processor, 256MB RAM, GeForce 2/Radeon 7xxx 
 series with 64MB VRAM, 2.4 GB disk space Input Mouse, Keyboard Rome: Total War (often abbreviated 
 to RTW or Rome) is a critically acclaimed strategy game where players fight historical and fictitious 
 battles during the era of the Roman Republic and the reign of Augustus, from 270 BC (the final 
 defeat of the last of Rome's Italian rivals) to 14 AD (the death of Augustus) . The game was developed 
 by Creative Assembly and released on September 22, 2004. A demo of the game, which features a playable 
 version of the Battle of the Trebia, with the player taking the role of Hannibal, was released 
 on August 23, 2004 and is freely available for downloading.
  
  The game features large scale battles of ancient armies with thousands of warriors. The main innovation 
 is a brand new high-quality 3D graphics engine that has the ability to render in excess of thirty 
 thousand men on a single battlefield. Another prominent feature is the integration of the strategic 
 and tactical views - the landscape for the battles is the same as seen on that particular spot 
 on the strategic map where the armies meet. Promotional screenshot for Rome: Total War. The player 
 can take roles equivalent to those of generals such as Hannibal Barca, the Carthaginian general 
 during the Second Punic War, the Gallic warlord Vercingetorix, and Julius Caesar. Among the playable 
 factions are three Roman families (Julii, Brutii, Scipii) , which are available from the start of 
 the game, and the free Greek city-states, Carthage, Gaul, Britannia, Germania, Parthia and the 
 successor states of Alexander the Great's Empire: the Seleucid Empire and Ptolemaic Egypt, all 
 of which must be unlocked before they can be played with. Like Medieval: Total War, there are also 
 many non-playable factions, including the Dacians, Numidians, Scythians and Armenians which can 
 be enabled by making a small change in one of the game files. Specific information about what to 
 change can be found at most fansites. The historical setting of the game gives it an educational 
 content, although a degree of factual inaccuracy (below) brings this into question.
  
  The gameplay is similar to that of its predecessors, Shogun: Total War and Medieval: Total War, 
 although there are some changes to the mechanics of sieges and city fights have been added. Most 
 notable is that players now move their units with movement points; in previous games units were 
 moved by territory.
  
  Thanks to the realism of both the simulation and the graphics, even before its release a preliminary 
 but completely workable version of the game engine was used in two series of TV programs: Decisive 
 Battles by the History Channel where it was used to recreate famous historical battles, and Time 
 Commanders by BBC Two, where teams of novice nongamers commanded ancient armies to replay key battles 
 of antiquity. The game engine was fine tuned specifically for these television shows by military 
 historians for maximum historical accuracy.
  
  On September 27, 2005, an expansion to Rome was released, entitled Barbarian Invasion, which takes 
 the action to the later period of the Roman Empire, beginning in 363, and ending in 476.
  
  As a special offer for subscribers to their email newsletter, on June 16, 2006, Creative Assembly 
 unveiled a second, downloadable expansion to Rome entitled Alexander; it was released to the general 
 public on June 19, 2006. Although the game is usually only available as a download, there is one 
 exception since it is included in the Total war: Eras package, which contains all Total War games 
 that have ever been released before the release of Medieval 2: Total War. This expansion focuses 
 on the campaigns of Alexander the Great.
  
  Contents [hide]
  1 Gameplay 1.1 Roman factions 1.1.1 Historical inaccuracy 1.2 Barbarian factions 1.3 Hellenic factions 
 1.4 Carthaginian factions 1.5 Eastern factions 1.6 Egyptian faction 1.7 Miscellaneous 2 Reviews 
 and awards 3 Music 3.1 See also 4 Expansions 4.1 Barbarian Invasion 4.2 Alexander expansion 5 See 
 also 6 External links 6.1 Official Links 6.2 Unofficial Fansites 6.3 Directory listing [edit] Gameplay
 
  The game revolves around a player, who takes control of some faction of the era. That player builds 
 armies to conquer nearby provinces by besieging and capturing that province's capital. While doing 
 so, players can build certain buildings within their cities to move up through the tech tree to 
 train more advanced units, increase a province's income by building bigger and better roads and 
 ports (if a province borders the sea) as well as farms, and keep the people happy by constructing 
 buildings of entertainment. Fleets at sea can also ferry troops around and blockade enemy ports, 
 thus cutting down trade income. The ultimate goal, like in previous Total War games, is to conquer 
 a certain number of provinces. Another key objective for all the factions is to capture Rome from 
 the Senate and become Emperor.
  
  [edit] Roman factions Rome: Total War Promotional Screenshot. Rome includes three playable Roman 
 factions: the Julii, the Brutii, and the Scipii, in addition to the unplayable Senate. The three 
 factions start out allied to each other and the Senate, and may not attack each other, but can 
 bribe each other's units throughout the game. Each Roman faction can also view the others' map 
 information in real time, a benefit not accorded to any other alliance. Even after the inevitable 
 civil war, all of the Roman units are visible. However, the factions generally function independently, 
 and a player controlling a Roman faction probably won't bother lending assistance to his allies 
 unless he himself is directly threatened.
  
  All three factions receive missions from the Senate, but may choose to follow them at their leisure. 
 Completing Senate missions will increase the player's standing with the Senate, and players in 
 good standing with the Senate will receive progressively greater rewards for completing missions. 
 If one of the Roman factions is unpopular with the Senate, however, the Senate may begin demanding 
 that the faction complete the missions it's assigned, and penalize it if it doesn't. In addition 
 to losing popularity within the Senate, the army of the Senate may declare war on the faction that 
 isn't following its orders.
  
  In addition to Senate standing, Roman factions must keep an eye on their popular standing. In general, 
 popular standing tends to increase as a faction gains more territory; the public likes a conqueror. 
 On the other hand, the Senate tends to get worried when a faction accumulates too much power. At 
 a certain point, the Senate will inevitably request that the player's faction leader commit suicide. 
 As with any Senate demand, the faction may accept or refuse if it accepts, the faction leader 
 dies and the heir becomes the new faction leader, buying the faction a few more years of Senate 
 toleration before the demand is repeated; if it refuses, the Roman factions are plunged into civil 
 war. The player may also initiate civil war once his popular standing is high enough by simply 
 attacking another Roman faction. Unfortunately, when playing as another faction, the Romans do 
 not self-implode in a civil war.
  
  Roman armies focus on superior, well-disciplined and well-armored infantry and relatively weak 
 cavalry, as compared to the other factions. The game simulates the reforms of Gaius Marius, which 
 tend to take place sometime between 220 and 180 B. C. (rather than the historical time of 107 B. C.) . 
 Prior to the reforms, the army is made in the traditional hastati-principes-triarii model. After 
 the reforms the army is made up of the famous legions, and better cavalry and ranged units are 
 unlocked.
  
  In addition, each of the three playable Roman factions has a different starting area, as well as 
 regions into which they expand. Each has different temples to build as well as their own type of 
 gladiators, which can be fielded in battle:
  
  The Julii start out in the northern portion of the Italian peninsula, and they focus on fighting 
 barbarian tribes to the north, especially in Gaul. They also get Samnite gladiators, and can build 
 temples dedicated to Ceres, Bacchus and Jupiter. The Brutii start out in the south of the peninsula, 
 and they usually focus on the Greek factions to the east. They have access to Velite Gladiators, 
 and temples for Mars, Mercury and Juno. The Scipii begin in Sicily as well as Capua, and usually 
 focus on fighting Carthage, Numidia and Egypt to the south. Their temples can be dedicated to Neptune, 
 Vulcan or Saturn. They have access to Mirmillo Gladiators, and the Temple of Neptune, when upgraded, 
 ultimately gives access to special ships, such as Corvus Quinqueremes and deceres. If the Senate 
 faction is manually unlocked and played by a human player, its role in Roman policy is ignored. 
 Senate missions no longer exist, there are no Senate officers, and there is no Senate or popular 
 standing. If the player attempts to go to the Senate screen, which normally tells Roman factions 
 about these four things, the game crashes.
  
  [edit] Historical inaccuracy
  The three playable Roman factions are named after three of the most famous Romans of the Republican 
 era, Gaius Julius Caesar, Marcus Junius Brutus, and Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus. There were 
 no Scipii or Brutii families. Both were cognomina- a third name that labeled one as a member of 
 a specific family within a larger clan. The family of Marcus Junius Brutus would have been the 
 Junii , while Scipio Africanus would have belonged to the Cornelii. (NOTE: Sometimes a family had 
 also been named after the cognomen of a famous family member. For example, the form Scipiadae would 
 be plausible (cf. Vergilius Aeneis VI. 843) . Using the form Brutii and Scipii also proves the developer's 
 lack of Latin language knowledge, see below.) This stratification into specific families is difficult, 
 however, since during the Republic there were so few noble Roman families, and they were constantly 
 intermarrying. See Roman Naming Convention for more information.
  
  The three-faction Roman system in the game is entirely ahistorical. In fact, the Roman Republic 
 was ruled exclusively by the Senate (which had substantially more power than is reflected in the 
 game) and the various assemblies. Individual families might rule small provinces, but expansions 
 to the empire would have been assigned to new governors, not left to the generals who conquered 
 them. Generals, too, were selected by the Senate and assemblies, and the roles of governorship 
 and generalship were not as conflated as they are in the game. There were cases where influential 
 politicians such as Julius Caesar could quite possibly serve as both generals and governors, but 
 they would only occur during the later Republic.
  
  The primary reason for the three-faction system is to simulate the civil war that ultimately resulted 
 in the end of the Roman Republic. Furthermore, while the Julii may hypothetically be correctly 
 said to be Imperialists because Julius Caesar became the first dictator perpetuus, the precursor 
 to the modern understanding of Roman Emperor (which his successor, Augustus Caesar, would assume) , 
 Brutus was thoroughly Republican and is in fact famous for having killed Julius Caesar after he 
 was granted absolute power through the office of dictator perpetuus by the Senate; theoretically 
 speaking, the family of Brutus would not have imperial ambitions. This inaccuracy is glaringly 
 apparent in the Brutii introductory cut scene in which the narrator scoffs at the right of the 
 masses to rule themselves.
  
  In addition, although perhaps more trivially, the names are declined incorrectly. While the plural 
 of Julius is indeed Julii, the plural of Brutus is Bruti, not Brutii. Likewise, the plural of Scipio 
 is Scipiones, instead of Scipii. Latin words are, in general, wholly or partially Anglicized in 
 pronunciation; velites (Classical Latin /we&amp;#720; lite&amp;#720; s/) is pronounced /v&amp;#603; l&amp;#618; tes/ 
 instead of the expected /v&amp;#603; l&amp;#618; tiz/ (compare the ending sounds of the English word 
 indices) . Similarly, the C in principes is pronounced as a hard [k] as in Classical Latin instead 
 of the [s] expected for English. See Latin declension and Latin pronunciation.
  
  Many of the units are ahistorical as well. For example, the Urban Cohorts are depicted as the highest 
 elite of the Roman Army, but in fact were a combined fire brigade and night watch. The arcani were 
 a group of agents provocateurs and spies, rather than the heavily armoured pseudo-ninjas they are 
 portrayed as in the game.
  
  The Romans are not the only factions with ahistorical units. Druids, like those used in-game by 
 the Barbarians, were in fact excused from military service in Celtic culture, being vital to the 
 operation of organized village life. A totally invented unit is the British Head Hurlers, who hurl 
 decapitated heads coated in quicklime. Severed heads were a valuable trophy in Celtic culture, 
 and would never have been used as ammunition. The phalanx formation which the Germans employ in 
 the game is also ahistorical, since Roman authors are emphatic that the only military formation 
 employed by the Germani was the wedge, and the idea of pikes as Germanic weapons is contradicted 
 by archeology as well as Tacitus (Germania Ch.6) . Some units, such as wardogs and flaming pigs, 
 were used, but never to anything like the extent depicted.
  
  [edit] Barbarian factions
  Barbarian factions have certain unique disadvantages and advantages. Unlike most civilized factions, 
 they cannot build stone walls nor any roads more sophisticated than dirt paths, which inhibits 
 their strategic movement. More importantly, their technology is limited to only three city levels, 
 as opposed to five for civilized factions, thus they tend to achieve their most advanced units 
 quickly. Though barbarian armies are naturally disorganized, barbarian soldiers are superior fighters 
 compared to the soldiers of other factions.
  
  Gaul (playable) starts out with a very large territory mainly in modern France, northern Italy 
 and part of Spain. The Gauls have good swordsmen and archers, but little cavalry. Britannia (playable) 
 starts out in control of the British Isles, with a considerable foothold in the form of Belgica 
 in mainland Europe. Its available units include chariots, as well as frenzied swordsmen covered 
 in intricate woad patterns, and units that hurl severed human heads covered in quicklime to demoralize 
 enemies. Germania (playable) begins to the northeast of Gaul and the east of Britannia, in what 
 today would be considered the Netherlands and northern Germany. Germanic forces include strong 
 but wild infantry, including the only barbarian unit able to perform the phalanx formation, and 
 a few different units of axemen, who are especially effective when fighting armored units (such 
 as Roman infantry) . Spain (non-playable) begins on the Iberian peninsula, and represents the Iberian 
 tribes who fought against the Gauls and Carthaginians, and later resisted Rome. They have solid 
 infantry units, including units which throw javelins prior to a charge, and others which are similar 
 to Carthaginian units, but they have relatively few cavalry and ranged units. Dacia (non-playable) 
 relies mainly on heavy infantry, notably the superior falx-wielding troops available early on in 
 the game. They are also the only Barbarian tribe allowed to get siege weapons. They are located 
 in eastern Europe around modern Romania. Scythia (non-playable) is overwhelmingly composed of horse 
 archers. Historically, the Scythians were a small tribe by the time of the game's start, and the 
 Sarmatians had largely taken over the steppes. Sarmatians do, however, appear in the form of heavy 
 cavalry mercenaries. The Scythians control an extensive territory in Eastern Europe, corresponding 
 roughly to modern Ukraine and the surrounding area. [edit] Hellenic factions
  The Hellenic factions are located mainly in the Balkan peninsula and around Anatolia. Hellenic 
 armies tend to focus on extremely strong infantry which utilize the phalanx formation at the expense 
 of cavalry and other forms of infantry.
  
  The Greek Cities (playable) start with a handful of colonies scattered around the Mediterranean 
 and Aegean. Its troop selection consists of hoplites along with relatively weak cavalry and ranged 
 units (although they are within a short distance of Crete, which provides excellent archers) . Historically, 
 the Greek cities were not unified in any sort of single state, although many were allied with each 
 other. The armies of Macedon (non-playable) focus largely on the Macedonian phalanx and shock cavalry, 
 including the Companion cavalry led by Alexander the Great. However, due to certain bugs with the 
 game's handling of charging units, the Companion Cavalry is not as powerful as was originally intended 
 to be. Macedon begins with territories in what is today Republic of Macedonia and Greece. The Seleucid 
 Empire's (playable) main force is similar to that of the Macedonians, containing the same powerful 
 Macedonian phalangites and shock cavalry (including Companion Cavalry) . However, its armies can 
 also contain hoplites, scythe-armed chariots, war elephants, cataphracts, and Roman-style legionaries, 
 giving it the most diverse troop selection in the game. The Seleucid Empire encompasses a strip 
 of territory running from the Aegean coast to Mesopotamia. Thrace (non-playable) is a Greco-Barbarian 
 faction, with both Greek and Barbarian troops; they begin the game in modern Bulgaria and Romania, 
 along the western coast of the Black Sea. Perhaps the strongest Thracian troops are Falxmen, who 
 wield the rhomphaia or falx, however, the Thracians also have access to powerful phalanx infantry. 
 Like both the Greeks and Barbarians in general, Thrace has little in the way of cavalry. [edit] 
 Carthaginian factions
  The Carthaginian factions are found in northern Africa, led by Carthage. Their armies tend to rely 
 on speedy but good cavalry and various types of infantry of varying quality.
  
  Carthage (playable) has a variety of units which include a good mixture of infantry, high quality 
 cavalry and powerful elephants, but a poor selection of ranged troops, including a notable lack 
 of archers. They begin with territory in modern Tunisia and the surrounding area, along with colonies 
 in southern Spain, Sicily and Sardinia. Numidia (non-playable) has speedy javelin-throwing light 
 cavalry and other javelin-based units, as well as some light spear-armed infantry and their own 
 legionaries. Their small kingdom lies west of Carthage's African lands. [edit] Eastern factions
 
  The Eastern factions represent the major states of the Middle East not ruled by the Diadochi (Hellenistic 
 successor states) . Their armies tend to heavily rely on high quality cavalry, and sometimes evince 
 some Greek influence due to Alexander's recent conquest of the area (which occurred some 50 years 
 prior to the start of the game) .
  
  Parthia's (playable) specialty lies with mounted units, particularly the fearsome cataphract-horse 
 archer combination which often dominates multiplayer battles in Rome. While their cavalry is extremely 
 powerful, they have virtually no infantry of value, which can make sieges difficult. Historically 
 the Parthians inhabited central Asia east of the Caspian Sea; in Rome, they still do, but also 
 start with territory north of the sea. Armenia (non-playable) , like Parthia, focuses mainly on 
 cavalry. Armenia is the only faction with cataphract archers and Eastern heavy infantry, the latter 
 being capable of the Macedonian phalanx. They also have their own copies of Roman legionaries. 
 Armenia, in the game, is located in the mountains of what is today Armenia, Georgia and eastern 
 Turkey. Pontus' (non-playable) troops include fast-moving, javelin-armed cavalry as well as phalanx 
 troops and chariots. In the game Pontus start location is in today's north-east Turkey. [edit] 
 Egyptian faction
  Egypt's (playable) troops tend to be lightly armored due to the climate of the area. While historically 
 the armies of Ptolemaic Egypt should be quite similar to those of the Greek factions (consisting 
 mainly of phalanx troops) , the game presents a more anachronistic Egyptian army consisting primarily 
 of large units of bowmen, spearmen and various types of chariots. In the game Egypt's location 
 begins in today's Egypt, Israel, Lebanon and Cyprus. [edit] Miscellaneous
  The Rebels are a unique faction. Rebels can be informally divided into three groupings based on 
 how they operate on the campaign map: Brigands or Pirates, Deserters or Freed Slaves and Independent 
 Kingdoms or Rebel Cities.
  
  Brigands and Pirates will attack and rob factions for money in one or more ways; Brigands will 
 sit on roads, blocking trade there and ambushing armies that walk by. Pirates will attempt to cut 
 sea-trade routes and blockade ports. Brigands and Pirates will grow in strength the longer they 
 are allowed to operate unmolested, so it is usually a good idea to put them down as soon as they 
 crop up, because stronger rebels or pirates will threaten larger targets, with some of the strongest 
 rebel groups sometimes looting major cities, although such events as this happening are rather 
 rare. Deserters or Freed Slaves are troops or slaves previously belonging to a faction which abandon 
 their homes, subtracting from the total population of civilians or soldiers living in a given city. 
 They tend to hide out in the countryside and do not usually rob factions for money, although this 
 is not a rule. Freed slaves usually consist of large numbers of peasant units, along with some 
 basic non-military or quasi-military fighting units such as gladiators or town-watchmen. Deserters 
 tend to be more dangerous and well-organized, with many professional military units; they move 
 in formation and are not quick to flee or back down when threatened; sometimes Deserters may have 
 a Rebel General with them, a non-faction member military leader, and when one is present, Deserter 
 armies tend to be much larger and much more dangerous, sometimes attempting to burn cities. Independent 
 Kingdoms or Rebel Cities are Rebel-faction cities, and the only two differences between them are 
 their origin and their military capabilities. Independent kingdoms are independent, non-faction 
 cities which have existed independently since the beginning of the game and have never been conquered; 
 they usually have some very basic military units like Militia Hoplites or Town Watch, although 
 if left unconquered, they may grow and develop a stronger military presence. Examples of Independent 
 Kingdoms are Athens, Petra in Sinai, and Tara, a town in Hibernia (Ireland) . Rebel cities, on the 
 other hand, are cities which once were run by a faction, but which have revolted and come under 
 their own management. Amazon Rebels are exclusively situated in the province of Hyperboria, which, 
 in the game, is located far to the north (in what is now Russia) and is difficult to reach due 
 to intervening terrain. They have their own very powerful unique units, including Amazon chariots 
 and gigantic war elephants called Yubtseb elephants (A sneaky marketing ploy from Best Buy ) . The 
 Gladiator Uprising are units independent of region/location and may appear in revolting settlements 
 that have an Arena or above. Gladiator Uprising armies are comprised mainly of gladiator units 
 and are noticeably more difficult to defeat in comparison with standard Rebel armies. Note that 
 all civilized factions can build paved roads, but only Roman factions can build highways. [edit] 
 Reviews and awards
  Rome: Total War has been critically acclaimed by many reviewers and is generally regarded as one 
 of the best strategy games of 2004, winning numerous awards and high scores from both gaming websites 
 and magazines alike.
  
  PC Gamer (UK) : All time 2nd best PC game 95% IGN: Editor's Choice Award, 4th Best PC Game of all 
 Time. [1] PC Gamer (US) : Editor's Choice, Best Strategy Game of 2004 GameSpot: Editor's Choice, 
 Strategy Game of 2004 Adrenaline Vault: Seal of Excellence GameSpy: Editor's Choice E3 2003 Game 
 Critics Awards: Best Strategy Game X-Play: 5 out of 5 [edit] Music
  The original music soundtrack for the game was composed by Jeff van Dyck, who received a BAFTA 
 (British Academy) Interactive Awards nomination for his work. His wife Angela van Dyck features 
 in some of the vocals; Angela also wrote the lyrics for the song Divinitus, whose lyrics are in 
 Latin. The game's most notable collaboration between Jeff and Angela van Dyck is the song Forever, 
 which plays while the game's credits are rolling. Forever was originally meant to be the game's 
 main menu song.
  
  [edit] See also
  Several Rome: Total War music files from Jeff van Dyck's official site [edit] Expansions
  
 
  [edit] Barbarian Invasion
  See main article Rome Total War: Barbarian Invasion Barbarian Invasion was the first expansion 
 pack for Rome Total War. It was released on Sep 30, 2005. It allowed the player to take part in 
 the fall of the Roman Empire, and the events which came after it. There were also a lot of new 
 features in the game such as general loyalty, religion, hordes, and sacking cities. It was also 
 commended for the fact that it did not have any unlockable factions, all the playable factions 
 were available from the start.
  
  [edit] Alexander expansion Rome: Total War Alexander Promotional Screenshot. The Alexander expansion 
 puts the player in the role of Alexander the Great himself. It begins with Alexander's ascension 
 to the Macedonian throne in 336 B. C.; it lasts for 100 turns, each of which, unlike the original 
 game and Barbarian Invasion, do not represent six months (assuming it follows Alexander's actual 
 reign of thirteen years, each turn would represent nearly seven weeks) . The game is much the same 
 as the original Rome, but with fewer factions, different units and a different map. The player's 
 goal is to conquer 30 provinces, including key cities such as Tyre, Halicarnassus and Babylon, 
 within the 100 turn limit.
  
  There are only four factions in Alexander. Of these, only one, Macedon, is playable in the campaign 
 mode. There are also Rebels, who fulfill the same role as the Rebels in the original version and 
 Barbarian Invasion. The four factions are:
  
  Macedon: Macedon begins with most of Greece under its control. The army is similar to that of Macedon 
 in the original game, consisting of various hoplites and phalanxes, and powerful cavalry, including 
 the Companions; the army lacks archer units, although it can field javelin-throwing units. Macedon 
 also has a unique unit representing Alexander's personal unit of elite Companion cavalry led by 
 the king himself. Unlike Rome and Barbarian Invasion, if the player's king is killed, the campaign 
 ends in defeat. Persia: The Persian army of Darius III is made up of a variety of troops, from 
 poorly equipped masses of infantry and archers, to quality cavalry and elite units like the Immortals 
 (also known as Apple-bearers , from the apple-shaped ornaments on their spears) , as well as mercenaries 
 from Greece and Phrygia. The army also has access to chariots, which the Persian generals also 
 ride. The Persian Empire of the Achaemenid dynasty is vast, controlling all of Anatolia, Egypt, 
 modern day Iraq and Iran, and even as far east as western India- and everything in between. Dahae: 
 Representing neighbouring, barbarian peoples like the Illyrians, Thracians, Sarmatians and Scythians, 
 as well as independent cities like Byzantium. They are similar to the barbarian factions in the 
 original game; their armies consist of large groups of poorly equipped warriors, including warriors 
 wielding war scythe-like swords. They control various territories on the northern edges of the 
 map. India: Far from being a unified nation-state, the Indian kingdoms were nonetheless capable 
 of sending awe-inspiring armies into the battlefield. Their armies consist of large units of lightly 
 armored troops, chariots and painted war elephants. The Indians do not appear in the single-player 
 campaign. [edit] See also
  List of factions in Total War games Rome: Total Realism Europa Barbarorum Rise of Persia [edit] 
 External links
  
  [edit] Official Links
  Official Game Website Official Alexander expansion site [edit] Unofficial Fansites
  The Guild 
 - also known as the Org [edit] Directory listing
  Rome: Total War at the Open Directory Project (suggest site) CHEATS HERE!!!!
  Rome: Total War 
 Cheats Cheat List
  Note: Most cheats can only be entered once per campaign, and some will not work after another cheat 
 is entered. Press the tilde (~) key to bring down the console, and input one of the following: 
 bestbuy: Units are 10% cheaper. jericho: Walls will crumble. add_money 20000: Adds money. X = amount. 
 add_population Y X: Adds population, where Y is the settlement name and X the amount. auto_win 
 attacker/defender: Attacker or defender automatically wins the next auto resolved battle. create_unit 
 settlement/charactername unit_ID amount exp/armour/weapon: Creates a unit in the selected settlement 
 or characters army with the stats you input toggle_fow: Toggles Fog of War give_trait characternname 
 traitname level: Gives the character the trait at the chosen level. list_traits: Lists all traits 
 move_character Z X, Y: Moves character to location, where Z is character name and X Y are coordinates. 
 force_diplomacy accept/decline/off: Forces opponent to accept diplomatic proposal invulnerable_general 
 charactername: General is invulnerable in combat season summer/winter: changes season process_cq 
 name of settlement : All building in settlement is completed, this only works on one settlement 
 at a time. Submitted by J. Morris, Shaun Cheat: Complete all Building
  Enter process_cq settlement and all buildings in a settlement are done. Can only use once per game. 
 Submitted by Shaun K. Foreman Patch 3.1 disables the one use per game limit. Submitted by Patriot931
 
  Cheat: Big Fat Elephant
  Enter oliphaunt in the drop console. This creates elephants that are 40% bigger in campaign mode 
 and may interfere with other cheats.
  Submitted by Litledav2
  Submit Your Own Cheat for Rome: Total War 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thk123
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  This game was released early October, where there was a huge amount of tension. The predecessors, 
 Shougun: total war and Medieval: Total war, where amazing, this one is no let down, as is often 
 the case with anticipated games.
  
  You start the campaign as one of three Roman families, each one starts off in different areas of 
 the map. You then have to command your empire to become powerful and eventually become the senate. 
 Once you have completed the game you unlock many factions.
  
  As rts's go the graphics are stunning, as computer games go they are awesome, and as console games 
 go, there pretty damned good. You can zoom in and see each of the troops charge around, smashing 
 into the enemy and sending them flying. Being a 12+, there is a lack of blood or real gore but 
 when the horses smash into the side of a pack of troops, sending them flying, and the elephants 
 crush hundreds of troops and the gauls jump heroically over the enemy troops into the middle, then 
 you know how cool it is and the lack of blood doesn't matter. And I haven't even got started on 
 the sieges. The sieges are truly spectacular. Stones smashing into walls, buildings burning, and 
 oil pouring onto screaming troops. All this and more. Tower assault is cool. The fire is amazing, 
 it looks really good, especially when you start zooming from one side of the battle towards the 
 city. But more about that in the gameplay section.
  
  The story line is fairly accurate if you play it how it actually went in Roman times. But of course 
 if you want to be a evil Dictator then obviously it will be different. Because of this there isn't 
 much of the story to talk about. There are a few historical battles which, although I don't know 
 much about historical battles, i checked a couple of them out and they actually happened.
  
  The gameplay section I am splitting into two paragraphs. One for the campaign and one for the 
 battles.
  
  The campaign is a top down view of the world where you command your forces on a much grander scale, 
 sending troops across Italy rather than across a small hill. You have to manage your towns, although 
 if it all gets too much then you can turn the governor. You can manage taxes and what troops you 
 train. Who to trade with to where to hide your troops in ambush. You manage the politics of your 
 empire. Occasional you are given missions by the senate which are very similar, block a port; take 
 a base; move your troops; ally with someone. Ultimately you don't have to do them but this will 
 cause the senates distress which will lead to you not becoming senate. On some missions there are 
 much serious punishments, but most of them just cause displeasure to the senate.
  
  The battles are AWESOME. Sieges are intense, the way you charge the elephants at the enemy and 
 you literally see them flying. Of course, if your boring you can automatically resolve the battle 
 in the campaign, but really, this is the best bit of the game. Let me give you a description of 
 a siege. Your defending. You line spear men up by the door, have some archers on the wall a couple 
 of standard troops on the wall to protect against towers. The enemy have battering rams, onagers, 
 lots of horses and many men. The onagers open fire on our walls and on a building. The battering 
 ram moves forward along with the towers. As the battering ram hits the door then the oil pours 
 on to the poor soldiers below. Your archers and towers pick off troops and the walls start falling 
 down. suddenly the building catches fire and your troops start to loose moral. Then the gate crashes 
 down and your spear men run into action. I will leave the rest to your imagination. The AI is normally 
 quite good but sometimes if you destroy a key unit to there plan, the whole army just stands still. 
 For instance, I wiped out all of there battering rams, and although they had towers and onagers, 
 they just stood still.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty damn good. It can only have 8 people, and although it is nothing new 
 for a RTS multiplayer wise it is still fun. FFAs are the most enjoyable, especially with 8 people. 
 I have yet to try out the sieges, but I think there maybe a lot of lag as there is a fair share 
 normally.
  
  I think the game is amazing and it is no wonder Microsoft are working really hard on the graphics 
 on AoE 3 as other wise there will be no competition. The main downside of this game is you need 
 a very powerful machine and a massive broadband to play (the broad band is only for multiplayer) . 
 Buy it if you are looking for something to play until AoE 3 comes out, as it is quite cheap, then 
 this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simewn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 16, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Well come on. Are you still reading reviews about it? What else do you want to know? I wont tell you 
 anything, so stop reading now.
  The only thing I will tell you is that I haven't managed to fully play a game till the end.
  
 I have tried almost every game that was supposed to be good and thrill me but I couldn't even finish 
 a demo! So boring these games.
  I have even tried THE World of Warcraft. The 10 days trial was too long for me... boring. I don't 
 know. Maybe I am getting too old and weird.
  My friends are having fun playing all of their great games. So it is propably me. right?
  Until 
 one day, on Saturday,9, September, on the historical year 2004 a friend of mine told me,
  -Hi, how are you today?
  -I am fine thank you, I replied. But that was another story...
  Anyway, 
 another friend of mine, and this is the story, said to me,
  -I have a demo of a game that is too difficuilt for me, and I dont like it very much. Since you 
 don't like every fantastic game I have been suggesting you, maybe you should try this pain of a 
 game.
  And since that time, I have conquered the ancient world 5 times with my unsurpassed strategy and 
 command in the battlefield.
  Now I am playing the Rome Total Realism Platinum pack which I suggest you install as well.
  No 
 I don't mean YOU. Not you who are playing guild wars. No, not you who are scratching your nose... Yes 
 you, with the blue jean and the brown t-shirt, yes, you I am telling you. OK?
  And please stranger passing by, go tell the players that here in this gameless PC, a real game is 
 installed, and it wasn't me afterall... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  Lots of strategy games today are, bluntly, **** Missions r boring and repetive, same build sequence 
 same thing over and over again. This is none of them. This game doesn't have the best graphics 
 BUT the scale is immense!!! Also if the graphics were lets say in Oblivion category u would need 
 like 2 DX10 cards cause imagine fighting 10000 units on screen at once in Oblivion. The units are 
 extremly cool with special attacks like the pilum of a Legionary Cohort or the warcry of the barbarians 
 and so on. Also most units have more than one weapon. Lets say a Hoplite uses a spear but if they 
 get surrounded and their spears r useless then they take out swords. A army of even just a couple 
 hundred looks striking on the battlefield. Don't be mislead though, this game isn't about who has 
 the most units (well obviously more units is an advantage) because when u have a HUGE army (couple 
 thousand) it will be hard to give specific tasks and tactics to everyone, Also u will loose room 
 to manuveour. I know lots of games say they need strategy, take Supreme Commander for example but 
 all it really is is just countering enemy units with ur own so it is like a rock paper siscor formula. 
 In this u need to know how each unit works and it is extremly satisfying when u get it right. I 
 had a squad of Hoplites (pretty basic units) and they lost 18 soldiers in one battle but killed 
 300!! Also ur units gain experience after battles depending on how well they do so u have a reason 
 to not throw ur armies into suicide. Every battle will be different and assault or defending cities 
 is extremly fun and kinda reminds me of LOTR 3 (movie) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonamy4ever
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War IS the next-gen of next-gen strategy games. Rome delivers a massive upgrade to 
 the series, as well as an unforgetable game.
  
  Rome Total War, like MTW and STW, puts you in control of a faction that needs to gain control of 
 a certain part of the Earth. From here, you will conquer using trade, diplomacy, and war to make 
 alliances, make rivals, and even become the protectorate of another faction. You play the game 
 over a large map of Europe and northern africa. With this, you can easily manuver your armies across 
 the map. And wage war with them. As well as having pure military strength, you also need to keep 
 control over your settlements. And this means dealing with riots, floods, volcanic eruptions, and 
 even sieges. And that brings us to the next part of the game, the battles. Over the campaign map, 
 the game is a turn based startegy game, but when fighting breaks out, you can eithier auto resolve 
 the fight, or command your men. If you command you men, you will be warped onto the battlefield 
 into real time strategy map. From here, you can tell your hundreds of **3-D** units what to do 
 and how to fight out the battle. And each unit finds a certain person to fight, then they take 
 turns basically, fighting each other untill one dies. You win, yay, you lose, you suck. Forced 
 out. Too bad. All-in-All, this game is incredible, and anyone who is looking for a rather different 
 strategy game, you must play Rome Total War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unchainedterror
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Ok to simply put it if you like rts and like commanding huge armies into epic battles then this 
 game is for you. This game is so fun because I belive it has alot of replay value because every 
 time you do either the campaigns or a skirmish theres always gonna be something different. Also 
 I think the graphics are pretty good. But were this game really stands out is the Imperial campaign 
 were you can choose to be either the Juli family, the Scippi family , or the Brutti family [ you 
 can unlock other factions later on in the game such as the Gauls] . If you play as the families 
 I just listed you have to take orders from the Senate which is like the centeral government that 
 controls the city of Rome, you can choose to obey these orders or not but they usually benfit you 
 in the long run. But eventually in order to win the campaign you have to take over Rome from the 
 senate. The battles are huge and there are alot of different types of units to choose from ranging 
 from elephants to incendary pigs which scare off elephants. Also there are 3 types of agents , 
 diplomats who bargin with other factions, spys who can open the gates of a city for you during 
 a seige, and assassins who can kill off enemy generals and enemy family members. But Rome total 
 war also has some minor errors such as the game can get extremely laggy during huge battles and 
 you can't command or even watch your navy battle on the open seas and well thats about it so in 
 conclusion this is a very good rts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thurlowjordan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Well where to start, the very idea of taking over Europe, building cities, commanding armys, laying 
 seiges. You can either be a Roman faction, Greek. Egyptition, Gaul and many more. Firstly you start 
 off with a few towns maybe a city and an army but after some money making and invasion you`ve got 
 an empire... Oh well maybe theres a bit more to this spectacular game than that but you get the 
 idea. The game is split up between a turn based strategy map and a real time stratedgy battlefield. And 
 what you do on one can affect the other forexample destroy a wall on the battle field It`ll have 
 to be rebuilt on the map, train a unit on the map, use it onn the battlefield. The only flaw is all 
 the soldiers of the same unit are exactly the same.. clone... but that isn't the end of the world 
 is it. I've only very very briefly explaned the game. So wait up for more. P. S
  JOIN THE TOTAL WAR SERIES UNION LED BY 2Apunisher! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Civ-
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War is great game. I played single player mode through many times and multi player mode 
 is great too, easy to find server.
  Rome total war has superbly done graphics and pretty good A. I, but generals die too often. Rome 
 total war has many mods because its easy to modificate. Rome total war is best of the strategy 
 games. It still has watchable graphics and playable gameplay. Music brings good atmosphere and 
 the pre-battle Generals rally his units. Rome total war is almost Classic- game. It has many booster 
 packs. There Julii family, Brutii family and Scipii family fighting for Emperors place, but &acute; SPQR 
 is protecting Rome with very big army. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Intense
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Rome - Total War is the 3rd game in a set of Total War games, the others being Shogun and Medieval. 
 This is definately the best of the three, and here's why.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Because Rome: Total War is such an epic strategy game there's obviously a lot to understand and 
 learn. The tutorial is helpful, but expect some frustrating moments at first as you forget which 
 units are used for what purpose. The interface is simple enough on the other hand, click on one 
 or more units and click on the ground where you want them to go, or click on an enemy unit to attack. 
 The icons on the screen are well laid out, and you simply have to hover your mouse over each one 
 for a detailed description of what it does.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are simply gorgeous, especially the fight sequences. You can have up to 1000 soldiers 
 (I think) on the screen at any time, and at worst you will only get minimum slow-down. The map 
 screen however is not quite as appealing on the eyes.
  
  Sound
  
  Certainly not the strongest point of Rome - Total War, the music in this game is not really bad, 
 but not really good either. You know that there is music playing, but there isn't any point paying 
 attention to it, but the sound effects are nice, with all the usual clangs and crunches of war. 
 The voice acting is also very good.
  
  Story
  
  You're re-living the Roman era! If you're not really into history, think of this as a cultural 
 learning experience. The story goes that you (your Faction) are battling for supremacy over rival 
 Factions that you must fight in order to gain power. If you succeed, the Roman Senate give you 
 titles. I won't spoil any more, but this does have a solid storyline.
  
  Replayability
  
  Rome Total War has very good replay value, it just keeps you coming back for more. Also, it 
 is a very long game which does take an age to complete. Only trouble is there's a luck factor while 
 playing the campaign mode - if your leader dies and he has no heirs the game ends.
  
  Value
  
  Due to the game being released over two years ago, it shouldn't be too difficult to 
 find this game at a good price. Also, you can buy Rome: Total War plus its expansion pack Barbarian 
 Invasion for around &pound;25. Not bad considering this game is so huge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjb428
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total war is a great game and very fun to watch. It has a great turn based campaign (best 
 ive ever seen) . But DONT BE SURPRISED IF MULTIPLAYER DOSNT WORK!!!! Lately the multiplay has had 
 lots of problems, mostly the problem that whenever you try to play online it says login failed, 
 invalid CD key . Check other wabsite forums to find out more about the invalid CD key thingy. Besides 
 that, the game (in my opinion) dosnt realy need a multiplayer because the game is just so darn 
 good. Anyone who loves to watch 24 to 8000+ people battle and you controling about 2000 of them 
 should definetly buy this game. I didnt spell check this (dont be surprised if stuff is spelled 
 wrong) beacause i wanna go play Rome Total war right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PCgamer4000BC
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 1, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  Takes out all the boring stuff that other turn-based games normaly have and tops it off with an 
 exallent RTS battles. You start the game with a full army, and to be succesful you HAVE to take 
 a few enemy settlements since you start with only a couple. Most Turn based games, it takes at 
 least an hour to get some good combat.
  
  Building armys is a snap, units only take one turn to build no matter what. Buildings is also very 
 easy since you only have to follow upgrades to existing buildings.
  
  It takes a huge step toward the complexity of a civilization game, while it is still tons of fun. 
 You also are at a constant state of war with someone, so the is no peacemongering here.
  
  One of my personal favs of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingritchus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 26, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This game have what no other game that I have played before.... A REAL war. As soon you first play 
 it you HAVE to play the prolouge so that stops beginners from get killed off in the main campain. 
 =) When you get to play the Impieral Campain you see your Empire on the screen and when I played 
 it the first time, I was like, God Almighty look at the sea! it was dark blue and you can SEE the 
 waves! O. O! I looked around the map and contined to be amazed. You can see the 7 wonders of the 
 world, but just the 7 wonders of the world not any other wonders like the stonehenge =: ( As for 
 the game itself well let just say it's like Age of Empires 1. But better looks and better factons.
 
  
  The romans have the best units and techogoly compared with the other factons and are ailled with 
 other romans, until you get too big in your boots and you go into war with each other. but by the 
 time you hit that stage you will have killed many factons and very strong.
  
  The battles are amazing to watch let alone fight! when you send your men into the battle you don't 
 go and watch your men slug it out you have to BE the dude who rules the army! You get to see the 
 archers firing at will (Poor Will! What DID he do?) and see huge ongers fire FIREBALLS at the bad 
 guys and you see them BURN!
  
  BUT it has a price... that's is &pound;19.99 (Preowned) but if you get a different game with this 
 kind of masterpiece it may cost you something like &pound;60-&pound;100 (New or Preowned)
  
  But it WILL have a BIG effect on your social life. It's so addtivte you can lose some of your 
 mates and make your work harder by not doing homework. but It deserve a very good scorce so I gave 
 it the scorce as 9.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k-os_xtreme
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This is my first purchase from the Total War series and now i want to buy more. The gameplay was 
 great, in the campaign mode, you have to manage your cities, make allies, do missions for the senate, 
 and become the supreme ruler of rome. you also have a family tree you can manage, you start off 
 with your faction leader and a faction heir, as you progress in the game you get more members to 
 your family, either through birth or marriage. and on the battle field these family members have 
 a great impact on the field.
  Speaking of battle fields, this is what won me over, i've always wanted a game where you can control 
 MASSIVE armies, and set them up any way you want. and this game has it. before a battle starts 
 you can set your troops up any way you want and start the battle. and while in battle, you can 
 build any more troops, so what u go into the battle with is what you get. another great thing about 
 the battles is that numbers dont count! you can have the biggest army against 3 battalions and 
 still lose (speaking from experience) its all about tactics, in this game. some units can form 
 special formations which can make them almost unbeatable in the front, but leaves them vulnerable 
 on the flanks (sides) and rear. and you have to find a way to expose that weakness.
  
  also for you people that dont like cloning in games, there is an option so you can turn it off 
 and your soldiers are more realistic. if you zoom in on the battle you can see each indivdual troop 
 doing something different. wheater its attacking, defending, moving around they do their own thing. 
 its really cool to watch actualy!
  
  over all this game was a great buy, and i recommend it to any one who wants a great RTS expierence. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_fido
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  So: nine or a Ten? What a dilemma. Tens are precious, and it takes more than merely being extremely 
 good to get them. Perfection is no guarantee. In fact, perfection just implies you were setting 
 your sights too low. To have your fingers brush the firmament, you have to risk an Icarus-like 
 fall to earth on internet-forum-flaming wings. To get a ten you need scale. You need to be more 
 than just a game. When compared to all the standards above, Rome is a Ten. It didn't have a design 
 doc; it had an act of hubris.
  In a real way, Rome: Total War is the absolute exemplar of PC gaming. It's about what only PCs 
 can really do: that is, everything, and everything at once. In an age of comfortable genre-games, 
 the Total War series have always stood slightly aside from the main thrust of culture. Anything 
 cerebral and PC-centred, they take from, with even trace elements of RPGs showing up. However, 
 the two great atrium of Rome's bulging heart are labelled Strategy and Tactics . In the former, 
 you organise your growing domain on a Civilisation-styled map. In the latter, you lead your massed 
 forces into action in lusciously rendered fully polygonal 3D worlds. And if I hadn't used the word 
 maximalist in last week's Dawn of War review, I'd lob it in here. It's very big. The full campaign 
 game will cause fear-related heart attacks on the more casual gamer. This places you as one of 
 the three families in Republic-era Rome, setting forth to carve an empire from the yielding flesh 
 of B. C. Europe. Even if you choose to auto-resolve most of the battles, set on the lower difficulty 
 levels, you're looking at some serious game playing time - your correspondent currently has a bedraggled 
 half-beard due to how its dissolved his social life - before you turn on your masters and become 
 Emperor. AI - while genuinely sterling - has moments of ineptitude. This especially noticeable 
 in battles where you have two armies in play at once. You control one, and the other is under computer 
 control and not responding to your orders. The ability to issue a general order ( Hold back! Attack 
 now!) to your colleague would have alleviated this hugely. Equally, enemy generals can be a little 
 over enthusiastic in battle, leading to a relative ease of slaughtering them. While the naval side 
 of Rome advances over Medieval, it's still only possible to auto-resolve battles, which can't help 
 but make it feel vestigial and under-rendered compared with the detail in the rest of the game. 
 There's a fair few tiny control issues, for example when two armies are standing in front of each 
 other, actually trying to get the man behind is far more awkward than it should. Heh. Selecting 
 one person behind another is tricky . See what I mean by Small daggers . But they're still daggers 
 enough. It's a nine. But you know what? When you tell it that, it freezes you weak-kneed in its 
 severe, contemptuous Roman gaze then turns and walks away...
  
  Well, it walks like a ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimsonchaos
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  [6600 Core 2 Duo, Radeon x1900XT, 2GB RAM]
  
  Im a huge fan of war-strategy games (such as Civilization, Rise of Nations, Age of Empires, etc) . 
 However, this is the first time Ive played a game in the Total War series, and I have to say 
 the first 4 to 8 hours I was extremely excited about the game. Just so you know, I played the Hard 
 level.
  
  GOOD:
  The battles are definitely the best Ive ever seen in any strategy game. Controlling large number 
 of troops on a 3-D map that you can completely control the camera view was impressive. The graphics 
 were extremely smooth on my system (see specs above) even with everything maxed out.
  
  The campaign part of the game was initially immersive. You have control over what to build in your 
 city (both buildings and troops) , and how much tax is levied. You receive missions from the Senate 
 to try to advance Rome, but you have to decide whether to complete those missions as it could over-extend 
 your own faction.
  
  BAD:
  As I continued playing, I found that the AI was severely lacking. Once you devise a successful 
 strategy against them, they do little to force you to switch tactics. For example, when defending 
 a city, if you bring your men into the plaza and form a wall across an alley-entrance with your 
 men, then put your archers &amp; artillery behind it the AI will simply keep sending troops down 
 the alley to their death. If you stack enough men, the AI cant break through to attack your archers 
 or artillery. I once destroyed nearly 1000 troops, while they killed 2 of mine. Not very intelligent, 
 artificial or not.
  
  Additionally, city management is extremely simplistic. If youre expecting the depth of Civilization 
 youll be sorely disappointed. Basically, to make money you build the appropriate buildings/improvements, 
 raise taxes, and decrease your military. To make people happy you build the appropriate buildings/improvements, 
 lower taxes, and increase your military. Not especially in-depth or challenging. Plus the campaign 
 aspect grows monotonous after a while. The Senate continually throws missions at you, but theres 
 no real semblance of purpose. They dont explain WHY you should be doing these missions; you only 
 know it will somehow help improve Romes overall condition.
  
  But my MAIN gripe with this game is its multi-player. I love playing strategy games over my LAN 
 network. However, if you were expecting to do that with this game youll be very disappointed. 
 The ONLY thing you can play multi-player is the battles. You can not play the city-management part 
 multi-player at all. I dont know about everyone else, but having battles just to battle without 
 the city-aspect is extremely pointless to me.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  If they fixed the AI in this game, made the city-management more detailed and in-depth, and allowed 
 you to play the full-blown version of the game multi-player, itd be a masterpiece. But it falls 
 short in these areas, so while it is fun for a while it leaves a lot to be desired for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theintwowords
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War generally captures what makes a good Real Time Strategy Game: Large scale battles, 
 expertly designed terrain, battles that actually involve strategy! One of the strongest games of 
 2004 is a very good way to describe it. I don't think 9.2 is a very fair rating, although I gave 
 .1 points higher. I hope anyone planning to play this game hasn't played anything too bad, because 
 heart disease is a serious problem. In short, PLAY THIS GAME AND FORGET WHAT LILY-LIVERED WIMPS 
 TELL YOU! THERE IS NO BLOOD -_-! That's why it is rated T . Medieval II Total War is even better, 
 so buy that too! Gauls pwn all =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drowningfish999
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is a good addition to the Total War games, but compared to Medieval: TW, it just 
 doesn't feel like that much of an improvement. Overall, the complex feel to R: TW really takes away 
 from the experience, and you'll spend more time tedious managing settlements and armies than enjoying 
 the game. The new strategy map features a 3D world, where armies actually maneuver around instead 
 of moving between provinces. Although this is nice at first, I found it rather complicated as it 
 forced me to run armies around to stop enemies, and made it complicated to see my layout as a whole. 
 Although the terrain does add new strategic elements, especially in terms of natural borders and 
 choke points, I think they could have set it up differently so the player could focus more on strategy 
 itself than the map.
  
  The battles haven't changed too much, which is good I guess. The interface and controls are essentially 
 the same, and you still have the rock-paper-scissors approach to units. The graphics have definitely 
 improved, with full 3d units instead of sprites like in M: TW. But graphics are only entertaining 
 for a short while, and don't really add to the gameplay value all that much. Eventually you'll 
 find yourself auto-determining battles simply because they aren't fun or exciting enough to spend 
 the time managing.
  
  Rome: Total War is enjoyable at first as you learn the new features, but in terms of actual game 
 play value, it hardly improves at all on the formula used in Medieval: TW, and you'll find yourself 
 getting bored doing the same thing over and over as you play. The complexity of the game makes 
 it hard to become immersed in, and eventually just gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AARONRULZ1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  First review in a while and my last review for 2006.
  
  Rome total war is a great game and definitely worth your time if you luv strategy games.
  
 
  Gameplay: Just great, simply great gameplay, lots of units, lots of tacitcal (spelling?) possiblities, Favorite 
 faction: Greek cites cuz i LUV their hoplite's.
  
  Grafx: Great visuals, you can have up to over 30000 troops in ONE battle but that would mean a sh*tload 
 of lag unless you have a powerful system.
  
  Sound: I luv teh sound of arrows firing, troops dying, cavarly marching, buildings being destroyed, etc 
 i just luv it.
  
  Replay value: Addictive you can play for MONTHS, if not YEARS and not get bored of this, This IS one 
 of teh few games i would want to play again before i die.
  
  Cons: Not much really other than teh imperial campaign is fairly hard on medium..... so i play custom 
 battles most of teh time.
  
  Overall this is a great game and DEFINITELY worth your time!!!!!
  
  Once i get a new PC rig, i'll 
 get medieval 2 and review it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightshadeBlack
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War was billed as a great game. Something everyone should see. Total War fans were 
 impressed, and it easily beat off Medieval's comparatively weak attempt at being a war game.
  
  Creative Assembly had put out a good attempt with Medieval, with scope and historical value, 
 even if the graphics had let it down. With Rome, the tables turned.
  
  Rome had the graphics, and it had them by the bucketload. It had the scale, and it had the interesting 
 enemy factions. What it lacked, however, was scope. It lacked it by the pound.
  
  Rome was created in favour of the four main Roman factions, with the elite units coming from those 
 factions, and only getting close competition from Carthage and Greece. Barbarian factions are so 
 easy to defeat on this game there is no point in playing as them.
  
  Another downfall of the game, is the annoying voices of Victoria and Marcus, the two aides in the 
 game. Throw in the overused winning screen, as well as the introduction of a poor storyline to 
 boost the Roman faction gameplay, and we have a hat-trick of bad points.
  
  A point which can be argued both ways on this game is the time you can spend playing it. Now, in 
 some cases, if you're really creating a D. I. Y. battle, then it will last you for months. However, 
 if you're in it for the campaign, then give it a few days and your fun will have run out, especially 
 as a Roman faction.
  
  Good attempt from the Creative Assembly team, but a let down, considering the depth given by Medieval, 
 without the need for a storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaneras
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this I installed it and I played it for hours, I loved it, it's in my top five 
 favorite strategy games of all time. I will first start with gameplay, the gameplay is very fun, 
 but the one and only problem with gameplay was that you had to have enough power to march upon 
 Rome if your Roman on the campaign that is more realistic but i really wanted to rule Rome but 
 its not that big of a problem. The graphics are good but the faces of everyone on the battlefield 
 are the same which is really annoying to me. Sound is awesome except for the voice acting, it is 
 horrible voice acting and the actors lines because most of the time they are just plain stupid. 
 The value of the game is really nice because you can always conquer the map anyway you want to. 
 Pros
  1. Awesome battles
  2. Good looking graphics 3. Ahhh the sounds of battle
  4. Will last you for months.
  Cons
  1. Bad voice acting
  2. Cloning 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renesito
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  After playing Medieval 2 Total War, I find my self back to Rome Total War. Why? Only because Rome 
 has such a great appeal to me that the graphic oriented Medieval 2 will never surpass. I consider 
 the battles in Rome more realistic and more entertaining than any other game of the genre.
  
  The battle strategies of Rome are unmatched; it is incredible how with just some skill and 
 maybe luck you are able to defeat larger enemy forces. The games multiplayer is marvelous. However 
 players tend to disconnect once they are losing the battle. This is a most have for any fans of 
 this genre or epic battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: september_basic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  This game could have been the best game I've seen in quite some time. It does not rely entirely 
 on graphics to provide entertainment and puts into consideration that many other games with functional 
 fundamental game structure be made for computers.
  
  The odd quarrel I have with the game design team is this: I have seen this game off the computer, 
 made for boardgame play a decade or two before this game appeared for public purchase. Just as 
 Sid Meier did not grant public and wide credit to those who actually created the Civilization boardgame 
 that his own work is strongly based on, neither does Creative Assembly grant any obvious and issued 
 credit to those who designed a board game which they plagarise of.
  
  Among the swindlers, if swindlers these folk are, these game designers are only flawed in that 
 they cheat prior designers and by not enhancing the game by permitting such things as generals 
 who can switch between units and suchlike. As humans, just as all humans do, they deserve the utmost 
 in credit for breathing and walking and being able to comprehend a computer at all. The sheer effort 
 of overcoming loss of umbilical cord and subsequesent mobility and interest in language is to be 
 commended.
  
  Their accepting pay for all this must be seen in light of the fact that they might not be able 
 to have any other job and are usually staring at the television, vastly entertained by colorful 
 shapes and euphonic sound.
  
  Hence, I must only assert that while this game is fun, perhaps a more respectful game might be 
 released upon a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongholdluva
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I had my newly updated and I've already conquered half of the new world if you like good graphics 
 with even better combat you will love this game.
  
  Gameplay: The Custom Battles and Campaign mode will have you playing this for hour after hour. 
 You can only be three roman families which probably is the only downside of the game so far. The 
 good: plenty of units you can train and hire. Some units Include Hastasti or whatever their called 
 even chariots and war elaphants. In custom battl es you can play as all the factions except the 
 rebel faction. That include Macodian arms. The Selucid Empire, Egypt, Carthage The Greek Cities 
 and Thrace, Etc. Plus the Campaign map is pretty cool.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics rocks in this game. The battle graphics are unbelivable. Your units look 
 realistic unlike the first Medival Total War games. Some bad you don't see the Wardogs tear the 
 infantry to bits. Also Units on fire don't look that realistic. Even the Campiagn map has good 
 graphics.
  
  Sound: Before battles your general gives a pep talk to your army. The battle noises are god the 
 dogs sound like dogs. the pigs like pigs. Your units intruduce what unit they are. Unlike Medival 
 Total War. Your Archers Don't say ... well i don't no what the archers in that game say. Thats 
 my review. Get this game if you were a toga and say Friends, Romans, Countrymen. And like Rome 
 Conquering games for how many there has been (o yeah so many) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobby-jonh
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This game, a strategic game is very fun. Half of the game is on the 3D map very realistic. When 
 the other half is on the actual battlefield where you can control your armies, flank your opponents 
 and bombard cities. Now I know that some people think there a whole lot of flaws and bugs. And 
 a agree until a certain point. It is true, like the diplomacy is totally useless, like once i ws 
 the gauls ( you can be a large number of factions if you con quer then as romans) and I had just 
 pushed back a very big army of germans. One of their diplomat comes up to my town where I am preparing 
 a counter-attack a begs me to not attack in exchange they will not vring reinforcements. I agreed 
 because i also needed to recover. And then BAM next turn a big ass german army is knocking on my 
 door.
  
  But for the seige where some people say that the enemy comes up with only one ram and they die 
 easily. Not true. The other day i was defending my town i got assaulted by every side by like 20 
 battering rams. To give you a taste of the game ill give you an example, the other day i was defending 
 my small Gallic town, the setting was like this: Under setting sun my men were at the last line 
 of defense: town square. While the artillery fired flamming ammo in my town, everything was burning!! 
 The enemy cavalary was easily wiped out, i was attacked by infantry i flanked it with my cavalry 
 but more came, my general was surrounded and killed, my position flanked, my men slain and my town 
 taken. I guess they deserved a revemge after what i did. But hey, what can a man do when its 4000 
 vs 800.
  The graphics and sound will really make you enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wotsfreek
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is the third game in the Total War series, it is also the best.
  
  The game has two parts, the turn-based game where you build up your armies and cities, and the 
 actual battles.
  
  The turn based game is great. It is very simple to build up cities and armies, all it takes is 
 the click of a button. The map is extremly detailed, with 3d terrain. My only problem with this 
 mode is that troop movement was frustrating when there was a group close together.
  
  The battles have beautiful graphics the the detail of each troop is incredible, and it never slows 
 down my computer at all. It is very easy to control the troops while in battle too, just right 
 click on an enemy group to attack or double click to charge.
  
  The simplicity of this game is great, and it is fun for hours. I have yet to experaince any bugs 
 or real problems with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGfanatic76
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is my dream strategy game. Instead of mini-armies consisting of a few hundred troops 
 in most RTS games, here you command literally thousands of soldiers. There are two parts to the 
 game.
  
  The first is the strategic world map, where you control building/troop production and form/move 
 your armies. It plays much like Civilisation as each army has fixed movement points and building/recruiting 
 takes a certain number of turns. Once you have finished your turn, the A. I. takes its turn and 
 so on.
  
  The level of detail on the world map is stunning with  etc 
 rendered in 3D.
  
  It is possible to play solely on the first part as there is an auto-resolve function for battles. 
 But that would be incredibly boring.
  
  The second part is the real-time battles. when two opposing armies meet, the game will zoom in 
 to a large battlefield. The battlefield corresponds with the area on the world map. E. g. if fighting 
 in a mountain pass, the battlefield will show the topographic details.
  
  This is the highlight of the game. With the free roaming camera you can zoom in to take a look 
 at the action or zoom out for a more strategic view. The level of detail on the armour is astounding. 
 Battles are fun and fast paced and you will be using the pause button often to issue commands. 
 Seeing two huge armies charge at each other is breathtaking and the sounds of dying men, sword 
 on shield, immerse you in the battle. At the end of the battle, enjoy the mountain of corpses you 
 have created.
  
  Sounds great doesn't it? Unfortunately Rome suffers from many flaws that spoil the experience.
 
  
  The one main flaw is the A. I
  
  On the world map, the A. I will often attack your cities/armies with only a few units consisting 
 of a few hundred men. Needless to say you can slaughter them easily.
  
  The A. I will never attempt amphibious assaults which means you can leave the back door to your 
 empire open. Highly unrealistic.
  
  A. I. for certain factions i. e. Carthage is broken. They will always be wiped out in almost every 
 game and never attempt to recapture lost territory
  
  In some cases the A. I. will build up lots of full-stack armies but just leave them standing around 
 doing nothing! Diplomacy is broken. Make an alliance with a neighboring country and they will break 
 it within 2 turns.
  
  Even after reducing a faction to a single territory, the A. I. will NEVER surrender and agree to 
 be your protectorate. I mean never, no matter what faction.
  
  The A. I will make their armies march over vast distances just to attack you, the player, even if 
 their territories are separated from you by another faction and you are not at war with them.
 
  
  On the battle map the A. I is also braindead.
  
  At the start of the battle the A. I will often make their general charge headlong into your forces 
 where he will be killed. Making his men demoralised and easily routed.
  
  The A. I often splits up his army into small bite-sized chunks which are easy to flank and destroy.
 
  
  In sieges, the A. I will often attack with just one ram and when you destroy it they will just stand 
 there in front of the gates to provide a turkey shoot for your archers.
  
  sometimes the a. i will just march up and down outside the walls, letting its troops die one by 
 one.
  
  once in a blue moon, the A. I will surprise you but that is a fluke.
  
  Other flaws include overpowered calvary and horrible path finding in sieges.
  
  One cheap glitch 
 allows you to position a phalanx of pikemen directly behind the wooden gate of your town and the 
 spears will stick out through the wood and kill the enemy manning the ram O. o
  
  However despite the bugs and glitches it is a very engrossing game and will provide hours and hours 
 of fun.
  
  To enjoy the game as it should have been, you have to fully patch the game and download one of 
 the many excellent mods which have tried to fix many of the problems in the game.
  
  I recommend Rome Total Realism, SPQR or Europa Babarorum mods.
  
  Overall worth 50 bucks but 
 should and could have been so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesse_jax
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  When i first got this i played it for around 10hrs strait, i havnt done that for many games, especially 
 the first time ive started them up. Generally Rome: total war is great, the only flaw would be AI 
 as sometimes they go completly stupid but its bareable. The balance in the game is generally on 
 par, with factions that beat other factions in real history of course being more powerful etc.
 
  
  Graphically, its nice, even by todays standards its not that bad, im giving it 9 for the pure reason 
 of when it was made it was really up there in comparison to other games of the kind. If your looking 
 for a good RTS/Turn based game, or just a good game in general, get this, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is the one offering so much in strategy and action all together I have not been playing 
 for such a successive game for years. I will examine the game as pros &amp; cons as usual:
  
  (First i have to mention this has BIG pluses and MINOR minuses. In over all it is worth every 
 euro it demands.)
  
  PROS: (+)
  
  + STRUCTURE: All well known Total war game structure &amp; interface which gamers are perfectly 
 familiar with. They have very well perfected the engine to the last extent with this sequel. Great 
 combat engine adds to value. Units start battle according to their place and terrain on the campaign 
 map. Ambushes are surprizing. Units attacked and has friendly armies in the vicinity are joined 
 the battle. (Assaulting a castle with an enemy force near by will join the battle on the Castle 
 forces side.)
  
  + VISUAL : Much Improved graphics, very very nice animatics when you close down to units. Very 
 realistic battles and pretty exciting to watch them on follow up camera as men fly with the impact 
 of the charge of the cavalary or the cavalary horses jumping over obstacles in clash
  . + SOUNDS &amp; MUSIC: Magnificent sounds in battle scenes keeps pumping adrenaline to your body. 
 The cries of the commanders to the men as you give orders to your troops are amazingly gets you 
 in the mood! You just feel that you are truely the part of the action. Musics are fabulous, especially 
 musics change due to your actions on the battle screen. Absolutely fabulous.
  
  + REPLAYABITY: Lots of factions are offered to be played with. Lots of units, decent number of 
 siege equipment, special abilities of units enriches the game experience and increases replayabilty.
 
  
  + HARDWARE: Doesnt push hard on your GPU as does MTW2. An Nvidia Go7400 will offer more than enough 
 performance (even on Laptop Pc's as i am perfectly utilizing right now) .
  
  THE CONS: (-)
  
  - Bad diplomacy and trade routes system and weak AI.
  - Although Unit stats 
 page has lots of historical info about units &amp; structures, it is still insufficient as it doesnt 
 indicate how many missles a unit has? You have to know them by experience.
  - Unit ranges are not indicated not only in unit stats page (numerically) nor in the map (graphically) . 
 That is a major miss.
  - Speeds of the units are again not listed in the info page.
  - Catapults are way too inaccurate in flamming ammo mode. Also area effect of the flames are not 
 animated well. The other way around, causes increadibly low damage to troops when No-Flamming ammo 
 is selected? No dragging and hopping effects (of boulders) simulated . - No capturing an enemy 
 General or faction member is possible. Would have been good for ransom, payments for his release 
 and for various diplomatic advantages.
  - Ship battles could have been animatically simulated. ed.
  - Auto Resolve engine is horrible. 
 You cant even let AI to resolve a very simple battle, even the result is victory your losses are 
 ridiculously high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rolls1931
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: I played this game for a many months, and finally got over it after many hours of 
 lost sleep and abandonment of social activities. Gameplay: The shining beacon of this game was 
 most certainly the gameplay. Commanding armies of thousands of men is just something that makes 
 your heart pound. I have not much to add to what other reviewers have already said. Just buy the 
 game!
  
  Graphics: Even when they're zoomed in they are utterly gorgeous. The only complain would be some 
 of the ground textures, but they're still quite amazing. The overworld map is done tastefully.
 
  
  Sound: The sound effects in the battles are just excellent, but the overworld map's sound gets 
 a wee bit repetitive after so many hours of playing, but thats my own fault for playing so much. 
 MMORPGs are much worse with the music thing.
  
  Value: you'll be playing this game for a very long time - way longer than civ 4. WAY longer.
 
  
  Tilt: Since this very game caused me to become interested in history for over a year (and get A's 
 all over) I'll have to give it a 10 since no game has ever inspired me as much as this one has. 
 You'll feel like an emperor when you play this game - and it feels good. Recommended for: Historians, 
 RTS players, Civ players... basically anyone who enjoys strategy (chess players very welcome)
 
  
  Not Recommended for: People who dislike commanding thousands of soldiers in battle.
  
  The difficulty varies tremendously on how difficult you make the computer, so I guess just right 
 would be the most viable candidate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  Well this game rocks, but now since Medieval 2 Total War is out this game isn't that good good. 
 But here the graphics are easier to understand, unlike in M2TW, here everything in battles is so 
 much easier to understand. But in the campaign M2TW has much better graphics. No offence but here 
 in Rome Total War the castles and towns look just like boxes with walls and buildings inside. But 
 still the game is vey good and if your'e boared of playin M2TW then just play this game it's still 
 good and fun to play.
  
  Now lets get to the other stuff.....
  The problem here is that there are a LOT of bugs. Plus when I download extra stuff like campaigns 
 or the Chinese race. It just dosent work and I have to re-install the game. The campaign and battles 
 overall are fun. The graphics look a lil bit old but no biggy.
  I guess this is all I have to say now. :) Oh ya in each battle the music canges like in hard parts 
 or you'r winning. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bag8ball
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  If you loved Civilization and Age of Empires: The Rise of Rome and want a game that combines the 
 best of both games, Creative Assemblys Rome: Total War is just the game for you. I myself have 
 played the game for 9 months now and Im getting used to it. Ive seen many of the things in the 
 game found in screenshots (from walls crumbling to men flying in the air) . I even created a VCD 
 of game videos. But there are a few things in RTW that, for some, ruin the gameplay. The most infamous 
 is the weak AI. During a battle, the AI does little but charge their entire army against yours. 
 They also rarely (if ever) care for the safety of their general or captain; every time an AI controlled 
 army is lead by a general, the AI would simply charge him into any unit, even spearmen. Also during 
 a siege, when the AI has no siege equipment except onagers, the AI would just hit about anything 
 thats part of the wall. When they make a breach, they rush their men in regardless whether or 
 not they are under fire. I just simply send my strongest infantry unit to guard the breach and 
 the besieging army will withdraw in a few minutes. Another AI stupidity is that the weakest AI 
 controlled faction will often attack you by the time you have become faction number one. I could 
 go on saying all the stupid things Ive seen the AI has been doing, but thats probably a veeery 
 long list. Meanwhile another thing that ruins the gameplay is the Hitler mindedness of the AI 
 on the campaign map (from refusing to accept an unconditional ceasefire despite the fact that they 
 know continuous war with you means eventual defeat for them to hurling their finest troops to certain 
 death) , although some players might say that this is another AI stupidity.
  
  However despite the negative things on RTW, I still found the game, surprisingly, very addictive. 
 Im not like those guys who get disappointed on a game that has weak AI. Yes, its true that RTW 
 has weak AI but at least the joy of having seen your foes defeated and you ending up as master 
 of the old world comes sooner than never. But the AI must not be underestimated; one mistake might 
 lead to defeat. The one thing that will certainly blow away some players is the graphics; things 
 have changed since Medieval: Total War. Another thing that some players will like is the fact that 
 RTW (and all the other Total War games) combines the best of the TBS &amp; RTS genres so its playing 
 Civilization &amp; Age of Empires at the same time. Still another is the challenge of maintaining 
 an empire that encompasses the Old World. I myself cant decide why RTW is so addictive (maybe 
 its the fact that it involves my favorite ancient European Empire) Overall, RTW is not a huge 
 disappointment; its a game that would get you hooked on for at least for weeks, if not months 
 or years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  The Good: Huge game offering endless hours of gameplay and some of the most captivating battles 
 offered in any game. The game is simply amazing and so addictive. Just so much to do and so little 
 time in a day. The main campaign will keep you occupied for aroudn of month depending on youre 
 skill factor. Better than every strategy game on the market with no real competition. Has a few 
 expansions offering more hours of gameplay with new units and bigger maps.
  
  The Bad: Graphics arn't that great and feels sought of dated dated. Battles get overly tense adding 
 to much suspence to the gameplay.
  
  Awsome classic strategy which can be found for around 20 dollars in youre local eb or harvey norman 
 bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbouchey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  I would like to start with the good and then end with the bad for Rome Total War. But before I 
 do, lets make it clear... I love this game, and highly recomend it to anyone who is a fan of history 
 and/or stratagy.
  This is a revolutionary game. While it is similar to the first mideaval and shogun, it has a life 
 all its own. The graphics are far better, and that makes the battles a lot more exciting. The tech 
 tree is also a lot more comprehensive, so is the managing of your empire. The historical accuracy 
 as far as the armies goes is astounding (aka what they are equiped with, their fighting style etc.) . 
 There are so many different factions to play, it is almost impossible to get bored with this game. 
 I have had it ever since it came out and I still play it (not as much since the second mideaval 
 came out, but that is still a long time) . The computer is fairly smart on the harder difficulties, 
 and is not that stupid at all on the lower difficulties. The massive battles are just amazing and, 
 while they are still clone armies, it is still fun to look at while you are playing.
  The few bad parts about this game are the bugs. There is the bridge phalanx bug, where very rarely 
 enemy units will walk through your phalanx formation only if they are on the bridge. The phalanx 
 wall bug, where phalanxes, and any spears for that matter, can attack units through walls and gates 
 and such. The invisible gate bug, where one or two individuals from a unit somehow pass through 
 a city gate and get stuck, so they can not move or attack or be attacked. There are more, but these 
 are the most frequent. Also, the AI can be pretty stupid unless you are playing on the harder difficulties. 
 For example, they dont retreat if you destroy all their seige equipment, they just sit next to 
 your walls while your towers pick them off and kill the entire army. They will charge phalanx and 
 other spearmen head on with calvary. Tactics are lacking in general on the easier settings. While 
 this game does get pretty easy if you have a little experience, there are factions that are harder 
 than others, and it doesnt really detract from the fun whether you are fighting for your army's 
 life, or ruthlessly slaughtering an enemy. Overall a very good game that will usher in a new era 
 of rts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalasas
Rating: 4.6
Date: Feb 18, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  the game itsself is alright .. nothing really that new, or exciting. Many other TB Strat games 
 have similar asspects, this game just combined them and threw in better graphics.
  
  it has a campaing that lets you play a few teams in different parts of Europe.. its got the guals 
 and the romans, the Carthaginians and the Egyptians.
  
  and many more teams, most of which has one or two unique units.. but mainly there are barbarians 
 using spears, or the more civilized ( roman ,greek ,carth .. ect) that uses the same sword based 
 units.
  
  that being said, it has nothing for tech support.
  no numbers to call..
  no people to actually help you..
  it has a fourm, but i got bannople on the fourm have them , 
 and cannot play the game.) ed for asking why dont you put out a patch for nvidia cards ( 25% of 
 the people on the fourms want the same thing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martythegiant
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  Rome total war , in my opinion is the best strategy game released. The game is very easy to play 
 and you don't have to be a rocket scientist to complete it . The best features of the game are 
 it's brilliant battle graphics and also the campaign gameplay. The battles are very realistic and 
 gripping and also the sweat being produced by making your army win when you are heavily outnumbered, 
 the graphics are awesome except all of the soldiers are clones which makes it a let-down but overall 
 the battle play is great. The campaign game on the map is like a game of Risk, where you have to 
 move your armies into strategic positions to overtake a town. The map is very well planned and 
 looks like the sort of map you would expect to find in those days. The three playable factions 
 you start off with are roman factions, The house of Julii. The house of brutii, and the house of 
 scipii but you can unlock other factions when you destroy a faction in the game. This makes the 
 gamplay more wide open for you to play as different factions have different armies and different 
 technology trees which make the game more interesting.
  Overall this is a great game and I would recommend it!
  =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strategyking92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Ever dreampt of commanding an empire?
  Well this isn't it.... But its the closest you'll ever get to it!!
  In this game you can ,manage, control, and 
 expand the roman empires and more as you unlock them.
  When you battle you are pulled into a 3d battle map were you use columns of soldiers you recruit 
 from towns you capture. To capture towns you use soldiers also in a seige.
  You have 4 main groups: infantry, archers, horsemen, and seige weapons.
  Each faction also has their 
 own unique units, for example the legionaries of rome. To win the campaign game you have to control 
 50 territories or do the short campaign where you control 15 or so territories and certain other 
 ones.
  
  I really didnt care for the online mode because to me it was really laggy.
  The other mode you are able to play is the historic battle mode, were your strategy is pitted against 
 predetermined unit combinations and maps.
  Overall this game is deeply addictive and the gameplay outcomes are astounding.
  If you love 
 game get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generalwilliam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  In Rome Total War you control one of the the kingdoms of Antiquity. The first time you play the 
 game you can choose between 3 Roman factions: The Julli, The Scipii and The Brutii. Each faction 
 should expand to where it is close to - The Julli to the north, attacking Gaulic and Germanic tribes; 
 the Scippi south-west, dealing with Carthaginians and Numidians and the Brutii to the east, fighting 
 Greeks and Macedonians. After you end the game for the first time you can play most of other factions.
 
  
  The campaign map in Rome was a great improvement from the rest of the Total War games. It is no 
 longer in a cartographic map' style but much more realistic since vegetation varies according to 
 the terrain, you can see mountains, the effect of summer and winter (you can see the snow in the 
 campaign map when its winter) , rivers, bridges, etc. You can also see some of the improvements 
 you make: construction of roads, watchtowers, forts and of course the way your colonies change 
 when you build better walls.
  
  The game also allows you to zoom in the 'battle map' so you can see how your cities look (you don't 
 need to go in a battle to do this) . You're then able to see all the buildings or built on the campaign 
 map: from aqueducts to imperial temples!
  
  In the campaign map you can actually see your generals carrying the banners of your armies and 
 hitting your empire's foes with their sword when its time to attack. You can also see your agents 
 moving across the map (diplomats, spies, assassins) .
  
  The biggest problem in the game is the AI itself. It is incredibly dumb. It cant use diplomacy 
 to negotiate you or attack you with the proper army. An example of this is when a faction asks 
 you 'please do no attack' and offers 'accept or we will attack'. (yes very dumb... i know) .
  
  Apart from that the games is really impressive.
  
  Graphic is perfect but it is a great 
 improvement from the rest of the total war games in which units were still 2D. Units look much 
 better and have much better movements (that includes jumping into their enemy) .
  
  Rome Total War also features generals' speeches before the battles begin. You can actually hear 
 them saying bad stuff about their enemy which makes it sound pretty realistic. The speeches can 
 also give you some tips on how to win the battle.
  
  Rome also includes the possiblity of playing multiplayer battles. There are also historical battles.
 
  
  You can't get tired of this game really fast since you can always play different faction, try new 
 techniques and most events vary according to your actions. But, no one can play a game forever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasirris
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is a unique RTS, this really requires strategy and thinking what goes with what 
 and what counters what. I love content, if a game has content and has a good interface I usually 
 get it, Rome: Total War tosses content in your face. I love the special abilities like the warcry 
 for barbarians and what not, this game is really just perfect. But If you don't like strategy and 
 just like tossing your entire army at the enemy, this isn't the game for you. The campaign is wonderful, 
 you get to fight different factions with different specialities or just make peace and betray them 
 later. Although I was hoping for a Napoleon era expansion, which unfortunately hasn't come out 
 yet, this one is pretty good. I give it 10 out of 10, because this game is funky! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirSan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is one of the best RTS's i've ever played. You can start your quest to global domination, as 
 one of three Roman houses. Julii, Scipii, and Brutii. Your primary goal is to is to control at least 
 50 regions, and to be the superior ruler of Rome, Which means, you need to beat the Senate (S. Q. E. R) .
 
  Every faction has it own specialties, except for the three Roman houses, who has no differences 
 what so ever.
  The most important thing in the game, are Alliances. You can make, and break, Alliances with every 
 faction you want to. Of course, the factions may not agree!, naturally, the Greeks won't be Allies 
 with Roman armies right?.
  The Senate will also give you missions, that you choose if to do or not.
  When the mob-the people-will 
 like you very much, you can betray Rome. The mob will like you if you lower te taxes, and so on. You 
 can also hire mercenaries, if it's possible at your current place, and if you have a family member 
 in the selected group.
  The Graphics a Superb, giving you a real feeling of the battle, and like that, also the Sound is superb.
 
  After finishing Rome: Total War completely, i can definitely give it a 10.
  Rome: Total War, in my opinion, the best RTS ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrimsonTide29
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9- The gameplay is wonderful, users can choose between arcade styled battles for more 
 action or realistic games for more immersing and in depth gameplay. Naval battles have to be simulated 
 which leaves a can of worms unopened.
  
  Graphics - 9- The graphics get the job done, the battlefields are wonderful and everything looks 
 great from a distance, the only issue is that individual units look identical
  
  Sound - 10- From the clash of swords, the marching of feet and the screams of individual men this 
 game's sound is flawless, the music always seems to fit the situation in which the player is in.
 
  
  Value - 10- The Gold Edition is only thirty bucks, it's worth every penny.
  
  Tilt - 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Creative Assembly announced that they were going Total War with Rome, I was excited 
 to say the least. I had a lot of high hopes for the game and let me say this, the game delivered 
 as promised.
  
  The gameplay is amazing to say the least as you can play as Rome or other factions once you unlock 
 them in the campaign mode. Unlike previous Total war games, the campaign map is a lot more interactive 
 and strategic. You can place scout towers to spy on other neighboring provinces or setup a fort 
 to block an important mountain passage. You can even have your armies lie wait to ambush other 
 armies that come across an area. There is just so many possibilities to play the campaign, every 
 situation will be different. The actual battles themselves are of Total War caliber where you have 
 to look at the enemy weaknesses in their battle line and try to flank them while minimizing casualties 
 on your end. Sure if you outnumber your enemy 10 to 1, it might be a easy victory, but it is possible 
 for that small army to win against your vastly superior one; it's all about strategy.
  
  The graphics are very impressive as you can thousands of units on screen at once, making your battles 
 very epic looking. The only complaint here is that every soldier in a particular unit look like 
 clone copies of themselves, which you won't notice looking high above the field of battle, but 
 once you get close you can notice. It really isn't that big of a deal because the fights themselves 
 upclose are very entertaining to watch, just make sure you keep your eyes open and don't draw all 
 your attention to a small group fighting otherwise you may miss an enemy cavalry unit about to 
 flank your army from behind.
  
  The sound is also great as you can hear swords and shield clanging when up close and you can hear 
 your armies marching and your cavalry roaring across the field. At the very beginning of every 
 battle as Rome your General will give an inspiring morale speech to his men, which really gets 
 you pumped up for the battle ahead as well as provide information about your army versus their 
 army ratio (troop numbers, quality, etc.) as well as what tactics to expect from the enemy. Other 
 factions unfortunately only get a generic speech, which is still good, but nowhere near as informative 
 as Rome's. The music is also good.
  
  The game length is pretty long as after you beat the Roman campaign (which can easily take many 
 many hours) you can go back and play as other factions such as the Egyptians, the barbarians, Carthage, 
 etc to name, but a few. Overall, Creative Assembly did well on delivering a game that lived up 
 to the Total War name. There is no doubt about it, if you want a realistic indepth strategy game 
 that focuses on the rise of the Roman Empire then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halohelldaddy45
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  You stand on a cliff above your army, you watch as they take on the Barbaric Gaulish tribe that 
 has revolted against the Empire. You see a group of Cavalry charge the back line... then you right 
 click your mouse and a group of spearmen charge the cavalry in a flanking maneauver. The cavalry 
 is decimated and the enemy see that their lives will end if they stay. They retreat and the battle 
 is one. This is just a short excerpt of what might happen when you take on the role as a general 
 in the exciting war strategy, Rome: Total War.
  Guys, this is one of the most strategically accurate and moving games. This will make you sit in 
 your chair, and think, where have you been all my life? This game has revolutionized strategy games 
 in just about every aspect. Thousands of men at your disposal that deploy special tactics such 
 as the Testudo and Phalanx.
  The amazing amount of detail put into the equipment and look of the soldiers is amazing because 
 it makes you feel like you are actually a commander of a Ancient Army. Some units are even equiped 
 with secondary weapons that may include the pila or spears.
  When you first begin playing Rome TW you have to play a tutorial that helps you learn the basics 
 of the game, such as the Campaign Map and the Battle Map. This gives you valuable tools that will 
 help you win many battles throughout your long career.
  In the game you get to use certain factions that may include the Greeks, the three Roman Families 
 (Julii, Scipii, and Brutii) , the Carthaginians, the Gauls, and so on. these many factions each 
 have their own unique units and special abilities that make the factions what they are. Each faction 
 has a certain starting point such as the Romans who start on the Italian Peninsula, their capitol 
 is Rome. Many things in this game are different from the other TW games such as Castle Sieges which 
 have been revamped a whole lot. A new feature that has been upped in this version of Rome is how 
 you can now have men stationed on the walls so when the enemy brings siege weapons you can actually 
 put on a fight instead of letting the towers slowly kill off the enemy army. Also the cities are 
 now much bigger than they were before, this adds to the sense of realism because now when you build 
 a building on the Campaign map it shows up on the Battle map.
  All of the things in this game are absolutely amazing and ive been playing it for about 2 years 
 now. I love this game and think that it should go down in the annals of Video game history as one 
 of the best strategy games of this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walrus8303
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War Combines two strategy game types: Real Time Strrategy with Turn Based Strategy. 
 The game progresses in a campaign map where you manage your empire and the conflicts take place 
 in real time battles of huge dimensions. To be more specific:
  
  Campaign map:
  Here you manage your empire. You develop your settlements, move your armies, contact diplomatic 
 deals with rival nations and of cource expand your empire by waging war with the rival factions. 
 The turned based function of the game has been improved since Medieval: Total War (the prequel 
 of the game) allowing you to move your armies wherever you want and making more complex assaults 
 and movements.
  
  Battle map:
  Here the armies that you created in the Campaign map deal with the enemy armies in real time combat. 
 It is actually the most revolutionary paart of the game. Thousands of men are deployed in the map 
 ready to battle making battles at least epical. This part of the game is something that every gamer 
 that respects himself has to experience as it is wonderful!
  
  Allthought there are alot of thing to do in the game it is easy to learn how to play due to the 
 very informative tutorials that the programmes in Creative Assemply have included.
  
  As far as graphics are concerned the game has very good graphics (considering that it is a 2 year 
 old game) . The sound of the game is exellent with wonderful melodies and well-done speach of the 
 units.
  
  If I can mentioin a drawback in Rome: Total War that would be the abscence of naval battles (any 
 sea conflict is autoressolved) . But this is something that one won't be missing as there are hundreds 
 of things to do.
  
  Finally Rome: Total War can be expanded through many popular modifications that can be found online 
 reviving the game from the beginning.
  
  Definately an all time classic that should be in anyone's game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argetlam00
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is just amazing.... It is so good its hard to describe.... Let me give you an overview:
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Ingenious and absolutely magnificent. There many times of gameplay modes that you choose from. 
 You can create and fight your own Custom Battles, fight Historical Battles or play the Grand Campaign 
 is the real treat in this game. You can literally spend hundreds of hours into the grand campaign 
 and not even notice. It is just so fun!! You build your empire and your armies and then when you 
 feel ready, you attack your neighbors and soon, be the ruler of the world! This is a very strategic 
 game and you need to have a brain to conquer Europe and win.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are very good for its genre and its time but nothing compared to its Sequel, M2TW. 
 The graphics for each soldier are about twice or three times as good as the graphics in Half Life 
 and the cities are so big and amazing. They literally look like cities and have hundreds of buildings 
 and houses in them. Another amazing treat is if you have a high end computer, you can have 10, 
 000 men fighting a battle and it will feel as though you are watching a movie like, lets say, Braveheart.
 
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound is VERY good for its genre. The music changes depending if you are marching or fighting. 
 The game literally has a sound track for battles and for marches and they soundtrack is so good, 
 that I downloaded it. When your men march you can hear hundreds of foot steps smash the ground 
 in force. It sounds very satisfying and dramatic. When your men fight, you hear clashes of weapons 
 and screams that bring the battlefield to life. VALUE
  
  This game is definatelly worth EVERY penny of your money. Heck its probably worth more than your 
 money because of the price it cost now. There are many amazing mods made by talented modders which 
 add hundreds of more hours in an already extremely repayable game. No matter how many times you 
 play it, the experience is always different.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT
  
  If you have a PC, you can't consider yourself a gamer without this game. This game is just revolutionary 
 and extremely fun. GET THE GAME NOW!!!!!!
  
  Please Recommend if you liked my review
  
  ~+~Argetlam00~+~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a example for most of strategy games... It should show them what strategies should be like... 
 Huge numer of troops, the legions of armies, and cavalry with the general... There is also the 
 whole effect with cowardice... When your general is slain, most of your troops flee from the battlefield... 
 The graphics is great, and the look of the battles iz apsolutely stunning... All the fighting, 
 and the screaming and the heat of the battle... I just love to play custom or historical battles... The 
 sound is quite good. I think that I'm gonna buy Rome Total War: Alexander... I'm wondering what's 
 it like... Anyway, the game is apsolutly amazing.... I think everyone must try it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qwik_Jonn
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  This is the first total war game I played. I was kind of skeptical about the mix of both real time 
 battle and turn based strategy.......... but the combination was perfect. In the beginning the spotlight 
 is all upon the battle map..... but later on you come to realize or at least I did...... that the 
 strategy part of the game is the REAL THING. It takes quite some time to learn the tricks of the 
 game and managing the economy and everything. The game is amazing....... difficult to find fault 
 with any aspect of the game. The battles get quite real with factors like morale affecting fighting 
 abilities etc.
  The difficult part of the game for beginners is managing the economy ..... as i said it takes some 
 time to learn the tricks of making money....... reading the game guide available at Game Spy website 
 can speed things up. Time flies by when you are playing this game......... The best part is that 
 you will be determined in first surviving i. e making money and then once you are done with that......... the 
 fun begins....... conquering the rest of Europe............ Worth every Minute!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  Bear witness to the spectacle of 10,000 troops defending their homeland to the death, tearing into 
 invaders' ranks. Giant catapults launch flaming buckets of death into panicked troops and war elephants 
 stampede into columns of routing infantry, angrily tossing them aside and brutally crushing the 
 unlucky underfoot. This is your fight to win or lose. This is Rome: Total War.
  
  Rome: Total War masterfully blends two complete games: a turn-based strategy game steeped in history 
 and a real-time strategy centerpiece that is more tactical battlefield simulator than game. The 
 turn-based half enables you to manage everything in the strategic theater (like the board game 
 Risk on steroids) , but the battlefield is where the action happens.
  
  Dedicated wargamers will delight in the attention to detail; Rome doesnt disappoint in fanatical 
 attention to historical accuracy. You'll command a vast array of troop types: spear-armed skirmishers, 
 ranks of longbowmen, hardened legionaries, heavy cavalry and scythed chariots, just to name a few. 
 These painstakingly accurate units achieve a tactical depth that is unprecedented in RTS gaming. 
 Each unit has distinct advantages and disadvantages that reflect closely on their actual abilities 
 on the ancient battlefield. However, a shrewd general knows weather, terrain and morale have more 
 affect on victory than just troop numbers and strength. But fear not: excellent tutorials and easy 
 to understand controls will help you master the art of ancient warfare, and lead you on your way 
 to becoming the Imperator of the Roman Empire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: girik9
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Rome Total war is simply a stunning strategy game. It is immersive, addictive and a great experience 
 to play. There are two parts to the game; the world map and the realtime battles. The interface 
 of the game is intutive and there is a solid tutorial which ensures that you learn every aspect 
 of the game. The level of depth and detail in the map is amazing. You can micro-manage each induvidual 
 settlement, or have the computer do it for you. The control system is easy to learn for first time 
 users to the series.
  
  The real-time 3D battles are the highlight of Rome Total War. Depending on your computer specs, 
 you can literally have up to 10,000 units on-screen against each other. The 3D battles ar absolutely 
 huge, and are backed up by rich, detailed graphics. Once again, the level of depth and strategy 
 is amazing. So Rome Total War is another great game from the legendary Creative Assembly. It will 
 literally keep you addicted for months, even years. Even though the new game in the series is almost 
 out, anyone with a passing interest in strategy games should definately pick up Rome Total War. 
 You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumen222
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 21, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I lay awake thinking of what is the best outpost to launch a full scale attack againt the GAUL 
 empire, but hell, they have an alliance with GERMANIA and I don't wanna piss them off.
  I get up at 7am on my days off so I can fit some extra hours in and build a garrison to launch 
 a Northern campaign, the GREEKS invade my Nothern most territories forcing my legion back. Then 
 I have a brain wave, why not defend my cities with catapults and archers without even losing any 
 soldiers... it works!!!
  Now that I have finished chelpin on, SEGA have struck GOLD!!!
  I have not played a game this good in ages, the soundtrack is awesome, some authentic GLADIATOR 
 rip-off tracks and it bloody works, fighting the ancient empires in real time, using ROMAN strategies 
 and armies just blows you away, take a birds eye view to position your troops and then zoom in 
 so smoothly down the battlefield and take charge. For those with less that perfect graphics cards 
 and processors, you can even choose the standard of the graphics.
  Govern your cities well and feel a real acheivement in your success.
  Helpful hint, never send 
 your Governors too far away adn always leave a town watch in place, as rebellion will inset and 
 you will have to battle to get your own city back.
  I can't say enough about this flamer, just play it and see what all the fuss is about and it will 
 leave your with a look of bloody awe right across your Chevy Chase.
  Now, after the 6 hours I've played on it today, my chuffin eyes are square. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deugar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is a turn based strategy game and like all other Total War games you can take on 
 the entire world with one nation. The world map contains Europe and the Northern parts of Africa (Same 
 as Medieval : Total War) . You start of as one of the 3 Roman factions Scipii, Brutii or Juli. These 
 factions have an almost unbreakable alliance but are somewhat limiting when it comes to letting 
 you rule the world without being told what to do. These factions have to obey the Roman Senate (A 
 pathetic bunch of people who give you very annoying missions.) and that can be very frustrating 
 sometimes. The good thing is that all the factions you manage to destroy (Just capture the last 
 outpost they have) can be played when you start a new game, so if you want to be the Vikings you 
 simply destroy their faction and start a new game if your not feeling up to taking orders from 
 the Senate. When you start the game you only have two difficulties to choose from. The first difficulty 
 is rather easy as all you have to do is control 25 provinces, the second difficulty is a bit more 
 difficult as you have to control 50 provinces and destroy a specific faction. When you are the 
 Romans your objectives are not only to control 50 provinces, but also to overthrow the Senate, 
 and finally get full control of Rome. The impressive thing about the map is that it is filled with 
 rivers, forests, deserts and bridges. In fact every single piece of the map is a real combat map. 
 Not only is the strategy on the map an amazing experience but the new 3d battles require the mind 
 of a general to fight properly. This time you will see from 10-50 men die when your cavalry (Horse 
 men) charges the enemy infantry around and hurls them 3 metres back before they finally land on 
 the ground with all the bones in their body broken! Or for that matter you will also see your onagers (catapults) 
 crush up to 30 men in one shot. You will have to fight carefully in all battles use everything 
 you have at you disposal (Shoot your enemies to pieces with artillery then charge them with cavalry 
 and once they all break and run you can engage them with the rest of your forces) . The game is 
 truly the best looking Real time strategy/Turn based Strategy game that last year had to offer, 
 and from what i'm willing to guess the expansion pack will be the greatest one of this year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arondor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War, is, as you'd probably expect, set in the utime of the Roman empire. However, this 
 doesn't mean that you have a game entirly about the Romans. There are many other playable and unlockable 
 factions, each with its own tactics and military. This means that Rome: Total war is a game that 
 you can't become bored of.
  
  The game features a huge campaign system. In this mode you aim to conquer Europe, the north of 
 Africa and Asia. The game is displayed as a map, with little models showing your armies and buildings. 
 These models move, adding abit more realism to this ghame mode. However, you can move your armies 
 to engage an enemy, or become engaged. When this happens, you can either allow the computer to 
 work out the result of the battle, or you can command the troops yourself as you would in a normal 
 battle. This means that, if you wish, you can have total control of your units, so everything in 
 your campaign is worked out by you. There are two types of campaign. In the short campaign, where 
 you win by acheiving an objective before an opponent completes theirs. This is something like kill 
 all the gaul before they conquer germany. The other type is the long campaig, where you only aim 
 to conquer the world. As well as the campaign, you can just choose to fight a normal battle featuring 
 up to eight armies. This allows you to choose how much to spend on your army, and which factions 
 to battle with. You can also choose your battle ground, the skill of your opponent and the time 
 of year. This gives you complete conrol over the battle. During the battle, you command your forces 
 and can see the batlle from all angles. Using your tactical knowledge, you must use your forces 
 to win.
  
  Basically, this is an amazing game. There is such a huge choice of armies, tactics, units, options 
 and types of gameplay that you will always be entertained. This is a game well worth buying!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatilov
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  The Good : A Great Gameplay that capture the essence of the Rome Era were it was surrounded by 
 many Great Empires , &amp; they were all expanding , so it is the fight of the toughest , they 
 are all strong , they are all weak , they all have their Allies &amp; their Enemies . No one is 
 Safe &amp; not even the Roman Famillies , Since they arlleady plan on killing each other ( Roman 
 Civil War between the 3 Roman Famillies even with the Senate thus 4 Romans , will happen , &amp; 
 it will get closer with each turn u finish ) . Any Way still talking about the game , Once u finish 
 the Campaign with a Roman Army , The Enitre armies will get unlocked excpet for 3 or 4 which offers 
 no difference . The Wars are great from Large Armies To Small Ones . Each unit have it's one weakness 
 &amp; power . The AI of the game is Smart , &amp; during wars between large armies , the AI deffently 
 know how to make the best use of his armies against u . The Graphics of the game are great , &amp; 
 if u download the 1.3 patch the graphics become even better , were they offer the shader technollogy 
 along with the shadow . But even if u dont download the 1.3 the game will still be &amp; look Great 
 . The Sound is Superb &amp; the way the units scream before attacking is even better , The Sound 
 is just great . This game is Great  
 The Bad : Althought the game is great , yet it have minor minor minor bad issues , such that the 
 AI sometimes Freezes when attacking a Settlement &amp; thus it's unit just stand still outside 
 the walls becomming an easy prey for ur archers . As for the graphics , well althought they are 
 good , yet only one issue I have to say about them , is that the explosion of the catapult is lame 
 , u just get to see a small boom or poof on the ground , &amp; the ground dont become black or 
 shows a trace of an explosion . Some Times the sound get bad when u are moving through fighting 
 armies , were u start to he scrateches in the sound because there is many voices from the battle 
  
 On The Game :  - The explosion ( poof or boom ) is an ingame 
 problem ( not glitch ) but problem , since they didnt develop it for a better look ( yet is is 
 still ok ) -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 2 - I played the game with all settings on ( Graphics , Game , Sounds ) 
 
  To those who are fans of Total War Games , then they should deffinetly get it . As for those who 
 are fans of Strategy Games , then they should also get it , As fo those who are just searching 
 for a Game To play , then also u should get it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War is simply amazing, nothing else. Battles are large scaled, diplomacy and city managing 
 is tons of fun, and conquering and warring other nations and factions makes the game challenging 
 and addictive.
  
  Gameply: The gameplya has got some great swists to them. You can manage cities, recruit units for 
 garrisons or for the army, you can build forts and watchtowers, anything. Cammanding units is fun 
 and easy to master, and orders are usually given out and are taken easily. Enemies on the map and 
 in battles are also quite smart.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in the games are simply some of the best around. Though they aren't like 
 Company of Heroes or Civilization 4, they are quite good. Soldiers look imprsssive as well as environments.
 
  
  Sound: The music is award wining to me. The battles music is very well done and has a great score, 
 and the campaign map is well done too.
  
  Value: If you like RTS games, buy this game now! If not, or you havn't played too many in the past, 
 play it anyway and see how you like it. Chances are once you get used to the gameplay you will 
 grow to love it.
  
  Overall, Rome: Total War is the ture definition of a good game, not to mention RTS games as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarfreak2005
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Let's see, great gameplay, graphics and guess what? The single-player campaigns don't suck! This 
 game is sweet, you're able to command hundreds of troops all at once, on the battlefield, which 
 you zoom into after encountering enemies/cities on the world [Europe] map. The seige battles are 
 really my favorite part of the game, once I bust out my onagers [catapults] and seige towers to 
 totally kick the enemy's ass. You can literally burn the whole city down if your onagers have fire 
 ammunition. But be careful, If you burn buildings/walls in the city, you'll have to repair them 
 once your on the world map, if you want to use them. The objective is to send your guys to the 
 center of the town, and CTF. Which isn't very easy considering there's a whole army between you 
 and it.
  
  What I also like about this game is that, in the world map, when your guys get attacked from the 
 west, and your re-inforcements are coming from the east, It'll appear like that on the battlefield, 
 and every battlefield is unique, disregarding the ones you play in Skirmish.
  
  Building a city is also quite fun too. The anoying thing is that, when you've just captured a city, 
 the enemy might immediatedly attack it, when you're not ready for it, then, by the time you're 
 ready to take over that city again, the enemy guys already've built a massive force that you'll 
 most likely win, but, it'll severely daamge your force.
  
  The good thing is, when your commander is on the battlefield, and has 10 Leadership and 10 Influence, 
 it will GREATLY improve your army's chance of surviving ANY battle. I mean even if the enemy has 
 a full flag of forces (if the flag is full of the enemy's color, that means they have alot of forces) 
 and you have your commander (king) with a few legionaries troops, you can still make it out alive, 
 very alive.
  
  Well, I don't have much time now, so I'll end it now, even though there's alot more to explain.
 
  
  -Wondering if you should buy this game? I'll let you decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rometw_rules
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  It's an amazing game. It's perfect. Rome Total War i suppose is my fav strategy game. The game's graphics 
 are really good. The music is outstanding when you command troops or something else the music changes 
 so it can fit in that situation. It's AI is good every difficulty level you put is challenging. I 
 recommend you to buy the game it's worth it. When you play the game and your in a battlefield you 
 can order your men to any position as you like when the music starts, it starts with nervous music. You 
 start with three factions all three are Romen ones. The factions are Julii, Brutii, Scipii. The Julii 
 have to defeat the Gauls, Carthiginians and other barbarian tribes. The Brutii have to attack the 
 Greek factions and the Scipii the african factions. When you start playing you can see thousnads 
 of men flooding the screen. After you finish a faction you unlock some others. If you can't wait 
 playing really good units you can play multiplayer or custom battles. You can also play also Historical 
 battles that aren't easy they are challenging. When you play the campaign you manage your settlements, armys 
 and other stuff. The campaign is challenging you have to conquer 50 settlements then Rome. If you 
 don't like that you also can play a campaign with only 20 and destroy the following factions that 
 the games sais. When you'll play a Roman faction or family you have to do whatever the senate sais. But 
 if you disregard the Senate then you'll afterwards loose influence. When you'll get really famius 
 the Senate will get jealous you have to prepare for the Civil War. You can play multiplayer online 
 games and it's not slow. The game is based on reality and everything in it is true. The game has 
 an amazing gameplay after you play with it you'll get addicted to it. It's value is 10 cause it's 
 a must buy 100% game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javierloco18
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 6, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Well, well, well
  
  **Gameplay**
  
  I think this game it's really nice, and the gameplay it's nice, and the way you play the battles, 
 I think is the best of his type, that's the reason that I gave a 10 in the Score
  
  **Graphics**
  
  The graphics of this game aren't the best, but I think that are nice becuase 
 their vision was an exceent game battle, but after all I gave a 9 of Score
  
  ** Sound**
  
  I think this parte its the best of the game, I really like the music, the ambient, and the 
 sounds that the characters made and They envolved you, and you think, when you are in battles, 
 you are there and you are fighting in that camping. That's the reason I gave a 10 in the Score
 
  
  In general I gave 9.1 to this game because it's nic, and it can be reeditng to make a best game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BozzJr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 6, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game is for players that want to be in real war !!! I'm waiting for all the sequences of the 
 Total War Series. What about doing a Shogun Total War remake??? I don&acute; t know what more I 
 can say...... I just want to play this game all the night...... and all the days!!!!!!! For my brasilians 
 friends I say: Com certeza o melhor jogo da minha vida!!! Sinta-se o Imperador do maior Imperio 
 que existiu nesse mundo, tomando decis&otilde; es em todos o aspectos..... extremamente complexo 
 e com jogabilidade incr&iacute; vel!!!! Thanks for Creative Assembly and everyone involved in this 
 epic game, and keep the good work guys!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuraPheonix
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is an amazing game. Compared to many other strategy games, this one takes the cake. 
 The gameplay is wonderous, with turn based campaigns and the definition of an RTS. This game look 
 gorgeous. Everything from the cities to the actual battles look oh so very realistic. This game 
 is definetly a must-buy for anyone who loves a good RTS. Also, this game is definetly worth the 
 50 bucks for those new to the RTS realm. This game will suck you into its massive world and never 
 let you out. Absolutely hundreds of hours of gameplay, with so many historically acurate factions 
 to choose from. Its as easy as this: if you don't have it-buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krendog
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is just awesome. All the game's from the Total War series are awesome. I have not been 
 dissapointed yet. They couldn't have picked a better era in time. The Romans ( ahh.. the Romans.) 
 The realism is off the charts, the elephants ( ahhh.. elephants, they deserve a capital, ahhh.. 
 Elephants) are so fun, you can make you're own games, a rocking campaign, and good expansions. 
 If you don't know about getting this game I suggest you do. There's nothing else to say. This is 
 probably one of thee best strategy game up to date. Any ways I just love this game. It is wonderful 
 and beautiful. Just Beautiful. -Krendog 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 2, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is one of the best games of all time. I seriously could not stop playing for the 
 first year I had it. You basically never become bored. In the campaign, you choose a faction to 
 be. The factions range from the three Roman families to Carthage, the Greek Cities, Britannia, 
 Egypt, and many others. Once you've chosen a faction to be, your objective is to take over most 
 of Europe. During the campaign, many different things happen, like natural disasters, such as plague 
 (you suffer a lot from plague -- hundreds of your people can die) . You can communicate with the other 
 factions -- you can either choose to become their allies, their sworn enemies, or you can choose 
 to do many other diplomatic deals. In terms of cities, each city has its own province on the campaign 
 map. When at war, you are able to capture the enemies cities. But, unfortunately, the enemies can 
 capture your cities, too. You can also choose what buildings and millitary units you want built 
 or constructed in your city (s) . When you go into battle on the battle map, it is amazing. The graphics 
 of the landscape and of your armies/ army units are amazing. During battle, there are many different 
 tactics you can perform. Rome: Total War, is probably counted as one of the best strategy games 
 of all time. Now I'm looking forward to Medieval 2: Total War, which seems even more amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 24, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Being a Total War fan since Shogun, one of the things I admire most about the developers is that 
 they have taken an innovative core concept (the blending of turn-based strategy with real-time 
 battles) , and consistently improved on it with every new release or expansion. If you like managing 
 your cities and building your empire from a Risk-style global map, you'll find it here. If you 
 prefer to raise massive armies of unique units and lead them in glorious battles on fields of honor, 
 you got that, too.
  
  The diversity of civilizations and their respective units, each with it's own strengths and weaknesses, 
 means the game never gets old. Players will want to conquer the world time and time again, as different 
 factions from the four corners of the globe.
  
  If there is a weakness, it lies in the AI, which can be a little uneven in places. Diplomacy, for 
 example, often borders on lunacy. Why on earth does an allied faction, significantly weakened by 
 wars with other kingdoms, arbitrarily decide to stab me in the back and start a war with me which 
 they can't possibly win? Still, even this wonkiness can add some amusing-if-unrealistic aspects 
 to the game, and players will often find themselves laughing out loud at some of the ludicrous 
 proposals made by other factions.
  
  Bottom line, if you're a fan of real-time strategy with epic battles, then Rome: Total War needs 
 to be added to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roman5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  This game is a game that they will talk about for years as the very center of the RTS world as 
 it is so immersive and complex it will suck you in for hours of fun destroying your enemy in any 
 way that you want.
  Why with this game I can spent hours on it and think I just got on it because it is so much fun.
 
  My brother is Runscape fanboy and would rather die then give it up and thinks that this game sucks 
 but to hell with him. This game will give you a sense of doing something. I must say there is nothing 
 that brings me more pride than seeing my Legions march in lock step over a weak enemy that has 
 dared to stand up to the might of the Grand Roman Empire 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chimosy
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  If it isn't the best it is truly one of the best games in history,
  and the total war saga will continue being.
  And the best of it it's the game it's the turn based 
 strategy, but the battles are sublimes.
  Simply a revolution in the world of strategy war games.
  And the best is that you can play without 
 stress in the map,
  but you can have very fast and espectacular battles in the
  battlefield.
  Only two things i'll add to this game:
  
  The possibility to make the assasinations 
 and sabotages
  in 3rd person rol.
  
  And to can be a player of a unit in a fight to can make hero actions.
  
  But really the game 
 is more than i've seen before,
  a 10 for the people of creative assembly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manolo_1982
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Well when i started to play RTW, at first i was a bit confused, i used to play MTW, so i had to 
 adjust to the gameplay of RTW and well after you get to know all the stuff in the game is just 
 amazing//Plus the fact there are such high quality mods makes this game one of the best strategy 
 games youll ever play, its just amazing, i recommend playing this game with or without a mod, altough 
 playing it with a mod is huge plus!!! ihave tried some mods, and well they really improve the game!! Im 
 just waiting for MTW 2 to be out its going to be just amazing!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndeko
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  The two year anniversary of the initial release is coming up and I am still playing it. Will all 
 the patches and the mods that are out there, this game is by far the most addictive game out THERE. 
 Rome Total Realism, Europa Barbaroum and Terrae Exp* something * have refueled this addiction by 
 forcing me to have more of those sleepless nights into my collection, while fighting of the greeks, 
 thracian, and macedonians. By far, it has to be the greatest game in the history, ever since the 
 IBM 386 models. What will Medieval Total War 2 be like, only time will tell... The only other games 
 that I played for so long, must have been Wolfenstein 3D, SimCity 2000, Civilization, Colonization 
 and Ages of Empires 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derekcrosby
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  3 men are running, they darent look behind, out of 80 men they are the last, as the arrows blaze 
 past and the sling bullets fly they are running for their lives, then suddenly 40 hairy horsemen 
 appear from the surrounding forest and crush them without stopping. another victory for the armies 
 of gaul over the conquering romans...
  
  in this game you will see RTS battles at their hugest and most gory, arrows fly, horses charge, 
 elephants bray, and people die. the fury and melee of battle is immense. people run in terror, 
 people go 'squelch' on spear points.
  
  in terms of realism the game is fairly accurate, not a headshot, but a mortal wound. horses rear 
 when near elephants and camels, people will flee as opposed to fighting certain archers aout range 
 other archers, and even tactics are similar.
  
  the campaign map is brilliant, a masterstroke, as you move pieces around, muster armies, fortify 
 positions, and 'grease the wheels' of international politics, like 'risk' but... intersting.
  
  even speeches are interesting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 7, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This game was good. I liked how unlike other war games like age of mythology you can control alot 
 more people at once. Of course the thing I like the most is making huge army's crash into each 
 other. It is cool how you can do quick battles. The graphics are good and I like how you can zoom 
 in on the battle. It is a pretty hard game though. It also takes a little to master the controls. 
 It an original game with all of the new things that other war games can't do. The sound is good 
 also. I like alot how the people actually touch each other and fight. This game is a really good 
 war game. So if you want a war game that is probly the best one out you need to get this game. 
 It is a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superfly045
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Rome Total war is one of the best real time/turn based strategy game ive ever played! with the 
 epic battles added with the great sound effects and graphics make this game as worth your money 
 as bread and milk. Ive been playing this game for 2 years and still somehow always end up playing 
 it again and again regardless of how many times I conquer the game map. If your looking for some 
 quick fun or a game you can come sit down for hours on end Rome: Total War is definately the game 
 for you!
  
  Although there is now campaign map for the Multiplay that does not effect the Multiplayer gameplay.. 
 Being able to customize your armies with a certain amount of points and test them against your 
 friends makes Rome's Multiplayer experience worth checking out! However the single player is far 
 more fun especially with the numerous difficulties you can experiment with to make the difficulty 
 perfect for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 24, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I remember invading Britian one day & storming a village from South, East & West with a combined 
 force of about 3,000 men (including an allied force from the South-East) . The village was easily 
 taken with a Heroic Victory but I looked upon what to do next..? ... Occupy the city, enslave the 
 peoples or exterminate the peoples? Well, I was actually quite P*ssed off at the Britians since 
 they invaded one of my North-Western Europe areas when I declared war on the Germans & I was relying 
 on my 3rd army in Central Europe to make it there before it surrendered to the enemy and I didnt. 
 Simply put I lost alot of denarii due to Britian ignorance! My entire expeditional army in the 
 Greek Cities, fighting a major rebellion, were relocated to allied lines to invade, where as the 
 little battle for Central Europe began. In shorter words, lol, ... I threw the Brits out of Europe 
 whall refusing all Brit/Germanian cease-fire negotiations & exterminated every Barb & Brit village, 
 that is why I marked this as a "Guilty Pleasure". This was a basic example of the strategic thought 
 involved.... get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkyking
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I can not praise this game enough. It combines deep strategy with great grpahics and epic battles. 
 This is the Total War series and strategy gaming in general at its greatest. The Risk-combined-with-Age 
 of Empires-like gameplay that is the signature of the Total War series has been changed a bit and 
 is now better than ever. One of the greatest changes are the amazing graphics, which are gorgeous, 
 while in the previous games were blocky and sort of ugly. 
  
  The only cons I can think of are that the extreme depth and sometimes brutal hardness of the game 
 may turn off people who just want to pick up and play it. For everyone else, it's a must-have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_enigma
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  Well i really loved this game because of its theme, the roman empire. I think that there haven't 
 been enough good rts roman empire games. The things that i love about this is the individual animations 
 in battles of units and the way that a horse charge would make infantry fly out. The effect swordsmen 
 or horsemen charging a line is one thing that i haven't seen in other rts games (such as red alert 
 2, c&c generals, warhammer, etc) . I am simply astonished at how well my tactics become reality 
 when i execute them. Unlike in other games, wherein an attack from the rear and the front have 
 generally the same effect. Simply goood.
  
  On a side note, I've actually reinstalled the game around 3 times simply because i love playing 
 it (then i'd get bored, then a few months later i'd want to play it again) . Though it's not the 
 tactical turn-based map that excites me, but the battles. There are simply a ton of ways to win 
 a single battle and thinking of other strategies sparks my interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 16, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Experience the power and glory of ancient Rome in this truly next generation strategy game. Look 
 across the battlefield to behold vast armies of thousands of men, and then seamlessly zoom in on 
 intense combat as individual soldiers fight to the death in 3D real-time battles. With over a hundred 
 different unit types, players control such armies like the Legions of Caesar, Hannibal's mighty 
 War Elephants, or ruthless Barbarian Hordes. 
  
  Creative Assembly has done it again with their latest addition to the Total War series. Rome: Total 
 War takes you back to ancient Rome, before the empire reached the height of its power. The game 
 then gives you the power to rewrite history and conquer the known world in the name of Rome. You 
 will have opportunities to make alliances, crush opposing kingdoms, and eventually gather enough 
 popularity to take out the Roman Senate and become emperor of Rome. All this with the view that 
 gives the player a true sense of what it was like to command thousands of infantry on the battlefield.
 
  
  A number of quotes and cliches come to mind when Rome: Total War is mentioned. However, the single 
 standout has to be: "Rome wasn't built in a day." Nothing proves this more than actually trying 
 to build the Roman Empire. The player has a chance to take on the role of a Roman General who hopes 
 to have a strong lineage that will one day rule over Rome and conquer the known world. The "known 
 world" in this case is most of Europe, the northern half of the African continent, and much of 
 the Middle East. The scale of the planet has been adjusted for playability, but it is still a huge 
 mass of land that needs to be taken. Even with alliances, it took a very long time to make my way 
 from Rome to the border of Gaul (today known as France) . Part of the reason is because Rome, like 
 the previous two Total War games (Shogun and Medieval) , is not just a real-time strategy game. 
 There is a very deep turn-based element built in, making this an empire sim in addition to a real-time 
 strategy title. There is an option to play a "quick campaign," which would require conquering 25% 
 of the map instead of 50% and taking over the Senate, but either way, the experience is relatively 
 the same.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delkath123
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War is one of my all time favs. Has plenty of units to toy with, loads of replay value, 
 and an overall sense of epic game play. Very challenging game on the higher settings and thankfully 
 has the options to lower the difficulty. The strategic aspect of it is also very well implemented.
 
  Naval battles could have been more involved as well as diplomatic relations. Ran great on my old 
 AMD 2400, BFG5700 FX SE, 1G RAM.
  Minor bugs with release but nothing that deters from the overall value of the game and nothing 
 a patch won't correct.
  Definitely a game to add to your roster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jahplace
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  After a short learning curve I was instantly addicted to this game. I spent untold hours expanding 
 my empire into the ancient Old World. The battles provide extreme pleasure, especially when you 
 realize that winning such a battle either ensures the protection of your empire from foreign invaders, 
 or opens the way for your forces to expand your powers into yet another territory. 
  
  The campaign map, a counter-part to the battle map, allows the  
 inside of you to manage your settlements to provide economy, protection, and military technology 
 to the civilians of your lands.
  
  If you have any love for history or turn-based strategic war games, you will cherish this game. 
 If not, you will learn to cherish it very quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this a short and quick review......
  
  R: TW is a game I'll recommend for those interested in a cross between turn-based (TBS) and real-time 
 strategy (RTS) style games. And if you're interested in plenty of action, you'll be sure to find 
 it here. 
  
  Positives:
  
  1) Great RTS battles raged on single battlefield. Plenty of action.
  2) Good TBS for the world 
 map. Fun with conquering other nations and taking the fight to the field.
  3) Fairly good graphics.
  
  Negatives:
  
  1) Some repeating gameplay here and there, though 
 not too often. You'll sometimes get tired of doing the same city-sieges or either the battles feel 
 kind of the same.
  2) Frustrating TBS map. You'll often find a hard time managing your cities as they are prone to 
 revolt.
  3) Poor AI that will sometimes show during battles. Diplomacy system needs a little improvement. 
 It's almost impossible at times to get a deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phdietrich
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 4, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure how anyone who's ever played this phenomenal game could ever give it an overall rating 
 below 9.0, let alone a 1.4 as one of the "reviewers" here has done. I, too, own and have played 
 Imperial Glory - which by the way I bought after RTW - and it (IG) , while somewhat interesting 
 and enjoyable, is, with the exception of its naval presentation (which is absolutely beautiful) , 
 far inferior in every other way to RTW. I put RTW 'away' for a while and am now coming back to 
 it, as it's that type of captivating game - it simply is the best of its kind (the programming 
 that went into being able to simultaneously allow for up to 10,000 units on a battlefield was, 
 and is, in a word, novel! 
  
  Here's to eagerly anticipating Creative Assembly's next release - Medieval 2 Total War.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zalldar_Ven
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 3, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  I know all about this game, I've played and beat all the campaigns and done it with style! It's 
 one of if not the best RTS's out there I have to say it's great in terms of enjoyability. There's 
 also the fact that lower end computers can play the game on rather good graphics setting without 
 any glitches or jaggies! It's also got some downfalls though like the fact that there are a large 
 array of glitches, but at the same time it can be fixed with a little downloading of the patches. 
 It's very addictive just to be able to say you've taken all of Europe, Asia Minor and North Africa 
 is just fun to do alone! It's also fairly accurate to history, but you can change what happens, 
 thus making every game different. You could spend your time trying to last as Greece from Macedon 
 invasions, or Carthage taking out all the Roman factions thus making you the greatest power in 
 the world. Or you could just be the Germanic Tribes and have constant land squabbles with Britannia 
 and the Gaul! But mentioning that brings me to the last bad point, The Germanic Tribes should be 
 the actual tribes not lumped together, but that's why there's Barbarian Invasion; right! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holland01
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 2, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  Welcome to Rome, this is a time of war and you must command the greatest armies and destroy the 
 greatest cities and battle the greatest enemies. if you want this kind of stuff than Rome Total 
 War is a game that you must play. 
  if you played Shogun or Medieval total war than you can play it straight away. but if this game 
 is the first total war you're playing than you do well to play the tutorial. If you have noticed 
 this game is completely 3D similar to Medieval and Shogun that was a 3D world but the units where 
 i kind of 2D.
  
  This is a game that you play for the great epic battles. you really see the soldier storm at each 
 other and jump into combat. You really see the fire and the fire balls form the archers and catapults, 
 The greatest thing in this game is that the moral is must approved if you kill the enemy general 
 than the soldiers will run and if they kill you're general you soldiers will flee. This is a great 
 epic game because you can get battles with up to 10000 units. 
  
  The AI is Very Good and The Graphics are superb the campain is fun to play and the Sound is very 
 good, when you soldiers march you here marching music and if you go into battle you here battle 
 music. The effects are great and this is a game that you must have played
  
  This game is Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srocciso
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 29, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  As far as strategy goes this games is just plain awesome, it blends turn-based and real-time to 
 nearly perfection (nearly because you HAVE to autoresolve the naval combat, it would be better 
 to play them since having a large navy doesn't always guarantee winng the battle) . The Roman factions 
 play out beautifully and the sounds are amazing especially if you have a six speaker setup with 
 an Audigy sound card) . The 3d maps are greatlly designed and the terrain setup is great with weather 
 and hills being able to tilt the battle to or against you. The cities look really well too when 
 you zoom in from the campaign map and the complexity of the campaigns is awesome.
  What can I say ?? If you still don't have this game and love strategy and slow-paced games that 
 require a lot of attention then this is the game for you.
  If it had the kind of cinematics that Warcraft III has then it would be the greatest game in RTS 
 and turn based history ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimjim245
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  Playing as the Roman factions isn't as fun as it should be, the Senate missions are often difficult, 
 and the people are far to easy to please!
  
  Anyways, I love the game itself, my favourite faction is the Greeks because you hae to unify a 
 shattered country and then defend yourself from Rome. The only downside to any faction is the expansion 
 of your empire, as your empire/republic/kingdom grows the settlements become more and more rebellious, 
 and there doesn't seem to be anyway of combatting this, some settlements will kick your army out 
 every 5-10 turns regardless of how many times you slaughter or enslave them!
  
  I love the historical battles and the custom maps, the graphics are great to look at and the way 
 the armies move is a joy to behold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opulous
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 25, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War is a work of genius. It combines two of the most delicious flavours of gaming, strategy 
 and epic 3D battles, into one truly awesome game. First of I will explain the strategy part of 
 the game. The 3D map is a great achievement. Not only does it give you so much more strategic planning 
 to mess around with, but it is so much more beautiful than a bland 2D map, like in the previous 
 games. Your agents also add a lot more depth to the game, (killing an enemy general on his way 
 over to conquer your town and then seeing his inexperienced captain falter before your walls is 
 really cool) . Ok, shell of the game has been swallowed and digested. Now for the soft, meaty centre 
 of the game, yup you guessed it, 3D BATTLES! The 3D battles are, in short, gold dust. The way they 
 were planned and thought out is ingenious. The AI really uses it's tactics well and all the different 
 factions use their tactics differently, (eg. Gauls- All-out charge and war cries, Romans- Use a 
 professional battle plan, velites fire spears, first line of legions move in, then second line 
 etc.) . The graphics are stunning and the morale system is very realistic. 
  
  Rome Total War is a rare ruby amongst it's kind. Get out there and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArcAngelKemuel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This is the greatest game ever made because it has great graphics and great game play. Its revolutionary, in 
 this game you can have huge battles. This is the most realistic RTS ever made because even if you 
 don't have to much army you still have a chance to win, you only have to be a great general. The 
 campaign is long and entertaining but you have the option of making it short, the first time you 
 only have the option of only 3 roman families but the next time you can choose from a few more. The 
 quick battle mode its a great way to test your skill fast and the historical battle can be helpful 
 to learn of great battles and were they took place and give you the chance to change history. The 
 I cant say nothing about the online play because I cant play, but I heard the is great, big battle 
 and it test your skill to the max 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kev_graw
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 2, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  The Game Totally Rocks But Is Difficult Because The Battles Are To Fast Paced And You Cannot Move 
 Into Position Quick Enough But The Gameplay And The Historical Detail Such As The Formation Shieldwall 
 The Sound Detail Is Great As They Charge It Sounds Like Your Really There And The Details Of Gameplay 
 As If There Is No Control In Your Settlement There Will Be Civil Rioting Just Totally Great I Think 
 That They Should Make More Expansions As I Think It Would Totally Make They Game Rock But It Does 
 Even Without Them So Congratulations To The People Who Put All The Time And Effort Into Creating 
 A Excellent Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shav0r
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is in all likelihood THE most realistic strategy game out there today. A force of 
 500 units can beat an army of 6000, if they have a good general.
  A typical battle:
  2 units of Roman "Principes" (Heavy infantry) , 1 unit of Equites (Cavalry) and 1 unit of archers 
 are fighting a force of 4 Greek Armoured Hoplites (Spearmen) .
  The Greek phalanxes march forward confidently, knowing that no other infantry unit can match them. 
 Just as they engage the Principes, the roman archers who have been lying hidden in a nearby wood 
 emerge. The flanks of the phalanx are virtually defenseless, but they ignore the hail of arrows 
 and push on, confident that once the principes are defeated, they will be able to deal with the 
 archers. Suddenly, the Equites, who have circled around the phalanxes, attack their exposed rear. 
 One unit breaks and routs, damaging the other phalanxes morale even further, until a second one 
 routs, at which point the remaining 2 phalanxes flee the field as well.
  
  Battles like these are ones you will have to fight regularly in Rome: Total War, but you may also 
 fight battles with armies of 4000 men each, archers, cavalry, infantry, siege equipment, camels, 
 and even elephants. The good balance of forces in Rome: Total War means that any force can be beaten, 
 if you use the terrain, your units strengths and weaknesses and the morale of your men wisely.
 
  
  The campaign mode, which is a turnbased map of the world in which you assemble and move your armies, 
 is also well made, apart from the fact that the diplomacy system isn't very good (Treaty from Spain: 
 Their demand: Please do not attack. Their offer: Accept or we will attack.)
  
  All in all, Rome is definitely worth the money, as it is currently the most accurate and realistic 
 RTS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2o35
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is a game I didn't look at as being very amazing.
  I don't know why. I'm an RTS fan, and it looked really unique, (which it is) but I just didn't 
 feel like wasting my money to go get it.
  But my friend pirated the game and gave me a copy which I didn't feel like installing but I did 
 and I played it... and it was so freak'n addicting I played it for about 20 hours straight, I stayed 
 up all night playing it.
  I liked the game so much I decided to go buy it, and the expansion packs. =)
  
  If you like 
 the board-game Risk, then you will probably will like this game cause it's similar conquest style 
 game, only with an RTS style gameplay added which makes it one of the best games I've ever played.
 
  
  The only thing I don't like about it is that the multiplayer isn't as fun as the single player 
 campaign. I wish there was a co-op campaign.
  
  If you like RTS at all, or like diplomacy and turn base strategy about conquest... then this is 
 the best game around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midgar_4559
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 1:49 am PT
Review:  Rome total war is one of the coolest longest played game I have for PC. I mean I have been playing 
 it ever since I got it in 2004. There are a lot of different tatics to battle and you can play 
 as the many different factions. I highly recommend this game. 
  
  iii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  i i i i i i i i i 
 i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiiiiii i i i i i ii i i i i i i  
 i i i i i i i i i i i iiiii ii iiiii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valeria_Vitrix
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  This game pushes back the boundaries of real time gaming. The campaign map, battlefields and multiplayer 
 are awesome. 
  Considering the quality of Shogun and Medieval Total war , Rome certainly stands out. It was highly 
 addictive and easy enough to learn.
  With unique and epic battles, great tactical game play and the chance to develop your cities and 
 empire with building projects and the recruitment of armies, diplomats, spy's and assassins, Rome 
 combines many areas of Gamer's favorites into one, show- stopping game!
  
  For me, Rome was one of those high quality and addictive games that have few equals. A well earned 
 9.3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yossarian14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  Unlike most strategy games that don't factor in things like moral, fatigue, and overall actual 
 strategy in battles, RTW makes massive real-time battles that far exceed that of any other game. 
 It also has unparalleled city sieges that are among the most interesting aspects of the game. And 
 outside of battles are just as extensive. They allow extensive options building and trade not found 
 in most other strategy games. It offers an immersive sense to the player that they are really in 
 charge of their empire. If you're looking for a great strategy game to play, then look no further 
 as this is still the best out on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giantsfan22
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I waiting for this game for a long time. I remember driving over to gamestop to be one of the first 
 in the forums to actually get the game and I had to pay full retail price too (which i don't often 
 do since getting it ASAP was very important to me) .
  
  Anyways. The game is pretty deep. The battles are fun and take a long long time (we are talking 
 many months) to even approach getting boring. Unlike previous total war games, horses actually 
 effect the infantry. They don't just stop and fight like in MTW. They charge and if done right, 
 can cause a section of infantry to retreat.
  
  Infantry are about as well done gameplay wise as can be expected. Spears beat horses and the phalanx 
 formation, while being inflexible, is deadly in the right hands.
  
  Archers are fun and so are the artillery.
  
  The strategic map is where alot of the fun really 
 happens. You build up armies and send them to conquer. But unlike a pure rts, you need to make 
 sure to keep some home to protect against invaders. 
  
  Diplomacy is the game's biggest shortcoming. While there are quite a few options when negotiating, 
 many of them mean nothing when the enemy wants to attack you. There are no penalties for breaching 
 an alliance. All in all, i enjoyed the diplomacy in MTW better. But if you are allied with someone, 
 they are less likely to attack.
  
  I am no longer playing the game because i played myself out. I played for months on end, took a 
 couple months off, then played more months on end.
  For those wanting a little more realistic game, check out www. rometotalrealism. org
  
  With 
 Medieval Total War II coming out later this year, this game, if bought right now, should provide 
 enough entertainment until that arrives. 
  
  Remember after Shogun Total war was finished, work began on Rome total war AND the original medieval 
 total war. Rome was a huge leap forward and medival was a much improved version of shogun. So, 
 if they continue with this format, MTW 2 will be the improved version of RTW (rome) and the game 
 after MTW 2 will be the huge leap forward. So in 2008, look for another game of the year.
  
  All in all, alittle under 2 years after it was released, there is nothing that compares to 
 RTW. Other game shave tried but not come close. Basically, creative assembly has a corner on the 
 RTS/TB grand strategy genre and with the quality of games they put out, this is one monopoloy i 
 am not worried about having.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cellbamp
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 13, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  This game completely over shadows Medival and shogun, there is no comparison. It has an improved 
 campaign map and 3D battle engine like never before. You can now almost feel like you are part 
 of the battle.
  
  The campaign map is now a living breathing map witn lush environments and as bafore it is turn 
 based which is what makes total war extraudinary, the trees are now in 3D, thank god and you can 
 get very close to the combat. Unfortunatly there is no blood, why buy a war game with no blood? But 
 the atmosphere created in the game and the feeling of that power created in the game make up for 
 all those things
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterphomieg
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 11, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  Okay this is a must buy for any person that enjoys history and interacting with it. This game it 
 revoulintary in all the ways that if can be define. It's complete dream to have these massive battles 
 online with your friends and is mind blowing of all the things you can do. The Creative Assembly 
 along with Activision have really impressed me with this game and I hope to see many more titles 
 from the total war community. However I am just going to say it's a must for everyone. So I leave 
 you with that on your minds and wish you a plesant life in Rome, and don't be a stranger either. 
 Send a message if your up for a battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 9, 2006 12:37 am PT
Review:  As an avid PC gamer I have never really gotten into the RTS genre. I am more of the action/simulation/fps 
 nut. I really do want to enjoy these games as they are the pinicale of PC gaming. No ther system 
 can pull these games off like our all mighty PC's. Some RTS games like Red Alert and the Age Of 
 Empires series have been some of the biggest and succesfull games in PC history, the only thing 
 for me is that they all seem to be a bit too hard for me. I have tried too, trying to beat these 
 games on an easy setting, but always get steamrolled in the end. Thats why i liked this game. It 
 has that real falvour of the Rome era and I can win, its that simple. I have found a game that 
 I can enjoy and actually beat the competition and as a "action" gamer, I found this a refreshing 
 change. The battles in the game are just amazing with great graphics and sound . You can have thousands 
 of troops on the field at any one time in an open field to breaking through and crushing the inhabitants 
 of a settlment. It is great fun to do too, with the battle map and general battle interface really 
 easy to get used to and not too complicated. Although there are options for it to get complicated. 
 I have only really just scraped the surface of the game so far and can see mee playing it for its 
 captivating gameplay and great graphichs and sound, for a long while yet. No other game from the 
 RTS genre, except for Empire AT War maybe, has been able to suck me in to the game. Highly reccomended 
 to all PC gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbest67
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  Yes, indeed, I am stuck. I can't seem to stop playing it. The interface is good, the detail is 
 excellent, and you can have flaming pigs!
  The battles are a combination of set-piece battles, with individual unit control. In addition, 
 you can change the pre-positioning of each unit, its formation, and aggressiveness; allowing you 
 to experiment with tactics, or just leave them alone and play a classic set piece battle, with 
 the troops that MADE them classic. 
  The AI (in MY opinion) gives an excellent rendition of the governing and military philosophies 
 that were actually used. The Romans DID after all control most of the world through their military 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 5, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War is the greatest strategy game I ever played .At first I didnt understand the game 
 because there are two maps :battle map and campaign .Battle map is the map in which you battle 
 ,fight with enemies and their allies .Campaign map is the map where you play the most .Its the 
 map of Europe in which you move your army and see settlements .On this map you can upgrade your 
 settlements buildings create armies ,hire mercenaries and much more .What I liked the most was 
 that you can put the computer to auto battle if you have a great advantage over your enemy.
  The graphics are incredible .On my Pc they arent even set to half .The songs are perfect for the 
 game and the sounds are perfect.
  Rome Total War is a great strategy game and my opinion is that its underappreciated .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: steven141
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best strategy games i have ever played for so many reasons. Its fun to 
 play and so many people can play it.
  
  The main objective of this game is to capture as many settlements as possible on a strategic map 
 which you can zoom in or out in. For each city you can view the details of it such as trading goods 
 or you can view the govenor of the settlement, what buildings are in it and also what army units 
 or agents (diplomats, spies and assassins) are in it. You can also build units at each city depending 
 on the size of city and what buildings have been created. The city can also build a dock away from 
 the city to build ships which could be the start of a vast navy and can transport your armies across 
 the oceans.
  
  When beginning a battle a message displays and offers the player the choice of either retreating 
 from the battle, letting the computer fight the battle or manually fighting the opposing army yourself. 
 If you choose to fight the battle manually the deployment screen would appear and let you place 
 your army in a certain formation. When the battle starts you can controls every units actions, 
 some units have special actions that they can perform for example a generals special ability would 
 be to rally the soldiers. The battlefield ranges from each place and the weather also changes with 
 it so it can range from bright and sunny to wet and dark. The camera can also move about the map 
 to see whatever you want to see and it can also zoom in to the soldiers to see their faces (its 
 like a clone war) or the bodies lying dead on the ground.
  
  This is merely a sample of what Rome: total war has to offer and there is much more which you can 
 find out for yourself if you bought and played this game. This game may have been out for a while 
 but it is still enjoyable because i still play it to this date. I recommend this game to anyone 
 that likes strategy games or just want to control an empire and rule the planet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWTTVGfreak
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War can put you right into battle with a quick battle. Or put you into an immersive 
 and highly addictive campaign were you set out to conquer Europe and North Africa. I only have 
 one problem with this game. Once you take-over a town, all of your forces are now stationed there. 
 Which after takes some time to take some of the troops and move them into an army to make your 
 next attack. But RTW is not all about war. You have to manage your towns unless you want them to 
 riot and turn into rebel territory. RTW goes on both land and water. But the fleet merging is flawed. 
 Even with the v.15 patch I sometimes get the message that the combined armies will be too big. 
 Although they wont clear the first row of men. Flaws aside this game is one of my favorite in 
 my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaaraZanta
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 30, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  After playing this game for a couple of years, Im still amazed at how well the formula holds 
 up, from the very balanced and fun turn-based strategic map to the simple yet complex real-time 
 battles. While the graphics might have varying degrees of quality, the over-world map still looks 
 good to this day while the real-time combat is showing its age. The game, taken as a whole, is 
 an engrossing and immersive ride from the beginning of your small roman city-state to your mighty 
 roman empire. This game is so greatly balance that you never feel like, even when you have conquered 
 half the map, the game is to easy or to hard. And this is were the game succeeds, it never throws 
 so much at you that it becomes hard to swallow but neither does it provide you with an easy ride 
 from city-state to empire.
  
  The gameplay is were this game shines the most, as it should. The depth in the turn-based strategy 
 map is surprising and not all of it is seen and first glance. One of the great reasons why this 
 game is so immersive is because it covers so many details but doesnt do it in such a way 
 that would make the game overly complicated. For example if you conquer the norther Goth. region 
 you better position some troops in each city, because if you dont they will rebel and the 
 rebels AI ( since the game will then count them as a faction) is no slouch and will give 
 you some trouble if you dont take care of it fast. Many other things, like how your commanders 
 actually age, which is at the same time a good thing and a curse. A good thing because it make 
 you feel like the world is real, because people actually age, but at the same time having one of 
 your best generals, who can defeat armies of 3,000 with only 500 troops, die in the middle of a 
 grand campaign can really slow you down. This would have almost been a gimmick if not for the fact 
 that you have a family that runs throughout the game, this ruling family bears you children who 
 after a couple of years become you commanders. 
  
  The main over world strategic map is generally like Civilization II or IV, you cant build 
 cities but you can build forts and other things. You really dont set out to improve the 
 land around you with any villages, mostly that is done on the city screen where you select what 
 improvements, from highways to temples to barracks, will be built. You can also choose which troops 
 you can produce and a neat addition is tat certain cities can produce special troops, mostly youll 
 want to have your small cities just provide income while your bigger cities can produce better 
 troops. Once you have troops you can move them around the map, you can do the same with assassins 
 and diplomats also, but they are not restricted by a grid system, which is nice. While on the move 
 a commander can hire troops, like mercenaries, that can help in the battle. Many times if you have 
 a really good commander and a lot of money, you can just send him out with some troops and build 
 an army of mercenaries along the way. A plus to this is you have a diverse army and since each 
 province has its own special troops, it makes it all the more interesting.
  
  Once you actually get into a battle, you go into a real-time combat mode, were you battle it out 
 RTS style but without the resource gathering and such. While this mode is fun I felt like there 
 was more that could have been done. Many times it would be easy to sit an lure parts of the computers 
 army toward yours were they would promptly be massacred. Other times, even with superior numbers 
 of troops, it would seem like the enemy troops wouldnt die. But with the whole commander 
 rank thing, which doesnt only apply to the player, it is possible for the computer to take 
 you on and beat you with inferior forces. Overall this element it fun but at times felt a little 
 unbalanced.
  
  On a quick note the naval combat in this game leaves a lot to be desired, it is ver abstract and 
 it is usually hard to gauge ( outside of outnumbering your enemy 3 to 1) who will win and how many 
 ships will be lost. There is no real-time naval combat which is a real letdown, since some really 
 cool things could have been done. On the whole the naval combat is more of a side course to the 
 land battles.
  
  From the detail of the over world map to the scale of some of the RTS maps, this game has a lot 
 going for it in the graphical department. The overworld map is lush with details, from actual convoys 
 that you can see transverse the sea to the sheep and other cargo you can see transverse by land. 
 The cities actually get and look bigger when they get bigger and the map itself looks great, you 
 can make out the Pyrenees and other such landmarks clearly and these actually play a part in the 
 gameplay, since it makes it harder for your troops to traverse such an environment. While the RTS 
 parts of the game look good, they dont look as great as the over world map does. The environments 
 for the RTS mode look pretty good but the troops all look identical and they are generally low-poly. 
 But that is made up for by the sheer numbers of troops that can be onscreen without any slowdown. 
 Seeing six thousand troops battle it out is something few games can hope to match and this is were 
 the game can really shine. Overall the graphics for the game are really good for a strategy game 
 and serve to immerse you more into the game.
  
  The clattering of swords to the banging of a battering ram, many of the sounds in this game are 
 great and really make you feel like a battle is actually happening. The sound effects are generally 
 okay, nothing is really great about them but they are not bad either. While the sound effects are 
 okay, the music in the game is great, the score really draws you in a never really gets repetitive 
 like many strategy games music tends to. The music and sound in the game are good and really draw 
 you in, just dont expect to be blown away with the sound effects.
  
  In the end this is a great game, it has a lot of value from the fact after you win the first campaign 
 you can go back as almost any faction that you defeated and play the game as them. Also the game 
 ships with some pre-built scenarios for the RTS mode, like historic battles and such. The online 
 I never got to try out so I dont know if it is good or not but the offline portion of the 
 game are really fun so playing against a human opponent would be that much better. If you are looking 
 for a strategy game that will last you awhile, then look no farther than Rome: Total War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Last_Ride
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  In my oppinion, this is the best stratgical game out there. There are games with better graphic, 
 but the gameplay is superb. The battles are awesome, but the size is limited. You cna have a battle 
 in several hours and you can't get bored. The things you do outside the battles are also cool. 
 A lot of features which i like. The newer games in my view have not changed a lot from this game. 
 So i would recomend to buy it before the others. This game has all the elements rest of the games 
 in the series has. The selection of warriors and different countries are also a lot. They have 
 done a good job there. As i have said before, if you are even reading this. Buy this game, cause 
 you can't come better then this game in the series... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deshields538
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  This game is simply the best strategy game out there to date. Gameplay is not historically accurate 
 but it makes up for this with sheer depth and complexity. The game takes place between 270BC and 
 14AD. You can only play as three Roman factions at first but more are unlocked through completion 
 of their campaigns. You quickly gain access to favourites such as Carthage, Germania, Egypt and 
 Greek Cities.
  
  The campaign is turn based like Civilisation. You can see armies, cities and agents (spies, assassins 
 etc.) and terrain features like mountains, forests and rivers. You move armies to engage enemy 
 armies and cities you can have an immediate result or you may choose to fight the battle on a proper 
 battle field in real time. This combination of RTS and TBS makes for a rewarding and engrossing 
 game.
  
  The Graphics are some of the best I have ever seen. You can actually see individual units and can 
 run easily on low end systems. The only bad thing is that you cant play as all the factions in 
 the campaign. It becomes very frustrating as you try to edit files and download mods that may not 
 work. There was one time I tried to edit files and the campaign wouldnt play on any factions.
 
  
  Apart from that this is an amazing game. This game rocks when it comes to gameplay and detail. 
 The AI is not the best but improves greatly when patches are downloaded. If you are a strategy 
 gamer looking for a game with great gameplay, detail and depth, then this is the game for you.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hare18
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 21, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Gra jest naprawde super. Jezeli jestes graczem starej daty to z pewnoscia docenisz walory tej gierki. 
 Troche przypomina starego poczciwego Centuriona. Wspaniala grafika i do tego super dzwiek i grywalnosc. 
 Czego mozna sobie zyczyc wiecej? Jezeli chodzi o grafike i mui to mogloby byc troche bardziej intuicyjne. 
 Lecz mimo to gra stoi na bardzo wysokim poziomie. Jezeli chodzi o multiplayer sprawa ma sie bardzo 
 podobnie. Gra jest naprawde super. Jezeli jestes graczem starej daty to z pewnoscia docenisz walory 
 tej gierki. Troche przypomina starego poczciwego Centuriona. Wspaniala grafika i do tego super 
 dzwiek i grywalnosc. Czego mozna sobie zyczyc wiecej? Jezeli chodzi o grafike i mui to mogloby 
 byc troche bardziej intuicyjne. Lecz mimo to gra stoi na bardzo wysokim poziomie. Jezeli chodzi 
 o multiplayer sprawa ma sie bardzo podobnie. Gra jest naprawde super. Jezeli jestes graczem starej 
 daty to z pewnoscia docenisz walory tej gierki. Troche przypomina starego poczciwego Centuriona. 
 Wspaniala grafika i do tego super dzwiek i grywalnosc. Czego mozna sobie zyczyc wiecej? Jezeli 
 chodzi o grafike i mui to mogloby byc troche bardziej intuicyjne. Lecz mimo to gra stoi na bardzo 
 wysokim poziomie. Jezeli chodzi o multiplayer sprawa ma sie bardzo podobnie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets1240
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 18, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  Rome, Total War is a amazing strategy game with many hours of solid game play. You will find yourself 
 playing this game for hours at a time. It is probably the best strategy game on the PC ever. The 
 graphics are revolutionary and you almost feel like your in the action at any time. I also like 
 how you can create your city from basically the ground up. From Legion Barracks, to Sewers and 
 Public Baths. I also like how the Senate will help you out in the beginning and give you missions 
 if you are a Roman army. You can play this game at many different angles. You can get diplomats 
 and buy your way to success, or you can fight your way to success by creating massive armies and 
 just owning anyone in your path. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mamessa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  Rome total war is the perfect blend of turn based game like civ3 and also war fighting games like 
 the classic c&c games, and with just a hint of the old board game risk. a must have for the pc world. 
 for those gamers out there that our tired of the same old turned based games i highly recommend 
 this game to you. and for you guys and gals still waiting for the next warcraft i would also recommend 
 this game for you. the only problem i have is that you cant do much research to upgrade your troops 
 or buildings. so all in all one of the better games to come out in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wirbelwind1038
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 16, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of RTSs, my first being I believe Starcraft. I've always been extremely into ancient 
 history, so when Rome: Total War came along, it was like a dream come true. Everything about this 
 game is simply incredible: the depth in realism, the flashy new graphics engine, the awe inspiring 
 sound, and of course the literally thousands of 3D soldiers on screen battling it out ! This game 
 is a tour-de force that I can't see being outmatched by anything less than the next iteration to 
 the series: Midievel 2: Total War, which by the way I am absolutely psyched about !!! If ever there 
 was a greatest RTS, tehn Rome: Total War is it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_locky_-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is the first Total War game I have played and can say without a doubt it is one 
 of my favourite games of all time. The realism of the battles is great an the campaign is so in 
 depth and inviting.
  
  Basically you have to chose one of three factions, these are families that are part of Rome itself 
 and you will be ordered to do tasks by them and so on. The three factions are avalaible at the 
 start but once you conquer other civilizations they will become eligable to play as. The three 
 factions are the Julii, the Bruti and the Scipii each have its ups and downs and you will get a 
 different experience from all. The Julii are expected to go north and conquer barbarians such as 
 the Gauls, while the Scipii will have to cross the Mediterrainian and head south and battle with 
 Carthage while the Bruti are expected to finish off the Greeks which are at war with the Macedonians. 
 The Julii are probably the easiest seeing they are versing mostly sticks and stones kind of tribes 
 while the second easiest would be the Scipii who have to beat the Carthagians and their stone walls 
 and elephants, the Scipii are also very unpopular with the Senate and the masses too, and finally 
 the Brutii, they are the hardest because they are expected to conquer the previous strongest nation, 
 the Greeks. The Campaign map is like that found on Rise of Nations or Civilization except like 
 Rise of Nations each time you fight an enemy you can go into the battle and command your troops, 
 with great realism I might add. Cavalry charges, flanking manouvres and scared troops are some 
 of the things you have to deal with and with the zooming abilities of the camera you can get a 
 first hand view of the carnage. The only downside is the sea battles which are automatically resolved 
 and boring
  
  Graphics, the graphics are fairly good but the models have a moderate level of polygons and they 
 are clones of themselves. The good thing is there are so many different kinds of units and thats 
 for both Rome and other nations. The landscape is good as how you can see for miles and see seas 
 and mountains in the background. The map itself may have cliffs, trees, snow rocks or sand but 
 the actual texture of the ground is bad and the grass that waves in the wind is done in rows but 
 besides this it is good. Apart from the actual look of the battle there is also how the combat 
 looks, some bits are good such as cavalry charges where men fly up or tumble some bits are bad 
 though such as units stabbing air for ages. But the ability to have thousands of troops on the 
 field at the same time is amazing and this game would be trully spectacular if they made a remake 
 in a fewyears when graphic technology could trully do this game good.
  
  The sound is great too, you can hear commands, metal clanging and arrows wizzing through the air 
 and the music that goes with it is spectacular and suits the epic gameplay.
  
  Everything about this game is good and the only thing that is letting it down is old graphics and 
 the lack of sea battles but when a sequel comes out and I'm sure it will I will be buying it for 
 sure. And if not a sequel definatley a game like this set in broze age times. So in conclusion, 
 if you want a great game with realism and the thrill of battling 7000 barabrians with your 3000 
 troops this is your game for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sneakymofo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is the Creative Assembly has done it again. Rome: Total War is everything an RTS 
 fan and history buff could ask for.
  
  Graphics: The visuals are absolutely stunning for an RTS. The amount of detail shown in every soldier 
 is astounding.
  
  Gameplay: RTW takes the addictive and brutal gameplay from its predecessors and takes it to a whole 
 new level. The turn based conquest portion of the game is has been revamped with twice as many 
 provinces to conquer.
  
  Sound: The music is greatly inspire from the movie "Gladiator" which makes the game that much sweeter.
 
  
  Overall a must have game for RTS fans and history buffs alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Niner0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is simply the best startegy game ever created. Theres no other strategy game that 
 can compare the fun i had in campain mode in this game. This is an instant classic.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in Rome: Total War requires more than just huge armies, it requires strategy. 
 You cant just use the classic "tank rush" (or horse rush) in this game. There are so many ways 
 of countering this. There are ways to counter everything, so to win, you need an army of lots of 
 different units and you need to be really quick to switch between em. For example, this is the 
 best tactic to counter horse rushes. Place spearmen in front, and archers behind them. The archers 
 will hopefully pinn down a big part of the horses before they reach your very destination and when 
 they finally get to you, there will be no trouble to take them down with your spearmen. There are 
 counters for everything, you just need to learn how to use everything in an effective way. There 
 is a great campaign map too. You start out with one of three roman families, Julii (red) , Scipii 
 (blue) and 
  Brutii (green) . After completing the campaigns with these you will unlock new factions, like egypt, 
 gauls, selucid empire, macedonia and so on.
  The campaign can be played in two different ways. Short and long. In the short mode youn will have 
 to gain 15 regions and destroy a certain faction depending on wich faction you choose. In long 
 mode, you will need to take over Rome and then take over 50 regions. The long campaign is very 
 entertaining and you need to keep a fine balance between war, finance and diplomacy. The game is 
 very fun and enjoyable.
  
  Graphics: The graphics aint amazing, but they aint bad either. Take in mind that this game is about 
 2 years old, so the graphics are a little out of date.
  If you run it on high it looks quiet good anyways. There can be up to 10k soldiers on the same 
 battlefield, and that makes even good computers a bit choppy. The graphics aint great but acceptable 
 and you have to keep the games age in mind.
  
  Sound: The sound is great. When you hear the horses galop and the soldiers marchin, the barbarians 
 battleshouts and the dyings screams it makes this game feel almost alive. The sound is belivable 
 from almost everthing in the game, and its really not dissapointing. At least, I like it.
  
  Summary: This game is worth its low price, and with its exspansion Barbarian invasion its a 
 great game. There is no other strategy game that is this much strategic to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master7151
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 12, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  I first saw this game as I browsed through Gamespot. I decided to play the demo. That decision 
 has impacted hours of my weeks. I quickly went out and bought one of the most amazing R. T. S. games 
 that has been released. Rome: Total War. It overwhelms its predecessors (Shogun: Total War, and 
 Medieval: Total War) with amazing new graphics and gameplay enhancements. I just don't know where 
 to begin. You take control in the beginning of one of the Roman Families, the Julii, Brutii, or 
 Scipii, and lead them to conquer parts of Europe, Africa, and Asia. You go from owning a couple 
 of cities, to owning an empire greater than any ever seen by the world.
  
  Gameplay: It is absolutely great. There is such in-depth coverage of all sorts of cities and regions. 
 You can forge armies and march out to conquer new lands, all for the glory of Rome. There are so 
 many different ways and strategies to go by, that you can never get bored. You can send out diplomats 
 to create trade agreements with other factions. At the same time though, you can send an assassin 
 behind their back and murder their faction leader. There is a massive range of units that you can 
 use, from roman Urban Cohorts, to Carthaginian elephants. Each faction has their own unique units 
 that you can deploy and plan with. On the turn-based campaign map, you create units, build buildings, 
 and move your family members with their armies. Then, when there is conflict between an army of 
 an enemy, and your own army, you go to the battle map. Here, you move your units around and crush 
 your enemy to a pulp. Overall, the gameplay of Rome: Total War leaving little, if anything, to 
 be desired.
  
  Graphics: These graphics are some of the best I have seen in this genre of a game. On the campaign 
 map, you can literally see the huge stons that the walls of cities are built out of. The shadows 
 of the trees and trade caravans move with the wind. All of the units on the map and the mountains 
 and fields and plains are accurately and beautifully shown. When you move to the battle map, you 
 see individual units standing in formation, getting ready to attack. Unfortunately, they seem to 
 all be clones. This however, does not affect the quality of their armour, you can see it gleaming 
 in the hot Egyptian sun as they prepare to attack. Overall, there is a bit left undone with the 
 graphics. They could use a major overhaul. But for what is there, Rome: Total War has excellent 
 graphics.
  
  Sound:
  
  There isn't much to be said about the sound in Rome: Total War. Although there is an some astounding 
 fanfare, it leaves a a bit to be desired. After a while, the music gets quite repetetive. It does 
 change though on the battle map. You hear the music change as the clangs of the swords are heard. 
 You may though, eventually, just find yourself turing off the music. You wouldn't want to get rid 
 of the sound though, because the noises that you hear over the course of the game are quite good. 
 Overall, Rome: Total War has sound that really needs to catch up with the rest of the game. There 
 are some good bits, but they are heavily outweighed by the bad.
  
  Overall, Rome: Total War isn't a game that you should ignore. If you see it on the shelf, BUY IT. 
 There is nothing better than the feeling you get as you conquer the world. The gamplay and graphics 
 are great, but the sound leaves much to be desired. But, overall, Rome: Total War is a game that 
 I play several times a week and is a great game that you should really try to get your hands on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Strategy games usually come in two types; Turn Based and Real Time. However, Rome: Total War combines 
 elements from both types and creates a fun, challenging, and satisfying strategy game unlike any 
 other.
  
  Rome puts you initially in control of one of the three Roman factions; Julii, Scipii, and Brutii. 
 Each of these have different objectives. The Julii are to deal with the barbarians to the north, 
 Scipii goes after the Carthaginians to the south, and Brutii takes the Greeks to the East. No matter 
 what Roman faction you decide to control, your faction's allegiance is to the Senate in Rome. The 
 Senate will provide each faction with a mission which may involve taking a settlement, blockading 
 a port, or diplomatic matters. Succeeding in these missions will gain you popularity in the Senate, 
 and a reward. You can choose to disregard the Senate, but this will lower your popularity and can 
 cause a break in your alliance with the city of Rome.
  
  The graphics are in full 3D. This adds a lot more deph to gameplay and realism. Each unit has an 
 exceptional amount of detail, and there's a lot of units to choose from. Depending on your graphic 
 settings, they may look a bit more blocky, but they still look great regardless. When sent in for 
 an attack, units will form up, and prepare for combat. A good example of this would be a phalanx. 
 When getting ready for battle, the units will lower their spears. These animations and others help 
 to bring new deph to the battle, and help you determine when to and when not to attack.
  
  Buildings and roads look exactly as they should for ancient Rome. The detail in the stone makes 
 each building look like the Roman buildings in our history books. This also applies for other nations 
 when taking their city, or playing as them. Each nation has its own theme, and done quite accurately. 
 
  
  The battlemaps in this game stretch for what seems like miles. Although you are given a square 
 of the map for the battle itself, the environment keeps going out. Depending on where you are in 
 the world and what time of the year it is, you'll see mountains, desert, ocean, hills, or snow 
 for your terrian. 
  
  Gameplay is a blend of both turn based and real time. When you're not on the battlemap, you'll 
 be managing your cities scattered throughout the empire. Each city will generate wealth for you, 
 and can recruit soldiers. Cities will grow as time progresses, and it's best to keep the people 
 happy. To do this, you'll need to build certain structures to please the people, such as a sewer. 
 As cities grow, they'll generate more wealth for you, but they can also create debt if you're not 
 careful. Certain buildings will help to gain wealth, such as markets or roads. Barracks can improve 
 as your settlement grows, but it'll be up to you as to whether or not you want to build it. New 
 barracks can recruit better units, or those that would give you a strategic advantage. All your 
 settlements will revolve around one thing when it comes to gathering wealth, that that's tax. Setting 
 a tax rate in your settlement will determine the happiness of the people and how much wealth is 
 outputed.
  
  The battles take place on a map whose shape will vary depending upon where you are. Your army will 
 be placed on one side of the map, and you'll have the chance to set up their formation before starting 
 the battle. Units are in groups rather than appearing individually. The groups will be represented 
 by unit cards at the bottom of the screen for easy access, but you can also drag and select on 
 the battlemap. When you send the units in to fight, where they are and what they are is a major 
 factor. Forests, and hilltops will provide advantages in battle, and can determine the outcome 
 of a battle. Some units will be able to exploit these advantages, while others cannot. Battles 
 are also just as much about unit type and placement as numbers. This brings out the authenticity 
 of the battles, and makes them feel more like true classical age conflicts.
  
  The combat, unit, and effect sounds are fantastic. The clash of steel, horses, chariots, and seige 
 units all have a clear and seemingly perfect sound effect. This, combined with the 3D graphics, 
 makes the entire ordeal seem real. The same, however, cannot be said about the voice acting. The 
 highly generic accents of the generals, and cheesy dialogue don't match the time period or situation 
 at all. Its tolerable, but still on the annoying side since you have to listen to it after and 
 before every battle.
  
  Once you've beaten the Roman campaign, you'll be able to play the game as one of the many other 
 nations of the ancient world. Each one has a different set of units, and provides more strategic 
 deph. If you're tired of the main campaign, you can choose to take the fight online, and challenge 
 other players.
  
  Rome: Total War brings the classical age battles under your control and creates an immersive strategy 
 game that only few others can compare to. Whether your a fan of real time or turn based strategy, 
 you'll find something to like in Rome. If you have some spare cash, I highly recommend picking 
 this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevorkcr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 8, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game I was impressed firstly with the graphics and the spectacular intros 
 but I soon realized that their was much more to the game. When you first start out you have a small 
 force and 3 cities but if you know what your doing you can use that small force to take over the 
 whole of Italy and then from their conquer the rest of the Mediterranean. The game is not completely 
 historical accurate but with a few mods historical accuracy can be achieved with a remarkable effect 
 on gameplay most notably the total war mod. The unites that are used in the base game, while not 
 accurate, are simply put, cool such as the arcanii which are these wicked masked guys that will 
 just decimate anybody they come across. Plus you can use the onagors to just pummel the enemy cities 
 or field formations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emilioalberto
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is flat out of the classics of the genre. Everything about this game rocks. The 
 different Roman factions, the turn-base map, and most importantly the 3-D battle scenes. This game 
 is way and above anything is truly showing Total War. I dig as history buff and a RTS fan. I highly 
 recommend it. The decisions that you make as a Roman general show up as your family raises to power. 
 Once you conquer Rome, you can play as another Barbarian empire. You can change history, and use 
 other units that really know how to fight. The only thing that was minus on the game was the lack 
 of naval battles and that you couldn't play the other factions, until you won as Roman faction. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustic_romeo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 6, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Almost all the previous reviews sum up the game. It has incredible graphics, amazing gameplay and 
 more importantly it has ROMANS. Now, since we all know its plus points, I will shed more emphasis 
 on its negatives.
  THE GOOD: 
  - the TBS part with the diplomacy, spy and assassins is really great. Although it initially takes 
 some time (if u r a new comer to TW series as i was) u get the hang of it once u have finished 
 the prologue. I particularly like the assassin who, if trained well ( by murdering ppl) can be 
 quite useful in ridding not only enemy generals but also allied ones. This will help as the game 
 wears on.
  - the RTS part.. this is the highlight of the game. i had just heard the term "military startegy" 
 until i saw this game. ur every move on the battlefield has its consequence which sometimes can 
 even lose u a battle though u have the larger number. The way the Romans march is breathtaking. 
 archers have advantage on higher ground. But the best part is wat the cavalry can do. they literally 
 rip thru enemy lines when used well. and all this detail and 3D rendering runs smoothly on even 
 a low end graphics card. ( like mine )
  
  THE BAD:
  - city sieges : as u go along conquering city after city in the imperial campaign the siege battle 
 scenario gets a little monotnous. there is no manouvering or big stategy inside the town walls 
 as its just narrow streets. It can get a little boring here. U can also let the comp decide the 
 battle outcome. 
  - since it can be a long game.. a storyline with a narration or bits of movie clips showing things 
 like.. dissent between u and the senate.. or the reaction of ppl when u ride into rome.. things 
 like that can enrich the game. 
  - and there arent too many enemy spies and very few assassins around ( atleast in the medium diff 
 level) 
  - the music in the campaign is good.. but when u keep hearing the same track for over 100 hrs... 
 
  
  OVERALL: 
  a must buy for RTS fans. others.. u need to get this if u ever wanna become a RTS genre fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_hate_rangers
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  If you love RTS games this is a must have game, awesome graphics and hours of fun. There is also 
 lots of factions to play like Gaul, Egypt, Carthage and of course the Romans.
  
  There is also a great Tutorial to help you get to grips with the campaign map and the great battles. 
 And an Imperial Campaign where you can go one of three Roman families and try to conquer Rome and 
 most of Europe, Asia and North Africa.
  
  If you want to be Hannibal and head for Rome or be Caesar and destroy Gaul.... nows your chance.
 
  
  Buy it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazer88
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Rome is combination of a turn based strategy game and a real time strategy game whcih is a perfect 
 mix and I am surprised it isn't done more often since it offers the best of both worlds. The only 
 thing that prevented me from giving this a 10 was the few bugs in it that I have seen. They aren't 
 horrible,. but they do have an effect on the game sometimes. This was actually the first of the total 
 war games i had gotten to play. Though years ago I remeber having read about Shogun. I like this 
 so much that I went out and bought the old ones. Over all this is really great game that people 
 that like strategy games should definately pick up because it is better than alot of the other 
 stuff out there.
  Highly Reccomended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aric172
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is an excellent turn-based strategy game that lets you take control of a faction 
 in the turbulent times during the Roman Empire. 
  
  The game lets you take control of giant armies and throw them at anyone you see fit. On top of 
 this, it provides intuitive diplomacy and subterfuge activities that only add to the game. You 
 could easily spend hours upon hours deciding the fate of your friends and rivals alike. At the 
 beginning it appears that the player will only be able to play as one of three Roman factions (Julii, 
 Brutii, and Scipii) , but when you take over a civilization in the campaign mode, the faction becomes 
 playable to you.
  
  Also, The game allows you to play only the battles. It lets you decide the troop sizes and customize 
 just about anything, and a skilled "moder" will be able to change the game files around relatively 
 easily, which allows customization. With just enough of a challenge (as well as a difficulty setting 
 for veterans) , the game seldom ever gets old.
  
  If you like strategy games, you will love this game. The nearest I can compare it to is a Civilization 
 game where you get to fight the battles for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenix61286
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this game, I knew from that moment it was going to be one of my favorites. 
 If you know me, then you know I love those strategy games that give you more strategic options.
 
  The most awesome part of this game is the fact you take command of all facets of the emerging 
 roman military, from taking charge in the cities and specializing them in the construction of certain 
 classes of units, the designing how many and what types of units your army will compose? Want a 
 full calvary army that will smash through the enemy? Build it! Want to pulverise the enemy through 
 Onagers and Balistas? Do it! I cannot recall, how many times I created a custom game and showed 
 off the devastating capability of artillery blasting away at a trapped column of enemy forces trying 
 to cross a bridge. Oh the fun to see Carthaginians flying!
  I have just recently bought the soundtrack for rome: total war.... move over Beethoven! 
  
  
 A must have for the strategy lover. A game I will certainly be playing over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  The folks at CA have certainy outdone themselves this time, to say the very least. They go from 
 making great games to bloody near perfect one. Yeah, as far as I can see, Rome is perfect. You 
 won't be noticing the AI problems too much as more then likely you will be in awe of fully 3D rendered 
 units fighting one another hand to hand, and bodies piling up. 
  
  Anyway, for those of you who played the first two, Medieval and Shogun, skip down to the next paragraph. 
 For those poor bastards that haven't, continue reading. Total War is two games in one. You have 
 a startegy map in which you mange your empire, like building troops, buildings, agents, and monitering 
 foriegn relations. The second part was the battle map, in which those troops you built, you use 
 to slug it out with the enemy. Until now, this was done using 2D spirtes. 
  
  But many changes have happened since Medieval. For one thing, the interface in both the campign 
 and battle map have been streamlined and make it much easier to manage. No longer will you have 
 to look at every province's sheet to see how much they are making, or population groweth, or loyalty. 
 It right there. The battle camera is much more easier to control, and is like a standard RTS camera. 
 Units are more easy to access, and orders are easier to give out. But don't fear hardcore startegy 
 gamers, it still provides all the depth of the previous games, and then some to keep you chewing. 
 
  
  Now, that changes to the gameplay are the most signifigant ones. Remeber how sieges required you 
 to take along siege equipment, and when you did it was rather, well, boring? Not anymore. Sieges 
 rock. See, when you take up sieging a town, you have the option to BUILD SIEGE EQUIPMENT RIGHT 
 AT THEIR DOORSTEP!!!! YOU have a limited amount of points, not money, to spend on various types 
 of stuff. Once you get on the field, it all out carnage. Sieges are fun, but they are costly. YOu 
 will need quite alot of troops in order to use fresh troops against the enemy. Face it, after you 
 fight off a few divisions of spearmen on a wall, you get tired. Then the battle moves to the streets. 
 Beware, you will most likely have a large chockepoint where most of your men are fighting at. SO 
 move that calvary behind them and give them a swift kick in the ass, if you don't want to lose 
 that siege. 
  
  Which brings me to my next point. After you take over a city, you can choose the following. Occupation, 
 which you get some loot, but you occupy the city. Enslavment, which is good if you want to increase 
 population is your cities (and this is important, as you can only build to a certain amount before 
 you have to wait for your city to upgrade) . And exterimation. Ah yes, this is fun. You use when 
 you are taaking over a city that has a different culture then you. So it leaves more room for true 
 Romans to come in. 
  
  Now, let's talk about generals. In theprevious game, every unit had a general. Now, individual 
 units have captains. Your generals are part of your family, and you use them to govern, and command 
 armies. Some are better at one, then another. Some suck. But you need the guys to manually control 
 your cities. If there is no governer in a city, it's automanged. You can choose its focus, but 
 nothing else. You will learn to keep your governers at important cites, and leave the AI to manage 
 your filler. 
  
  The campign map also makes where you put your armies important. Watch out as you pass through woods 
 in Gaul. Barbarians might ambush you. You can do the same! Place your reinforements from behind, 
 and they will come in from behind. 
  
  One very important improvement is diplomacy. You can now do many things. Alliances, trade agreements, 
 military passage, threats, and that sort. Wanna bully some weak neighbor into paying tribute? Go 
 ahead. And the AI actually STICKS TO ITS AGREEMENTS. TW finally has some decent diplomacy. 
  
  One last important thing I want to discuss, is that training and building dont take forever. 
 Units are created in one turn, and most building can be built from 2-4 turns. 
  
  And there is one addition that doesnt make an impact on gameplay, but it's awesome nonetheless. 
 Before a battle your general will make a speech. It's not a repeative speech, but varies on your 
 siuation. Out numbered? He'll give an inspirational speech that kinda reminds you of Theoden giving 
 his speech in RotK. Not the exact, but you get the idea. 
  
  This game provides an experience that both the TW veteren and newbie will cherish forever, haters 
 aside. 
  
  So if by now you haven't ran off to your nearest game store, then I encourage you to do so. Now. 
 RIGHT NOW.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CigarBoxJoe
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  definitely the most realistic RTS out there, although it ain't entirely realistic, it gets close 
 enough, no game is perfect. the historical accuracy is pretty good as far as i know..
  
  campaign is extensive and not linear, which makes the replay value high. multiplayer is typical 
 for an RTS, you get a lot of factions to chose from and whats great is that most factions are different 
 from one another, and each faction requires you to use different tactics for each. 
  
  with all this its hard not to get tired of playing this game. that is unless your not into this 
 kind of RTS games, with that in mind this game is not for everyone. it can take a lot of patients 
 to get used to this game. but all in all everyone should at least try it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hazard_FN
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 28, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  The steep steep learning curve on this game is tiring to look at, and the strategic element involved 
 is masterful, you must read Sun-Tzu's entire art of war before even attempting this game, if you 
 play online straight away you get owned... simple... the prolouge can be the most boring thing 
 to listen to but is VERY helpful, the tactical advice is invaluable, and once you have built an 
 empire the game is great!
  
  Gameplay
  -------------------
  Like i said slow but engaging once your empire gets to the limit of its expansion and you have 
 better technology than anyone else, I take great satisfaction in blowing up wooden walls with a 
 Trebuchet :P its more of a feeling of power this game really can make you believe you are in power 
 and it feels good :)
  
  Graphics
  -------------------
  Of course this game has some of the greatest graphics available to strategy that revolutionary 
 3D campaign map is amazing, there are hills ands now and everything all in 3D makes a better change 
 from the usual 2D flat map doesnt it now? :)
  
  Sound
  --------------------
  I play with the EAX 3D setting and 5.1 Surround and never have i felt more involved since i played 
 Max Payne 2 the fall of Max Payne, the music is the best part upbeat and invoking adrenaline as 
 you power your way through gual barbarians something about being surrounded by screams of gauls 
 and horses running makes you want to fight harder, truely amazing!
  
  Value
  -------------------
  I definently got my moneys worth out of it, especially considering it was 
 included with a free poster size map to help with my world domination :P
  
  Reviewers Tilt
  -----------------------
  I've definetly taken a liking to this game definently 
 a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woolston
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 25, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Rome total war is an absolutely brilliant game. The battles are incredibly strategic and lots of 
 fun to play .Graphically ,its amazing and the sound track evokes a feeling of chaos which adds 
 to the experience. The armies are varied with hundreds of units, which adds even more depth to the 
 gameplay. The campaign is amazing, but also contains the games only flaw. Occasionally, you think the 
 game is too clever for its own good. The talk about trade and resurces may annoy people who just 
 want to fight. Also ,from time to time you get irritated by the fact that nothing you do seems to 
 stop you spiralling into debt, and youre never given enough information about why youre going into 
 debt in the first place. However for the most part campaign mode is excellent. You really get a kick 
 out of it when you conquer large areas of land with youre armies. Rome total war is an instant classic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: total-w-boffin
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 25, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  ROME TOTAL WAR THE ALL NEW TITLE FROM CREATIVE ASSEMBLY REALLY LIVES UP TO ITS STANDARDS SET FROM 
 ITS PREDECESSORS (SHOGUN TOTAL WAR AND MEDIEVAL) 
  
  RELEASE DATE : OCT 1 2004 
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10 : ROME TOTAL WAR GRAPHICS IS INCREDIBLE TO SEE,
  IN THE MAIN CAMPAIGN GAME YOU BUILD 
 CITYS TRAIN ARMYS ON A FULL 3D MAP ON ANCIENT EUROPE, THERE IS DIPLOMATS TO DO YOUR 
  BRIBING, MAKING ALLIANCES AND MUCH MUCH MORE! THERE IS ALSO PROVINCES WERE U BUILD CITS ON THEM, 
 THIS IS WHERE YOU TRAIN YOUR TROOPS, OBVIOSLEY TROOPS BECOME MORE ADVANCED AS A CITY ADVANCES AND 
 THE POPULATION COUNT DECREASES AS YOU MAKE MORE TROOPS. TRADE IS THE MORE IMPORTANT PART OF THE 
 CAMPAIG, THERE IS SEVERAL WAYS TO TRADE , MAKING YOU HAVE MORE DENARII ( ROMAN CURRENCY ) BY BOAT, ROAD, AND 
 SOME FACTIONS PAY YOU TRIBUTE. THERE IS MANY FACTIONS IN THE GAME SUCH AS GERMANIA , ANCIENT EGYPT, GREEKS, MACEDONIA 
 AND MANY MANY MORE , SADLY YOU HAVE TO BEAT THE IMPERIAL CAMPAIGN OR CRUSH THEM IN THE CAMPAIGN 
 TO PLAY AS THEM, THIS IS AN INTERESTING PART AS IT MAKES YOU WANT TO COMPLETE THE CAMPAIGN TO UNLOCK 
 THESE FACTIONS. 
  
  VERDICT ON GAMEPLAY: 10 : OVERALL THE NEW 3D ENGINE MAKES THE ROME TOTL WAR BATTLES AND CAMPAIGNS 
 A GREAT THING TO SAY AND PLAY
  
  GRAPHICS : 9 : ROME TOTAL WAR GRAPICS ARE A AMAZING THING TO SEE , ON THE MAIN CAMPAIGN THE GREAT 
 SEA AND MOUNTAINS AND RIVERS , ROADS ETC LOOK FANTASTIC TO SEE, ALL STAND OUT WELL . IN A NICE 
 3D COLOURFUL SYSTEM. THE BATTLES ARE ONE OF THE BEST PART OF THE GAME , FULL POLYGONAL 3D MEN UPTO 
 10000 ON A BATTLE FIELD IS AMAZING TO WATCH, THE CASTLE SIEGES ARE AMAZING. YOU HAVE SIEGE RAMS 
 SMASH AT THE GATES . ARCHERS ONM THE WALLS , BOILING OIL GETTING POURED DOWN DEALING DEATH ALMOST 
 EVERYTIME .SIEGE TOWERS SCALE THE WALLS TO STRIKE DEATH TO ALMOST EVERY ARCHER ON THE WALLS , AND 
 UNLOCK THE GATE DOORS . THE MAIN OBJECTIVE OF A SIEGE IS TO CAPTURE THE TOWN FLAG FOR A CERTAIN 
 AMOUNT OF TIME FOR THE WIN.
  
  VERDICT ON GRAPHICS : 9 : CREAVTICE ASSEMBLY HAS REALLY STUCK THERE FOOT OUT ON THE GRAPHICS ENGINE 
 FOR ROME TOTAL WAR CONGRATS!
  
  SOUND : 8 : ROME TW SOUND IS GREAT TO HEAR, THE SOUND FITS EFFECTIVELEY TO THE SOUND OF BOOTS TO 
 THE CLANG OF STEEL , AND THE WHOOSH OF ARROWS IN THE AIR. WHEN BATTLE ERUPTS THE SOUND FITS GREAT 
 INTO A NICE FITTING TUNE
  
  OVERALL ROME : 9.7 : SUPERB! FOR ONLY 17.99 YOU CAN GET A GREAT TITLE WHAT NEEDS LITTLE SPECS 
 ON YOUR COMPUTER, THE GRAPHICS ARE AMAZING TO SEE BATTLES CAN TAKE OVER YOUR MIND, THIS GAME WILL 
 KEEP YOU STRAPPED TO YOUR SEAT WITH RED EYES FOR MANY HOURS OF GREAT FUN .. SIMPLY IT IS A GREAT 
 TITLE FOR VETS AND NEWBS TO TOTAL WAR SERIES.. GREAT JOB CREATIVE ASSEMBLY !!! 
  
  P. S CANT WAIT FOR MEDIEVAL 2 : TOTAL WAR !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightFalcon662
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 23, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is the second release from Activision from the growing Total War franchise. And 
 this one is the best yet.
  
  
  R: TW is a highly immersive and addictive game. The highlight of the game is the campaign which 
 is played with over ten factions. Each of these factions starts off with several settlements, and 
 generally you expand your faction by conquering villages and cities. Ultimately the main goal in 
 the imperial campaign is to be the supreme ruler of the world and destroy every faction. Though 
 you will not kill every faction on the map, wars do occur between CPU factions and the weak fall. 
 
  
  The multiplayer in the game can also be quite an experience, but needs work. The lobby can quite 
 buggy at times, and the infamous "GameSpy DS" error message still exists. Several users have even 
 reported that their game crashes to their desktops when they are in the lobby. Though this is really 
 not an extreme problem.
  
  The graphics in Rome: Total War is absolutely stunning. The game beautifully renders 3D environments 
 ranging from cold mountainous regions to humid deserts. The units are also well done, and really 
 make you feel like your controlling an army. 
  
  Not only does R: TW play great it performs great. The game has been brilliantly optimized to run 
 older systems, and players have reported that it is possible to even player on a generation old 
 system, but at the most basic graphics. 
  
  The audio in the game also deserves some recognition. You can hear the choreographed stomping of 
 thousands of troops on the ground to the yells elephants. The music has also been composed well. 
 If your units are marching and are approaching the enemy, the music will change to a fitting march 
 theme. When they get close to the enemy and begin to charge at them, the music will change to a 
 tense and dramatic combat theme. 
  
  The game is highly recommended for strategy lovers and is quite addicting. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: haikiller12
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 23, 2006 3:40 am PT
Review:  Developed by The Creative Assembly, Rome: Total War is a revolutionary new title in the best-selling 
 Total War series that carries players into the midst of ancient history's most intense conflicts. 
 Rome: Total War features groundbreaking technology that brings the epic, cinematic battles of the 
 Roman era to life with graphics and gameplay beyond anything previously seen in a PC game. Players 
 will be transported to the battlefields of ancient history's greatest conflicts and control mighty 
 armies. Up to 10,000 fully polygonal, highly detailed, motion-captured warriors can appear on the 
 screen at once. They control vast armies led by history's most legendary generals including Julius 
 Caesar and Hannibal, and must use a combination of brains and brawn to successfully conquer the 
 Roman Empire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaman48
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I got Rome: Total War last summer and i played it a ton then, but now i haven't touched it or the 
 expansion for at least 2 months. The reason is the frustrating campaign. There is only one objective 
 in the campaign, and that is basically to get gold. The one and only way to get gold is by capturing 
 territories, and it becomes very frustrating because if you don't have enough gold to build an 
 army to capture a territory, then you might as well start a new campaign. If there was at least 
 ONE other way to get gold it would be alright, but no, there isn't. I thought that the expansion 
 would fix this someway or another, but no, same problem there.
  The battles are AWESOME though. With several thousand units on the screen at the same time, you 
 can imagine the realism and the frantic pace at which you must command your soldiers. This is my 
 opinion on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodAdo
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 21, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  ROME: TOTAL WAR by GD INC. REVIEW
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9
  - Rome: Total war is a great strategy game for the PC. The game is not your traditional strategy 
 game like Age of Empires. In this game you will choose one of three factions, and try to take control 
 of Europe. Most of the game is played on a world map, where you can recruit units, check your diplomacy 
 toward other factions, tell your units to move. The game is very detailed when it comes to strategies, 
 although the AI of the game is not state of the art. The game is somewhat addicting. 
  
  GRAPHICS: 8
  - The graphics of the game in battle are very good, considering there are literaly 
 thousands of units on the map. The battles of the game are incredible, the fighting scenes are 
 detailed. The world map is also nicely detailed. Not much more here.
  
  SOUND: 7
  - The game sound is not too good, sure it has some nice music and sound effects but its not really 
 all that. There is some good sound effects though but more would have been better.
  
  VALUE: 9
  - This game is definatley worth the money. You will spend countless hours trying to 
 rule Europe, parts of Africa, and Asia. When your done with the main campaign you can also do skirmishes. 
 So this game is definatly worth a check out. I reccomend you download the demo first, and try it 
 out before you buy though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanoko
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 21, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is highly immersive and has many playable aspects. Allowing yourself to play a number 
 of civilizations from across the Mediterrean. It is perfect in aspects of many different features 
 including war, control and forming new civilizations in terms of governing different provinces to 
 create a variety of countries to your own extent. This game is defiantly a must have, especially 
 if you have a love for strategy games. This also in my opinion, is the most graphically advanced 
 and best gameplay that the Total War Series has created. A few of the civilizations you control 
 range from The Roman families, Parthia, Gaul, Germania, Greeks, Carthaginians, and Egypt. This 
 game doesn't have any problems and defiantly not any major problems. This is a must have game and 
 should be on your shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua05
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 21, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War is a great game. It's story is great. Gameplay is awesome. The game does however 
 has issues with low to mid range pc's. It happen to me a coupon of times such as going back to 
 the main windows place by the third turn. I also have a major slowdown!!!!! too. The sound comes 
 in and out sometimes too. It is good for a high end pc's because it has all the power it needs 
 to run. This game is so good you won't want to leave your pc. I used Dipmonds also to turn peole 
 my side by giving them money. I also used more than one army when fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOLID_SHARK
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Greeting my great friend Julius Caeser, you remaind me of Flavius Aetius, he was a good friend 
 and General of the Roman Empire that I knew and fought with, to tell you Caeser I am so upsest 
 with the Roman Empire history, I like your music theme song, it does really remaind me of the Collosium 
 in Rome, yeah the Gladiator great movie. if you want some good action flashback of what really 
 the ROMan empire was you have to play Rome Total War and Rome Total War Barbarian Invasion, in 
 both games you pick your faction from whole Europe and conquer Europe and become a true General 
 Stategist, if you think you got what it takes to conquer Europe you should play the first one because 
 of course you are on that game fighting the Gauls and Egyptians, the second one is basicly the 
 fall of Rome 200 years after, and you can play with of course me Attila The Hun with the Huns and 
 defeat the Roman Empire and the Goths just like the movie attila the hun, you have to watch my 
 movie. Caeser I put you as my best friend cause I really enjoyed fighting with good enemies like 
 Rome, "it was gods will to destroy your empire, we the HUNS and Romans shall rule the World ONCE 
 AND FOR ALL!!! ARE YOU WITH ME!!!"
  
  KEEP ON CONQUERING!
  Cheers
  Attila
  
  this is TOTAL WAR!!! 
  UNITS CHARGE!!!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Fool_Sq
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  This is war at it's best. This will make you feel as if you are truly commanding a legion of roman 
 troops, or a horde of gaulish warriors. This game is the paragon of perfect pumpatude. Excellent. 
 First of all, the strategy in this game is incredible. There are a few bugs, but I will discuss 
 that later. One of the great things about this game is that you can unlock other factions. But 
 it's very hard to win if you are not the romans (Considering how they just PWN beyond all belief) . 
 The bugs are that you can easily repel early gaulish sieges by riding out to the meet the invaders. 
 First you open the gates and set a regiment of horsemen close to the entrace. Secondly, you wait 
 for the enemy to charge. Run back inside when they are close, they will have been shot at by towers 
 and hopefully taken some casualties. If they stay there long enough they can lose many many men. 
 Then, you can charge your whole force out and crush them. Truly the greatest game ever created. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swizz-the-gamer
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  This game, is just plain great. So much to do. You start of with on your own, in with a few cities. 
 And then in the end your the emporor of rome! It's just great.
  I've had this game for a while now, I'm still not bored. 
  
  At the start you choose between 
 one of three factions. There positions sorta indicate where your meant to go, but it doesn't restrict 
 you. It's not just the military you have to worry about, I'm for ever having volcanoes go of, or 
 a plauge. You have to get clean sewers, temples and things like that, or you will have a riot on 
 your hands!
  
  Making and moving armys is half the fun, the rts features are great too, mainly because of the 
 scale of the battles. There is nothing funner than sending 20 elephants in to a bunch of peasents 
 and seeing them fly into the air!
  
  This game is pretty much flawless, although I didn't get online working.
  
  But if you dont 
 want to do the campaign mode, there is a pretty good skirmish mode there.
  
  Get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allan_delacruz
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  Talk about replay value. I was the first one to buy this game in my area, and I'm still playing 
 it. 
  
  Good mix of turn-based and realtime. Graphics are amazing. I absolutely love the strategy that 
 is used on the battlefield. Its all about flanking :)
  
  My favorite thing about the game is the battlefield, where you can see your troops in realtime, 
 hundreds to thousands of units on the screen. -Amazing.
  
  After several patches, the game is near flawless. Only drawback is multiplayer games - the ability 
 to see another player's ping is not available.
  
  Major kudos to Creative Assembly. Good luck on M2: TW! Can't wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doddy91
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 4, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  I borrowed this game a while ago from a friend....... and I'm glad I did.
  Why?
  Well, I'll start at the beginning. When you first click "play", the game forces you into a tutorial 
 even though the controls and set-up are 90% the same as medieval's. After I got through the worst 
 tutorial ever, (Yes even worse than kessen) I had a go at the battles which i had a lot of fun on. 
 They also work brilliantly on a low end system........ my o/c geforce 5200 seemed to play the game 
 well at medium settings but you can save about 10 fps by going to "low" settings and the game looks 
 EXACTLY the same.
  So why is it I hate it? The campaign, the greatest feature of any 
  Total War game......... has been destroyed by Rome. The map runs at about 7 fps even though the 
 same system can run a 4 player battle with all units at a steady 30 fps. The interface is so confusing 
 especially for a Total War fan, units no longer take over provinces automatically but have to walk 
 to each army and then to the castle which gets so annoying when there are 4 armies in the province.
 
  Though the worst thing are the borders or lack of. Seriously you have to squint because the border 
 colours are the same as the map colours....... I've spent about an hour of game time invading by 
 own province.
  If you see this for a fiver and just want to play the battles and online then go ahead but Total 
 War fans be prepared to say goodbye to the much loved campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  [Shortly after the release of this game, a lot of bugs were discovered. This problem has been quickly 
 solved with the patch, so use it!]
  
  Create your own Roman Empire through blood, sweat and subterfuge in the latest Total War game! 
 Roads, aquaducts, gladiator games and other joys of the Roman civilization ought to be something 
 every dirty barbarian would embrace without hesitation. The logic of imperialism might work on 
 paper, but the local population is rarely thrilled, and Gaulls, Greeks, Egyptians (etc.) mostly 
 have to taste some Roman steel before they get the point. 
  
  Your Legions will encounter everything from Kathagian Elephants to half-naked Germanic berserkers, 
 in the battle to civilize the known world. The Total War series have always made an example of 
 living up to its name by throwing litteraly thousands of troops on to the huge battlefields. Its 
 a rare joy to let the camera follow your catapults' boulders in their gracefull flight towards 
 the human antheap of soldiers, before you send in your generals private cavalry to chop the heads 
 of the fleeing barbarians. This game has a amazingly high playability and with the expansion Barbarian 
 Invasion makes it only better. All lovers of the RTS genre must have played this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonard_necula
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Has it improved since medieval and shogun???? Yes it has this the best strategy game ever great 
 graphics and tons of units and factions to chose from. It was a great improvement over shogun and 
 medieval total war. When you start the game you have to play as a roman you can chose from the 
 Julie scipi and the bruit the game starts right away you have to take orders from the senate but 
 if you dont want to do what the senate wants you lose money or something like that but if you 
 are good and do what the senate wants you to do you get rewards such as unit easy to use map just 
 select the unit leader and click were you want to go easy as that combat is simple you can have 
 thousand and thousands of troops in combat. You can also pay off other factions to join you in 
 an alliance or pay them to attack some other faction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sampharo
Rating: 3.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I will not waste your time by talking about the merits of the game. From what little I saw I would 
 be inclined to actually agree with most reviews here that sound is great, graphics are superb, 
 and the game is immense and engaging.
  
  The "however" that I have been so obviously preparing for is really about the extreme lack of respect 
 given by the designers and writers of this game towards their end-users. As I was beaten into submission 
 by the incredible lack of stability of this game, I proceeded to attempt understanding more fully 
 about what is wrong with the game technically and what can be done to fix it. The self-confessed 
 bugs list attached to this game is so gigantic it made my jaw drop. After collecting myself and 
 stopping to ask myself why would the designers let this bag of incoherent programming get on the 
 shelves and carry such a respected name like Activision, I proceeded to download the patches indicated 
 on their website. It was a first for me to see patch files above 100 megabytes. The boiling point 
 though was that the patch itself was bugged and did not work, and the newer patches cannot be installed 
 without the previous one, rendering the game absolutely unusable since one of the most important 
 features of the game was not working: SAVING! When I communicated with others they all had different 
 issues: crashes to desktop, hangups, graphical incompatibilities (which is arrogantly described 
 by Activision in a way that suggests these are limitations in our video cards rather than their 
 game, even if the video cards are ATI Radeon and GeForce 3 as they claim to be 100% compatible, 
 to which they suggest we hunt for drivers for our video cards)
  
  The only advice I ever got was reinstall the game, which didn't work. And now this baby is headed 
 straight towards the recycle bin, where I believe for its technical construct quality, belonged 
 there all along.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomfletch
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  hi, i bought the game today but was surfearly dipressed. I met the requirements but still, even 
 on the lowest settings, it slowed down or even stopped during fights. On the campaign map it was 
 very slow and stuck during the opponent turns adn the laoding time was awful. However, all that 
 aside, i find it very enjoyable. It can be learnt in litle over 20 minutes, is easy and well laid 
 out. Your speaches get better as you progress, the tactics needed are in use a little bit even 
 on easy, on hard, charge spearmen with cav and you will be destroyed, on easy, they will still 
 take more casulties than normal. A good game in all its rights but unless you have a computer built 
 for gaming, it wont be able to take the game in its stride so it gets a low gameplay vote. If it 
 worked on norm comps, 10 outa 10 on all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistedGer9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  Rome: total war is set in the roman times (you would never of guessed) and you can play as i think 
 to 20 fractions the gameplay in rome is so addictive you would be on it for at least two weeks 
 non-stop.
  I have played many and i mean many stratedgy games in the past and most of them rubbish but rome 
 takes a leap from the oldies and actually makes it a real time war game for the battles are so 
 realistic (sort of) it's a game you must get.
  If you have played the previous one like shogun and medevil i assure you you will like this one, 
 because i did not like shogun and the others i thought they were awful, so run down to the shops 
 and get this game if you don't you have either got it or you do not know what good taste is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnugegoda
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 28, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  I personally hate turn based games it's so boring and you have wait until your turn you cant attack 
 or build when you want to you have to wait all the players end there turn if you want that you 
 can play a board game with your friends, right?^?^ Wrong and you know why
  
  it's a superb game with game graphics, game play, and it's really value for yor money. It's so 
 cool when you want to quit you'll just think one more turn believe me when i want to quit I always 
 want to play another turn. It's realy addictive.
  
  It's not only a turn based game you can play as RTS too impesive ha, No really, it' more fun to 
 play RTS as you all know.
  
  ROME gives a every thing that a Turn base game can give you.
  
  At RTS game play you can make 
 your own strategy like where you want to put the archers or pike men or Horses or your GENERAL 
 yes you can control your general and they get old and they die thats the only weak part of the 
 game I realy hate when generals die all our time and hard work will go to waist.
  
  At game play it realy doesn't mater how much larger the enemy army or your army at the end it'll 
 come to STRATEGY and how you're going to flank your enemy or how you'll defend your enemy's flanks. 
 it so cool when you attack a city you can choose from different kind of siege equipments like the 
 Battering RAM or LADDERS, TUNNELS etc
  
  So YOUR GOING TO LOVE THIS GAME I HAVE PLAYED MORE THAN 75 HOURS I LOVE THIS GAME...... only prob 
 is you have to know how to manage a city thats the main prob you have to build the right buildingsfirst 
 and keep the rest when you get the hang of it you'll love it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: haveacry
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 25, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  Wow. This is a game for the records. 
  From the old medieval: total war this game is a wonderful stand-alone in the series. 
  
  
 Ok for the uneducated aliens of technology. Rome: Total War (RTW) is the third game in the Total 
 War series that is set when the Roman Empire was still young and it's your task to ensure the expansion 
 and growth of Rome or bring about its fall. The game amazingly manages to incorporate both a turn-based 
 and turn-less element to it to bring about a well rounded gaming experience. 
  RTW's new 3D graphics engine means that thousands upon thousands of soldiers can take to the field 
 now making for even more awe-inspiring battles. RTW allows you to play as one of the Houses of 
 Rome, (Julii, Bruti and Scipii) or as one of Romes enemies. 
  The 'main' part of the game is the 3D turn-based map with which you move armies, build buildings 
 and converse with other nations. If at any time one or more than one of your armies enter a conflict 
 you have the option to enter the battle and direct your troops on the field (this is my favourite 
 part) . This is where I believe RTW really shines. With a huge arsenal of weapons, soldiers and 
 uncommon units RTW makes for huge variety. It arguably has the most realistic epic-war RTS engine 
 to date. There is huge depth in the sound and in the way combats work. You can here the sound of 
 the captains issuing your orders, the stamp of thousands of men marching, the screams of soldiers 
 dieing. You can wipe your enemy with one well placed attack. There is nothing I like more than 
 charging 200 elephants into the packed ranks of the Roman Legions and watching the Legionaries 
 being stamped and knocked from their feet by 1 tonne of Carthaginian Elephant. Rome: Total War 
 makes for some very memorable moments and ideas that will stay with you long after the battle has 
 ended, this is the sign of a true legend.
  
  Thanks for reading,
  haveacry
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloopy1028
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  It is really good game. I guess the campaign is really addicting, since all I want to do is expand 
 my empire. The only problems are load time between battles and battles and length of multi-player 
 (last for 10 min and it is done) , still it is really cool how I can zoom in and see individual 
 solider (even though they look same) act differently. I guess it is not like fast moving star-craft, 
 but it is really good. It feels so good in multi-play, when you surround your army after flanking 
 and flanking with cavalry and see them running away. this moment you feel like as if you were Julius 
 Caesar, especially, when your army was out numbered. the politic is very simple, but outside factors 
 have lots of impact on the people's behavior and in politic. After all this is really good game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x9mastachief9x
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  It's worth every penny. The graphics are truly gorgeous. The unit count on screen is amazing, the 
 sound will blow you away. This is a definition of RTSs. I highly advise you, fan or not of strategy 
 games to buy it. The campaign is highly addictive, the sheer scale of it is phenomenal. If you've 
 never played this game, you should right now. I promise you this is an instant classic game. Don't 
 have a good computer? You can run it. I run it on my PIII 1.0 with 384 of RAM and I experience few 
 or none slowdowns. Trust me , If I can run it, chances are you can. Never had any lag problems... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 5, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  When I first played "RTW" I felt it actually wasn't better than "Medieval-Total War", in fact it 
 was a step backward. I was looking forward to a 'Romanized' version of "MTW", not a 3D upgraded 
 "Imperial Glory" kind of game. I had just finished playing Pyro's "Praetorian" so was still stuck 
 in the mind-set of that game and its' graphical presentation. So I took the game back to the store 
 for a refund.
  I read more reviews, found out things I hadn't realized were in the game, so I bought it again 
 and this time it smacked me in the face. 
  "Holy ****!!!", I thought to myself... and smiled. This was good stuff. But the battles still seemed 
 to lack something, as did the whole strategical element. The graphics were great, but all the Julii 
 were red, Brutii - green, Saxons - blue, Germans - pink, etc. Nothing historical in that at all. 
 And no blood in all this supposed carnage. There were huge historical inaccuracies (the Scythians 
 were in fact ruled by their Sarmation faction in this period, and the Egyptians were called Ptolemites 
 after Pharoah Ptolemy, one of Alexander the Great's ex-generals) , and the Spanish were actually 
 named Iberians. The maps weren't correct either. I'm a qualified Historian, so these 'minor' discrepencies 
 really were quite jarring.
  There is a web site called "Rome-Total Realism" & these modders saw the same problems. So I modded 
 my "RTW" with "Rome-Total Realism" ver.4.0 plus a blood mod. The soldiers were re-skinned, so no 
 more generic colours, the maps were historically more correct, and the whole game was now far more 
 in line with what we now know in Ancient History as fact. Then came "RTR" ver 6.2., and everything 
 changed.
  The Senate is destroyed at the very start of any campaign. There is only one Roman faction, and 
 Carthage is one tough SOB. The Greeks are in slow decline (and have almost absorbed the once-great 
 Macedonia) , yet still a nasty and expansive force to contend with. There are also quite a few new 
 civilizations available. The game now begins in 280 B. C. and is painfully detailed in it's authenticity. 
 Every military unit is now re-skinned and the maps are spot-on. When you march your Roman force 
 against the Gauls now, your force may be made up of Italian Swordsmen, Gallic Slingers, Greek Hoplite 
 mercenaries, Roman Triarii (very much altered from "RTW") , and any other number of troops you have 
 either purchased as mercenaries or trained in Italy (the capital of which is Roma) . They are now 
 totally different from the original units in presentation and abilities. No archers for you until 
 you really expand to the South or East to Greece. Here you are privy to the Macedonian left-overs 
 too (Phalanxes, for eg.)
  The upshot of all of this is that I am still playing this game 12 months later (and a lot longer 
 than if it was still just "RTW") . "RTW" is a great game, however I don't support the Expansion 
 Pack at all. Please do yourselves a huge favour and mod it to "RTR" 6.2. You truly will be amazed 
 at the detailed changes. If you are 'into' history you owe it to yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gacd112
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 12, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Awesome game especially when your computer can handle the graphics. I havent tried the barbarian 
 invasion yet but that looks good too. Hopefully they redo some of their older titles now cause 
 old school armies rule. There is not much else to say about this game. No complaints. Awesome game 
 especially when your computer can handle the graphics. I havent tried the barbarian invasion yet 
 but that looks good too. Hopefully they redo some of their older titles now cause old school armies 
 rule. There is not much else to say about this game. No complaints. Awesome game especially when 
 your computer can handle the graphics. I havent tried the barbarian invasion yet but that looks 
 good too. Hopefully they redo some of their older titles now cause old school armies rule. There 
 is not much else to say about this game. No complaints. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheval52
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to graphics, music, & sound this game is on a par with any epic movie ever made on 
 the History of the Roman Empire. The only thing missing is a lead in narration by the late British 
 actor Sir Richard Burton and a box of buttered popcorn.
  
  About the only criticism I have is of the sea battles which should utilize a close up view like 
 the ones shown during the land engagements. Other than that, I cannot find anything else that isn't 
 perfect about this fantastic game.
  
  The 360 degree panoramic view of the battlefield is breathtaking, not to mention the realistic 
 formations and fortifications involved in each and every scenario. What I like most about the game 
 is the freedom you have to send any independent cohort anywhere on the field, not to mention the 
 ability to merge said cohorts into larger units before battle.
  
  All in all I would say that this game is just about perfect in every way. My only wish is that 
 there would be a GREECE: Total War in the forseable future.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasper205
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 10, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This is the most amazing startegy game i have ever played i love it great diplomacy board, world 
 map is huge and interesting the battles kill its predocecers medieval was good shogun was better 
 and Total waRome was so beatiful it amde me cry. The battles are so huge and with the generals 
 make it one sweet package. But i have to admit some of the battles are a slight... one sided take 
 for instance that im the roman and im using the praetorin soldiers the best soldiers rome has to 
 offer and im facing the Carthagians which have a few elephants so im putting my troops to halt 
 then the elephants start charging and the arrows from their riders kill a couple of my guys and 
 then they ram. My troops get scattered fly up in the air hit the ground and die while a few get 
 trampled and the rest get shot by the riders. It was a morale crushing defeat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfbloodking
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  In General
  
  Rome: Total War, a fresh and innovative approach to a real-time strategy game, blows the competition 
 out of the water. The game ingeniously maintains a culmination of diplomacy, warfare, and commerce 
 to create a mind blowing experience. In Rome: Total war you play as one of three Roman factions 
 competing for world dominance. A routine thorn in the side, the Senate, often mandate missions, 
 which if not complete will result in their disfavor and ultimately war. As a Roman Faction a wide 
 variety of troops are offered ranging from Roman war dogs, to Triarri, to Hastati, each with their 
 own unique abilities. Municipally, you manage each city to your advantage, ensuring that the people 
 are happy by creating buildings of entertainment, sanitation, etc, and isochronally ensuring financial 
 productivity; raising taxes, increasing trade, etc. As a faction you are able to declare war on 
 others, plundering their land, or maintain a diplomatic stance, peacefully cooperating with others. br 
 / 
  
  The Battles
  The battles are amazing as they allow you to command troops from a birds eye view for maximum competence 
 and then zoom in to see the intense action, which is a treat due to the amazing graphics. Where 
 your army is on the map plays an integral factor, as the surrounding environment is incorporated 
 within the battle, rather ingenious. Particular units have special abillites such as flaming arrows, 
 Catabrian circle, and the phalanx. Battles can be fought as full scale sieges in which one side 
 attempt to breach the walls or in open terrain, which plays a pivotal role as particular terrain 
 such as snow can provide units with fighting advantages. Each army can be managed by a general, 
 who will gradually gain attributes and increase in skill with every victory. Assassins allow you 
 to take out opposing generals or captains, which could considerably tip the scales.
  
  Not a ten you say
  Despite the evident and colossal breakthroughs there is still some leeway 
 for progression. Diplomacy rarely plays a factor as alliances are constantly broken without reprimand 
 and transgressions are easily forgotten. The scale of the battles occasionally seems ridiculous 
 as there are humungous cities, which have tremendous and ostensibly interminable walls, protected 
 by a 1,000 troops maximum. The troops only occupy four walls as opposed to the twenty a city might 
 have, creating a mundane impression. Also the fact that troops can be stabbed in the head by a 
 spear fall over and then recuperate is slightly disheartening, as it criminally invades the domain 
 of realism.
  
  All in all though the graphics are tantalizing, the game-play breathtaking, and the game is evidently 
 worth its weight in gold. This game; however, should come with a warning sign as it is highly addictive, 
 as I have almost been playing it for a year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iamfroman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  This game is simply unique, straying away from the common RTS type games. Instead of allowing you 
 to build units in a game, it simply involves armies that you pick and then pin them against each 
 other. This is actually a welcome feature because the skill involved in the game shifts from the 
 common RTS formula of building to war (hence the name) . In fact, I've never seen such in depth 
 fighting in any game on the market. There are so many different strategies and teh fighting looks 
 so realistic it makes you want to cry. Lastly, and ill make this short, the sheer numbers of people 
 in the game is amazing. You can have thousands of men in your army, while your teamate can also 
 have thousands of men. When it comes to 3v3 or something like that, the numbers are just rediculous. 
 This gives Rome total war such a feel like real warfare that it gives you chills.
  
  If your looking for the most indepth and realistic war game out there, this is the one. (And dont 
 forget about the new Medieval total war 2.... check it out) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CallumP
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  Here in England, there used to be a programme on TV called 'Time Commanders', in which two teams 
 battled each other with virtually created armies. They used Rome: Total War to simulate these armies, 
 and I wished that it was a game that you could buy in stores. My wish came true!
  
  This game is amazing, it will keep you playing for weeks. The graphics are breath-taking, with 
 each soldier individually modelled, standing with hundreds of other fully-modelled soldiers. The 
 graphical detail in the game are a huge leap from Medievil: Total War, going from blurry blobs 
 to accurate looking soldiers. Another great feature is the ability to zoom right in and experience 
 the battle at ground level, which is stunning.
  
  The tactical detail is excellent, allowing you to choose which settlements you conquer (and what 
 you do with its inhabitants) and who governs them. The world view is very detailed, with mountain 
 ranges and sprawling deserts. The AI in Rome: Total War is the most intelligent you will find in 
 any stategy game, and the enemy really does think about the best tactics to use; if they flank 
 you with cavalry you're mincemeat. And they know that.
  
  Overall, Rome: Total War is the best strategy game around, and you'd be mad not to get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonePirate
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  This is definately the best Total War game in the series by far, completely revolutionising the 
 map and the way the player has to approuch invading different territories.
  The fact that the game starts off with you being one of the three Roman families who have to conquer 
 land and do certain chores for the Senate is simply magnificent, as it gives the player missions 
 to do, still keeping the freedom of the past Total War games, by alowing you to disobey the senate 
 and take over the other Roman families and the Senate itself, becoming the ruler of the "Civilized 
 World" back then.
  The graphics are the best ever used in a stragedy game, and probably will be until the next one 
 in the series.
  There are lots of other replicas of this sort of game which don't come close to Rome, it is the 
 master of the stragedy genre now.
  The one critisicm i would give is the lack of naval battles, as it is too difficult to do yet, 
 but has been done in other such games of the genre.
  None the less this is one of my top ten games of all time, so BUY THIS GAME NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobby_Milli
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 1:28 am PT
Review:  It is a daunting task attempting to sum up the massive impact Rome Total War has had on the strategy 
 genre following its release, in just a few paragraphs! Definitely, a huge leap over its predecessors 
 Medieval and Shogun mainly from a visual point of view. Also, the complexity of the gameplay has 
 undergone tremendous development, especially if you compare it to Shogun.
  
  Perhaps the most staggering feature of the game for me is the endless variety that the game offers 
 regarding the terrain and geographical accuracy of the battlefields on the battle map! Its simply 
 amazing, adding a great touch of realism to the game. The strategy aspect of the game is simply 
 stunning, with players having a multitude of options at their disposal as to how to overcome the 
 foe. Diplomacy is a new excellent addition even though it has a few flaws which i will discuss 
 later.
  
  The new method of moving armies and agents is simply amazing, because this offers endless possibilities 
 for tactical and strategic planning, like flanking the foe, surrounding them, ambushing them! All 
 that is just great for me, since Rome is a strategy game, and what makes it the leader in its genre, 
 is the sheer complexity and immersion it provides from a strategical viewpoint.
  
  The beautiful graphics are not even worth commenting, because no matter what i say, it will still 
 not do them justice!
  
  All who play Rome must be warned: It is highly addictive!!! I dont think i have spent more time 
 on any other game! Ive been playing it for more than a year now, and have no intention whatsoever 
 of getting bored of it! It's a HUGE game!
  
  One aspect that definitely needs refinement upon the release of Medieval 2, is the diplomacy system. 
 Even if you are in a tight spot, surrounded by enemies that outnumber you and extinction for your 
 race is imminent unless you stand up against the enemy and decimate them, there's always the bribing 
 option in the negotiation screen. All races are quite prone to accepting bribes very easily for 
 the right amount. The game does not make it especially hard for you to amass a vast treasury, which 
 makes offering bribes an easy way out. This spoils gameplay considerably as it becomes ridicoulously 
 easy to remove huge threats with just a click of a mouse! So that is why Rome seems very easy if 
 you are an experienced player of the Total war series, and if you manage to get a hang of how diplomacy 
 works, which is actually quite easy and straightforward. Just compare Rome at the most difficult 
 setting, to Shogun at the most difficult setting! If you attempted Shogun at expert level, im sure 
 you managed to survive for 10-15 turns the most, and if you claim otherwise, you are either a liar 
 or a genius! So, yes, do keep the bribing option for Medieval 2, but make it a bit more challenging 
 like perhaps increasing the monetary amounts needed to remove an army, because this way the player 
 will have to plan ahead, concentrating on removing one especially dangerous threat, while having 
 to deal with other threats in different more inventive ways!
  
  Another aspect which spoiled it a bit for me was the representative pictures of the troop types 
 in the description pannel, funny as this may seem. They were just too colourful, clean and cartoon 
 style, which kind of spoiled the truthful representation of the harsh reality of the war - driven 
 bloodthirsty european world two millenia ago. It would have been much more successful, if the developers 
 followed a similar approach to Medieval, where troop types were portrayed using beautiful graphic 
 sketches which completely captured the atmosphere of the middle ages.
  
  All that said, i can only add that Rome Total war is definitely the best epic strategy game to 
 date, and one of the best games of all times.
  
  Just makes you think what Medieval 2 is going to be like!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: avenger1212
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I just love it when games come along that redefine (for the better) the way a game genre should 
 work. Shogun Total War did it for RTS a few years back, and Rome has pushed the envelope even further.
 
  
  Call me old fashioned, but I love the old base building, unit upgrading games of "ancient" game 
 history. But, if we're not going there, I prefer if game makers don't give me some retarded attempt 
 at base building just for the sake of filling a gap that would exist if there were none at all. 
 A perfect example of what I'm getting at would be EA's Battle for Middle Earth. Great game, lame 
 base system. Why am I talking about base building? The Total War series has, in my opinion, pioneered 
 how a RTS game should be done if you're going to do away with a base building focus. In fact, I'd 
 rather reclassify the Total War series from RealTimeStrategy to RealTimeTactical cause that's what 
 the game is all about. Other games have claimed they let you feel like a general controlling an 
 army in a massive conflict, but none have ever delivered like the Total War franchise, and Rome 
 is no different.
  
  I'm not going to go into a lot of mechanics details, if you've played the previous games, you'll 
 feel right at home in Rome. Sure, there are a few new things to learn, but the principle has remained 
 the same since Shogun. Leaps have been made to improve the strategy map (Risk board) thus allowing 
 more flexibility for those who would rather focus on this part of the game and autocalc the battles, 
 but to me the meat and potatoes of the game lies in those battles. 
  
  I recall with Shogun, I fought a battle using monk warriors and many other various samurai units. 
 I and the computer were fairly evenly matched, but due to some poor movements on my part I had 
 lost most of my samurai units. Now well outnumbered, my monks managed to wreck havoc on my enemy 
 until, one monk remained. This single monk managed to route my enemy (still 500 in number) from 
 the battle field. Though this made for an awsome sight, it was not realistic at all. This never 
 happens in Rome. The series continues to improve on its AI and thusly improves the feel of the 
 battles. There is still room for improvement though, as I found the computer would throw wave after 
 wave of large armies against a heavily fortified city with little more than an handful of spear 
 soldiers and archers, only to be wiped out by a clog of soldiers at the battered gate and a full 
 quiver of arrows from my well placed archers on top of the city walls. How many times do you loose 
 armies before you bring more to a conflict than a couple of battering ram and huge numbers that 
 do little more than act as target practice? Sometimes the computer would siege a city of mine and 
 not even have siege equipment to bash into my walls. I'd end up having to ride out to meet them 
 or face wasting time waiting for my archers to beat them down enough that they flee. Despite periodic 
 poor siege AI, the computer proved quite cunning elsewhere, especially in open field combat. Heavy 
 units were used as they were intended, and cavalry was too. I often found myself adjusting my lines 
 as the computer manuvered to gain a tactical advantage and anticipated my next move. Urban combat, 
 though frustrating at times, was done well too. Impulse dictates you send a massive army into the 
 city to raze and fight through to the enemy. This was not always a wise course as you would find 
 doing so akin to trying to cram an orange through a straw. The object of urban combat was to eliminate 
 the opposition or gain conrol of a central square of the city. Often, and usually quite effectively, 
 the computer would fight to the death at this location. Most of my hardest fought battles involved 
 suicidally sending my army into this area in an attempt to gain those last few all important feet 
 of ground. This led to some exciting battles. However, there is also a timer involved where no 
 matter how many soldiers you have in the city, if you have 2000 and they have 20, if you do not 
 control that hardpoint in time, you loose the battle. This, I felt was unessicary and really annoying.
 
  
  In the end, I see Total War games like Madden football games. You buy them for graphical updates, 
 new features, and overall enhancements and gameplay improvements. Total War also has the benifit 
 of flavor as they move through different civilizations in history. If you're into the Roman era, 
 thats another bonus for you. I personally am not a huge Roman era history buff, but I still got 
 a lot of enjoyment out of this game which just keeps improving on the Total War series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonmaster989
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  Right from the start Rome: Total War excites you, the intro movie is great, it looks amazing, and 
 sets the stage for the storyline. Once you actually get into the game and start a campaign, it 
 just gets better. The game is very new user friendly and veteran appropriate alike, what I mean 
 is there are advisors who will help you in almost all decisions, on the battlefield, when building, 
 and when deciding what units to create. Although if you arent new to the series and genre, then 
 these advisors can be turned off. Battles look amazing, when you enter a battlefield from the main 
 campaign map and see 5000+ troops and siege equipment ready to assault a town, the first thing 
 that comes to mind is holy s***. With a decent computer you can have some pretty crazy battles, 
 I have created custom battles with close to 10,000 troops and then fought it out and it is awe-inspiring. 
 The campaign mode places you into the seat of one of three Roman families, the Julii, the Scipii, 
 or the Brutii. Each starts off in slightly different parts of the map and expands into different 
 places once you get an army created. The fact that there are so many things to manage on the main 
 campaign map bothers me. The battles are so amazing, I dont want to worry about town sanity, population 
 happiness, how much many Im making or losing, and all the political treaties and negotiations. 
 Although they do add depth and make the game more than just fights. If you are looking for a great 
 RTS that isnt so expensive anymore, pick Rome: Total War up, you will be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kendal000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Rome total war is an amazing game and although it has some flaws it is worth playing and while 
 you need a superb computer to get the most out of it you can still play it on a reasonable one. 
 ive been looking through the other player reviews and ive noticed that alot of the complaints are 
 about the AI and pathfinding i agree with you partly on this one. The AI is quite dumb especially 
 when assaulting your settlements it will often just run around or not build siege equipment or 
 if in open battles it will sometimes just charge you irespective of what force you have. Also if 
 you attack one enemy unit with loads of yours from the same direction your troops seem to not be 
 able to close in properly its only the front row that fights. The graphics are great except for 
 the units all looking like they have been cloned. the sound and music are spot on although the 
 voices can get a bit repetitive. Plus i find the enemy to be plain annoying espicially the pirates 
 and brigands that randomly pop up and lower your settlements happyness also the auto resolve does 
 not appear to be fair. but other than these slight problems it is worht getting this game if only 
 to see large armies clashing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackboy11
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Rome: Total War I myself was a little bit unsure if my friends were telling 
 the absolute truth, but when I played it for the first time I was Amazed, for days I dreamed of 
 getting back onto the battlefield and trying out new strategies.
  
  There is always one problem with most stategy games: too much work on the reasource gathering, 
 all most players want to do is just go straight int the battle and this is what Rome: Total War 
 gives you!
  
  The graphics are amazing concidering the number of seperat units and the landscape design, it even 
 holds really well when theres alot going on.
  
  Sound is great, it sounded just like some of the Rome-based films I've watched.
  
  The gameplay 
 is fast and easy when you get the hang of it and it's not to difficult. 
  
  Overall I give it an astonishing 10 OUT OF 10!!!! WOOT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fox_1122
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  all i can say is that this game blew me away normaly i used to play to games such as age of empires 
 etc but it didn, t have any challenge for me but rome total war is a nice mix of warfare, building, and 
 also it, s a nice game for some history and this game got me to like history roman history thanx 
 you rome total war i thanx you now all we have to do is to wait for medevil total war2 :D oh and 
 i think the sounds and everything was perfect and i think pepole that don, t like this game and 
 there are not many of them thank goodness is that the just don, t know how to play this game sorry 
 they just don, t because they are used to rts games where everything is so smiple like age of empire 
 empire earth to easy and boring for me-_- i, d rahter play this game then games that are too easy 
 
  
  ps: sorry for my english i, m form finland and i, m only 13 ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Macius
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  HUGE improvement from Medieval. Map is amazing gameplay amazing, sound is amazing though there 
 are some songs that are from previous Total war games but oh well they're amazing anyway. Gameplay 
 is amazing in war. Hmm.... played this game for a very long time and i'm waiting for the next one 
 Medieval 2.=-) cannot wait this amazed me to the top and ....... it's hard to explain. I love it. 
 I fell in love. Though some history and how the units look are a bit off but they are tiny errors. 
 But rebels piss me off, only annoyance in the game when you play on very hard mode. YOu think you 
 wiped out about more than the world when fighting rebels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  This game is great. There is no doubt about it. Straight into the warzone all the time with an 
 army of the best part of a million behind you to crush the pesky peasent force of 12. Well at least 
 that's been my time waster for the past 18 days. Rome is a game where you build an empire from 
 scratch and rise up to conquer all. On the pro's side we have the battles (frikin awesome) the 
 graphics and the main map. Theres also the historic battles, but I've only played 1 as you can't 
 choose your side.
  
  On the cons there is the moments of boredom. You need to have the patience of a saint to complete 
 this game. There are points where you just do nothing for ages and then suddenly out of the blue 
 your in battle again. In the first around 8 years of empire building I spend less than a minute 
 making my move. When you own the best part of 30 countries, it takes around 1 hour to doanything. 
 It really is boring.
  
  To be honest, this is what I would love to see as an internet game. Not the battles, but the actual 
 map. Why hasn't anyone ever thought of this? Have a huge map, build cities and take over one by 
 one, recruiting Generals from othe players and giving them an army wouldn't be too bad either. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louisJdemm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  Well since i just got a PC yesterday i thought maby i should get rome total war because everybody 
 that has a PC seems to like it. and they have a right to because it is freaking awsome the graphics 
 rock since i needed to get a graphics card for Black and white two whitch is trash because it has 
 two many bugs. well eney way the graphics rock for this game .the game dosent even lag when i have 
 like um 3000 men dooking it out with 3000 other men and that is REALLY COOL!!! But dont get me 
 wrong with all the xbox RTS games that i have ever played there is always the repediteveness. what 
 i mean is if you cant read that word is that the battles are almost the same every single battle 
 and it feels like you are faceing the same opponent every single fight. another aspect of the game 
 that i dont really like is the campaighn it is the thing where you have turns why not you just 
 challenge whoever you whant instead moveing towreds the guy and hopeing that he isent gone next 
 turn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythgamer8
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  The units of this game are very, very accurately produced. The Greek holites' phanlax formation 
 is nearly impregnable, as it was 2000+ years ago. The Roman legions' strength and discipline is 
 quite excellent. The Egyptian's chariots are light and quick, and their archers' have great range. 
 The barbarian tribes of Germania, Gaul, Briton, etc. have numbers, but lack discipline and strength 
 (though their numbers often times overwhelm the opposition) just as they always have. All cavalry 
 units are vulnerable to spearman, as well as they should be, and were, though at a flank they are 
 still mighty. Siege equipment has great range, though lack any type of accuracy when using fire. 
 The campaign map is very large and excellently designed and accurately divided into territories. 
 One issue that Activision studios should've spent more time with was the instituting of naval battles 
 that you can actually participate and command in, but the lack of that is made up for greatly by 
 the lush in-battle gameplay and views. The music scoring was done very successfully and adds a 
 great other dimension to the game as a whole. Though there were not really dominant Roman families 
 (Julii, Brutii, Scippii) I admire the creators for instituting them into the game for another touch. 
 Overall, this is, unanimously, the best PC game I have ever played, and I would reccommend it to 
 any and all gamers who love strategy or even just love Greek/Roman history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemasterb4u
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  This is a good game, now before you read my review go and get it. Okay you are back well if you 
 have installed it and tried it you proably know what I am going to say. Here it goes. I love this 
 game from its great graphics to it's originality on it's gameplay . It accually makes you feel 
 like a lord commander bent on conquering all of Rome. Well that is if you get past Rome itself 
 it takes a long time for you to be able to challenge Rome, even if your technology is better than 
 everyone elses. The originality of this game comes from the separate battle and building map. You 
 conquer towns in the battle map by challenging other towns via the building map/ the moving map. 
 There is a lot to do in this game, due to the fact that there is a lot of nations A LOT. Though 
 sadly through all it's greatness it has one flaw it gets extremely repetitive after the first time 
 you play it. Though dispite that it is still a game to get 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vassetz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  This is most coolnes game in the RTS genreThis is most coolnes game in the RTS genreThis is most 
 coolnes game in thThis is most coolnes game in the RTS genree RTS genreThis is most coolnes game 
 iThis is most coolnes game in the RTS genren the RTS genreThis is most coolnes game in the RTS 
 genreThis is most coolnes game in the RTThis is most coolnes game in the RTS genreS genreThis is 
 most coolnes game in the RTS genreThis is most coolnes game in the RTS geThis is most coolnes game 
 in the RTS genrenreThis is most coolnes game inThis is most coolnes game in the RTS genre the RTS 
 genreThis is most coolnes game in the RTS genreThis is most coolnes game in the RThis is most coolnes 
 game in the RTS genreTS genreThis is most coolnes game in the RTS genreThis is most coolnes game 
 in the RTS genreThis is most coolnes game in the RTS genre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigmason71
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  bought this game after being disappointed with praetorians and after asking around this game gets 
 top reviews on every game site so get it you will not be disapointed you can get cheap secondhand 
 copies on ebay for around five pounds get it get it get it get it get it get it net it get it get 
 it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get 
 it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get 
 it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it nowwwwwww you wont be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War finally did what the previous Total War games could'nt not. It made me a fan of 
 the series
  
  Gameplay: Everything that was weak in S: TW & M: TW was polished and enhanced in R: TW. A 3D world 
 map, a more friendly interface sures makes playing the game more fun and less of a hassle. Battles 
 are as usual the highlights of the Total War series and it doesnt disappoint, with thousands of 
 men clashing onscreen at once. The scope of the battles have to be seen to be believed. 
  
  Graphics: Its Total war in 3D, and it sure makes a lot of difference. You'll be watching in awe 
 as armies clash and the arrows start to rain. A truely spectacular sight.
  
  Sound: Honestly I didnt pay much attention to the music, but since everything sounds like its supposed 
 to, I have no complaints.
  
  Value: With multiple civilizations to command, this game will stay in your hard drive for a longgggg 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  This by far is my most prized possession!! I play this game as I would if it really mattered! (JK) . 
 I just love to see my army scale the whole screen as I lead them into battle. Taking control of 
 the actual army as they do in this game just surpasses all my dreams of actually being there! (You 
 know what I mean) . That part of the game is the thing I like to see massive scaled battles. The 
 best of it's class! No other game can match what the Total War series does! Managing your countries 
 is another part of the game that takes time to master. There's so many factor's in having a flourishing 
 country. I don't see any flaw whatsoever when it comes to game mechanic's. The graphics, and detail 
 that was put into this game was superb by all means! The history accuracy, and the quotes in the 
 load screens are a PLUS! Being able to carry out a battle plan, and take over countries before 
 you is a very fun, and amusing turn based game to me! It does not take long before you can develop 
 a strategy to conquer the world, and destroy your foes! Some races never give up trying to lay 
 siege to your castles, and try to over throw you. I always get that from the Goths. Knowing you 
 can zoom right up into the carnage that lies before you is just the thing that gets my utter attention! 
 The swarm of soldier's battling it out for sometimes ten minutes before they retreat. Just the 
 best game ever I tell you!! The music is superb. It matches the aura that you get being there laying 
 siege, and in battle. The replay value is great! I've played this game over, and over again trying 
 to rule in different ways, and different difficulty settings. I've completed it many times. I can 
 never get tired of this game ever!! (Well when Medieval 2 comes out) . For anyone that's interested 
 in wide scale, massive battles this game is for you! My most cherished long awaited game to come 
 out since I started gaming on the PC since 89'.
  
  ** I edited this review somewhat** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lopo2006
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  The game is wonderfull it is the first game that but to us the 3d units in the hall world it make 
 it easy in using the units it is more great than ''empire earth'' and ''Age Of Empire'' it has 
 to be the first stratgy games in the hall world that what we say about great games this game must 
 take it's position with the other stratgy games in the hall world.
  
  This is the first game that give u the real action in the wars u can see the units aganist other 
 units face to face in the war also it make u play the historic wars and play with any of the two 
 who well fight each other it is a good game and will take it position with other stratgy games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Standardqueso
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Is amazing how CA manage to improve their turn-based/RTS formula. This one has all that you were 
 hoping for Medieval and Shogun. The conflict between families, the struggle with the senate, the 
 possibility of defend strategic points in the table map as rivers, bridges, gullies; and how that 
 is reflected in the battle map is just perfect. You even see the vesuvius from Rome. No gathering 
 resources in Age of Empires, is the best mix of Civilization and RTS battle. The change of escenary 
 is also fantastic. Made you see the world through the eyes of a legionary. From Egypt to Germania, 
 the map is HUGE, the work and management that implies the empire gives a glimpse of the burden 
 on the shoulders of the emperors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KenjiTaisho
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I have been a Total War follower since Shogun: Total War. Their games are the best strategy games 
 out there. I don't know how they do it, but with Shogun, Medival, and now Rome -- all have been number 
 1's. Rome: Total War has taken it to a whole new level. There are so many different troop types 
 its makes me dizzy sometimes. Troop movements are so realistic. Sieges...... oh! the sieges.... so 
 much fun! The campaign map has had a serious overhaul from the previous games -- for the better. 
 It's no longer that stupid chess piece movement and is now more realistic (it takes longer to get 
 from point A to point B) . There are also a lot of factions to play as -- you just have to unlock 
 them. Overall this game is a must have for any strategy buff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franklinzhang
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 17, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  I just downloaded and played the demo yesterday, I played through the tutorial and the only battle 
 that your allowed to play. It took me about half an hour to get the hang of the camera and how 
 to initiate all the attack modes. When I finally got to the batle, I expected a really hard battle. 
 I won shortly. Rome: Total War is a great strategy game, but it is too complicated. I loved how 
 you actually hear the commanders yelling orders and the foot soldiers marching. The physics are 
 also great, like you can actually hear the enemies getting killed. But, the soldier information 
 is also really complicated. For example, units are either fresh, winding, or exhausted, that is 
 too much information. But overall, its a great game, but its too complicated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RD_Vel0city
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War was released back in December of 2004 by Activision, the creators of the widely 
 popular FPS series Call Of Duty. Acitivsion makes a jump into realm of RTS by releaseing Rome: 
 Total War, which is I believe the 5th game in the series, and oh what a jump it is!
  
  Graphics- Rome: Total War is not only the 1st "Total War" game to feature fully 3D units, but the 
 1st RTS period to feature 3D units! RTW's graphics engine was created entirely from scratch and 
 has grown into an amazing graphical feat. RTW also features a wide array of video settings allowing 
 you to tweak the graphical features in RTW down to the tiniest details, which for those with ageing 
 GFX cards, is a big relief. The units in RTW have full features, a complete face, armour, weapons, 
 anything a normal sized roman solder would have is on these tiny units. There so spectacularly 
 detailed. Dureing battles dust and dirt is kicked up, bodies fly, its as if your fighting a real 
 Roman battle. The physics in RTW are in its own class, calvary charges will heave bodys through 
 the hair, archers will bring enemy units to there knees when struck. The overall detail to the 
 graphical features in RTW was amazing. Major kudos to Activision.
  
  Sound- With a stunning soundtrack and amazing real-life battle sounds RTW's also in a class of 
 its own as far as sound goes. The sound is spectacular. Dureing battles fast paced music sets the 
 field of battle, or when the action slows down a slow song will play and will ready you to attack. 
 With a pretty average array of sound options you can choose to turn off menu music or disable music 
 in-game (NOTE- I have heard from many people that by disableing music in-game it has given them 
 massive frames per sec boost, this may not stand true for everyone.) When units clash the sounds 
 of swords and armour clashing against one another is suberb, you can literally watch 2 solders 
 fight and the sounds will be percectly in-sync with the action, the attention to detail for sound 
 was the same if not better than the detail for the graphics.
  
  Gameplay- RTW boasts several gameplay modes includeing practice which allows you to choose any 
 faction, units and setting to practice strategys or just have fun, Historical battles which allows 
 to you to re-live some of the most famous battles dureing the rein of Rome, A vast imperial campaign 
 as well as a shorter campaign... and how could you forget the multi-player allowing players to match 
 wits and armys toe to toe, will you be victorious? The imperial campaign is most likely what most 
 players of RTW will be interested in. The campaign long or short allows you to choose from 3 Roman 
 Legions (Julii, Brutii & Scipii) . Each faction starts the campaign off with different areas of 
 control butr each will start off with 3 settlements under there control and each haveing a reasonable 
 treasury to start you off with. In addition to the massive battles in which everyone knows about 
 and is what the Total War series is famous for, the developers have added a new feature to the 
 serious called a "Campaign Map". Basically this map details the entire world in the game and shows 
 where each factions land are located as well as there armys positions. Greayed out areas on the 
 campaign map are areas you must 1st transverse across to know whats there. On the campaign map 
 you control everything from your armys movements, to the contruction of building in your settlements 
 as well as recruitmewnt of units for your armys. In addition to all this theres several scrolls 
 which details your financial situation in each settlement as well as public order, tax rate, spend 
 policy, and the ability to allow the AI to auto manage a settlement if things get to hard for you 
 to control. Now onto the battles, ah its whats the total war series is famouse for, massive battles 
 stretching across vast lands, and with the addition of 3D units these battles are over %200 more 
 realistic then the 2D units in Medevil. To begind a battle, you must 1st choose a settlemtn or 
 army to attack on the campaign map. (NOTE- attacking a neutral faction is cdeclaring war, so watch 
 who you attack) . Once you have choosen to attack the game will ask whether you want to fight the 
 battle on the actual land or auto resolve it basically meaning the AI resolves it. Not only can 
 you attack but you can also be attacked. Enemy armys will from time to time attack your settlements 
 and armies. Haveing a strong garrison is key to holding a strong empire. Back to the battlemap, 
 if you choose to fight thebattle and NOT auto resolve you'll be taken to the part of the land where 
 the battle is going to take place. The view shows your entire army deployed and the enemy army. 
 Now in RTW certain units   other units. For instance a calvalry charge to a unit of spearmen is 
 suicide, but a calvary charge to there rear is dealdly. Some more exmpales: (Archers   chariots, 
 Calvary   archers, Heavy infantry   spearment etc...)
  The gameplay is to vast for me to cover anymore, Gamespot does have a guide for RTW, so for additional 
 info look to that!
  
  Value- RTW is the best RTS of 2004 and in my opinion nothing in 2005 nor 2006 has yet to beat it. 
 With a spectacular multiplayer and a vast array of single player modes RTW is definately worth 
 buying!
  
  Tilt- RTW has been an excellent ex [erience, there are no serious problems with the game at all, 
 any patches were for minor issues. Just the overall experience has been delightful! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathnight_2000
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  Rome total war is one of the best games that you could ever introduce to your computer. it offers 
 the best of both worlds as it includes RST as well as TBS.
  
  It has so much to do and you will be playing again and again trying new things. i was hooked the 
 moment and i got this. its simple to play even when your armies reach up into the thousands. In 
 the heart of a battle you are able to zoom right into the action and see every one fighting it 
 out between each other. With so many different factions to play including the Romans, the Greeks 
 and the Barbarians you will be playing this game for awhile.
  
  A Must for people who love RTS and TBS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skumakum
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  The games graphics are phenominal, nothing can be taken away from them in terms of the sheer content 
 and level of detail that can be on show in one battle. Over a thousand individual units at war 
 with no stuttering.
  The Gameplay is Good. However after 20 or so battles it did become quite repetative. Get an army, 
 attack there enemy with ur horses force a retreat, bring in the infantry to clean up, over and 
 over. Hopefully it will have something to make it more interesting in medieval 2. The sounds of 
 battle are all you could ask for. Overall this is one of the far better games to be released in 
 05. 
  The only marks i deducted were for gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jabbamonkey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is a great sequal to a fantastic series. If you are a strategy lover, you will 
 love the similarities to Civilization (build/train, turn-based) . If you are more in tune with massive 
 battle and real time combat, then the battles will make your jaw drop. 
  
  The strategy elements are great, where you build up cities and train all sorts of characters. Your 
 choice of buildings contain everything from barracks to sewers. If the poplution is getting a little 
 upset with your high taxes, build a temple or amphitheatre. Not getting enough income from the 
 province, build a mine or market. Or, if you dont want to manage all these intricate building options, 
 choose the "automanage" button from the cities details.
  
  Another great feature are the generals and family members, which are born/acquired/married to your 
 nation. You can assign these generals to armies or to cities. When assigned to armies, they have 
 a strong effect on the armies chance toward victory (depending on how many stars they have, and 
 their number of stars increase with the more battles they fight) . If assigned to a city, they manage 
 the province much better than some unknown official, and have a strong influence over the population 
 (depending on their influence and city management) . Another nice feature are the generals traits 
 and retinue. Over time, a character can gain traits (such as "Wall Smasher", which improves chance 
 of sieging cities) , or acquring retinues (such as "Entertainer" which will improve moral) . These 
 great little feature ties you to certain characters and makes the game MUCH more interesting. 
 
  
  As you can build various structures in your city, you can also train units. The types you can train 
 depend on the structures in your city (barracks, stables, etc. ) . Some nations have their own unique 
 units, and certain provices allow training for special units (War Elepants) . Overall, the variety 
 seems endless. In addition to basic combat units, you can also train Diplomats, Spys and Assassins. 
 Diplomats negotiate treaties and trade pacts, as well as bribing armies and generals. Spy are good 
 at subterfiege, epsionage and scouting the terrain. Assassins are great as knocking off rival generals 
 and heirs.
  
  Moving around the map is pretty cool, as the envirmonment is now in 3d. You can zoom and pan, as 
 needed. And rather than just dropping a character into a provice, they actually walk the distance, 
 which is nice.
  
  The epic battles are what make the game great. You can choose to have the computer automatically 
 resolve a battle, or you can fight the battle yourself. If you choose to fight yourself, you lead 
 your forces where you think they may do best. Set your troop positions and attack/defend as needed. 
 Although this is certainly action-based, a great deal of strategy is still needed to win. Some 
 soldier types fight better against other soldier types, so you need to know where to place them 
 and who to attack. If you can flank an enemy and attack them from the side (or better, from behind) , 
 then you can take down more enemies. Also, sieging cities is much better this time around, as the 
 siege equipment is much better and you actually run through the city streets pursuing the enemy.
 
  
  Overall, the game is great, but there are some draw-backs. The game makes you play the prologue 
 missions, and doesnt let you just choose a faction and play. The developers probably did this to 
 simplify the learning curve ... but when I reinstalled the game to play some time later, I was 
 a little upset I had to play through the prologue again. 
  
  In addition, naval battles are all automatic, and no action takes place (you are presented with 
 a battle summary, and notified if you won or lost) . This is understandable, as adding complex naval 
 simulation would tack on time/cost, be ANOTHER feature to integrate, and take MORE hard drive space. 
 However, the action on land should keep the average player happy.
  
  And, although they've improved city sieging, there are some issues (which may be fixed in the patches) . 
 Sometimes your forces get "clogged" when going through city gates, which is irritating. And sometime, 
 when you tell a battering ram to attack a wall/gate, it just doesnt work right away.
  
  Despite these minor drawbacks, the game is awesome. This series has a great deal to offer any game, 
 whether a strategy fan or an action enthusiast. I recommend you pick up a copy today!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feyre
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  A FPS fan myself I never quite got into RTS gaming, until Rome: Total War came along. Before RTW 
 I had never heard of the TW series, and only when I played the demo I found out what I had missed.
 
  
  Gameplay: The AI is a bit weak, though it get's better with the patches. But, the main deal is 
 in the mutiplayer area. Though there aren't as many hardcore RTW players as I'd like multiplayer 
 games are always unique and fun. Games can last up to several hours a piece, depending on the factions 
 and the player's gamestyles. But they never get boring, even if you're just skirmishing. There's 
 a huge variety in the different factions, each with their own style. Every type of unit (there 
 are over a hundred) have their own abilities and stats. As well as their own class (phalanx/ spearman/ 
 swordsman/ cavalry/ archers/ horse archers/ elephants/ skirmishers/ chariots) . The gameplay can 
 get very strategic if you're facing decent opponents, full with flanking moves, setting traps, 
 luring enemies...
  
  Graphics: Each unit (having thousands on the field is the rule rather than an exception on MP) 
 is detailed, smoke rises from the footsteps of each of them, amazing landscapes and skies, flaming 
 arrows right the night sky. Surprisingly fluid and unsynchronised motions, some of the best graphics 
 from an RTS that we have seen so far.
  
  Sound: Whenever you enter a battle your general will have a speech for your men to rouse them for 
 the battle. Hundreds of men will shout a loud "aye" when you give them orders. Arrows whiz by. 
 Men scream when they die. And each unit has it's own footstep sounds. What else do you want?
  
  Value: There's a gold edition now, which includes BI. Either way you'll have lots and lots 
 of gameplay. Wether you want to enjoy the cool graphics and fights from a casual point of view 
 and play arcade battles, or you want to conquer the entire known world, or you want to have hardcore 
 battles on multiplayer you'll get your fill for dozens of hours on end.
  
  Tilt: You'll see cavalry charging in on infantry, see elephants smash through lines, see hundreds, 
 even thousands, of infantry smash into each other. You want more? You'll have to wait for Medieval 
 Total War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Levoth
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I've been searching for this kind of game for quite sometime. All I ever wanted is a game that 
 you could control many, many units and have fun seeing those soldiers fightinning. Medieval : Total 
 War showed me somethings that I liked , but I didn't like everything. But , this game surely showed 
 me everything I've been searching for !
  Forget games such as Age of Empires III , Age of Mythology , WarCraft III and Rise of Nations , 
 this little one here has much more action to offer than anyone else. This game is very similar 
 to Medieval : Total War. You start in a great battlefield and with hundreds of men at your comand. 
 You can great more men along the fight. There are many units avaliable , you can use heavy cavalries, 
 archers, infantry and might siege weapons to destroy castles and other buildings. All your units 
 can be full controled by you the way you want. Every type of unit have different abilities that 
 can be used at any time in the battlefield. For example , some archers can fire burning arrows 
 in their enemies, and some cavalry can use the wedge opition to make a line of killing and things 
 like this. 
  Other new thing in this game is the General. The General is your most important unit and it has 
 to be protected at all costs, surely it doesn't mean that if you general dies you will lose the 
 battle. But it is more likely to lose. Your General comands your army in many ways, there are special 
 features to defend your men using the orders that your general give. That's a great thing , 'cause 
 you start to feel inside the battle.
  The graphics are the best I've ever seen in a strategy game. All the units are very well designed 
 and all the effects are well-made. And you don't need a very good video card to do it... This game 
 is very light. The graphics are truly impressive, but what counts inside is the sounds which are 
 very good too. All the sound effects of the army marching, fightinning and the general orders are 
 very well-made. The soundtracks are great , and you can feel inside that period of history when 
 Rome was in all its glory. The gameplay is similar to every real-time strategy game , but with 
 some tasks of RPG games. Resuming, everything can be controlled in the mouse.
  I think that this is it! Rome Total War is a game that everyone should have in its collection ! 
 Highly Recommended ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketsapoulse
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  At first time I didn't like it but now I'm a great fan of it .
  
  The happiness of your people and the courage of your army will lead you to victory before you go 
 to the battle make sure that you have a good plan or you will be in big trouble .
  Rome  total war is amazing game with a lot of goods that I'm gone talk about it : 
  Graphics 
 : superb graphics with AA system and a lot of effects .
  Physics : superb physic engine that make you feel that you are in real battle .
  Sounds : great 
 sounds that gives you a great battle felling .
  Game play : superb game play with four modes imperial campaign , quick battle , custom battle and 
 heretical battles .
  The bad things : there is no bad things at all.
  My Last Word Is : amazing strategy game with superb game play , graphics and physics . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 13, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  My brother comes home with Rome Total War one day, and he wanted me to try it, so i agreed and 
 played it, was hooked at first, just because i started off with a huge battle, and it was a blast, 
 he then told me to try out the campeign, and after 10 minutes, i quit.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is solid, i view it as it having two different modes, the 1st mode is being 
 on the over head map, and controling your economy/cities/armies, and all that other stuff. The 
 2nd mode is battling, when your main view now is set on the battlefield and staring at the enemies 
 army charging right at you (my favorite mode) . Depending on your graphics card, you can change 
 the unit scale of the game, and truly make it an epic battle, i had to take some time to learn 
 the camera controls while in battle, which probably wasn't the best time to practice them, but 
 i had no other choice.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are well done, i zoomed in and found it quite funny that the units were 
 attacking air, but who cares, a few slow downs here and there especially if your unit scale is 
 high, and to me, since i play more graphical games (FPS) the games battlefield were dull, but i 
 understand why so i won't score to low on that.
  
  Sound: Gotta love it. Probably one of my most favorite parts about this game is the sound. when 
 managing your cities, you hear quiet and peaceful music that help you to think, while in battle 
 you have a raging orchestra in the background that make you think 5x as fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CWD-Brazil
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Never have I commanded such a massive army.
  This game is truly awesome.
  The units are very detailed, although there arent ANY individual markings within a unit. 
  
 
  For example:
  If you have a unit of Triarii they will all look the same. Every aspect.
  This is kind of a bummer but w/e. The game rocks so it balances out.
  The strategy is also very 
 intense an heavy-set. If you dont keep you economy up to par and your cities civil then your army 
 will fall to shambles as you funds decrease and room for expansion suffocates you like shrink-wrap 
 to the face.
  
  I think the best aspect of the game is the shear size and volume of all the battles, making for 
 a spectacular scene. Jus picture 1000's of troops smashing into each other and hacking each other 
 down. Elephants come and tear them and squash them, onagers raining down on enemy walls.
  
  Amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_lex24
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War is a master piece in itself, the intense real-time battles and diplomatic intrege 
 make it very playable. 
  
  Even after it being released back in 2004 ive still been playing it whenever I get a chance, this 
 is because of the mod Rome: Total Realism which makes the whole Rome experiance exhilerating, with 
 more accurate factions, armies, and battles. 
  
  There are two parts to the game: one is the diplomatic conquest mode where your displayed a 3d 
 map with cities, armies and so forth displayed. The other part is the real-time battle mode where 
 you get to lead thousands of troops against armies of equal or greater size. For myself the real-time 
 battles are what really makes this game stand out. I mean there is just no other game like it, 
 you get to control battles like you see in the movies and watch as thousands of men throw themselves 
 at the enemy to either die or conquer. The most rewarding thing is to defeat another army against 
 the odds i. e. 1000 vs 400 men or something similar. Any way I would definately recommend this game 
 to any gamer young or old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wak135
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 5, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  The game is very good the best faction to be is the Romans, Gaul's or Egypt.
  But I can't say that medieval total war was good compared to this it sucks.
  It would be good 
 if it was easier to put the cheats in. the best roman is 
  the house of bruti witch the green roman and the pay is good. Egypt has
  good men from the start 
 but the the pay is not good the Gaul is in between.
  The bad thing is you can't be these factions. Roman senate, Macedon,
  Pontus, Armenia, Dacia, 
 Scythia, Spain, Thrace and Numidia. [ only on cheats] All up it's a very good game stay tuned you'l 
 see more of me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 3, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War has got to be one of the greatest strategy games. Why? Let me show you... or I 
 mean tell you of course. In Rome: total War, you can create a huge battle consisting of over three 
 thousands soldiers. You control the army. When you order your archers to fire, you can see the 
 arrows fly and hit the enemy as they charge. You will end up seeing the guys get picked off as 
 the arrows hit them 
  
  The gameplay has got to be the greatest out of the series. Controlling vast armies and using them 
 to conquer armies such as Greece and Carthage. The system they used to control the armies is very 
 simple and easy to use. You can only click on multiple units instead of just one like in other 
 strategy games.
  
  The graphics are good, considering the fact it came out back in September of 04. You can actually 
 see arrows hitting the soldiers and killing them unlike in other games where it takes like fifteen 
 shots to kill someone. 
  
  The sound is at its best here, such as hearing the commanders at the beginning or seeing the armies 
 clatter and hearing the swords and shields hit. The catapults are very fun to fire considering 
 how much damage they use.
  
  This game is surprisingly great, If you like historic real-time strategy games. . . Then this one 
 is definately for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quirinus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Beginning as one of the three Roman factions, your goal is simple - capture as much territory for 
 the good of yourself and the good of the Roman Empire. Or is it that simple? For a start you have 
 a choice. Do you play ruthlessly and conquer everything in your path, or do you go tactically, 
 forging alliances and friendships? Either way will eventually result in the same outcome - Rome.
 
  
  The heat of battle, either when fighting a hoard of peasants or a hoard of elephants, creates an 
 auror of tension and the utmost concentration will be needed to defeat the enemy. You find yourself 
 highly immersed on the battlefield and a great choice of units must be used effectively in order 
 to win the battle.
  
  The fast paced strategic combat will keep you honing your tactics for weeks and success in the 
 Imperial Campaign will result in the unlocking of more factions including Carthage, Pontus and 
 the Greeks. 
  
  The graphics remain as good as the previous games in the series and there is some great effects, 
 especially the use of fire from archers and catapults. The Imperial Campaign uses a 3D map to show 
 players the territory they own and where rival factions are situated. 
  
  Overall a brilliant game, a worthwhile purchase for not just strategists and fans of the TW series 
 - but absolutely everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kennyboy25
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  this game is a must have for every self-respecting gamer, this game has it all, action, strategy,... The 
 controls are perfect, every thing is where it most be, the game-play is almost perfect, the sound 
 is overwhelming good, when you charge the enemy the music is different than you are marching. If 
 you want you can play the game over and over again, there is always something different, and if you 
 tired of that, you can play on line whit or against people around the globe. and especially the graphics 
 are masterly ,it's like you're one of the men on the field .Its here whit the best game in the 
 series. I'm all ready waiting for the add-on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  The Total War series created a unique genre of strategy games. It combines the elements of a turn 
 based game with a static game map of conquerable territories with the most realistic and exciting 
 live combat.
  
  Those who have played Shogun or Medieval know what this is all about. Those who haven't should 
 get this game! These games have revolutionized the gaming industry in terms of combat simulation.
 
  
  The story takes place before the Roman Empire. Essentially it is your job to build up the Roman 
 Republic and then abolish the Senatorial powers so that you may become the Emperor of Rome.
  
  Through the game you are able to unlock other playable factions, such as the barbarian clans 
 of Gaul, Germany and Briton or the more civilized (though not by Roman Standards) factions such 
 as Carthage, Egypt and Greece.
  
  The Imperial campaign is highly emmersive for players and rich in content. While it is enjoyable 
 to conquer the uncivilized world, build aqueducts, pave roads and teach them of your Roman Gods, 
 it is equally fun to play as one of the rival groups and trying to halt Rome's rise to power. (And 
 if you really like causing havoc, be sure to buy the expansion Barbarian Invasion!)
  
  Ultimately, this game is worthy of all it's praise and -- unlike other games that recieve such 
 high rankings -- truly deserves the awards and reviews that it has recieved.
  
  If you enjoy military strategy games, fast-paced strategic combat or Roman history, this is the 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusismyhomie
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game for my Dad for Christmas I was so excited to play it!! I love strategy games, 
 so I was so curious of what this game would be like. The day we installed it I was so happy to 
 see that this game is FULL of strategy and great fun!!! This game has a very difficult difficulty, 
 I like that also about this game. It is not too easy but not too hard either.
  
  The strategy part of the game is so wonderful. There are hundreds of different types of units, 
 buildings, and things to do! While in the battlefields you can make your own story on how the Romans 
 handled things during war. This game is just a great way to get the things and strategies out of 
 your head and on to this game to see what would happen.
  
  The graphics on this game are also very good! I was surprised to see the greatness of the games 
 server and how it held up with the flooding of units.
  
  I recommend this game to all Strategy players!
  9/10 Stars!!
  
  If I could summarize this 
 game I would say: AGE OF EMPIRES, CIVILIZATION, TOTAL WAR, and (Boardgame) RISK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud30236
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for at least 6 months now (I got it new from EB Games. WOOT!!) and I've only 
 beaten some of the campaigns. Sure it's true that most factions share the same unit types and religion, 
 but they still have their own unique flavor that give each faction a big difference. Also, the 
 strategy used in each battle is always different because you could be fighting a small group of 
 rebels to a full Roman army with gold stats. 
  
  Plus, if you have friends that own this game, there's always the multi-player LAN games that always 
 mixes things up. I almost got beaten by my roommate (who just recently picked it up) because he 
 used German berserkers (a half army could beat a full, gold Roman army) . Plus, it always fun to 
 anticipate what your friends will try because unlike the computer who has a limited number of strategies 
 to employ, your friends could all of a sudden switch tactics and annihilate the entire army, or 
 mess up to me an opportunity to do double damage.
  
  All in all, this game is a must to all regardless of taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GazzaB
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 24, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best strategy games out there. I absolutely loved it!
  To start, you pick which part of Rome you wish to control, and from there on in, you are left to 
 conquer. The city managing part of the game is excellent. That alone would keep me playing the 
 game, but its the battles that are the icing on the cake.
  The size you can built your army up to is phenomenal. Just seeing your army standing there, with 
 hundreds and hundreds of soldiers with maybe some artillery at the back is just fantastic. And 
 know that you can control this massive army makes it even better. Watching your army charge at 
 another army, or start attacking enemy walls is what makes this game brilliant. And to add to the 
 experience is the excellent graphics and sound. Each character seems amazingly detailed for a strategy 
 game, and environments look just as good. Especially the cities. And hearing your armies roar, 
 stomp and attack is just as good. It just gives the battle an almost cinematic feel. 
  As for the city managing, this is just as fun. Controlling you cities, building upgrades, increasing 
 the size of your armies is all good. And then sending your army to other territories to try and 
 take enemy cities is great. As well as land combat, there is battles at sea. You dont get to control 
 these battles, but its great anyway seeing you ship army defend itself from endless attacks.
  As you are a part of Rome, you will often get missions from the Roman Senate, where you carry out 
 their biddings, for example, they may tell you to capture an enemy city, or blockade a certain 
 port. If you successfully complete these missions, you can be rewarded with denarii, or exotic 
 soldiers for example. My advice is to screw the senate. If you are powerful enough, blow them to 
 hell, and take over all of Rome for yourself.
  Anyway, to sum up the game with one word: Outstanding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 23, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War is a great turn based game on a strategic and management aspect. The graphic engine 
 is awesome and the music is so good that Ive downloaded the soundtrack. There are two aspects 
 to this game: the main map where you manage your empire and move your troops, and the combat scenes.
 
  
  Main map: well done. Good map to allow every aspects of management of your empire. You build your 
 cities, you train your troops and you make your moves. Also, building boats and attacking on water 
 adds immersion to the game. You really feel like you are controlling (or attempting to) the Mediterranean 
 see and the surrounding lands. For this aspect of the game, I give a 9/10.
  
  Combat scenes: fist impression of the combat scenes of Rome Total War gets you hammered. The camera 
 moves and control is perfect and you control every aspect of your troops. What I enjoy the most 
 is to take my camera on the opposite side to see my troops heading at my opponents. Especially 
 with the flaming arrows this is a view to a kill. Unfortunately, there are only two scenarios 
 for the combats. Either you attack a city (which gets really repetitive and linear) or you attack 
 another army in the wide open. I really got tired fast of attacking cities, since you always use 
 the same routines. Only your soldiers get improved with time, but still, the combats remains the 
 same. Because of this repetitive aspect of the combats, I give a 6/10 on this aspect of the game. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I purchase 2-3 PC games a month. I use Gamespot as a resource for figuring out which games I'm 
 willing to spend my hard earned money on. Of course, I also take into consideration the company 
 that it is putting it out. After almost purchasing ROME: TOTAL WAR several times, last week I gave 
 in.
  
  At first, it seemed to be quite compelling and interesting. On the surface the game seems to be 
 very complex. I mean that in a good way, meaning that it seemed to be very multi-faceted and well 
 executed. I quickly caught on to how to play by using the starter campaign, which is basically 
 a glorified tutorial. As far as tutorial campaigns go, it was exceptional and I was so immersed 
 I continued to play on with it even after I understood the ins and outs of gameplay.
  
  My next step was to play a full length Imperial Campaign. This requires the taking of fifty territories, 
 hardly a small feat. It took 20 + hours to even come close to the halfway point. This turned out 
 to be a bad thing. The gameplay gets very, very repetitive. It gets to be so time consuming that 
 with each passing hour I was getting closer to being bored instead of entertained. Having gone 
 so far with the game, I was encouraged to press on, figuring there might be some surprises or twists 
 that would reward my commitment.
  
  There was never such a development. Even ruling the entire world only rewards you with a cheesy 
 pop up box with a brief animated video clip. This happens repeatedly. A faction patriarch who has 
 won dozens of huge battles and has grabbed the love of the people only earns a small .jpeg still 
 when he dies. "So and so has died" and it is the same exact picture over and over again for any 
 character's death. 
  
  The diplomacy engine also should have been more developed. Really, this game reminds me of a PC 
 game from the early 90s where you operated Roman legions and had to take over territories. This 
 game simply enhanced the graphics and put the detail up a notch. I really wouldn't recommend buying 
 this game if you are on a budget and can't afford to get something with minimal replay value.
 
  
  I have found the instant action and battle mode offers the most replay, but I still find it to 
 get boring quickly. You can field any type of army you want and put you and your opponent (s) in 
 any environment you want. This is pretty cool, but even after a few dozen times it gets to be boring. 
 
  
  The units don't respond as well as they should in many instances. The camera view is also very 
 glitchy at times. You use a flying camera type of view that move all around your units. However, 
 if you split your army to attack both flanks of an enemy, for example, you can only look at one 
 half of your men. The other half marches off onto the horizon and it is very difficult to do anything 
 with them. In one instance, I fought an enormous battle and crushed the enemy but ended up losing 
 because of the camera glitching out. 
  
  I had 100s of foot troops left and the enemy had a total of 2 horse mounted units. These 2 guys 
 just kept turning and running every single time I ran after them. I ended up sitting there for 
 20 minutes as a giant legion of my men chased a handful of idiots running away. Finally it ended 
 as an unresolved battle because the sole surviving moron just kept running around on a hill, avoiding 
 my guys. That is really retarded. Another time, the AI had a tiny unit sitting off in the distance 
 on a mountain. I crushed the entire army save for these few guys. Since I couldn't get the camera 
 to even be able to see them, I couldn't attack them and I didn't get a victory. 
  
  I'd like to note I have been an avid gamer since I bought Zork for my Apple in 1983. I have gamed 
 for over 23 years now. I've been noticing more and more lately that a lot of the new games are 
 simply dressed up versions of some of the old classics. Pirates! for example was identical to the 
 original save for the graphics. I realize graphics are a big part of it, but once you get adjusted 
 to them what you are left with truly enjoying is the machinations of the programming and the gameplay 
 itself. I was very excited to have purchased this game and based upon all of the highly positive 
 reviews, I was looking forward to it. Sadly, I was disappointed. It just didn't maintain my interest 
 long enough and even if you're obsessed with strategy and Ancient Rome, it'll still probably get 
 boring after a brief stretch of time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaistoFossil22
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  That is exactly what Rome Total War did for my game library. This game is extrodinary. Its sad 
 im just now writing a review for it. Anyway this game has it all. Huge armies, complex map to move 
 your military around, and alot of units and kingdoms to play as. Right from the beginning the game 
 is fun and addicting. I remember skipping school to play this and not doing homework because of 
 this very game. I just could not put it down, still like that today. The whole idea of controlling 
 one of the greatest empires this world has ever seen is just exciting alone. The game is very easy 
 to pick up and play. There is no micro managing. All you have to do is click on a city and build 
 buildings or military units. The only time it gets to the point of being very micro managable is 
 when your empire expands far beyond your capital city. This is when the game gets difficult since 
 your people begin to revolt and get angry due to your neglect os it seems. So it is very accurate 
 to make it feel like an empire way back then when it was very hard to communicate across such a 
 vast empire. Another bad thing is the naval combat. Its alway an auto resolve and does not let 
 you play it out which is dissapointing (Imperial Glory did a very good job in this department) . 
 Governors of cities are very hard to come by since you have to watch out who your children marry. 
 If your daughter marries a military genius then their children will most likely have good points 
 in the military. But if your daughter marries a person with influence or management then they will 
 be a very good mayor. So its hard to balance everything out, and trust me it gets hard when your 
 empire gets further and further away from Italy or wherever your capital city is. But no worries, 
 Rome Total War allows you to move your capital city but beware if one city was ur capital for a 
 long time and you move it you may upset the people for removing the capital title. The main thing 
 i loved about this game is just the pure power you have in it. The massive armies are so enjoyable 
 to watch and pillage Europe. Its always fun to conquer others and shatter their homes. This game 
 is great if your into strategy and history like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricardo_duarte
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This game takes us it the limit, therefore any player who it tries this game will go to be vitiated.
 
  
  For me this game is the maximum and must be respected.
  
  I can give in maluco but while he will have this game in mine computer I will not go to stop to 
 play.
  
  I dream with this game, I live this game and I love this game.
  
  I also advise to some times my friends and players without nothing to play to buy this game, therefore 
 is sufficiently emotive.
  
  In this game it is lived emperor life, because it can to command the troops, since infantry the 
 cavalry, the cities, the taxes and the buildings, e also the politica, the wars and the alliances.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musclassia
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  This is a super strategy game. I've not played Shogun, but I have Medievil and this is so much 
 more fun. The campaign is great, sadly not so the set a battle.
  
  The things I don't like about create a battle is that they never feel good. They become boring. 
 The thing with campaign is you can get a brilliant battle. I remember my battle for Sparta as the 
 Brutii-that still lingers fondly in my Total War memories. The story is excellent, and the senate 
 helps you take the path, except on irrational occasions where they tell you to attack an ally, 
 an uber-strong city or a place turns away. But still it's brilliant. I once took the entire map! 
 Themiskyra kept rebelling after I'd found a way to reach them, but still, I can do other things.
 
  
  My favourite non-Star Wars PC game, except The Movies, but on the whole brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzkrieg13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas last year and have been playing it ever since. The graphics are excellent 
 for the number of units on screen and the smooth blending of RTS-battes and Turned-Based-Campaign 
 gameplay make for a truly addictive gaming experience. I find that I'll play it 3+ hours a day 
 till I get burned out, but after a few days I'm right back at it. I have played this game for 100+ 
 hours and haven't even played all the civilization. Considering the current price of this game 
 there is simply no reason not to buy it. 
  
  A W E S O M E -- G A M E ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flibblewerfer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War is just unexplainable, it has excellent graphics, great sound, and hours of fun. 
 This game really makes you feel like you're watching a battle, with thousands of men clashing and 
 fighting for your lives. The campaign is also fun, though it may take hours or days just to finish 
 one, then you've got 10 more to go. The game features beautiful terrain, generated uniquely buy 
 the terrain around seen on the campaign map, and the sound consumes you, ass you hear the buildings 
 burning and crashing, screams of men and battle cries, swords hitting eachother or shields, and 
 their officers frantically crying out orders. The bot is also amazing, if an enemy tries to flank 
 then some of the men will turn around and take on the oncoming challenge, unless there wasn't enough 
 time. The only negative thing i can think about in the game is that on the campaign later on in 
 the game turns can take very long probably around 5 minutes, but if you're patient this game is 
 the best ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troytheboy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the most enjoyable games I'v ever played. It is unlike most othe war games, 
 because you can make armies with thousands of people in them and then crush the enemy. If you get 
 bored there are numerous patches and updates that will renew your love for this game, but it is 
 hard to get bored with a game like this. Every chance I get I get on my computer and play this 
 game. The gameplay isn't the only thing that is good this game has amazing music. the graphics 
 are good but not the best. I think that any person could fall in love with a game like this. It 
 is truly addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P1zzaman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  This is the latest edition of the Total War series. This game features a full 3D battle engine 
 which surprisingly runs really well, even with thousands of units on screen at once.
  
  The gameplay has been improved since the last one, Medieval: Total War. Units are easier to select 
 and the interface is slightly more user friendly. Organizing your troops in the heat of the battle 
 is much easier, and the ability to see which enemy is routing is a plus as well.
  
  Sieges had a great facelift. No longer are sieges only castles in the middle of no where. There 
 are huge cities with hundreds of buildings and winding streets which adds a lot of strategic aspects 
 to the attacker and defender. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genghizz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Love night battle.... excellent unit control love to be able to build my own generals... love the 
 great variety of maps as well.. The new shield lock formation makes surviving an ambush a lot more 
 fun as well living though a cavalry charge just became an option.... The added Ambusher ability 
 to the generals is great fun... The new roving bands after you have killed a civilization add and 
 extra strategy to the game... Now with religion holding on to huge sections of the map just became 
 more interesting. As well as the changing of attributes for generals too long sitting in a city 
 that isn't to their liking.. all in all a great addition to the Total War game history... good stuff 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaboose111
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 10, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  very fun game easy to pick up and play yet if u sit and learn it it can be even more fun as u might 
 annihilate opponents in battles or quickly take their cities not too much micromanaging which makes 
 it smooth very fun overall though the only civilization that is easy to play and WIN which is sad 
 is the roman familys so challenge is wat u want play as the barbarians or anyone else. also the 
 battles are easy to understand and making different strategies is so much fun cause u can seriously 
 go do an exact same battle again try something different and have a total different outcome very 
 fun very very very addictive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dparnass
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 9, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Total War Yet. The Graphics and Game play are awesome.
  
  First the turorial is really good and informative. It really gives people who have never played 
 anyother gane in the series how to play, and it also shows new players the new features.
  
  THe First thing I noticed was tropp movement. Building Roads helps your troops mnove faster. Instead 
 of moving from province to province you have top march through the provinces to the next and intercept 
 the enemy troops.
  
  The combat screen are pretty much similar to the other games in the series except for the city 
 siege. Doing a city siege is different in several ways. First you have to have siege equipment 
 in order to attack a city. If you do not hAve catipults you can wait one or more turns for your 
 troops to build battering rams, sapping, siege towers, and ladders to attack the city. The City 
 battles are a vast improvement over the castle battles in the last two gameswin the series.
  
  Diplomacy is much more different than in the last game and no daughters to marry off. You can 
 now negotiate different things such as trade rights and the such. Also roads and ports actually 
 produce trade and can be blocked.
  
  There are no more autimatic leaders of provinces. You may have a period where you have more provinces 
 than family membersa to run them, or more family members than provinces. This also prevents bad 
 luck form wiping out yur entire faction since you have enough family members to take up the slack.
 
  
  The most annoying part though are the missions the Roman Senate sends you on when you are Roman. 
 One of the three huses. Plus the other factions, that you can play once you defeat them can be 
 very tough to play but fun.
  
  Over all this is the best total war yet. I can not wait for the next installment in the series. 
 As I write this I also own barbarian invasion, whic his good also. I also know of the anouncement 
 of Midevil Total War II. I wish they would do an age of Napolean. or Gun Poweder or Age of rifles 
 time era. Hey how about Total American Civil War, or Revolutionary War. What about the age aof 
 Marlborogh or 7 years war.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vice469
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Cand spun rome :total war ma gandes numai l ce batalii duceam... imense batali... ce sa spun prea 
 tare-i jocu.
  GAMEPLAY-ul este extraordinar.. Jocul urmeaza cursul istoriei reale, toti conducatorii romani si 
 nu numai au existat. Ce-i care au facut jocu si-au facut ff bine temele.
  GRAFICA.... e buna avand in vedere k jocul a aparut in anul 2004. Oamenii si peisajul sunt bine facute. 
 Fiecare om se misca diferit (bine dak selectezi optiunea din OPTIONS) , iarba este bine facuta la 
 fel ca si animalele care se mai gasesc pe parcursul bataliilor.
  SUNETUL este cat se poate de real.. vocea oamenilor este reala si cat se poate de normala si cooerenta, 
 anturajul precum muzica de fundal si sunetul armelor este cat se poate de real 
  TOT RESPECTUL PTR CEI cARE AU FACUT JOCUL... NOTA 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nmalatestinic
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War has set the bar for what battlefield games should be. Combining very solid graphics, 
 great sound effects and set in one of the most interesting eras, this is a game that makes all 
 others that came before it ancient history.
  
  It may not be the best game Ive ever played on the PC, but its pretty close and certainly the 
 best in terms of value for money.
  
  This is the kind of game that tends to be just plain bad for the electronic gaming industry because 
 you can play it for hundreds of hours and still not see everything. Theres enough variation from 
 faction to faction that youll want to play each once  and since in order to win with one faction 
 it can take as long as 40 hours youre looking at 400+ hours of gameplay if you try all of them. 
 
  
  The game has some really nice touches like pre-battle speeches that range from something super-inspirational 
 like Henry V to something as moving as listening to me scolding my dog for messing on the carpet. 
 The speeches can either provide some valuable tips on how best to approach the battle or some great 
 laughs if your general is a complete moron. 
  
  One of the games attractions is also one of its weaknesses. Glossy cinematics are rare so the game 
 doesnt get bogged down with inane, no-value-add 30-second spots of people basically standing around 
 scratching their butts (which I suppose could be entertaining enough depending on the owner of 
 the butt) . At the same time, some more cinematics for key sequences would be great and do a lot 
 to add color and move the plot-line forward (Blizzards Starcraft  probably the best game Ive 
 played) .
  
  I dont have a lot of complaints, but there are some things that arent up to par with the rest 
 of the game.
  
  The game is certainly challenging when setting the difficulty levels high, but some of the AI makes 
 me think I was waging a war against a cross between PeeWee Herman and Mahatma Gandhi  enemy units 
 rushing forward one minute and then just as theyre about to crush much weaker units rushing back 
 only to then sit there and get pinged off one by one by archers. 
  
  Wiping out the three Roman factions with my merry band of gibbering idiot Britons was a great boost 
 to my ego, but probably should have been much more difficult than it should have been considering 
 I had the difficulty set nearly to the ceiling. I like to consider myself a master strategist like 
 say Alexander the Great, but the reality is Im more like Alexander Warren  my paperboy. Im not 
 saying it shouldnt happen, but it should have been harder.
  I dont mean to say the game is seriously flawed or too easy  anything but! 
  
  This is actually 
 a good time to point out one of the great features of the game which may have made the plucky, 
 head-tossing Brits worthy world rulers: a vastly larger, more technologically advanced army can 
 still be ground to dust by superior strategy. 
  
  Back to our show  I dont know what life was like back in the days of the Roman Empire but it 
 must have been pretty rough living in cities. If your besieging a city and have the battle timer 
 turned off (one feature is to have time limit battles  kind of a useless feature unless youre 
 trying to defuse a nuke or something) all you have to do is wait it out and pollution, rage, lack 
 of women, or Full House reruns will drive the defenders out from behind the safety of the city 
 walls and right into whatever meatgrinder you want to set up to greet them at the city gates.
 
  
  Ive already mentioned the problem with some defending units sit there watching while you play 
 Pin the Soldier with My Arrows, but its actually a good thing as well. Not only is it satisfying 
 to knock out an enemy so easily if youve just had your butt handed to you in the previous battle 
 but its also a great chance to look around the battlefield and watch how other units and soldiers 
 react to getting nailed. Some look completely freaked out and others look bored and just shift 
 position. 
  
  Another siege weakness is that defenders typically will mass near the main front city gates awaiting 
 attack, but dont seem to care much at all if you start lined up waiting to get in the back door. 
 So while theyre milling around patrolling walls wondering where the big invading army is, youre 
 sipping Heinekins and chasing bar maids downtown. 
  
  Naval combat is basically  well basic. Very limited to no strategy here other than making sure 
 that the ships radiate a zone of control that keeps enemies from sneaking past key spots. The naval 
 battles are so uninspired that hearing that one of your admirals has died (part of the announcements 
 made at the end of each turn) is kind of like listening to lawnbowling scores  who cares?
  
  Back to the good news  and theres much more of it than the bad. 
  
  Theres a great tutoring 
 system that makes the learning curve much less steep than it otherwise would be. The advisors not 
 only show you the ropes but point out basic elements of strategy and even provide recommendations. 
 After a while they get as annoying as Entertainment Tonight show hosts, but for the time you need 
 them theyre great.
  
  As a game drags on theres always a tendency to get bored of the same old units. Not so here. The 
 mercenary hiring feature (if you have the bling, of course) allows you to hire exotic units like 
 elephant cavalry and Nubian archers that youd never otherwise see.
  
  My one biggest disappointment has been that I still havent gotten the hang of how to properly 
 use that great old secret Roman weapon  the flaming pig. I know that theyre supposed to freak 
 out enemy units, but what Ive wound up with kind of looks more like a bunch of short-order cooks 
 delivering barbecue  which I suppose would explain why enemy units seem to look more happy than 
 scared to see them.
  
  Even with some wonky AI though the battles can be a heckuva lot of fun no matter how big they are. 
 
  
  Large battles are what youd expect in reality. A lot of dying, chaos, screaming and running around. 
 
  
  Multiple camera angles and unit-perspectives are great features  nothing like following along 
 cavalry as they chase down fleeing Germanys Screeching Women, but its too bad you cant follow 
 the war dogs as they chase down retreating units.
  
  A great game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greatwasabi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 5, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  When i got this game i would have given it a high nine but after a while the game did become a 
 little monotonous as my empire became so huge that it really is impossible to manage it all, but 
 thats not the games fault, its my own.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  I love this game so much because of how many units you can have onscreen at the same time it really 
 gives you a feeling of how large of a scale the battles were back then. One thing that did bother 
 me though was if your own troops walked through a group of archers half of them would get shot 
 in the back by the archers. Dont you think whoever was shooting the bow would turn it slighly so 
 they didnt shoot their own team in the back of the head? They say its realistic but.. its not. 
 Another thing that somewhat bugged me was when two huge groups of soldiers would collide only the 
 people in the fronts would engage in combat, everyone else would just sit around and wait for the 
 guy in front of them to die, this makes sense with spearmen but when you have swords generally 
 the ranks break apart and everyone is fighting everyone, if this had happened the game would have 
 been truly the best ever. I did love everything else about the game though, how a charging group 
 of horses could easily tear apart half the enemies troops of flanked and used correcly. Strategy 
 is a huge part of this game which makes it stand above games like Age of Empires or Empire Earth.
 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Nothing to complain about here, swords and golden armor gleam in the sunlight, clearly defined 
 facial features, you can even see every single ring on the chainmail, you can see the horses manes 
 waving in the air, nothing is wrong with this game graphically.
  
  Sound 10/10
  Love the games sound, perfect soundtrack also. Before combat theres a high paced fast music as 
 the soldiers charge at eachother and horses kick up huge clouds of dust. Then just before they 
 colide, the music stops and all you can hear is the clashing of steel and screams and your horsemen 
 tear through ranks of troops.
  
  Value 9/10
  As i said before, i never had enough patience to finish the campaign as my empire would become 
 much too large and impossible to keep track of and turns eventually last an hour or so as you engage 
 in five different battles across the map. Again this is my fault not the games but it did get somewhat 
 tiresome. However there is a great skirmish mode where you pick your army and your enemies army 
 and have at it until you get sick of the game. Then once you warm up to it there is a fairly enjoyable 
 online mode if you can find some good players.
  
  Overall great game, if youre a strategy fan and you dont have this you are missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaidpass
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 5, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  This game is so cool. You can control over 3000 people which are fighting the other team. Sometimes 
 there are around 10000 peopel on the battlefield. Its crazy battles and the campain mode is soo 
 cool how u get missoions from senates and stuff. It s ver realistic cause ur generals or leaders 
 die as they get old. New generals are born and u get to marry people. The graphics are really detailed 
 for each person. The terrain is very detailed to. There is summer and winter times and you have 
 to use ur strategy to go with eiether of them. You can zoom out and control ur army from behind 
 or zoom in so u can see each person and how they are fighting! The sounds are wicked too cause u 
 can here people burning or the swords clashing into each other. Overall this is the best strategy 
 game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btoron
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 5, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  Accurate, addictive, easy to play hard to master... For me these are some quality points hard to 
 achieve in one game.
  
  When you are designing a new game it's easy to rely on past hits to maintain yor gamers base (see 
 my old. time fav CIVILIZATION) ; but every new addition to the Total War saga adds lots of new features, 
 and new characteristics that made the play enjoyable.
  
  I specially like the "family saga" embedded in Rome... funny, I know, but it makes the thing "personal". 
 
  
  Things I miss:
  - some easy way to locate which of my generals have "movement capacity"
  - something like the 
 city adviser in Civ.
  
  Oh, and sorry for my english... Next time I will write it in spanish :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonderfoon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  the most super duper game ive ever procrastinated, totally the most exonerated experience in kansas. 
 So bassicaly i liked it and i'm going to start saying random stuff cause this review has to be 
 100 words long :) . So if you like configuring porabalas in the 9th dimension and the point slope 
 intercept of the wu tang clan = 90 spuared + 20.124 then this game is for you. The battles look 
 conspicuos the graphics are interesante, and the gameplay is flat out wakamonkey. Nuf said
  
  Peace
  
  1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 
 30 d lksd jfl dlfj aslfk ldjfls fdlkjs k fl; k ds fjlskd fl; ksd jflk flkd flk d; ls afl; sdlk fl; ksa 
 dfj lksd f; lkas jdlk flksd flk dlsk dl; flksd flkd flksdf; lk df; lks dlk df
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rety5
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  I am a fan of the RTS genre but rome total war is not all its cracked up to be. The campaign map 
 is decent but I prefere the classic age of empires style map. The fights are boring. Position infantry 
 up front archers behind cavalry on the flanks and keep the high ground and you won. The graphics 
 are ok but the are weak when you are knocking down walls in a siege. This game is still 30 pounds 
 and I think its way too much. I just hope medievil2 total war is better than this. To be honest 
 I prefered spartan total warrier to this heap of dung and that is saying something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nic0n
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok i was a big fan of Shogun total war. I was obsessed wit it i beat it as every faction it was 
 the best thing ever. Then came medvieal total war. I never tried that but ive heard good things 
 about it. Next was rome . The second i saw a elephant smasing through the infantry line i knew 
 i had to get it. The grafice are absolutely amazing. Its a little challenging at first where u 
 are being attacked from multiple fronts. But once u get going on the standard difficultly setting 
 u shouldnt have too much trouble although sometimes the AI can bring in some huge armies. The AI 
 fro rome was done fairly well. On the campign map they will do a good job of managing there cities 
 and armies ect, however sometimes they will have multiple single unit armies and will not organixe 
 them togeather and send their forces at u 1 by 1. On the battle map they usually did fairly well 
 trying to flank u and wear u down before the armies clash. The sound in rome was done very well 
 althoughit cou; d of been a bit better. Now the bad news. In order to unlock the other factions 
 u need to win the imperial campaign. This is a new idea that i liked however the other factions 
 are kind of a let down. All of the factions lacked depth and variety of units. They had a much 
 smaller unit selection thans romes. Example the guals have only like 8 military units. This is 
 still one of the best strategy games every made if u like the genre u own it to urself to buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dutchie1990
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 27, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  This is the best turn-based strategy game I have ever played (and believe me..... it is a HUGE 
 load)
  First of all I recommend messing a bit with the data (so you don't have to complete the Imperial 
 map campaign to gain new civilizations) .
  It is really great, you have to keep up your finances, expand cities build armies and conquer the 
 world!!!
  Just the historical battles alone make the game worth playing.
  It's just like computer-addicts heaven!!!! (though everyone strategy lover WILL like this!!!)
 
  Every troop has it's own advantages and disadvantages (like most kind of this type of games) but 
 the best in this game is that it really works here. Also, you don't spawn the troops man by man 
 but in groups and that is A HUGE ADVANTAGE and it's really realistic (except the historical battles: D) . 
 The groups cooperate much better than the standard game and as a bonus (sometimes not so good) 
 the troops flee from the battlefield if they're losing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackNumonerian
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 27, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  
  
  I have had Rome TW for over a year now and I still play it every week! There is just sooooo much 
 you can do in this game that it's truly amazing!!
  
  Wether you want to play as Skipii and taking over Africa, or playing as Greeks and trying to take 
 over whoever, whatever and wherever you want, it's got it all in Rome TW. I can't stress enough 
 how much anyone that loves RTS games should buy this amazing game, there's just so much to talk 
 about!!! From stunning graphics to amazing gameplay, Rome TW is just an all around balance of greatness. 
 At first you start off with a choice of playing one of the three Roman families (after the introduction 
 to the game) : Julii, Brutii and the Skipii. It all depends on where you want to conquer. If your 
 a person that likes fighting in africa against desert-like infantry then Skipii is the one to go. 
 If you like fighting in Greece and Macedon towards Arabia, then Brutii is for you. Finally if you 
 like to fight against babarians and the like in middle-Europe, then Julii is the one to go. 
  
  All of these different Imperial compaigns pit themselves into conquering a certain continent 
 of where the family is required to go, but really you can do whatever you want! the Senate will 
 ask you to do their missions on different continents and will tell you what to do, if you choose 
 to listen to them. This part of the game is really neat since it's all up to the player (or general) 
 on who they want to obey and where they want to conquer. Therefore, making you more or less popular 
 with the senate and the people. In the end though, it will be you that has to take over the rest 
 of Rome and be the true conquerer of the world.
  
  It's very hard to find anythng wrong with this game, since it's so amazing! There are certain tiny 
 glitches in the game like the Roman cohorts not being able to break off of the "testugo" formation 
 for example. There is slight lag depending on how big you play your skirmiches, but the game will 
 tell you when you have created too much for the game to handle. As well when you first start off, 
 the controls are a little difficult at first, but as you play the game the toughness dissapears 
 and the fun sets in.
  
  Rome TW is by far the best RTS so far. The game brings a whole new element to the way RTS is played, 
 and so far it's proven to be the best and funnest way to play the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeshoe1121
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 26, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. simply put, think Lord of the Rings. For once, players can experience massive 
 scale battles with detailed models and graphics. The Enivonmnets are also well detailed, creating 
 a perfect backdrop to full scale carnage. The reworked interface for the campaign map is also amazing. 
 IT allows far more control over how you conudct your conquest of the ancient world. However, this 
 game is taxing on your computer, requiring a hefty video card and processor speed in order to have 
 trul massive battles (6000+ men) . There is also a somewhat flawed AI in the campaign map, often 
 buidling up massive fleets of useless ships or alllowing large numbers of their cities to be bribed 
 away. However, the downsides of the game are far outweighed by the Goods.
  
  This game is simply revolutionary in how players can so easilly control the hundreds of soldiers 
 on the battlefield at once. Medieval and Shogun total war were excellent stepping stones for Rome 
 Total War's Success. With the development of Medieval Totall war 2 underway, hopefully we will 
 see even better developments in the Total War Universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: langrisser2005
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I won't go into much detail of the game since there are many reviews already so i'm just giving 
 a impression of my verdict of the game.
  =======
  
  I enjoy a good strategy but Rome Total War blew me away with it's execution of style play. Gameplay 
 is a key factor in game prefection and you won't be disappointed in this. Managing Cities, Creating 
 Armys, Battling are just the major points but further down the ladder are limitless choices and 
 marks you will seize apon.
  
  It's outstanding 3D graphics and detail give a great impression of everything in the game, most 
 surely though the battle maps are just sensational with wonderful views of the land and surrondings 
 that just begs you to explore every inch.
  
  The Music is flawless, it just entices you to explore the world of Rome and engage every wretched 
 foe that stands in your path with fantastic pieces playing along with you.
  
  Along with music, the Sound is killer. You can't help but love sounds of your enemys screams along 
 with exquisite pre-battle dialogues that motivate your army before battle. What makes a great game 
 even greater is it's replay value and there is much to be in Rome: Total War. There are 20 factions 
 to play with and most of them each have their own campaign with different places and events in 
 the world.
  
  Not enough for ya? Well there's a expansion, Barbarian Invansion which includes a whole lot of 
 extras which should sizzle your nizzle.
  
  Rome: Total War was most deserving of 2004's RTS game of the year.
  Another beautifully executed 
 game by Creative Assembly. Keep 'em coming!
  Watchout for Medievil Total War coming up, it's gonna be HUGE!!!
  
  My Final Comment : I'm 
 so addicted to it, I can't stop playing!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leslie271289
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Not only wars, but politics too. Controlling factions and bring them to glory. This is type of 
 strategic game that I hoped for, unlike Age Of Mythology and Age Of Empire. One gets to control 
 the armies in great numbers, and thus provides a very freaking realistic PC game that I have ever 
 known or thouched on so far. In addition to its 3D graphics, this game is unmatchable. However, 
 it does have setbacks. One cannot get to control or play all the factions (unless using cheats, 
 which does not work for me) . But I have a great time using other playable factions. so, a TOTAL 
 10 SCORES for this game. Keep up the good works, Activision and Creative Assembly. I will be looking 
 forward to such games in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commando21
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War is a great real time stagaty game if you liked Medevil Total War then you will love 
 this game and will play it for hours and hours! The game play is great and you can controll up 
 to thousands of troops. The graphics for this game are really good and so is the unit selection. 
 I think this is one of the best real time stagaty games of all time. If you like stagaty games 
 then you will like playing this game. Thank you all the people who put there time in this GAME! 
 ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acesion
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Awsome tactics. Played the demo hated it but got the riped game and loved it and now plan to buy 
 the gold package and pre order medevial part two. great tactics with the freedom to conqure the 
 world the way you see fit by deplomacy or war mostly war. Far better then civilization and better 
 this shall i dare say it Warcraft series. At least try this game you will get hooked and the campaign 
 can easily last 100 hr + and many more with increase difficulty level. Tactics play a huge roll 
 like none seen in other games. If you are good enough you can take 300 troops and defete an army 
 of 2000 but often battles balence on the tip of a knife and are won by the honor and moral of you 
 soldiers rather then just numbers or troop strenth though they do play a roll. This is a must have 
 for RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionBob
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I must say I had never been a big fan of the total war series.
  After playing the previous games in the series I just wasn't getting the kind of fun I should've 
 out of such grand scale battles.
  So, what happens when I see Rome total war come into the playing field?
  For the longest time 
 nothing I wrote it off as nothing but another total war game.
  Then one day I heard some talk about this being alot of fun, so eventually my own curious nature 
 lead me to look this game up.
  Im incredibly glad I did, from the moment I started playing I knew this would be a huge change 
 of pace.
  In just true scale the battles are amazing, not only that great graphics to boot.
  The graphics 
 and sound bring the battles to life thousands of soldiers fighting.
  However if it was just all about graphics and sound I would give it a much lower score.
  The 
 ai however when on tougher settings put up a good challenge making each battle different and enjoyable.
 
  Battles never get old, its true this one of the few games where battles won't require you to skip 
 the battles just out of boredom.
  You might find yourself replaying certain battles over and over again trying to win the battle 
 with the least causalities as possible.
  However nothing can be without its own share of problems in this case,
  the multiplayer which 
 is so incredibly laggy that its really not worth your time less of course you have friends with 
 all t1 or t3 connections.
  However it has a pretty long single player, historical battles plus the ability to play as other 
 factions however Rome seems to be the most important in this case.
  I say Romes the most important because it is the most challenging.
  You'll be forced to do the 
 senates bidding while still trying to maintain your empire and trying to keep on a friendly level 
 with the population.
  That isn't to say its the only one worth playing I played Carthage as well as Rome myself.
  This 
 game has alot going for it if your a fan of real time strategy games this is for sure a buy.
  At the very least a try to see if you can really get into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spirolli
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I highly anticipated playing this game. The idea, overall look, and seemingly immense gameplay 
 drew me right into the game. However, this game has serious pitfalls when it comes to gameplay.
 
  
  Let's start at the heart of the matter: Gameplay. Yes, the gameplay was extremely interesting but 
 yet disappointing. In the beginning of the game I was hooked but as I played on it impressiveness 
 waned, and eventually plummeted. To Creative Assembly's credit they were only moderate or small 
 problems, but the caveat to that is that the amount of small or moderate problems could add up 
 to several large problems. 
  
  Cities and Towns: these were seemingly ingenious in their design but could have been made a lot 
 better. Building was a primary problem. It was way too generic. "It takes 3 turns to build this, 
 4 to build this, and 7 to build that," why? The immensity of the buildings, you could say, attributes 
 to the time it takes to build, but the numbers seem way too generic and arbitrary. The Roman aqueducts 
 if quantified into a reasonable and appropriate number would probably be 14 or 15 turns. Due to 
 the fact that they were massively long and tall waterways that worked their intricately through 
 the waterways of Roman cities. But 14 or 15 is only a number that I came up with out of reasonable 
 suggestion. In my opinion, building time should have been attributed to the amount of available 
 workers and slaves in a town and then setting them to a work tempo. And setting them too a fast 
 tempo on a long job would cause their health to dwindle and worker population may fade a little. 
 In turn, the player may take some town population and put them to work. That is only my suggestion 
 and it could have a little tweaking but I don't think it will have an effect since Creative Assembly 
 wouldn't tweak a nearly 1 1/2 year old game. However, I found the gameplay of recruitment and training 
 to be reasonable approach to that aspect of the game. One problem could be the idea that once could 
 not merge small units (units not armies) together (of the same type) rather than just disbanding 
 them. Overall management of conquered towns was quite frustrating. Far off cities (from Rome) , 
 would be riot prone and hardly runnable; once things got bad enough you would inevitably have to 
 wait until a civil revolt pushed you out of town, then you would siege and take the village, and 
 then simply enslave or purge a certain amount of the population to get everything back to normal. 
 In the process, you would loose thousands of gold trying to appease riot prone through daily games 
 and low tax rates. But eventually that stratagem never works and you waste needed gold on a selfish 
 town. They should have had enslavement and purging of part of the population to be an option while 
 in the town. Families were not a problem for me but there could be some.
  
  Armies: Once playing the game for the first time it seemed like "in-the- action" battles were a 
 great and fun way to approach warfare. In first and, maybe, second glance it certainly could be, 
 but the "in-the-action" battles are disappointing and, one could say, incompetent try at making 
 them. But before I say anything I would like to remind everyone that I understand the idea and 
 finer points of maximum potential graphic rendering. I know that a RTW could not render 100,000 
 men, fighting each other (though the idea of it is extremely interesting) . I know that the varied 
 actions and commands of over 20 units and its graphical rendering is a challenge for graphics chips. 
 Yet the small units that are placed on battlefields look minuscule and hardly impressive. But that 
 visual illusion can be attributed to the large maps that the battles occur; if the maps were greatly 
 smaller the battles would like massive. In-battle strategy is a pain to the player. And the anticipation, 
 to run a 10,000 man army, created by the game's intro film does not help to alleviate the letdown 
 that one feels playing the game. Especially assaults on massive cities. One type of siege equipment 
 takes up an unnecessarily large section of wall in which several siege equipment could be placed. 
 Armies take the illogically long route into a cities. Navies are extremely annoying and transporting 
 armies across the Mediterranean sea can be very annoying, taking several trips and, if not properly 
 reinforced with other ships, can be disastrous. 
  
  Overall gameplay: Other than what I've already mentioned there are some more small problems. Becoming 
 Emperor of Rome has no benefits, only change in title. I was also angry that one could not continue 
 to conquer Europe and parts of the Middle East and Asia. You can only obtain 50 regions which I 
 thought was idiotic. 
  
  Graphics: Graphics are good for the capability that the game engines could render without making 
 a normal computer explode. Kudos, to the programmers for using the processor to a possible maximum
 
  
  Sound: The campaign and battle music is surprisingly not increasingly annoying every time you hear 
 it. The battle and campaign music are great mood setters. The only reason that sound achieved only 
 a 9 was that announcement sounds got quickly annoying after every turn.
  
  Value: The natural feel of the game is great at first. I had a great time playing it but after 
 a while everything became banal. No new additions later on in the game made conquering a dull occupation. 
 And new recruit-able units were only appreciable if you did play the "in-the-action' battles. Value 
 mostly suffered for the small annoying aspects of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dren_gs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 25, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  - Even saying "The best Historic Real Time Strategy of all times is not enough for this one". Great 
 work from Creative Assembly. I've never seen a better Campaign in any other game, all those factions, 
 troops, buildings, they've done a hard work on this but . Still 9.1 is not enough for Rome: Total 
 War, at least 9.4... why? First Gameplay deserves a score of 10, I've played this game more than 
 any other and I don't think anyone left this game after 2 or 3 weeks of playing. What makes it 
 better "The true history of the Roman Empire". Graphics, if we only take the soldiers and the City's 
 when you play you gotta give this 10 ponits but the Nature wasn't designed how it should've been 
 to, it's not so good so i have to say 9 is the right one. Sounds, well they could've been a bit 
 better but they're still in a good form and soundtracks are great too. What I like in this game 
 and probably what everyone likes in this game is the Campaign mode, the Campaign Map that's where 
 I spend most of the time while I play this game. I like more playing in the Campaign Map, moving 
 the armys to different places, building, recruiting soldiers, fighting with the fleet and everything 
 else what's possible to do in the Campaign Mode. Of course it doesn't mean that I don't like the 
 Battle Mode, in fact it's terrific, great, the best battles I ever fought. What makes this game 
 more interesting of course is the True History of the Roman Empire and how you have the opportunity 
 to be an Emperor and rewrite the history of Rome, and all those politic agreements, alliances they 
 make the game even more interesting. And of course like every other game this one has it's problems, 
 some things that i didn't like are: the Sarmatians and the Illyrians are nowhere, and I don't know 
 what did they think when they made Archers, you have to fire upon a Unit 3 or 4 times just to kill 
 3 or 4 men... I still play this game even though it was out in September 2004 (as far as i remember) , 
 but for the moment I'm playing it with the Rome Total Realism MOD and they really made a great 
 MOD for a great game like Rome Total War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batboy1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is the awesome of awesome! You can build your city's, conquer your enemys, or allies, 
 and become the ruler of all Europe! This game is my #1 top pick! Build your army's with an amazing 
 arsenal at your disposal! get this game now! Free online play, and custom battle maps! 10 of 10! 
 This game will shock and awe you! Unbelievable that someone can make a game such as this in this 
 time of technology. Love this game to my death! And you can choose from Factions like the Carthaginians 
 or Egyptians, Parthians, Barbarians, and even early Britian! Hoah R: TW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happy321
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be incredibly addicting, and quite unique. Although it does have similar characteristics 
 as Civilization 3, it is still quite unique. I love the turned base strategy map, but i found that 
 the actual fighting in the game was lacking, i found the fighting to be frustrating, the controls 
 are completely off and something needs to be done. You can automaticaly have the computer fight 
 for you, which is probably the best part of the game because i dont really feel like fighting a 
 10-30 minute battle 100's of times. Anyways the game is fantastic and if you enjoy strategy games 
 like civilization and the previous total war games then you should definently give this one a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xed122333
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I first received Rome: Total War as a gift from my father. On the first weekend I played it, I 
 was completely addicted. I started my first campaign on very hard and began to look for FAQs etc. 
 When I told my friends about the game, a few of them bought it and were addicted as I was. However, 
 after three or four months, the game lost its replay value. My campaigns were slaughter quests 
 filled with Auto-Battling and bribing government officials with my massive treasury. At this point, 
 I abandoned the campaign and began to play online. I found a poor online game-finding inteface, 
 terrible lag management and people playing with dial-up connections. However, when I played with 
 my friends I found the game enjoyable and lag-free (shows how lag isn't really RTW's fault) . This 
 game was excellent, but the online play was a major miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloader_feni
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I liked Medieval total war and i never hoped that the developers could do it but they did, this 
 is not Medieval with better graphics, it is a new game to me. Previoulsy, you had a world map like 
 Risk style of game but not the map is in full 3D and units you build moves like in real time as 
 well, this adds so much to the game. Rome total war is still a turn based game, you build your 
 empire from scrach and handle everything from diplomacy to marry your doughters to fifferent men 
 that will be your next generals or be a totally loosers. When you start the game there will be 
 senate, you must complete missions that senate gives you but if you fail to suport them they will 
 be unhappy and it could be a big problem in the long run, you play one of the 3 families in Rome, 
 the Julii, Bruttii and Scipii, no matter who you choose, you must conquer the world and also overthrow 
 the senate. 
  
  When you complete enough missions for the senate, they will promote you as their leader but the 
 other families will get angry that you have gained so much favor so you will have to be prepared 
 for a civil war with the families. But your goal still remains, You must crush Rome and become 
 the emperor. It wont be that easy as it sounds becouse the world is big and many factions awaits 
 you, if you crush them around the wolrd you will also unlock them so you can start a new game with 
 them, you have the germanians, Carthage, brittish and many many more to handle. When you engage 
 the enemy on the wolrd map, you will fight, you can choose to let the computer handle it so you 
 can consentrate more on economy and other things but if you decide to lead the fight yourself, 
 you will be taken to a 3D battlefield that has the graphics like a superb fps game, you can command 
 up to 10 000 soldiers at once. Now the 3D map is very important to the gameplay, if you engage 
 a enemy on a road or in the forest, the battlefield will be simulated as you stood on the world 
 map when you engaged, that means, you will se the road or forest which can be used as a advantage 
 to your troops.
  
  Rome total war is exellent game to me, no other game have managed to do something like this, i 
 can simply wounder wher the total war series will take us next and what can be improved???
  Something that could have been better is the AI, it is strong but sometimes easy to read and it 
 does not offer that challange so put it on very hard level and you will get more fun.
  
  Multi player is played over gamespy arcade and 8 players can engage in combat, there is no turn 
 based portion of the game for multi player, to bad. Rome total war will take up your time so make 
 sure you have plenty of it. I must also warn you, this game is like a drug, you cant stop playing 
 it becouse it is so exiting and really fun experience you cant find elswhere.
  
  Not only the best in the series but also one of the best strategy games i ever played in my years 
 as a gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 19, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the series Total war and I have almost every version, I was originally worried that 
 by buying this version that I just be buying yet another total war :medieval. 
  
  However that was not the case, I was pleasnlty surprised to find that Rome total wars offers the 
 gamer a yet new experiance compared to the others versions. If you heard and watch the video review 
 then there isn't much more that needs to be said. 
  
  it is extremely hard to say anything about this game which along is saying something. However I 
 will list or say the things that I found wrong or broken with the game or ways to improve on. As 
 there is no such thing as perfection. Were all humans after all.
  
  One of the problems with the combat is the picture does get a bit laggy when you zoom up to watch 
 the fight. The picture becomes a blur and a mess and you can't really have full control.
  
  The campaign mission can become tideous and boring the Campaign is long and hard unless you use 
 the cheats that is out there to speed things along. I have to say i feel the campaign will keep 
 players entertained once or twice however after that it becomes like yeah I've already done that 
 no need to do it again.
  
  The 4 extra factions you can control the cathage and the gauls, brits etc are almost exactly the 
 same with not so much to seperate between them, yes I know this is called Rome total war not Gaul 
 :total war however if they going to include this as an extra surly they should of had a bit more 
 attention to. With different looking people for starters.
  
  The Original total war with the Samuri: total war then the mongal invasion: total war. There was 
 little cinimatics, to signify when some event happened like assasin sent to kill you get a short 
 little movie. Speaking personally I miss not seeing them and having to read everything.
  
  Monuments video sticking: The videos when you capture a wonder of the world never is able to play 
 smoothly I think it worked once but after that it always sticks. They run perfectly in windows 
 media player so if you want to see them with interruption then perhaps opening up the game folder 
 will suit your needs.
  
  Also one other thing in the medieval total war, they made it that your daughters could marry your 
 own sons, incest marrages. I was surprised they didn't leave that in here as well.
  
  As it is believe the Romans dignatiys practiced this. To keep the Royal blood line pure so to speak. 
 
  
  This game will appeal to all those tacticly minded, that have played the other games as well which 
 have been made. The wait for the Rome version was worth the wait. 
  
  You can look forwad to long playing time and endless fun to boot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesis907
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 19, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War In A Nutshell Is A Strategy Based Game With Huge Battles, Rivalries, Cities And 
 Countries To Conquer But Im Not Here To Give It To You In A Nutshell Im Here To Tell You A In 
 Depth Non Biased Opinion Of This Game To Help You Decide If This Is For You.
  From The Moment I Saw The Intro Of This Game To Be Honest I Was Not Impressed By The Poor Quality 
 Video Intro But Dont Let That Put You Off, Although There Are 20 Different Fractions Most Of These 
 Only Become Playable Once You Have Completed A Campaign Before This Is Quite Annoying But When 
 You First Start A New Campaign You Get A Choice Of 3 Very Good Different Roman Families The Infamous, 
 Sly And Cunning House Of Julii, The Merciless Strength and Power Of The House Of Brutii And The 
 extravagantly wealthy House of Scipii Each With Its Own Reasons For Wanting To Take Over The Roman 
 Empire And The World Once You Have Chosen A Fraction You Cannot Change Unless You Start A New Campaign 
 As For The Differences Between The 3 Fractions Well They Are Practically Identical Apart From A 
 Few Different Units Each. As The Game Starts You Are Put Into A Tutorial Which To Start With You 
 Cannot Skip, This Is A Good Tutorial Which Does Explain Very Well How To Control Your Units Efficiently 
 But Can Get Quite Tedious Especially If You Have Played The Game Before But Play Through It And 
 Once You Get To A Certain Point You Can Either Continue If You Dont Feel Confident Enough To Head 
 Out On Your Own Or Exit And Continue With The Real Campaign From Here, If You Want You Can Turn 
 Off All The Annoying Advice You Get Which Is Well Advised. Depending On Which Fraction You Choose 
 You Will Start In Different Places Of Italy Each With A City Or 2 To Control And A Few Men. You 
 Will Automatically Be Allies With Your Fellow Roman Fractions Which You Will Do Good To Keep Them 
 That Way Until You Are Strong Enough To Overthrow Them. When You Look Around The Campaign Map It 
 Can Become Quite Daunting To Start With But Dont Worry This Will All Become Normal As You Build 
 Your Army Up And Spread Across The World Like A True Tyrant. As You Will Find Out In The Tutorial 
 It Is Very Important To Look After Your Money As With Money Comes Great Power And The Bigger Your 
 Army The More Money It Is Going To Cost To Keep Which Brings Me To 1 Of The Best Things I The Game 
 You Can Set The Computer To Manage All Of Your Money Or Just Let Them Manage The Taxes Each Turn, 
 Which Is The Same For Each Settlement You Can Set The Computer To Manage Buildings And Unit Recruitment, 
 Although This Is Very Clever And Can Help You To Focus On Other Things, Personally I Recommend 
 You To Let The Computer Manage Your Taxes But That About It.
  Each Year Is Divided Into Two Turns Meaning There Are About 550 Turns Total, Im Not Sure Of This 
 But The Is Easily Enough Turns To Last 20  40+ Hours Of Game Play. The main Part Of Rome Total 
 War Is The Outstanding Battles Which Are Revolutionary I Dont Think That There Is Another Game 
 Quite Like This As You Really Get The Feel Of A Real General Commanding Each Set Of Units To Do 
 A different Task And Tactical Thinking Is Defiantly The Key To A Good Battle. Each Different Set 
 Of Unit Comes In Different Sizes Depending On What You Chose In The Options This Can Completely 
 Change The Battle Aspect The Bigger Unit Size The Better But At Times Can Come Quite Hectic To 
 Control All At Once Though You Get Better The Further You Get Into The Game. There Are 3 Different 
 Types Of Battles Which Are All Out Bloodthirsty Battles On A Field, Snow Or Sand, Assaults On Settlements 
 Which At Times Can Be Tricky To Get Through The Enemies Defenses And Walls But You Have A Verity 
 Of Different Weapons To Counter Them And Defending A Settlement Is The Third Each Has A Different 
 Feel To Them As No Battle Can Be The Same As The Last Which Makes The Game Keep Its Appeal For 
 Longer. The Multiplayer Is Another Great Aspect Of This Game And Can Be Great Fun To Play A Human 
 Player Opposed To The Computer And Really Put Your General Skills To The Test. As For The Historical 
 Value This Game Has isnt Much To Rely On Though They Have Done A Good Job With Outfits And Different 
 Fractions Building Styles But The Overall Accuracy Of The History Is Not That Good But There Are 
 A Wide Range Of Patches And Mods If You Want To Improve It Even Further. This Game Is Well Worth 
 The Money And Can Keep You Entertained For A Few Months At Least This Is A Definite Must For Any 
 PC Gamer Try It For Yourself You Wont Be Disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is the third Total War game from England's Creative Assembly, and, to make a long 
 story short, it's the best one yet. It was naturally expected to build on its illustrious predecessors, 
 which featured epic-scale real-time battles and impressive attention to historical realism and 
 detail. Shogun: Total War was a promising start for the series, while Medieval: Total War built 
 on that promise to create an even more engrossing strategy game. With Rome: Total War, Creative 
 Assembly takes the next step, and it's as much a revolutionary step as it is an evolutionary one, 
 thanks to a beautiful new 3D graphics engine that makes the series' tactical battles -- featuring 
 thousands of soldiers -- better than ever. The results are nothing short of spectacular, helping 
 make Rome: Total War the very definition of an epic strategy game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Mol
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  This game opens an own genre in my opinion.
  It's even more than just a game. Historians around the world use the game merely because of its 
 reality. Modding academies created by Total War. 
  
  It's almost more than a game......... it's history
  
  The best graphics on mass at all seen 
 on a PC. One of the best game engines ever. If only other game studios were so productive.
  
  You can spend days on the Imperial Campaign with not only war but also social-economic aspects 
 of that time. And when at last you don't feel at playing this game anymore, try a week later and 
 notice it's still more than fun.
  
  Although I would recommend everyone to mess around in the game data so you don't have to play the 
 entire Roman campaign before you can play as other factions on the Imperial map, such as the Cathaginians, 
 the Greek Cities, the Seleucids (THEY RULE) , the Egyptians and so on.
  
  Everyone's worth giving this game a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theking52
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Fun gameplay. Ofcourse i'm talking about the battles. The turn-based part is ok but that really 
 isn't meant to be the heart of the game so ... yea. one thing i like about the map though is that 
 depending on where you are on the map is just what you'll see on the battle map. Eg, if you're 
 near a river or attacking from a mountainside, etc. The battles however, are great. i play using 
 huge scale for armies which makes the battle about 1,500 - 2,500 per side and that is just insane. 
 
  
  Graphics are great. no F. E. A. R. or anything but then this is RTS and there's thousands of ppl on 
 screen at a time. a great improvement from Medieval: TW is that each unit has its own animation 
 and therefore moves by itself. so yea... the graphics aren't perfect but they're great.
  
  Sound is brilliant, all the battle cries and orders being shouted out... somewhat puts you in the 
 middle of a fight. Music suits well specially one on the strategy map (kind of like an opera) feels 
 just right for that.
  
  Value is good since you can spend a LOT of time with each faction and there's incentive to try 
 others because there's some unit changed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazykage
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This easly the best rts ever it not only has the greatest of all the total war graphics. But as 
 all total war games it has easly the best fights. With amounts flowing over the thousand of infantry 
 this game will hook any rts fan. This game also has a pretty nice looking world map. Also if you 
 like to actually plan out battles and have the real stratigy of war this is your game .So if u 
 are a die hart rts fan pick up ROME TOTAL WAR it wont let you down. 
  And if you like rome total war it might be a good idea to get barbairan invasion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graeme2005
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  After playing on many other Total War games, in my opinion, Rome Total War is the best of them 
 all. Again, my review is split up into the following categories: Gameplay, Graphics, Sound, Value 
 and Tilt. I believe (although i'm not sure at the moment) that a T. V. programme called Time Commanders, 
 which is all about epic battles, uses a Rome Total War engine, I think. Anyway let's get on with 
 the review!
  
  Gameplay (10/10) : (Not often I give a game 10 for gameplay!) I honestly think that the gameplay 
 for this game excels in delivering the combat and the strategy nicely together. Now, for once in 
 a strategy game, it is not the higher the number of troops (although that does help) that wins 
 the opposing teams, it is the clever strategy and logic that is put forward. The game really makes 
 you think about where to place troops or siege weapons, the campaign will have you stuck on your 
 mnitor for hours on end. When you upgrade your town, the Roman Senate bombard you with annoying 
 missions to keep you busy. It really makes you feel that you have achieved something, ombat is 
 also very realistic, where you have an assortment of troops with strengths and weaknesses which 
 you have to master. Overall I knight this game's gameplay a well earned 10.
  
  Graphics (9/10) : Stunning graphics in a very realistic B. C Rome. I love the way you can actually 
 see the troops armour in a map battle, you can see that time has been spent to make every ounce 
 of deatail noticable in the whole game, when a catapult smashes open a gate you can actually see 
 the shattered debris lying around where the gate once stood. The only reason I gave graphics a 
 9 is because when you view your town on the battle map, the buildings can seem a bit fuzzy and 
 wavy, ah well you can't expect everything in a game to be perfect can you?
  
  Sound (9/10) : Very realistic sound, I love it when your commander shouts to your troops to 'Foreward 
 March' on the battle map. I also like the sound when hundreds of arrows are firing and the clashing 
 of swords and spears in melee. Cavalry charges are so realistic it makes you think that you are 
 there. Voice acting is very good, also. Victoria (your advisor) even sounds ancient Roman. Again, 
 the only reason I gave sound a 9 is because on the campaign map the sound track loops and loops 
 and there is no variety, which can be annoying if you've been on hours.
  
  Value (10/10) : Yeah, can't see anything wrong with a one time payment of 32.99 ($49.99) for years 
 worth of happiness. The game keeps you hooked in, and I promise you, you will never get bored of 
 this game. It's as if, when you first get it and start playing it, that you can never stop. Therefore 
 the value gets the thumbs up.
  
  Tilt (10/10) : Fantastic, there are loads of different options on the game that you can do that 
 it makes this game in no way linear. The campaign map can be a very different place once you conquer 
 an enemy faction (nation) . Because another enemy may benefit from that! This alone gives the game 
 a great tilt.
  
  So, here's my review, I hope that in the naer future you get this game because it won't disappoint. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irulehexen
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Rome, one indication of such and all bow down to such a mantle as if such were a consul to an alcove 
 of murmillos and myrmidons. Rome- a cosmopolitan leviathan who have held many in thrall to such 
 that of might and glory. 
  
  In the game, players are presented to a rich multitude of characters, and a cast of historical 
 evidence and details. Players are represented with historical scenes such as the battle of Cannae 
 and the graphics are good, stretched to the last pixel, offering views of armors such as the lorica 
 segmentata and the lorica hamata. Hoplites flank the sides and form a dense formation of sarissas. 
 Triarrii act as vanguard and the legios' last Hope. Hastati engage in the front ranks and act as 
 the 'palisades' of the legios. The camera has a nifty feature that lets you drop to a direct latitude 
 with the soldiers, offering a primary view of the carnage galore! Centurions march with plumes 
 and with vine rod at hand, and auxiliary cohorts respond to their sergeants' beckonings. Excellent 
 stratagems and theorems at hand and superb gameplay. A great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 10, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is the best real time strategy game I have ever played and that includes all of 
 the games in the Command and Conquer series. What really made me like the game is how deep and 
 intricate it is. The actual battles you take part in are great, the camera is dynamic and the units 
 are surprisingly well detailed and animated. The options for attack and controlling the battalions 
 of units are well suited and make for realistic battle strategies. However I had more fun just 
 managing my growing empire from the world map which is well detailed on its own. Moving individual 
 armies that you organize, deciding family buisness, building towns and cities, dealing with foreign 
 politics and just observing the empire are very entertaining in their own right. There is a lot 
 of play time to be had and you will play for days on end and still have far to go. Its like an 
 ongoing simulation more than it is a game although it can be played in a more consice manner if 
 you wish to.
  The learning core is steep and the naval battles have a lot of room to improve but this game still 
 ranks among my all time favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon247uk
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  With fantastic graphics, brilliant soundtrack and great gameplay; Rome Total War is so far the 
 best game to emerge vfrom the total war workshop. Each and every mission is unique as you command 
 your troops through britannia and the ancient world. Follow in the footsteps of the great Emperors 
 of Rome themselves to become the greatest leader the world has ever seen.
  
  Play on intense battlefields each with their own vantage point eg: hills, plains. rivers etc. Command 
 over 40 units each of them are as unique as the last to their own civilisation.
  
  Play over 15 civilisations including Gaul, Macedonia, Rome. Or you can achieve the umtimate goal. 
 Wipe out all opposers and take control of the senate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaseykahnefan01
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  is it just me?... Or does this Game really have a toll on how much time your on the computer
  
  This game.... Has to be one of the best computer Games ever to be played on the computer.... well 
 ok never should i say best because there is always room for improvement.... but defiantly a top 
 5 in my book
  
  The graphics and Pre-Game Videos are just stunning... The battles that take place... you can have 
 anywhere between 1,000 to 10,000 men on the battle field at any given time during a major battle... Although 
 you will need a pretty decent computer for more men... The game really does make you feel you are 
 with them into battle...
  
  The uniqueness of the Different Factions and the Struggle of Power in Rome and with the Senate 
 adds to the Fun of playing the game.... One lesson to be learned is that you will always have enemies... The 
 more popular you become with the people generally the less popular you become with the senate... mainly 
 because they fear you will take Their power.. and when it comes time you must fight your fellow 
 roman allies..... But what must be done has to be done
  
  Overall the game can be challenging as not only do you fight your way to glory on the battle field.. but 
 you must also convince your people you are a noble and worthy leader
  
  newly conquered settlements take time for them to get used to... be a tyrant and you will be facing 
 countless rebellions
  
  Maybe some improvements to this game.... Is that Night Battles should be added... because even though 
 you can have Night battles in the custom battle you cannot in the campaign mode..... Something to 
 look forward to?
  
  With any game comes a few glitches... and ive experienced some.. Such as the game Closing itself 
 at some random times... its a flaw in the design but it has'nt happened to often and the Auto save 
 keeps me from losing anything i just did
  
  So i believe this game is worth a Coveted 9.8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoboPig555
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. The characters and their personality's make you feel connected to them. the 
 battles, with hundreds of bodies under the soldeir's feet and with general's speeches are stunning 
 yet gruesome. The strategy will test your brain with it's constant riddle of how to strike the 
 balance between strenght, experience, weaponry and courage. there is never a boring moment in this 
 game. the best part is that you can watch the epic of rome, unfold before you and you can shape 
 it.! you never know if rome will be conquered by carthage. or if germania will become a superpower 
 after rampaging through france and spain. perhaps greece will conquer jerusalem? who knows. after 
 all you must decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: upan-atom
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Its the best stratergy game i hav ever played on its better than the first one and that was a great 
 game too. The way you can control your armies is well good. It is fairly easy to control the battle 
 you just need to remember where your units are. The only let down is that you can't control your 
 daughters and the way that you get in debt for no reason in some cities and you have done everything 
 you can to get out of debt, but overall its a very good game. And when you control all the settlements 
 you feel a great achievement at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bijilkif
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonfi315
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  when i was in my house with nothing else to do i had the luck of catch history channel just when 
 a huge cavalry made tons of soldiers fly in the air, my first thought was WOW and there when they 
 say that it was a video game my reaction was WOOOW.
  
  before i get RTW my sleep hour was about 11:30 but after i get it the first 3 weeks i went to sleep 
 at 2-3 of the morning.
  if its your first time playing RTW its really hard for you to win a campaign at the first time 
 but when you get used to the game its just fine for a strategy game. RTW is just the best game 
 ever for many reasons, the first one its that the game its not only about big fights, there are 
 a lot of civilization-like playing that you will love, thing like getting your family to the top 
 of the roman social structure or on the first line of your army (thats not a good idea my son died 
 in my first battle) .
  
  the units, buildings, and campaigns are just awsome and if your not interested in campaigns and 
 you just want to se massive armies collide then you will be really satisfied, personally i love 
 to watch a cavallery charge even knowing that i will lose if i do that for example sending 3000 
 cavalry soldiers against a 5000 hoplites althought they crushed me and i lose that battle it was 
 SO FUN TO WATCH (call me sadistic if you want)
  
  if your still hesitanting about buying it just watch the screenshots section and you will see what 
 im talking about. actually the only thing that bothers me its the sound, yeah its great but its 
 hard to re-gain that emotion you had when you first hear a battle because after a few times its 
 not so cool hearing a bunch of guys screaming for their lives, and i love that sound (yeah im a 
 sadistic bastard, so what?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nandosman
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  This is a really excellent game, maybe the better real-time strategy game, but I wanna tell you 
 about this new mod "Rome: Total Realism", did you know???
  Well, let me explain a little more....
  This is like an expansion, but it's not from activision, 
 is from RTW fan club; yes, maybe you're thinking that for that reason it's a bad idea, but let 
 me tell you something, I played it, and is wonderful.
  It's propose is to upgrade the game to a more realistic level; there you can find real units, real 
 battle formations and more realistic AI.
  The map has been extended and now it reaches Asia, there are new civilizations and new (more realistic) 
 faction's symbols...
  You can find more detailed information about this Mod in their page www. rometotalrealism. org.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wakkarr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Excellent sequel and a brilliant addition to one of the best series. If you have played turn based 
 strategy, RTS's or any of the games in this series, you will love this game. The game is certainly 
 not perfect, commands sometimes dont work as intended and the troops can sometimes be stupid (shooting 
 your own guys in the back instead of shooting over them. But it is easy to look past these minor 
 problems after you really get into the game. 
  
  Both the turn based and RTS portions of the game are fun and both are equally rewarding (though 
 there is nothing like winning a RTS battle with only 1/5 as many men as your opponent) . The AI 
 is OK, while it isnt a military genius, even at the hardest difficulty, it can pull off some basic 
 tactical moves which if you dont watch out for could really hurt you. 
  
  There is a nice variety of units, and with the addition of elephants and chariots there is a never-ending 
 amout of tactics you could employ (running your elephants through your phalanx formantions is not 
 a good one) . There are also a number of noew formations for your troops, not just the wedge, loose 
 and tight. Not missile cavalry can run in a large circle raining missiles on the enemy, and there 
 is the phalanx which is basilly a wall of pointly things that masacre a direct charge by just about 
 anything.
  
  Those familiar with the earlier games may be surprised with the new way of movement of armies on 
 the campaign map, instead of dropping from province to province you move a set distance taking 
 into account what troops are in the army (eg: cavalry=fast seige equipment=slow) , which means the 
 tight packed provinces of rome now have a big advantage over the wide open lands of egypt and the 
 numidian lands.
  
  The automanage option works well with town and cities, the AI does a good job of making sure taxes 
 are good and that the city grows properly, but the real tacticians will develope stategies of their 
 own.
  
  The graphics are the big upgrade from Medieval Total War. Battles now look excellent with every 
 man on the fielddoing realistic actions. 
  
  In closeing this is a must have game for anyone who likes the genre or anyone interested in that 
 time period, and if you are neither still check it out because you will still probably love it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star67
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  Fans of strategy games will love this game! First of all the environments are huge! And with the 
 huge environments you can have an even huger army! The graphics are outstanding, the warriors up 
 close look really nice. A nice part of the game is being able to chose your own generals and officers, 
 certain officers can boost your armies moral. Oh and moral is a great part of the game! Your troops 
 can scare the enemy into defeat, or the enemy can make your soldiers run like hell! But if your 
 soldiers run there is no turning back, your soldiers will surrender to the enemy (white flag) . The 
 siege on castles are very fun, you can use siege towers or battering rams to destroy the walls 
 of an enemy city! Once you take over a city you can choose to exterminate the populas, enslave 
 the populace, or do nothing at all. But be careful a newly taken over city may revolt and you will 
 no longer have control of the city. Oh before i forget if an enemy army out matches you do not 
 fight! You will lose! This game is extremely hard! Bottom line if you like a hard challenging strategy 
 game this game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantasman69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2005 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Enthralling, addicting and just fun! I've been playing in campaing mode mostly. I've found myself 
 playing hours into the night when I should be sleeping! Very, very addictive. It's amazing how 
 immersed you become in empire building. I don't really take advantage of the ability to fight my 
 own battles - I let the AI do it for me. I like first-person shooters for that kind of stuff. However, 
 I'm now unable to proceed any further in my campaign because the game keeps crashing. I have a 
 top-of-the-line video card at the time of this review (nVidia GeForce 7800 GTX) in a laptop rigged 
 for gaming. I've read other posts of this problem too. Hopefully I'll get a response from Activision 
 on possible fixes because I would be bummed out if it couldn't be fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabe0814
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The review deck says allot. This is a very fun game with lots of strategy as well as action too. 
 It IS highly addictive and definitely one of the best computer games I have played.
  
  The game is somewhat hard, but not too hard to take away from the fun. The historical battle tend 
 to be harder than most other things in this game.
  
  This game has a custom battle mode where you can set up just about any kind of medieval battle 
 you can imagine. Or you can play with a quick battle, so that if you don't know what to do in a 
 custom battle, you can have the game choose for you.
  
  And finally, the campaign. You plays as Rome, and basically the goal is to build up cities and 
 take over news ones, and fight in wars. This mode must be the very most addictive thing in the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gargarensi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War follows the real epic battles that Rome faced during the years of the country's 
 glory. If you ever wanted to see how this was like, here's your chance. You will be able to take 
 the control of standard soldiers, archers, calvary, chariots and of course elephants. Now it's your 
 chance to crush your enemies with your elephants. One of the highlights of the game. You play as 
 families that control a provinces of rome and as you fight and win you conquer more land. sounds 
 like a usual typical RPG game which really doesn't surprise me. The imperial campain is very very 
 long! It took me more that 30 hours to finish the game! As the game progresses the levels get harder 
 of course But there isn't anything that actually gives me a challenge because usually I crush my 
 barbarian enemies in one try and ones you don't win don't really have any influence on your game.
 
  
  The graphics aren't that bad but if you have a bad computer, you end up with guys that makes the 
 guys look like they have no limbs and arms due to the bad quality. But that doesn't really matter, 
 that would still be able to get you through the game. The number of units in a battalion depends 
 on how much your computer sucks. The graphics are so good you can sometimes see face expressions. 
 And it ceases to amaze me when after a huge battle there are hundreds or thousands of bodies.
 
  
  The sound is pretty sweet too. The music changes depending on what is happening in the scene and 
 there are lots of sound effcts. It's funny hearing the screams of soldiers my calvary or my elephants 
 stomp on. The game get repetitive really quickly. There are two kinds of battles you're bound to 
 fight on. First one is sieging a city which you can easily do thanks to your handy onagers ans 
 siege towers and from there you can use your imagination. And the second is the open plains battles 
 which I find to be kinda cool for awhile until it becomes too easy and all you do is flank em. 
 The AI is to blame. It's kinda bad and they never really get agressive.
  
  The multiplayer isn't that great but is a bit good since you're facing real people who are boviously 
 smarter than a computer. There is the standard one on ones and team matches in single player maps.
 
  In the end, Rome Total War is just what's worth your well-earned money and worth the time. Instead 
 of renting it just buy it. You won't finish it if you rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fidosim
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that Rome: Total War is the first game in the Total War series that i've bought. 
 I've played Medieval and Shogun, but not enough to make an accurate comparison between them and 
 Rome.
  
  Gameplay: In Rome: Total War you play out the game as one of three Roman Factions (later on you 
 can unlock other factions) . You've got the Julii, who are looking to conquer Gaul and Germania. 
 Then there's the Scipii, who are tasked with defeating Carthage and expanding the empire in North 
 Africa and Spain. Finally, you have the Brutii, who have to deal with the Greeks and Macedonians. 
 (The Brutii are probably the hardest Roman faction to play as in the beginning. But if you can 
 overrun the Peloponnesus, they can quickly become very rich) . Once you've chosen your faction, 
 you get to the campaign map, where you can used turn based strategy to recruit your armies, manage 
 your cities, and attempt to conquer settlements. Once you engage an enemy army or town in combat, 
 you can drop down to the battlefield to fight it out in real time, or you can "auto-resolve" the 
 battle, and the aftermath can be determined based on how good the generals were, and troop strength. 
 The game offers you the oportunity to use any number of strategies, both on the campaign map, and 
 on the battlefield. For example, as the Julii family I would try to fight on the open field, and 
 I would use my legionairres' superiority to win the day. Another time, when I was playing as the 
 Germanic tribes, I found myself trying to set up ambushes against advancing Roman legions, in the 
 hope of catching the superior force off guard. Just like in real ancient warfare, numbers don't 
 always win the day. With clever tactics, you can overcome any opponent. The game also comes with 
 a number of historical battles, which let you fight real battle situations that occured in the 
 time period. So you can fight a short battle or a long campaign, depending on how much free time 
 you have.
  
  The gameplay is very addicting. I found myself doing something that I normally don't do. I would 
 set my alarm clock on the weekends so that I could play for the whole day. 
  
  Graphics: The battles in Rome look simply amazing. You can watch all the action of thousands of 
 soldiers battling it out, and then you can zoom in to see individual soldiers duking it out. You 
 can almost feel the impact when a cavalry charge hits a line of infantrymen. 
  
  Sound: The musical score in this game really gets you into the action. During the course of a battle, 
 the music can change depending on what is going on in the battle, which really gets you in the 
 appropriate mood. Then on the campaign map, you can hear soothing Latin songs, upbeat wind instrument 
 music, etc. 
  
  Value: You can conquer the known world as any Roman faction, and then attempt to fight the romans 
 as 5 other non-Roman factions, giving this game excellent replayability. Not to mention the online 
 battles, historical battles, and other custom battles you can set up. All of the game's features 
 ensure that you'll be coming back countless times.
  
  Tilt: I love Rome: Total War, and i'm confident that you will too. As a history and strategy game 
 buff, I fell in love with this game from day one. If you're into history, Roman Culture, or any 
 kind of strategic game, by all means give this game a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killman368
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  RTW is an amazing game. There is so much to do once you start playing it. After you have played 
 it for 10 or so hours you realize that this game isnt as big and complex as it seems. This game 
 is fun in all respects. The gameplay consists of two gameplays. The first, is a long, turned based 
 strategy game. You build massive armies, tax you citizens, hire spies, build buildings, and get 
 senate missions. Also, on this big map, you Siege cities, move armies, and confront one another. 
 In the Real Time Strategy, or RTS, you take your armies and clash them together. If your armies 
 meet on a bridge, there is a bridge on the map. You can flank, and use just about any strategy 
 you know to win those battles. This is a fun game in all respects, but get kinda boring and repetitive 
 if you play 5 hours a day like me. buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joecavazos88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Rome total war is absolutely awseome in every way. I played this game for about 8 hours when I 
 got IT. I got it for christmas and skipped both masses just to play. ITS defianatly one of the 
 best games of 2005. The battle scenes are intense and they are very epic in scale. The historical 
 battles and online play very very good and is very impressive in the acuracy in terms of history. 
 If your busy playing ut2004 or ounterstrike source, stop the wasd carpul tunnel and join the arrow 
 key carpul tunnel club. I 'm going to stop writing so I can play for about fiive hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 26, 2005 9:55 am PT
Review:  This is it, this is the game to own. I have always been a fan of ancient Europe, noteably its legendary 
 legionnaries which was the best infantryman in Europe at the time. I have always been disappointed 
 by the movies depicting legions fighting, such as Spartacus and Gladiator. I always wanted to see 
 a grand battle and how the checkerboard tactic was put into use on this field (historians are still 
 unsure of how exactly it worked) . Rome Total War gives you grand battles where you command thousands 
 of men, and you can see every single one of them in great detail. It is very realistic for you 
 as a general to command your men, from morale to strategy. Never let the computer decide the outcome 
 of a battle if you can help it (unfortunately you can't decide the naval battles) , because human 
 intelligence can win the day under seemingly impossible odds, or cause the enemy to gain a much 
 more bitter victory. On the battlefield, this game is the best Total War game to date, and it's 
 historical realism makes it rank higher than every other RTS or TBS games out there, in that RTW 
 is both. On the campaign map, it's when it goes from RTS to TBS. The factions are all historically 
 accurate and the perks each gets is historically accurate. On the other hand, you can't split your 
 cohorts or maniples down any further, and the big block like formations aren't exactly the best 
 formation under certain circumstances. The attention to detail for terrain and soldier is excellent, 
 but for the towns or cities that you siege, it seems very plain, strange for a game that excels 
 in other graphical areas. In the end however, there is nothing like smashing the phalanx line head 
 on or outmanuevering them in the detail and fun that RTW provides. If you like strategy games, 
 this is the one to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usdbhfoaegbohae
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 24, 2005 3:18 pm PT
Review:  The first time i played this game, i played it for seven hours straight by accident. I forgot to 
 eat dinner. 
  
  I dont have many games. I used to play command and conquer and that was fun. But this just blows 
 it out of the water. There is so much depth in the game it will make you want to play and keep 
 playing. Its so hard stopping myself because Then ill have to wait a whole day to play again, and 
 thats sad. haha i know that sounnds really pathetic but Im sure my love will die down a little 
 soon and ill get back to my life where i left off. 
  
  This game is very in depth, so in the begininning you may be overwhelmed at all the things you 
 can do. But after one - two hours youll pretty much understand the basics and will be building 
 up your empire and conquering cities, etc. 
  
  I recommend this game DEFINITLY for any RTS lover. Other people may like this game too, but like 
 i said, its not for some one with ADD. If you want a big bang for your buck, and more a game more 
 thoughtful than running around shooting things, then this is the game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duncan_Brasier
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I've got Rome: Total War and it's with the latest patch (1.3) . I've had the game a while andI still 
 haven't completed it but I have taken over Rome and unlocked alot of other factions to use (like 
 the Greek cities, The Seleucid empire, The Egyptians) and I know there are more, but so far I have 
 gotten to the year 50 B. C. One thing I know from looking in some of the files and not editing them 
 in anyway shape or form (just so you don't try anything foolish) I know that it goes up to 14 A. D.
 
  I know that I can't give it full marks for it's graphics because it isn't possible to get amazing 
 graphics with so many items on the screen, but they've done a brilliant job none the less.
  The gameplay couldn't be better. You can make your men do anything you want, and they will obey. 
 It's so realistic as well, because lets face it if a human by himself was against a 160 man unit 
 he would run away because he likes his lifeand he doesn't want to die, and this is exactly what 
 happens here. And as you take settlements you have to keep everyone happy otherwise you have a 
 revolt on your hands and then you have to spend money killing all the rebels, so you lose money.
 
  The senate are always on your back, never leaving you in peace and if the Roman people love you 
 then the senate hate you and they will start to send assasins after your family, and it ain't blindingly 
 obvious until they all start dying, or you capture and kill several after you become popular with 
 the people.
  Rome: Total War is the most realistic game I think that I have played on in ages.
  I say it takes 
 about 30 minutes to learn 6months to master.
  Don't challenge just anyone straight away on multiplayer see how long they've owned the game and 
 see how much they play it so you don't get totally crushed. I admit that I am pretty good but there 
 are some people who are amazing at this who I very rarely beat. It's always close.
  Sound wise the music really sets the mood, with lots drums and base to make you feel like really 
 getting 3000 men and having a Roman style battle with the french who are Gauls.
  The Generals speechs are good as well. If one of the Generals has defeated a particular faction 
 in battle several times he will use that to make his men feel invigorated.
  At the moment you can buy it from about 20, and it will last you at least a year if not longer 
 and thats depending on whether you play on it every night for about 2 hours cos thats how long 
 I play on it every night, and I'm only talking about the campain mode because there is also single 
 player historic battles, quick battles, custom battle and there is even multiplayer, and I even 
 find playing around with the options fun but thats just me.
  By the way don't get this if your not perticularly good at maths, I challenged the bad maths gang 
 as I call them because it's a group of dumb arses with this game who are all friends, and I challenged 
 5 of them to a me verses them battle and I destroyed them all cos they just could not judge how 
 far away I was and how good my archers were.
  I'll also help you a bit. Alot of people use the technique of putting missile units in front of 
 all of their units to increase their range, even some of the masters (but they know how to counter 
 the big problem, mostly apart from my tactic) this is a bad idea as they aren't as fast as cavalry 
 and if they are charged upon by cavalry they won't get away and then you'll have no missiles which 
 isn't good, what I do is put some of my medium strenth infantry infront of them to protect them 
 and the strong infantry around the wings and any remaining cavalry and infantry behind them to 
 charge fleeing enemys at the end of the battle or destroy any ambushs that happen to come up behind 
 me.
  So there you go.
  
  Happy playing people ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krauklis
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:01 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War
  Rome: Total War is a very interesting game for bough beginners and advanced gamers. Some of you 
 might think thats thats an other stupid game for nerds but it isn't. The game experience is wryly 
 grate. For example the epic experience when you led thousands of people into battle. Many nations 
 although the barbarian races all almost the same only a couple of unique units for each nation 
 if you don't play as the Romans, Greeks, or Afrikaans. The game isn't to hard to learn and once 
 you we understood it there are basically 2 types of battle city and field battles and depending 
 on the game settings up 15000 thousand units can take part in battle and thats impressive. The 
 world map is easy 
  to understand and a very good way to lead the huge army's. The the game engine does its work very 
 well. So in hole the game is simply grate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2005 3:59 am PT
Review:  Render unto Caesar.
  
  Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears; I come to play Rome: Total War, and to praise it. 
 The good is oft interred with sweet graphics; so let it be with Rome. This noble reviewer tells 
 you that Total War is ambitious: if it were so, it was no grievous fault, for Rome hath ambitiously 
 answered it.
  
  Many apologies to Mr. Shakespeare, but I could not resist. The overwhelming desire to give moving 
 speeches in grandiose, senatorial tones is only one of the many side-effects of playing the awesome 
 Rome: Total War. Some of you may find yourselves wearing bed sheet togas, building small shrines 
 to Jupiter, or wearing laurel leaves on your head.
  
  Rome is the third game in the Total War series, and I can assure you that it is by far the best. 
 The new game engine is not just an upgrade; it's a huge leap forward for the series. Returning 
 players will be both pleased and impressed, and gamers picking it up for the first time will quickly 
 become fans.
  
  For those of you unfamiliar with Total War, the focus is on historical accuracy and large scale 
 warfare. As a tactical real-time strategy game, it plays more like Myth than Warcraft. Whatever 
 armies you bring to a battle are all you have; you can't just pop more centurions out of the centurion 
 hut because you have enough wood, making battlefield tactics supremely important. Of course, against 
 overwhelmingly superior forces, even the best tactics cannot save you, so it's best to try to ensure 
 that never happens.
  
  This is all done on the overland map of the Mediterranean and surrounding areas. You can play as 
 one of three Roman families - the Julii, the Brutii, or the Scipii - which determines your starting 
 territories and the focus of the missions the Senate assigns you. Your goal is to protect Rome 
 and expand the influence and power of the SPQR across the known world. This all takes place a few 
 hundred years B. C., just as the Roman Empire is rising to power. Eventually, you will need to fight 
 your rival Roman factions in order to consolidate power for your family and declare the current 
 head of your family Caesar.
  
  Rome: Total War is really two games in one. Much of the game is played on the map screen, where 
 the turn-based format plays a lot like Civilization. You must manage your cities, grow them, build 
 roads and markets, tax them, use the money to recruit soldiers and other useful units, and march 
 them around the map to the areas where they are most needed.
  
  Spies and diplomats are sometimes more useful than force of arms, and the right bribe or the right 
 assassination can sometimes do the job of a thousand soldiers. Of course, you should be careful 
 what you do unto others - losing a key family member can be a crushing blow, because your dynasty 
 is as important as the land you control. They are your generals and your governors.
  
  The game takes place over several generations, and your family members will age, marry, have children, 
 and eventually die. All the members of your family also start with and gain different traits. Nero, 
 the "Bureaucrat" and "Social Drinker," might be best as a city governor near Rome, while Gaius 
 might have a weakness for bribery, so you'll want make him a general of an army at the far reaches 
 of the Empire. As they age or win battles, your family members can gain new traits and grow their 
 retinue; a Nubian Scout might increase their field of vision, while a Barbarian Turncoat can give 
 you the advantage when you fight against barbarians. This gives the game an RPG flavor as you find 
 yourself getting attached to your family members.
  
  And nowhere are your family members more at risk than on the battlefield. You'll find them there 
 a lot, because you can't build an empire without busting a few heads. From the Greeks to the Carthaginians, 
 there are plenty of other world powers out there who need to be taught a lesson or three about 
 Roman might.
  
  When armies collide, the action zooms into a battlefield based on the map region. Trap your enemy 
 against the coast of Spain, and the battle will take place on the beach with nothing but ocean 
 behind your opponents and nowhere for them to flee. Besiege a city, and you'll have to use siege 
 towers and battering rams to deal with whatever walls and structures have been built there. Buildings 
 destroyed in battle will be gone in the overland game as well, so you might have some expensive 
 rebuilding to do.
  
  Each of the game's 17 different world powers has unique forces based on real historical armies. 
 Roman troops are disciplined and strong, while the Gauls are fast and fierce. Bedouin warrior's 
 camels are tireless, but little can stand up against the charge of a Carthaginian war elephant. 
 The variety and balance makes for all kinds of strategizing.
  
  Without question, the sheer size of the battles will blow you away as literally thousands of soldiers 
 battle it out at once. Arrows fly, spears clash on shields, and a well-placed cavalry charge can 
 break the enemy lines, scattering soldiers like bowling pins and trampling them under horses' hooves. 
 All sorts of different terrain, weather conditions and even the omens of the gods can affect the 
 battles as well.
  
  Powering this monster is a hugely impressive engine pumping out graphics that will wow even your 
 non-gamer friends. Sure, the soldiers are nowhere nearly as detailed as a Doom 3 marine, but they 
 look great and are well-animated, and watching four thousand of them storm the walls of Alexandria 
 is simply amazing.
  
  What do Mario, Sonic, Kirby, Earthworm Jim, Mega Man, and Donkey Kong all have in common? They 
 all starred in bad TV shows! However, Rome: Total War has 'em all beat, because it's the first 
 time that a game itself has become the star of a TV program. The History Channel's new show, Decisive 
 Battles, uses the Rome: Total War game to animate many of history's important conflicts. If it's 
 good enough for them, it's probably good enough for you.
  
  Backing up the impressive visuals is some great sound. Perfectly orchestrated martial music accompanies 
 your battles and scores the rumbling thunder of your marching legions. The voices are good, too, 
 although a couple of them can't quite conceal their Aussie accents. "Rome. It's Australian for 
 war, mate." You can even learn a bit about your upcoming enemy from your General's rousing speech 
 to the troops.
  
  Everything I've mentioned thus far pertains to Rome's lengthy Imperial Campaign mode. If becoming 
 Caesar isn't enough for you, you can also play a shorter Campaign as any of the game's nations 
 (once you unlock them) , fight your way through ten different Historical Battles to try changing 
 history, or take a swing at Rome's multiplayer modes.
  
  There are only two ways to take on up to five other wannabe generals online: Single Battles that 
 are usually resolved pretty quickly, and the more interesting and more tactical Siege Assault, 
 where one player or team defends a city, while the other besieges it. Both offer decent fun and 
 extend what is already a massive game.
  
  Controlling your cities, families and troops in what amounts to two different, fully featured games 
 is pretty complicated, and Rome: Total War is clearly not for casual gamers. However, the game's 
 "Prologue" is essentially a very long and thorough tutorial. Fans of the series will probably be 
 able to skip it, but everyone else will find it an excellent place to start and an essential way 
 to learn everything you need to know to play a game as large, deep, and complex as Rome.
  
  However, for every Caesar there must be a Brutus lurking in the shadows, and for all its great 
 strengths, there are still a couple areas where Rome could use improvement. The unit A. I. could 
 use a few more I. Q. points. While your troops are generally pretty effective, sometimes they'll 
 have a hard time just figuring out how to run around to the other side of a house.
  
  The weakest part of Rome is when you take to the sea. You'll need some ships to ferry your troops 
 around, but these can easily get stopped or blocked by any other boat - not just those of your 
 enemies, which doesn't make any sense. Naval battles are not playable and often resolve in strange, 
 buggy outcomes.
  
  But despite these small complaints, Rome: Total War is a fantastic conquest. The power of the game 
 engine has finally caught up with the developer's vision of what a war game should really be like, 
 and what a cool vision that is. It's almost like getting two games for the price of oneand 
 you can even just play your favorite. Turn on auto-management and you can forget about your cities 
 and focus on the battlefield, or, if the Civilization thing is what you dig, you can let the computer 
 auto-resolve all the conflicts so you can set about finding a suitable husband for Livia Julii 
 now that she's old enough.
  
  Frankly, this is a must-have for strategy gamers, history buffs and hardcore PC geeks. Why watch 
 in on TV when you can have all the glory for yourself? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ec41cr
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War is unlike any real time strategy game out. its level of emersion into all aspects 
 of the world is truly remarkable; commerce, infrastructure, experience, personality assessments, 
 terrain, all play vital roles within your expanding empire. Not forgetting, of course, your military 
 might and disposition. 
  For the strategy lovers this game offers the holy grail in achievements, a game in which your military 
 might has next to no effect onto your factions successes; "Do not rely on military might alone" 
 San Tzu. Rome captures this truth perfectly, forcing you to manage and distribute your scarce resources 
 efficiently for a shot at success.
  I would quibble over three minor points that I pray the game's developers will note; firstly, the 
 lack of blood, that would normally be associated with many thousands armed with sharp implements. 
 Secondly, the refusal for all nations to be playable, and lastly the inconsistency in negotiations. 
 However, to gain some perspective; this being all that can be mustered as negatives is testimony 
 towards the games achievements.
  In conclusion, Rome offers an utterly engrossing world to be emerged into, in which your battlefield 
 knowledge, economic policy, and political allegiances, will be consistently tested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROBERTBOBBY91
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 16, 2005 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is the very best game ever-that being if u have the right computer to enjoy it !
  u can conquer europe, kill the barbarians and greeks alike and in awe army sizes be anyone including 
 egypt, rome (not the empire but its family generals) , brittons, gauls and so on JUST PLAY THIS GAME!
 
  IT CANT GET ANY BETTER IN RTS GAME PLAY!
  just make shure u have a descent machine to play it.
  P P P P L L L L A A A A Y Y Y Y I I I I 
 T T T T !
  be sure to be the juli family first to get all the great generals of the juli name (including caeser) ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobmcguire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  when you start playing at first you almost get lost in the enormous size of the map and start thinking 
 that maybe i wasted my money buying this game because this is much more complicated than i thought, 
 but you can be sure that you have not wasted your money because soon you will realize that Rome 
 Total war is basically an amazingly improved version of the previous total war games. A new graphics 
 engine that will allow you to see the hand to hand combat between the forces and the soldiers on 
 the field and will actually connect you to your soldiers. over the battles a peculiar bond is created 
 between you and your soldiers that will cause you to be saddened by the death of any of your soldiers, 
 in a way their lives are in your hand and it is up to you to lead them to victory or let them be 
 crushed by the enemy. i have been a huge fan of the total war series and Rome is a huge bonus to 
 my fondness toward this series. what i did notice though was that the games difficulty level has 
 appreciably been increased, in a way that sometimes i struggled when playing on the easiest of 
 setting. it is a lot easier to win in the game while playing as the romans or such factions as 
 the selucids or the egyptions while it seems that factions like germans or gaul struggle significantly 
 against rome or most existing factions in the game. other then that the game is immensely entertaining 
 and highly addictive, also time consuming. at times you will end up playing for 3-4 hours without 
 noticing how much time has passed and only stop playing because your mom is threatening to smash 
 the computer, my advice would be to quit immediately and go to sleep. the new graphic's engine 
 adds amazing detail to the buildings and the soldiers and allows massive amounts of troops to fight 
 on the battlefield at the same time. as far as glitches go you will hardly come upon one, but there 
 are times that you will see an occasional soldier breaking off from your unit and running about 
 as his own will or some of your soldiers being stuck behind walls and running around each other. 
 it is very rare though. So if you are a Total War fan or simply a fan of strategy games or even 
 enthusiastic in historical games, then this is definitely the right game for you. you have the 
 power to remake history as you wish, and you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ibart15
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 14, 2005 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, this game is extremely good. There is a tutorial to get you started and an adviser 
 to help you along the way. There are many teams to play as, though more would not hurt. One of 
 the first things you notice is that this game has an incredibly long and sometimes tedious campaign. 
 The next thing you notice is how incredible the battles are (particuly in wooded areas) . The graphics 
 can be called bad, though one must take in to consideration how many people are on the field killing 
 each other (the general battle has 350 to 850 people, larger battles have 1000 to 2000) . I think 
 the single most noticable sound is when your horses die. It is sad because they die fast......... There 
 is lots of sieging and catupaults. It's too cool when you knock down a wall. Smashing buildings 
 is fun too. Apart from the battles, managing your settlements is key to the game. You can also 
 auto-manage. This game is awesome and any gamer who likes big battles or lengthy campaigns should 
 get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callumo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2005 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Rome total war is one of the greatest rts' in my view because it gives that sensation of commanding 
 huge vast armies and the challenge of using the right tactics against the right foes. For someone 
 who likes rts' this is perfect but for someone who is new too them it may take a while to get the 
 hang of. The graphics are great and the realism is spectacular. The campaign keeps you almost obsessed 
 as you build up a vast empire or watch it collapse as your enemies take your settlements. The online 
 multiplayer play is fantastic. It really gets the brain pumping as you charge your men forward then 
 realise you've been surrounded. Altogether this is a great game!
  
  95% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainCrazy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2005 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Games like Rome Total War do not come around too often. It is no easy task to combine so many gameplay 
 styles together in one seamless package but the developers have done just that. This is a game 
 of empire building, city management, role-playing and real-time battles all rolled into one. 
 
  
  First I'll talk about how addictive the empire building "turn based" portion of the game is. You 
 have a map screen that is in full 3-D and looks gorgeous and it is from here that you manage your 
 cities, buid up your armies and move them around the map. One of the coolest aspects is that when 
 you clash with another enemy army, the battle takes place in the same location based on where your 
 armies were on the campaign map. For instance, on the map if you attack an ememy that is shown 
 on a mountain-side with a river in between, when you enter the real-time battle the enemy will 
 be positioned on the high ground on that mountain and you will see a river in the middle. Likewise, 
 you can also use map terrain to your advantage by hiding in a forest and ambushing passing armies 
 or create choke-points between mountain ranges. 
  
  City building is also fun and addictive because it directly effects what units you can produce 
 and what upgrades you can obtain. You can construct lots of military buildings in one city and 
 build it up into your central military powerhouse and have another city focus on generating profit 
 for your empire by having lots of agricultural and market bonuses. The important thing is that 
 you don't just build cities for the sake of it, they are the incubators for your armies and defense 
 of your empire. Another very cool feature is the ability to zoom right into any of your cities 
 in real-time and see how it changes over time. You can even see little romans (or barbarians) roaming 
 around.
  
  The real-time battle system in RTW is simply astounding! It is definitely not like your typical 
 RTS game. You will be in control of vast armies literally numbering in the thousands. If you have 
 a powerful enough PC you can have even larger armies that give you a truly massive, epic feeling. 
 You don't directly control every single soldier but units (groups) of 80-120 soldiers. The game 
 is historically accurate in the types of units you can field. Early on in the campaign Roman armies 
 can only train velitites, principes, light cavalry and other lightly equipment units. Over time 
 you will gain access to ever more powerful units such as legionnairs, urban cohorts and legionnary 
 cavalry. 
  
  Although every type of unit has strengths and weaknesses where another unit can easily counter, 
 it is not a simple rock-paper-scissors affair. RTW has an innovative morale system that is an integral 
 part of battles. You basically have to keep your troops morale high enough so they will not rout 
 and run off the field. Say for instance you have a front line unit that is tired and taking a beating. 
 They will soon rout but if you can get your general's unit over to them quickly, they will fight 
 harder and probably turn the tide of battle. You will find lots of depth in the tactics you can 
 use. Although you could just send every unit charging forward it is better to position each unit 
 for maximum effectiveness. For example instead of just having cavalry charge head on into foot 
 soldiers, have them run around the unit's flank, then have another unit charge them. While the 
 enemy is fighting that unit have your cavalry charge in from the side and watch the mayhem that 
 ensues! It's great fun and these are just a very few examples of what makes the battles so great 
 and entertaining. 
  
  The battles can sometimes get pretty complicated with thousands of units engaging each other over 
 a large area but luckily you can pause the game at any time and re-issue orders, then resume when 
 you're ready. There is very few problems I have with the battle system but the stand-out problem 
 I did find is that hot-keyed grouped units do not all respond to your commands so you usually have 
 to order each unit one at a time. It's not a big problem though. Also there is some pathfinding 
 trouble when assaulting cities. Of course this is just another great kind of battle you can engage 
 in so it's not that noticable if some units stray off.
  
  One more thing worth mentioning about the gameplay is that your generals can improve in experience 
 as well as your units over time. The more battles they survive, the more traits they will have 
 such as improved morale, brutality, stealthy etc. Of course they can also inherit some unsavory 
 traits as well such as "heavy drinker".
  
  There is a diplomatic and trading system here as well although you won't find it all that usefull. 
 I found that allies don't really help you that much and diplomacy is usually only worthwhile when 
 you have tons of cash and need to quickly bribe a few armies to get them out of your way. You can 
 auto-resolve battles as well if numbers are in your favor. It helps keep the game from bogging 
 down when youre empire is huge. The game has an incredible amount of depth that I can't even explain 
 here in this review but you won't find it too overwhelming due to the options allowing you to automate 
 some tasks.
  
  Regarding difficulty, there are many settings from which to choose but I found there is an annoying 
 increase in difficulty between easy and medium and it is much harder to win using a barbarian faction 
 but there is lots of challenge here if you want it.
  
  RTW is not quite as impressive visually but it definitely gets the job done. Just seeing thousands 
 of detailed, individually animated units on screen at once is very impressive. Unfortuantely the 
 environment textures are a little bland looking and sparcely decorated. The game also suffers from 
 some crippling slow-down but only if your system is weak or if you somehow end up in an epic battle 
 with 3 or more armies clashing within a city.
  
  This game is quite an experience that you will become addicted to very quickly. Building up an 
 empire from humble beginnings into the most powerful military force on the planet in this game 
 has such huge appeal. Seeing thousands of soldiers racing towards each other and clashing in massive 
 battles with artilery exploding everywhere gives you such a rush. The game does a superb job of 
 making you feel like you are in charge of massive armies and when you're playing this game, you 
 won't be thinking about anything else, it is so immersive. I am so pleased the developers put together 
 a one of a kind game like this that I will never forget and will go down in my books as the best 
 RTS of all time. Yes, I do mean it is better than Starcraft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynexx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  One of my favorite things about rome total war is that you can change the overall general size 
 of how big a unit can be. So you can go from 50 men per unit to 500 men per unit making the battles 
 appear HUGE!
  
  Very good game. Played through half of the single player but my friends and I would play some major 
 resource hogging battles.
  
  I am a huge Command and Conquer fan and this game took me back a couple of centuries to allow me 
 to play more strategically. I guess thats what is so fun about the game is the strategy you must 
 use to win the battles and ultimately the war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustLoginMeIn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  In 3 words: best strategy game. Simple as that. Just try to think a better strategy game. You will 
 soon realise that it is not better. Equal maybe. Different maybe. Better, not a chance.
  
  The total war series introduce how the strategy games should be. I mean there were also nice strategy 
 games like warhammer 40k and even the battle of middle earth, but there where too similar with 
 classic RTS games like warcraft and age of empires. Rome total war (and in general the total war 
 games) introduce something new. Something revolutionary.
  
  The game lets you play massive epic battles. Real battles where many are killed not just a few 
 units. It lets you build a whole empire in its turn-based system. In most strategy games you would 
 just take missions and accomplish them. Here you built a whole empire. You also play a historically 
 real game. It is almost perfectly realistic (not perfect though, to be fair) you get a strong idea 
 of how battles where fought. You learn how war was some years ago (at some point) . And I have to 
 add that there is a huge variety of units, buildings, cities. 
  
  But the best thing about the game is the real time battles, and more specificaly the idea, the 
 mechanism of the battle. It is SIMPLE AND EFFECTIVE. You just can move your armies easily, the 
 camera is just perfect and everything is natural and realistic. There is a nice compination between 
 units and single soldiers. For example you may try to circle behind the enemy with a unit of swordsmen 
 and attack from behind. That is ok. But maybe as the soldiers move they come in melee distanse 
 with another enemy unit moving. Some soldiers will start fighting while the other will try to attack 
 the enemy unit from behind. Some soldiers from the unit being attacked from behind will turn and 
 face your soldiers. Meanwhile your cavalry may charge on the enemy units. But some horses may be 
 slowdown because the pass through a unit of your archers which are raining arrows in an area (killing 
 also your units) . Finally an onager fires a flaming rock and kills 5-6 enemy units. Etc etc etc. 
 You get the idea. You move the units trying to attack the right units from the right position, 
 but many things may happen that there are affected nicely and smoothly. There is also morality, 
 adding a deep strategy to the game.
  
  In contrast, other games like battle of middle earth aren't realistic. They are far from realistic. 
 Just try to move a unit and attack another unit. It will move close to the enemy unit and attack. 
 They won't charge to slay quickly the enemy if not stopped by the defenders, all units will fight 
 without holding a formation, you won't greatly increase the attack of the unit when attacking from 
 behind, units die slowly if there are tough and quickly if there not. In total war if you attack 
 from the rear with a unit, charge that unit with a cavalry on the flank in the same time you will 
 kill the enemy unit in no time because you will be killing until the enemy unit responts and starts 
 holding the formation and fighting back (too late)
  
  Anyway, talked to much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johanngj77
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2005 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid strategy game. The game plays in two ways, one is this kind of board game whare you 
 build citys train armies an battle enemies. The other is where the combat kicks in this is where 
 you use archers, infantry, cavalry and siege weapons in hundreds to defeat your enemies, you can 
 also hire mercenaries for sum isntent soldiers but they cost more. Each type of unit has a strength 
 and a weakness, heres a sample infantry with spears will work really well agianst cavalry wich avoid 
 archer fire and archers fire at slow moving. There are more types that are nothing like these units 
 like slingers. There are over two dozen factions to chose frome, these include Egypt, Greece,4 types 
 of dessert people,3 types of barbarians and 4 romans. This all takes place in europe but doenst 
 include north europe (i live there) . Your objective is to conquer Rome or if your playing short campain 
 defeat a specific faction. Its really fun playng online by the way. You can also play historic battles 
 wich can be hard. Overall this is a great game for anywon who likes strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze0506
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 7, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  one word.... AMAZING. this game is everything and more i wanted from this game. the graphics are 
 really good for a RTS, gameplay is great, just like S: TW and M: TW. Sound is decent, and this game 
 has unbelieveable replay value. The only thing i wish we could have was the ability to play more 
 factions. unless you can after you play as the Romans of course. but this game is still awsome. 
 the battle are even better from Medieval, and the sieges and battles are way more fun. the management 
 of your empire has gotten easier, with a few exceptions. I love this game and ill be playing this 
 baby for a loooon. g time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edawg2309
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  RTW is the best computer game i have ever played, and would be the best game period if it wasnt 
 for Halo 2. RTW is everything that you could ask for in an empire-building game, where you have 
 to fight enormous battles while keeping your economy on track too. Ive had it since the day after 
 it came out and i still enjoy the campaign and the online battles are amazing. The graphics are 
 great too if you have the computer to put it on high settings. The only thing else i have to say 
 is that there is nothing more satisfying than mowing a group of the enimies infantry down with 
 your elephants durring a massive battle. Keep that in mind when buying your next computer game! 
 RTW WILL NOT DISAPPOINT YOU!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brhsoccer14
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  How did I miss the first releases of Rome: Total War? I don't know, but I am happy I stumbled into 
 this game. One of the best strategic games as of yet with a big map and many, many factions to 
 be your enemies, friends, friends in disguise, or your slaves. Conquer the entire map or conquer 
 50 cities and defeat the other Roman factions and the Senate. Certain problems that need to be 
 pointed out, though, is the length of time building up your cities once you have a big collection 
 of cities, the difficulty of getting your cities out of rebellious stages, and the spending of 
 money on buildings before they are even built. Otherwise, this is a must have for all strategists 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomcrito
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is just...... Sick. If you want to lose 244 hours of your life, play this game. I spent 
 (from Christmas) 4 hours a day for two months playing this game. Nothing could stop me, not even 
 a f***** up computer, I just started again as a different faction and started playing again. The 
 gameplay is addictive and both the "Civilisation" and "Age of Empires" are brilliant and blend 
 in together perfectly. The graphics are really good considering the amount of soldiers on screen 
 but it is spoiled by a sometimes dodgy frame rate. The music really captures the mood of the game, 
 whether its the beautiful Civilisation song or the spine-tingling battle song. As I mentioned before 
 the campaign and Historic battles last for ages but then, it stops. Once you have finally finished 
 the game, the replay factor is not big. Playing as the Carthagians and Gauls is good on paper, 
 but they are very weak compared to the Roman factions and there are no missions from the senate 
 to spur you on. Even so, there is still online and Deathmatch modes to fight in. Just believe me, 
 go out and get this game. 
  
  NOW!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi_Lover
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 2, 2005 10:03 am PT
Review:  I was really blown away by this game's depth and stratagy. This game puts you in the place of many 
 of the empires situated in the medaterainian area around 300 BC. This game will emerse you for 
 hours on end and is very addictive. I went into this game looking for the historical value and 
 just basic gameplay...... but when i got it home i was really blown away by the graphics and the 
 gameplay depth. If you enjoy this time period and stratagy games you will LOVE this game. Let me 
 also recomend the game's expansion pack. This takes place 600 years later near the beginning of 
 the end of the Roman empire. The expansion introduces the idea of the split empire and many new 
 races such as the Huns and Saxons. In the end Rome: Total War is definatly worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darder10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME..... ITS ALMOST ALL I EVER PLAY (sry bout caps, im just expressing emotion) . I 
 play it when i get home from school for about 3 to 4 hours, and i still havent even beaten the 
 conquer 50 countrys and hold Rome. Although with the Selucid Empire along with my $999999999 cheat, 
 I am well on my way all i have to do is conquer 27 more countrys. Anyways back to the game, the 
 graphics are fine the gameplay is great, its realistic, the music is alright. The only hard part 
 for me is controlling all the cities, so when i conquer them I juse exterminate the whole city 
 to not have to worry about it. But when they rebel i leave the city and let rebels take it, and 
 then i take it back and exterminate again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thereisnotri
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 30, 2005 8:06 am PT
Review:  Rome is one of the best strategy games, and certainly the best rts I've ever played - I love the 
 campaign game and the battles are great. I prefer the campaign style and the 'proper' battle style 
 to the alternative C&C style of rts games where you build a base, defend it and then when you have 
 an overwhelming force rampage across the map. Directing proper armies with clear objectives (taken 
 this town, destroy that army etc) with units that by and large do what you tell them to is a relief 
 from other games.
  
  The graphics engine is great, although battles can get a bit repetitive and the AI is not always 
 great - sometimes it appears to cheat, and other times it is remarkably dense and only becomes 
 challenging when you try and wipe out an enemy army with half the numbers of troops. Other than 
 those complaints (and the huge letdown of not being able to fight naval engagements) though, it 
 is superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJMikhail
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 29, 2005 11:47 am PT
Review:  I stepped into game, began at the helm of Rome, waiting to take its glory, but some cruel and aggressive 
 enemies hold their armies in position playing the waiting game. I began to develop ideas of how 
 to approach and take Rome right into my grasp. I negotiated, tell lies, deceit and killed to find 
 my way through. Thats exactly what you have to do, command armies and conquer land.
  
  Even finding yourself waiting in the midst whilst up to 10,000 horseman, chariots, spearmen, swordsmen 
 against your puny 400 men approach the fort and you wait for the attack. I had my doubts about 
 this simply because of the numbers but someone, taking that powerful tool for having 'glory for 
 Rome' made me want to stay and fight, fight till the death. With that faith and hope that the brave 
 men would stand their ground, they did, because of valour and encouragement. That is what this 
 game is all about, you skill and your wits to win not only land but the heart of your army. I did, 
 can you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oche
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Rome total war is the pyramid of strategy gaming. The game is nearly perfect, as it not only delivers 
 turn based and real time war strategy, the option of managing or micromanaging all aspects of your 
 faction (financial, economic, diplomacy, cultural, etc) but also the well represented historical 
 sense that the game offers in the time of the Roman Republic before it evolved into the Roman Empire. 
 And what about war??, well you asked for it, you'll wrap around massive ancient battles commanding 
 and fighting against thousands of men in any location of the ancient world, wether that may be 
 a barren plain, forest, desert, mountain, marshes, tundra, or defending or laying a siege against 
 historical cities such as Sparta, Rome and Athens. The game has the best replay value i've ever 
 experienced, i've been playing for a year now, and each time i play i find myself more impressed 
 with it. When it came out it had some serious bug issues but frankly most of them have been erradicated 
 with further patches and the game has been quite perfected for an even more pleasing gaming experience. 
 The Total war community is very active with MODS for the game, which is a very positive element 
 because it enhances and keeps the game alive and growing. I recommend this game to anyone into 
 strategy wargaming and likes the roman period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BraBoAMT
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:31 pm PT
Review:  All the action is in old Europe, with the Rome Empire growing out of the "little boot".
  It's not a very hard game to play at first, but when your faction starts to grow big, you do not 
 have enough hands to work on all the angles.
  It needs good planning and a lot of luck to get it right, without beginning to fall back towards 
 all the other factions.
  Near the end, it becomes quite difficult to maintain your empire, becoming very unfair in battles, 
 and becoming very difficult to maintain your settlements stability and growth.
  
  In the end, it's a brilliant game, with great graphics and worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acegamer22
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2005 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total war, was a great and flawless RPG. This had to be the best game i have ever played. 
 This game didnt only allow us to control our units and attack, we were able to control the specific 
 abilitys that each different unit contains. There are numerous amount of playable factions that 
 allow the game to be much more interesting. In RTW there are large elephants from Carthage that 
 make the front lines of battle much more stonger and you can wipe out the hole entire enemy with 
 them (or just finish them off) . Also you can pick between being one of Romes controlled factions, 
 which they give you certain missions, and over come Rome later on in the game. Or you can become 
 another faction and take over Rome from the start. THis game doesnt only test you stratigic ability, 
 it also increases you knowlede about the past empires in European history, by playing old battles 
 like Battle of Trebia: were Hannible was greatly out numbered by roman forces, but he used the 
 element of surpise and his elephants to destroy the forces against them. There is no other game 
 that can measure up to this in anyway. It has the best graphics, good replay value and many different 
 paths you can take throughout the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aragorn532
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:43 am PT
Review:  This game is By far the best RTS game I have played in Years.
  
  The Game is Based on the Roman Empire, It is a wonderful game, you can lead your thousands of soldiers 
 against thousands of rival soldiers. There is just something great about creating an army and taking 
 over the world :O)
  
  This is a must by for any RTS lover, there are many mods, and ways to edit the game to give you 
 even more good times!, this is one my top 10 games list at #1.
  
  The Multiplayer is good, the SIngle player, Wonderful!!! 
  
  How it compares to other games
 
  Battle for Middle Earth: No competion to RTW
  Age of Empires III: AOEIII is good, but not quite RTW
  Rise of Nations: No where near RTW
  
 
  Go ahead and pick up a copy, this game is well worth the 39.99 price tag 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thing1bright
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2005 2:15 pm PT
Review:  rome total war is the best strategy game in the world i like it so much it has to be the best game 
 i have ever played in my life! it has good every thing its all the best its sound even rocks its 
 grafics are amazing it is fast and relistic and there are many deffrent types of gameplay well 
 this has to be 100 words long rome total war is the very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very best game in the world !1
  ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChinggisKhaan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Creative Assembly's march through the great periods of warfare in human history has reached the 
 era of sandals and turtle-shaped defensive formations. After wowing the RTS world with its innovative 
 take on small and large scale conflict in the seminal Shogun: Total War, the CA team stepped back 
 a few centuries to continue the fight in the Medieval sequel. Rolling back the clock another few 
 hundred years and we find ourselves in the times of the Roman Empire. This is the era of history 
 when making war became a professional enterprise and tactics and strategy enhanced man's innate 
 ability to beat the crap out of his fellow man with anything that happens to be lying around. Whether 
 or not the Total War series will ever reach far enough back into history to entice us with Caveman: 
 Total War remains to be seen, so for the time being let's slip on some sandals, grab our gladius 
 and report for duty.
  
  If you are unfamiliar with the format of the Total War series here's a quick briefing. The main 
 game screen is a map of the area of the world under dispute. Broken into various regions populated 
 by the assorted factions in the game, the main map screen is where the player makes their strategic 
 decisions. It is here that you build up the different cities in your realm, decide where to invade 
 next and which army group will get to do the slaying. If, at the end of the present turn, there's 
 a battle to be fought play switches to the fully 3D tactical terrain map. Here things shift from 
 the realm of Civilisation to the domain of C&C. Except with a lot more units. The tactical map 
 gives the player the opportunity and tools to wage war on the grandest scale yet seen in a computer 
 game. The rules of combat here are as close to those that would have been employed at the time 
 as it is possible to simulate. Come the end of the battle it is back to the strategy map to address 
 any further issues and planning, right up to the (hopefully successful) conclusion of the campaign. 
 
  
  Now Rome: TW does a few things differently from its predecessors. The first thing that is apparent 
 is a visual overhaul of the map. Everything is drawn in 3D and while it remains impossible to rotate 
 the map you can zoom in and out from the action to a considerable distance. The placement of towns 
 and troops is now directly related to their placing on the battle maps. This small change is quite 
 significant. Now you can place a defensive army in an advantageous position on the side of a mountain, 
 or manoeuvre an army to ensure it attacks the enemy from the most favourable direction. This new 
 integration not only allows you to gauge the lay of the land in any upcoming battle but it also 
 allows players to set up defensive rings and to employ impassable terrain such as mountain ranges 
 to their advantage. There's an info bar under each city which quickly gives the player an indication 
 of how that city is performing, whether it is losing money or people, or if in fact all is going 
 swell. 
  
  Right clicking on armies or cites will bring up the detailed information screens. And while there's 
 a wealth of information to be had there's still too much swapping of windows and scrolling about 
 for my liking. While it's now possible to say, list all of your special agents such as assassins 
 and diplomats on one screen keeping track of each one is a case of r-clicking on each envoy to 
 jump to their position and give them new orders. If the list is long you will have to scroll down, 
 so the way that the game cannot remember your last selected envoy can make things unnecessarily 
 fiddly. Controlling cities as well as armies and fleets are done in the same way, and while the 
 choice to keep everything on a single screen is to be applauded the implementation is still somewhat 
 lacking. 
  
  Most frustrating is the management of retinues. These are people who become attached to the leader 
 units, either through a successful battle, the progress of time or as a benefit from the construction 
 of Academies, the administrative buildings in the game. Most of these retinue figures are handy, 
 giving say an extra point to a general's command ability, a bonus to trade or taxes or an increase 
 in movement points or siege ability. There's a very impressive number of different retinues, yet 
 while transferring warrior types to your generals and administrative types to your governors is 
 initially an easy enough task, by the time the game reaches its midpoint the sheer numbers involved 
 show the weakness is the entire army/city/envoy management system. It's an unfortunate thing, but 
 the one area where Rome: TW could most benefit from is an improvement in the interfaces screens 
 for both the strategy and tactical maps.
  
  There have been a number of tweaks and changes to the way players control their armies once they 
 have taken to the field of battle. In the old days, to know which unit was selected, you had to 
 squint at the melee and try to determine whether a unit's banner was bobbing up and down. Now active 
 units get a coloured triangle under each individual solider which makes it a lot easier to track 
 how things are going in the middle of a big fight. Battles themselves are noticeably faster. Units 
 all move with an extra spring in their step with fights coming to an end considerably faster then 
 in previous Total War games. The grouping system is still not very intuitive, with the display 
 of grouped units bearing no relation to the order in which they were created, so group one could 
 be in the middle of groups two and three.
  
  The biggest and most celebrated change is the move from monolithic masses of 2D sprites to groupings 
 of individual 3D models. Battles are now so much more enthralling to watch, with cavalry charges 
 flinging defenders up into the air, arrow showers piercing hapless foot soldiers in every plane 
 of their body, siege weapons smash through massed soldiers like a fat man through a sweet shop 
 queue. At the start of every fight your commander will deliver a rousing speech to his troops. 
 While at first this is cinematically atmospheric it's unlikely you'll be listening to the pep talk 
 after your twentieth battle. After a brief lull to position your forces on the battlefield combat 
 commences. Here the influence of Hollywood really gets the opportunity to shine. Couple the rousing 
 score with the varied and bruising sounds of hand-to-hand combat with the epic scale and splendour 
 that the revamped graphics engine allows for and a smile is guaranteed to spread across the face 
 of any gamer, RTS fan or not. 
  
  The graphics are not only for spectacle. Units can now smash through other units and the flow of 
 combat is far more realistic and unrestricted than it was before. The shift to 3D has liberated 
 the combat mechanics of the Total War series and the designers have taken that liberation and run 
 with it when it comes to the variety of new units. On top of the old swords, spears and arrows 
 staples the aspiring general can now have elephants, war-dogs, camels and chariots at their command, 
 all of which wheel and jockey for position in a far more realistic - and far less aggravating - 
 manner then before. And then there's the incendiary pigs. Fire plays a large part in other weapons 
 systems as well, such as flaming arrows or Onagers, with the flames having a deleterious affect 
 on the enemy's morale. And while zooming right into the action isn't much help when it comes to 
 command it sure looks great and draws the player into the frenzy.
  The camera system is still not 100%, with issues remaining over orientation and fine control, especially 
 in the thick of a massive brawl, but to be fair CA have done as well as could really be expected 
 given the limitations of the mouse and keyboard. If you don't want to get involved with the tactical 
 screens all the time there's the option to have the computer auto-manage the battle when opposing 
 armies first come into contact. However, on harder difficulty levels, the competence of the computer 
 to successfully wage war for you seems to have been severely hampered, which reduces the player 
 to having to slog through every single battle to ensure victory. Now, I estimate there to be somewhere 
 in the region of 2-300 battles in a campaign. Even if each one took only 15 minutes, you'd be looking 
 at a minimum of 50 hours, which may not trouble those who are in love with the battles but will 
 seriously dampen the enthusiasm of the strategic gamer. Personally, I have always spent more time 
 engrossed in the strategy maps of the Total War series, and have always found this to be a problem. 
 Now while I don't ignore the tactical maps completely, enjoying the thrill and spectacle of annihilating 
 a larger force with my superior units and tactics, I do not like being, for all intents and purposes, 
 forced to play through almost every battle if I choose to play on a certain difficulty level. And 
 those levels themselves are too marked in their differences. The change in difficulty from medium 
 to hard is rather pronounced. It's not an optimum situation but it's bearable as for the most part 
 the game is such an entertaining beast.
  
  The range of tactical options and the high level of control that the player has over their units 
 really allows the battles to glow as shining examples of computer-based warfare. And while the 
 novice or casual gamer will have little difficulty organising a victory the more committed wargamer 
 will find that like chess, this is a game that takes no time to learn but a lifetime to master. 
 The strategic game is also very enjoyable although it does suffer more from the AI's propensity 
 to cheat when the going gets tough. It can also get bogged down when the player's empire grows 
 past a certain size, but neither of these flaws are enough to severely weaken the game's playability. 
 Even the absolutely pathetic ending of the game is not enough to fatally weaken the title, especially 
 as by beating the game with one of the Roman factions you will unlock all the other factions for 
 subsequent campaign replays.
  
  If the full campaign sounds like too much there's a shorter version available. For this you have 
 to hold Rome for 50 turns. There are also a handful of accurately represented historical battles 
 to play around with. These set you up with the right forces, stick you on a map and tell you to 
 go over there and take out some bad guys. These are an enjoyable aside and a good way of practising 
 different tactics in various settings. Of course there is also a range of multiplayer options. 
 LAN battles accommodate up to eight players and are a wickedly enjoyable way to while away an evening 
 or two. Unfortunately I couldn't go on a rampage across the world as Rome: TW refuses to work across 
 NAT so joining an internet game through the integrated Gamespy system was just not going to happen. 
 This is just bad programming and indicates to me that Rome is running on the same netcode as its 
 predecessors. A variety of bugs and glitches also infest Rome: TW. Fortunately, while some of them 
 are rather annoying there are no showstoppers, and things should run smoother once the famously 
 tardy Creative Assembly patching squad swings into action.
  
  Rome: Total War is the best game out there to give gamers the cerebral challenge of mounting a 
 major campaign through decades of human history, a campaign where they can take their plans right 
 down to the field of battle. The revamped graphics engine and overall presentation make Rome a 
 far more cinematic game then the previous titles and manages to do it without sacrificing any of 
 the deep gameplay that we have come to expect from the Total War games. However, even with all 
 the new gloss I didn't think that this was really enough of a development over the previous games. 
 Or to be more precise, the enhancements and improvements, while undeniably impressive, were not 
 enough to make up for the various problems that have befallen every Total War game. Niggly controls, 
 cheating AI, cluttered management screens, a rash of aggravating bugs and an unshakeable sense 
 of over familiarity all combine to keep Rome: Total War from being an outright classic.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: haadurin
Rating: 2.1
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  The only redeeming quality of this game is the graphics. The sound sucks, something like 20 different 
 sounds are used over and over again, and the gameplay sucks too! The game's too damn easy, and 
 if you want the REAL Rome Total War, go to www. moddb. com and search for Rome Total Realism. That 
 makes it the real game. This game is too freaking unreplayable, there's no AI that's any good at 
 all, and although the graphics are good for RTS from last year, they still suck. This game was 
 a piece of garbage. If you like RTS, and someone got you this as a gift, burn it, or throw it away. 
 It simply sucks. If you want a real RTS, go play Starcraft, Warcraft 3, or Battle for Middle Earth.
 
  
  Rome Total War 2.1/10
  Rome Total Realism 8/10
  
  Everything besides this game, 10/10.
  
  P. S. This game sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I've never played any of the Total War games before picking up Rome: Total War. I'm a big fan of 
 strategy games and after reading about Rome for a while, I simply had to experince it, cause that's 
 what this is, an experience.
  
  The graphics in Rome: Total War are amazing. The world map in the campaign is pretty good and looks 
 alot like civilization, but the battles are what makes Rome a feast for your eyes. There are thousands 
 of soldiers battling each other and it looks beautiful. Individual soldiers get hit and when a 
 firing rock sent from a massive catapult hits your men, and you can see them catch fire and get 
 blown sky high, that's when Rome shows muscles. This game is truely epic and every little attention 
 to graphical details helps to make this game one of the best PC games available. The campaign map 
 doesn't look as astonishing as the battles, and therefor the graphical score goes down to a 9, 
 which isn't bad all!
  
  The sounds are incredible. The sound of your men running into battle screaming towards the barbaric 
 enemy is awesome. The campaign map features great music which is really relaxing and moody.
  
  Rome: Total War is a memorable experience that easily stands out of the croud. The gameplay 
 is really brilliant. The campaign is inspired by Civilization and the battles has come from evolution 
 throughout the past Total War games, and it's almost perfect. There are just so many things to 
 do and you're just sucked into the rome empire and it's very hard to get out. There's no problem 
 playing this game for 4-8 hours straight, and when you go to bed, you can't wait to wake up again! 
 My dad even joined me while playing, and we sat there for like three hours drinking coffee, discussing 
 war strategies and what to do with those rebels in my capital city. The game is pretty hard to 
 get into at first, but the game features a manual with 80 pages of english text, and there are 
 many advises both in city management and battles, which is great for the beginners in the series 
 like myself. This is a game with more strategy than most other strategy games out there. We're 
 all used to the rush in most RTS games out there, but Rome is a solid and exciting game that features 
 a huge gameplay that'll eat up a chunk of your lifetime, and you do not wan't it back! Buy Rome: 
 Total War and experience the epic battles, the fascinating campaign and drop dead gorgeous visuals!
 
  
  +
  Awesome graphics. This is a massive game that'll last as long as you wan't it to! The sounds are 
 great with some fine music.
  
  -
  The sea battles aren't that good cause you don't play them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louiemurphy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Overview-
  
  Good- Incredibly scale, great audio, mind-bending number of characters on screen, huge depth, additive 
 campaign mode, flamable pigs!
  
  Bad- Character models within a cohort are all indentical, some textures are a wee bit bland, senate 
 can be a bit unforgiving.
  
  Ugly- Well... nothing really!
  
  The Total War series has always managed to offer a great strategic experiance supplemented by lavish 
 visuals and impressive scale. Long in devolpement, Rome Total War had a lot to live up to. Fortunately, 
 Rome Total War lives up to the name that Creative Assembly has made for itself. Great presentation 
 mixed with challenging yet addictive gameplay make Rome Total War a must have for strategy fans 
 and PC owners, everywhere!
  
  As you may have already guessed, Rome Total War takes place around the time of the rise of the 
 Roman Empire. In other words, before Caesar, but, after the Punic Wars. The game is divided up 
 into the various factions that exist within the world of Rome Total War. You can play as the Romans 
 (well obviously) the Greeks, the Egyptians, the Carthagians, the Gauls or the Germans, to name 
 a few. Each faction has their own specialty units as well as buildings. Even though there are differences 
 between these factions, they play out pretty similar in the end.
  
  Rome Total War has quite a few different features that you can play. There is the Campaign mode, 
 the custom battle mode, the online mode and finally the historical battle mode. Since the other 
 three are all pretty similar, I will start off with the best mode, the Campaign mode. The Campaign 
 mode takes place in two different parts. There is the Campaign Map and the Real-Time battle mode. 
 The Campaign Map plays out like a game of Risk. You make all of your economical and tactical decisions 
 on the map. The action here is not in real time. Instead it plays out in a series of turns where 
 you make your move, than at the end of the turn, everyone else makes theirs. The game really allows 
 for micromanaging, however, there are options so that the AI can manage things for you so you can 
 concentrate your efforts on more important things. It is a flexible system that really works well.
 
  
  However, where the game really shines is in the battles. There are literaly thousands and thousands 
 of men fighting to the death all at once. You can even zoom in to see each indivdual solidier in 
 a fight with another. This view is not pratical though and you will probaly end up using the birds 
 eye view instead. The idea in Battles is to deploy your men in the right formation against the 
 enemy. Numbers alone do not mean a victory (although they do help) so even if you outnumbered by 
 500 or even a thousand men, you can still win the batlle. The scale in the battles is incredible 
 and it is truly a sight to behold. Everything seems believable from the charge of a barbarian charge 
 to the sight of a flaming rock from a catapult sending dust and men in every direction. In fact, 
 it gives the game alot of replay value in the sense that you want to see what everything does because 
 it is so cool to see.
  
  As impressive as the visuals are, the audio is right there with it. There is a great epic soundtrack 
 that goes along with the battles that seems to evole just as it should as the battles go on. The 
 sound of each individual solidier is also very impressive from battle cry to cries of terror to 
 the screems of the dead. The audio really stands out in certain sections. For instance, as the 
 Germans charged across the field against my Roman front line, they cried out their barbarish battle 
 cry that grew steadler and steadier as the men advances. In response, my line shudered and their 
 formation losened a bit as they became silent. The effects are very believable and when combined 
 with the scale and graphical details, it really comes together and becomes something that seems 
 real and is really great to experiance.
  
  As good as the Campaign mode is, there are others offered within Rome Total War. The Historical 
 Battles are as you guessed, batlles based on events that actually happened in the past. As great 
 as they sound, they do not play any different than normal battles or custom battle. However, it 
 is nice to see that Creative Assembly made the effort. The custom battle is also self explanatory. 
 You get to control ever little setting with "almost" unlimited funds. It is very fun it shouls 
 entertain you for quite a while after the Campaign has worn off or if you were never a big fan 
 of the Campaign in the first place. Finally there is the online mode. It is basically the same 
 as the custom battle mode except it is supplemented by human oppenets. Depending on your connection, 
 you will either experiance lag or smooth gameplay (in other words, high speed or dial up) . It is 
 just as fun as the custom battle mode, however, it would have been nice (if it were possible) to 
 see some the Campaign mode features making onto the online play.
  
  All in all, Rome Total War is possibly the best PC game of the year and definitely the best strategy 
 game in a long time. Great presentation with compelling and addictive gameplay with a touch of 
 historical goodness allow Rome Total War to succeed. If you have got the computer to run it, you 
 should definitely pick up this game today. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohican227
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2005 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War was a bit of a let down because of the gameplay. You could only be 3 Roman families. 
 You had to KILL the Gauls in the campaign to be them. You could be them in quick battles or historial 
 battles but not in an imperial campaign (you could not be anybody else either in the imperial campaigns) . 
 It was sort of worth it for $40.00, because of the action and how many people or units you control. 
 I would not recomend it to anybody except who really likes the TOTAL WAR series or to anyone who 
 likes to try the total war series.
  Mohican 227 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Capitalist
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War, named "Strategy Game of 2004" on many gaming websites and magazines last year, 
 is as much as they claim, a new classic. The game sets you during the times of Republican Rome, 
 when Polybian Legions ruled the day, when a new and old cultures are attempting to develop into 
 mighty empires, and when war was incredibly predominant, whether it was against barbarians, Greeks, 
 or even other fellow Roman citizens.
  
  Rome has a fairly good presentation. Although the packaging was rather mundane, with a map/tech 
 tree, a small manual, and 3 disks, the game's presentation itself is good. After the movie that 
 shows off the Activision logo, the E3 2004 trailer (for all of those that remember) plays, which 
 depicting troops marching, a siege, a cavalry skirmish, and so on. That being finished, you are 
 taken to the main menu, where you can proceed to play the "Sons of Mars" campaign, which depicts 
 you, as the House of Julii faction, in an attempt to unite all of Italy.
  
  So, with the "Sons of Mars" campaign having been finished, you can start an Imperial Campaign, 
 where you lead a faction off to victory by conquering the world.
  
  The "epic" 3D battles is a much needed improvement from Medieval's, which are largely just 2D sprites 
 battling on a 3D map. You can see just everything: cavalry smashing a line of hoptiles on the rear, 
 artillery setting entire cities on fire, and individual soldiers duking it out. The game is pretty 
 well optimised, running on my GeForce 4 MX 420 quite nicely on low settings with an FPS of 10-30, 
 with an average of around 12-15 FPS, which is pretty playable.
  
  The audio is very mixed. The great orchestra score is sets the mood and plays much more often than 
 Medieval often did. It's soothing, and it all depends on what is happening during the battle itself. 
 Sound effects are really nice as well, with swords striking shields, cavalry galloping and smashing 
 a front line, etc. But the voice acting is incredibly mediorce, where the voice work ranges from 
 "fair" to "bad". Some units respond to their orders with over-zealous tones, even though they are 
 simply walking to a small distance and not engaging in battle itself.
  
  Gameplay is very good, in battle you do plenty of tactical movements relevent to the era, ranging 
 from simple flanking movements to complex feints to draw the enemy closer. But, in most cases, 
 the AI simply just charges at you, not even using any special abilities or tactical maneuvers that 
 the enemies you face will often use. Even on harder difficulty settings, this simply jacks up the 
 morale of the enemy, and nothing more. They still just charge as you as usual.
  
  On the campaign map, the AI is a lot better, but not by too much: One time, the Gauls, left with 
 only 1 province and little troops, ordered me to give me back all the 10 provinces I had taken 
 from them, as well as pay a sum of 3000 dennarii. I laughed at that, thinking, How can the AI be 
 this stupid?
  
  Overall, Rome is a great game, with a deep strategic layer as well as an equally deep tactical 
 layer. With a great wealth of mods and replayability, Rome: Total War, is indeed a true classic, 
 despite a few AI problems and bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bolise
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 18, 2005 4:20 am PT
Review:  Have you ever played a game where you can command hundreds or even thousands of blood thirsty men? 
 Well heres your chance! Rome - Total war offers all of these. It is a game which allows the player 
 full control of his army, allowing the player to play strategic gameplay aginst your foes.
  
  This is what the creators think! Well... I think of ti the same but a little less, very good 
 game though, it has all a commander could ask for, but like evrything else, it has its ups and 
 downs, more ups ofcourse. Gameplay is amazing! , graphics are unreal! , sounds are out of this 
 world! and most importantly, The creators have put alot of work and passion in this game! one minor 
 set back is that if you don't have the proper hardware, the game won't run propely and the hardware 
 the game asks for is really expensive.
  
  All in all, this game is like no other. :-D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartgrunt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 4:20 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The game is amazing. You start out choosing an empire. You can chose between the julii, brutia, 
 or the scipi. If you dont want to play as Rome then you'll have to do some concurring first.
  
  The game is unlike any RTS I have ever played. Its starts out quite normal you buy units, build 
 up cites, and conquer. Quite simple. The game it self is quit fun but the best part is the battles. 
 Unlike other RTS games where you just atomically battle an win or lose you have the choice of fighting 
 the battle your self where you are able to Command all the units that you made on a virtual 3-D 
 battle field.
  
  The long campaign can usually last you about a week before you can finish but there is also a shorter 
 campaign if you don't have the contusion to sit on your computer for a long amount of time.
  
  Rome: Total War has to be the most inovative and most fun I have ever had in an RTS game. Even 
 if you are not into RTS games this is a wise pick for any gamer wether you are casual or hardcore. 
 As of now I would also recommend that If you get this game also get the expansion pack. It comes 
 with more units and whole bunch of other great stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubbiefan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2005 11:02 am PT
Review:  It finaly happened some one made the perfect RTS game and this game is Rome Total War. No other 
 game has thousands of troops fighting together on screen all other games have a army limit of 200-300 
 men. In this one you can have 1500-3000 men and thats just your army. The battle sound fx and period 
 music is wonderfull and adds to the experience. The graphics are amazing and they STILL FIT ALL 
 THOSE MEN ON SCREEN IT"S AMAZING!!! the overwold map is very nice to look at and the controlls 
 are simple and easy even for a stratgey game novice. Their are several factions to play as in both 
 skirmish and campaign modes and each plays a little different with each having special units. There's 
 also online play to round out this complete packing finishing off the perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kierroo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 14, 2005 6:14 am PT
Review:  The thrid in the series of total war takes a big step up with graphics and gameplay. During battle 
 you feel like it real with thousands of troops battleing for there life. Also the sound should 
 be respect from every swing of a sword a shot from a bow you hear the sound. The music also changes 
 what is happanding in battle like if your are chargeing it changes.
  
  The inperal game is as good as ever first of all you pick one of powerfust roman familes and you 
 do mission for the senate like blockade a port take a setlement for the empire but soon or later 
 the fellow roman familes will get jeoleus of your suceess and will start a cival war so you fight 
 the other roman familes to become the surpream rulier of rome which is a good last 150 turn battle 
 
  
  Rome total war is one of the best games i have ever played on pc it might take a while for new 
 comeers to settle but after hour or so you will be killing guals for rome 
  
  So i m going to give rome total war 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jtrain3470
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War will be the game that revolutionized the way real time strategy games are played.
 
  
  The gameplay in RTW is the best I have seen in a long time. I will start this review by talking 
 about the campaign map.
  The graphics for the RTW map have been ramped up and are now 3D. On the campaign map you do what 
 you think you would (move/attack with your armies, check/manage your cities, watch enemy movement, 
 etc.) . On the campaign map you can go and manage your cities, you can do such things as controlling 
 taxes, what your city is building, what units it is creating, check how happy the citizens are, 
 and you can even look at your city (meaning moving around the city seeing all the citizens doing 
 what citizens do) . Moving your armies on the map is a very simple order of clicking your army and 
 then clicking where you want them to go. Unlike most units in the game diplomats, assassins, and 
 spies are all used on the map, diplomacy is not really needed to take over the world which is a 
 little disappointing, assassins are good units because they are made just for taking out generals/leaders 
 which is very helpful, and last but not least spies wellspy on the enemy or allies if you want.
 
  
  Now I will tell you about RTWs battles. The battles in RTW now look better than ever because in 
 RTW the units are now 3D. The battles can now have up to 8 teams each with 2000 men (if your computer 
 can handle that much information at once) . For those that dont know RTW is not a turn based game 
 and it is not like most RTSs like Age of Empires or Warcraft the battles require strategy rather 
 than just the amount of units you have or how strong they are.
  
  Here is an example of what I mean Warcraft the battles require strategy rather than just the amount 
 of units you have or how strong they are. You can have 8 units of Roman legionnaires (the game 
 does not let you control a single unit but groups of that same unit) and get crap beat out of you 
 by some simple rebels, for instance if you do an all out frontal charge on the enemy you will mow 
 down the rebels and have them retreat to there reinforcements making you think they have accepted 
 there defeat only to have some rebel horsemen spring an ambush on you and come out of some nearby 
 woods that they where hiding in and come around you and charge at the back of your men killing 
 almost every single legionnaire and then not being able to tell your men to fall back due to the 
 fact that the are running for there lives not caring at all about you or any other man on the field 
 and then watch in horror as your troops get cut down by rebel Calvary down to the last man. That 
 is how you can have a battle you where winning turn around on you only because you were not careful 
 enough to watch for an ambush.
  
  The graphics in this game are excellent; its like watching a movie. I love positioning the camera 
 on a group of enemy units not expecting a barrage of arrows to hit them and watching every single 
 arrow hit the ground or hit and kill the poor unprepared group of soldiers. I love watching the 
 bodies fly as a cluster of elephants charges in to the enemy forces. I love to watch as the enemy 
 forces that stand on the wall of the city that I am attacking fall and hit the ground as my catapults 
 launch huge flaming rocks into the wall. I love watching the struggles of one man on the field 
 as he fights 4 enemies all by himself. As Im sure you have noticed I love the graphics in this 
 fantastic game. The only thing I dont like in this game (but you get used to this very fast) is 
 that the soldiers in this game have triangle hands and feet. 
  
  The sound in this game will blow you out of your seat as you hear the swords and roars in battle. 
 RTWs music always fits the part of the battle you are in, the music in this game is so good it 
 could have been used for the Lord of the Rings series and would have the exact same effect as the 
 music in the movie did. When your units are engaged in battle you can hear every stab, kill, scream, 
 block that the men do/yell. Nothing compares to hearing your enemies as they march towards you 
 to crush you and your army and seeing them get closer and closer having there footsteps get louder 
 and louder. Then to hear the horns blow as the enemy forces charge at you with all there might.
 
  
  Rome Total War has a good multiplayer system. The things that you lose in the translation of single 
 player to multiplayer is absolutely nothing, you keep all of the greatness that you liked in single 
 player. Multiplayer is all about proving that you are the better strategist than the other person 
 not about who has the better army. You can fight up to 8 teams each with 2000 soldiers as I said 
 before. There is one thing in multiplayer that Im sure that Im not the only one that dislikes 
 it and that is that the game does not keep record of your winnings and losses.
  
  Rome has TONS of replay value due to the fact that there are 15+ factions for you to play as each 
 with there own units (sharing a couple with other factions) . You are going to have to beat the 
 game with a couple of factions before you are able to play as every faction in the game.
  
  Rome Total War is amazing, awesome, breathe taking, and splendid. Rome Total War is a game that 
 anybody with the PC capable of playing it should get ASAP. For those that dont like RTSs that 
 much doesnt matter, this game will make you a RTS fan for the rest of your life. To make this 
 short and simple get RTW, if you are still reading this review STOP and GET Rome Total War right 
 NOW.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: faiq_feuhrer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2005 9:00 pm PT
Review:  for those who hate goegraphy, history, maps, do not... i repeat... do not with capital D... try this 
 at home without parental supervision... this game quite cool... if only we can do more things with 
 our generals and officers like in Romance of three kingdoms by Koei where we can talk with our 
 generals, promote them to higher ranking in order to increse his loyalty as well as giving him 
 the control of more army, we can also give them some items to enhance their ability, send them 
 into missions such as diplomacy, spying (in rome total war we have spies to do this job) and more... i 
 think it can be better... much better... anyway... for now it is good already compared to other stategy 
 games like Knight of honour, Lord of Realm, old sucking 2D strategy.... except for civilizations... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArsenalArmor
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 9, 2005 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Where should I begin? This game proves itself as a true and solid RTS. Fans of this genre MUST 
 check this game out. The sound is one of its highest points if not the highest point. The soundtrack 
 is awesome and the battle sounds are amazing and full of tension and immersion. Sound is a very 
 important part of this game and the sound does not dissapoint. There are also some good voice acting 
 especially during the pre-battle speeches. 
  
  The graphics are very good but can use some minor tweaking and improvment but nothing to go screaming 
 about. The graphics are just right for a RTS game like this. And besides when hundreds of warriors 
 are on the field duking it out, the graphics are superb and that is very important to the game. 
 Another minor thing that could get some players scratching their heads, is the lack of blood. When 
 I read the title and summary it said Total War not bloodless war. With some nice blood effects 
 this game could have been even better. Picture the movie the Gladiator in video game form minus 
 the blood. With that said let me move onto the gameplay. 
  
  Gameplay in this game does not dissapoint and is pretty standard for the average RTS player. Some 
 nice touches like buliding, sieges, political options and stuff like that make the game better and 
 that much more immersive. I could spend a long time talking about the gameplay but I will say this, 
 it is AWESOME. Nuff said. 
  
  The value I would say is modarate since it has some multiplayer options and some other campaigns. 
 The historical battles are a nice feature as well. My tilt is pretty high since i had some great 
 experiences with this game. From leading your calvary into the flank of the enemy to capturing 
 Rome thru political and military battles this game does not go to far from the basic RTS forumula. 
 It is a worthy addition to your collection and definitely lives up to the name Rome Total War! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caelio
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  As a devoted player of both Shogun Total War and Medieval Total War, and an avid reader of Roman 
 History, few could have looked forward to this game more than I did. Perhaps that is the reason 
 why I was so disappointed that Rome Total War, although a decent game in its own right, was actually 
 a step backward from its predecessors is several critical respects.
  
  The Graphics in Rome Total War, both on the tactical and campaign maps, are unquestionably impressive. 
 These improvements, however, are only skin deep, and should not have been emphasized at the expense 
 of the things that really made the previous games challenging and unique.
  
  In Shogun and Medieval Total War, tactical combat, especially in the early stages, was very challenging. 
 The computer opponent constantly reassessed its position on the field to gain advantage. Outflanking 
 maneuvers attempted against the computer, when not perfectly executed, would often backfire and 
 result in a rout. In Rome Total War, computer opponents sit quietly while being pelted by missiles, 
 charge their generals into massed spearmen, throw themselves into rivers, and allow themselves 
 to be outflanked without difficulty. Losing battle that is anywhere close to evenly matched is 
 exceedingly rare, even when the computer is defending on uneven ground.
  
  The campaign game in Rome Total War similarly lacks the challenge and urgency provided by its predecessors. 
 In Shogun and Medieval, consolidating, developing and defending a few good provinces in the early 
 and mid-game was difficult and fun. In Rome Total War, there is no so such challenge with any of 
 the major factions, even on the highest difficulty levels. The campaign AI is not adequately equipped 
 to deal with the complex new campaign map that permits outflanking of armies with reinforcements. 
 Nor do computer opponents offers stiff resistance to invasions or make determined assaults of their 
 own, even when equipped with vast numbers.
  
  The game, I repeat, is still a good one. Unfortunately in its efforts to increase the outward appearance 
 and scale of the previous games in fairly pedestrian ways, Creative Assembly discarded the few 
 truly unique things that it brought to the genre of turn-based strategy with these games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flavius_Aetius
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 6, 2005 1:11 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to "Love" this game, and it can be really fun! However there are way too many bugs 
 for it to be enjoyable! Things like no being able to save, random crashes, Retarded AI ( Explain 
 to me why Cavalry would chase a routing unit of foot soldiers, and be out ran by them in open fields?) , 
 ... The only fun that I have had with this game was playing the historical battles, and custom 
 battles. (280 Spartans CAN hold a bridge againist a busload of parthinians, even with one army 
 having all its slots filled with Archers) - Which I wish they would have included the battle of 
 Thermopalae) .
  
  When this game works it is fun and game play is up in the 9's. (As I said too many bugs! )
  
 
  Another problem is vague instuctions/ advice! Do what to who and why?
  
  I have uninstalled/ reinstalled far too many times to say it's a great game!
  
  AMD Athlon 
 XP 2800+
  1GB DDR 3200
  NVIDIA 5700 Personnal Cinema
  Shuttle SN45 XPC
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doyou
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 11:09 am PT
Review:  A game to be good must have good graphics, a nice soundtrack, easy gameplay and all this thing reladed 
 with the technology and evolution. But a game can't be just a game. It must be one with the player. The 
 player must be one with the game."To live the experience" it is said. That's what happened to me. I 
 went to a gameclub and i asked for a good strategy game. that way "ROme total War" came into my 
 hand. From that moment I can not leave my laptop.
  It synthesizes strategy with action to make a compound of pleasure and excitement. You choose your 
 favourite tribe and the War was just began. The cyties must be grown , your army must be trainted, the 
 enemy is all around. Use your best generals, your best troops and destroy them all.... Have a nice 
 fight!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: April_Goh
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2005 7:33 am PT
Review:  
  Rome Total War (RTW) is the third installment in the much loved Total War series, and it doesn't 
 disappoint. The game is very well done across the board, although it does have one slightly annoying 
 flaw. But that little flaw is surrounded by facets that exceed one's expectations of what a strategy 
 game is.
  
  Graphics: Even on the worst of graphic levels, this game looks very good. You may even by tempted 
 to pause the game in the midst of battle just to check out the majestic mountains, enormous valleys, 
 and flowing rivers. Just don't spend too much time staring at the scenery that you forget to look 
 at the rest of the battle field, from its shield insignias, to its chariots, giant war elephants, 
 burning bodies (sounds grotesque, I know) , stone streets, farmers' fields, foreboding stone walls, 
 and marvelous cities. Much attention is given to detail (such as shadows, dust from hooves/feet 
 on sand, reflections of metal/water, and numerous other little touches) , attention which you can 
 remove for better performance. And, let's not forget the satisfaction of charging right into the 
 enemy's flanks while they get cut down by your infantry and missiles! 
  
  All in all, very well done in the visual department. And that's not even the best part. 9.5/10
 
  
  Gameplay: RTW has one of the deepest experiences you will ever see in any strategy game, rivaled 
 only by the legendary Fire Emblem Series. Of course, if you don't want to worry about every minute 
 detail and just worry about crushing your enemies on the battle field, you can leave the administrative 
 duties to the AI. However, if you want to manage which building is built where at what time, you 
 can. You can control which units are trained, which buildings are built, where your spies, assassins, 
 and diplomats are at all times, and the action of your armies and navies. You can also manage who 
 the faction heir is, who your family's daughters marry, who gets promoted from within the faction, 
 and such. And you'd be wise to do so, as settlements will begin to revolt if they feel you are 
 mistreating them (or if they feel they can get away with it, i. e. the settlement is far removed 
 from the Capital) .
  
  On the diplomatic side of things, there is much you can do. You can beg for peace (Although a good 
 general would kill his enemies first!) , form alliances, establish trading rights, demand tribute, 
 trade map information, demand settlements, or advance your goals by  
 After all, almost any man can leave war happily with a full purse, if you know what I mean.
  
  When it comes to the military, you have plenty of choices depending upon the faction, although 
 most tend to lean in one general direction or another, those directions being cavalry, missile 
 units, and infantry. Cavalry is more than just horses, it also includes mounted archers, camels, 
 elephants, and chariots. Missile units are more than just archers, you can also have slingers, 
 javelin throwers, siege weapons, mounted archers, and even head hurlers (who I guess would fall 
 under slingers) . And, lastly, infantry breaks up into phalangites (a block of men with long spears 
 and large shields working as on cohesive mass) , chargers (barbarian types who do little more than 
 roar, run, and slash) , and Legionaries, who are a sort of middle ground between the other two types, 
 and generally have a few javelins to throw first. While the weaker factions may be forced into 
 using one strategy, the more sophisticated factions (The 3 Roman families, The Egyptians, The Greeks, 
 The Carthaginians, and The Seleucids) can form large, varied armies of skirmishers to soften up 
 the enemy, infantry to hold the lines, and cavalry to break the lines. However, these factions 
 are generally at a great advantage over the less sophisticated factions, as they can build bigger 
 cities, better armies, and stronger navies. Which brings me to the one flaw in RTW...
  
  ... The less sophisticated factions, most prominently the Germans, Gauls, and Britons, as the other 
 factions are busy hundreds of miles away, merrily chopping each other to pieces. The Germans, Gauls, 
 and Britons are near the Romans AND Carthaginians, arguably the two greatest powers in the game 
 (and the Romans are first, for sure) . This makes their lands little more than stomping grounds, 
 as they simply can not muster significant forces that would pose a serious threat. Even a full 
 stack of 20 groups isn't much trouble for a general with sufficient cavalry and a pulse. While 
 these groups may get out of hand if left alone for decades, theyre easily conquered nonetheless. 
 This shifts the game even more heavily in the favor of Rome, as the have some easy land to grab, 
 which can help grease the wheels of war considerably. Combine that with superior Roman buildings 
 and military, and you've got a somewhat unbalanced game on easy and medium. On Hard, the enemy 
 is buffed to the point where they pose a threat, although they're still no huge threat. However, 
 I don't mean to say it's impossible to win as the aforementioned factions, it's far from it. However, 
 it's too easy to lose, as well.
  
  Overall, RTW does fantastically well in gameplay, even with the flaw I mentioned. 9.7/10
  
 
  Sound: Again, even on the bare minimum settings, the game does very well here. Warriors shout 
 when charging, metal grinds on metal, men cry out in pain whence they go to meet their maker, siege 
 weapons crash against walls and gates, arrows whoosh by, and everything else you'd expect during 
 battle, and even epic background music. 
  
  Very well done, nothing is missing here at all. 9.5/10
  
  Controls: It's a PC game, so controls 
 shouldn't be an issue. And they're not. Even during the height of battle, you can easily give orders 
 without having to pause (although you may want to do so, to consider the best course of action) . 
 You can use either the mouse or keystrokes to activate abilities like flaming arrows, skirmish 
 mode, or run. Outside of battle, it's little more than some simple point and click action, so no 
 problems there, either.
  
  Yet another well done facet of the game. 10/10
  
  Overall, any fan of strategy games should get this. If you thought Starcraft/Warcraft were great, 
 then RTW should blow you (and them) away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Burn2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2005 6:08 am PT
Review:  Although it can get boring sometimes in one player, you can always try new strategies and tactics, 
 and play historic battles..... great to experiment putting armies of peasants against huge roman 
 armies and watch them all get slaughtered. i have spent a lot of time on the world and would like 
 to see more units for the british, i dont always want to be Roman, who have a obvious advantage! 
 The Graphics could be better though, and the gameplay could be a bit better as well!!!!! There 
 are some good mods floating about tho, be sure to experiment (but backup your games first!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morb
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I have loved this game since the moment I picked it up last year of release. It was visually stunning, 
 was a refreshing change from other war games, and the game play was quite fun.
  
  Thing is, all good things came to end after I had conquered most of the ancient known world two 
 or three times. I slowly became bored with the endless battles, micro management of cities and 
 chasing down of unhappy citizens.
  
  I'm very excited to see what will be next in the Total War series of games, perhaps a revisit of 
 Samauri, or a really good Neapolonic war game, but in the meantime, grab Rome: TW have a blast 
 playing it.
  
  Even non lovers of strategy war games will be amazed by the easy gameplay, amazing and stunning 
 visual effects and strategic war moves that are carried out by the Roman soldier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odin23warrior
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:36 am PT
Review:  when i first got this game i was crazy about it controlling huge armies and taking cities what 
 could be better. the whole way throught the game it mkes you think and develope new and diffrent 
 tatics to kill your enemy and take control of there lands. You do missions by the senite and build 
 a ever lasting economy by trading and selleng goods to make your house (scipii, juliei, brutei) the 
 most donminate in the game. you can freeze and give your orders or speed up the battle if you are 
 winning. this game still has me crazy for more. if your a stragety kinda person this game is defintly 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectricB05
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2005 7:50 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing, ive played for hours and hours on end and i have not got board like 
 i do with other games, its the best total war game yet and i hope total war makes a modern day 
 game just like this one, Rome total war is a 10 in my books and with barbarian invasion out it 
 well make the game off the scales, there are not memory leaks not glitches or anything that i kno 
 of, and its challanging to well enough writing im going to play some more total war, but before 
 i go back to rome, i want to suggest taht total war uses this games engine to create a modern day 
 war game with the same gameplay and even more like better AI in diplomatic situatiouns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Towedwart
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is a game like no other (sans the rest of the Total War series, of course) . The 
 seamless intertwining of turn-based and real-time strategy styles adds a dimension of gameplay 
 not found in most other strategy games.
  
  The gameplay is split between a turn-based world map and real-time battles. The opening "campaign" 
 new users are forced to play upon installing the game perfectly explains how to play the game, 
 making it easy enough for anyone to learn. If one doesn't catch everything from the tutorial, he 
 can play through the game with hints on, allowing further explanation of the inner-workings of 
 the game.
  
  The world map is a huge expanse of conquerable cities and nations ranging from the British Isles 
 to Western Asia. Each turn on the world map is six months in game time - six months for a growing 
 empire to manage its cities and armies. It is also here on the world map view that one can view 
 all of the current information regarding the empire and its leader's status in the world. Many 
 of the important game factors are accessed through the world map, such as army movements and diplomatic 
 relations, and the game has everything easily set up and understandable.
  
  When one attempts to fight an opposing city or army, Rome: Total War enters into the battle map 
 aspect of the game. Battles are real-time and can be rather fast-paced. For those who like to micro-manage, 
 there is a pause function; and for just the opposite, those with the patience of, well, an impatient 
 person, there are three different game speed options to change to any time during the battle.
 
  
  Control of armies within the battle map is simple enough, some units having unique maneuvers. The 
 view is easy to manage - the game only allowing a player to move the camera a certain distance 
 away from the units.
  
  The most impressive aspect of the game is the amazing detail the Total War crew put into the graphics. 
 Everything is animated within the battle maps, each unit running on its own yet in accordance with 
 its group, smoke is kicked up by stampeding cavalry, the grass of fields sway in the wind, and 
 dead bodies lie motionless until the battle is over. Along with outstanding graphics is excellent 
 sound. Both the sound effects and the game's score are great and never get annoying as in other 
 games with repetitive sounds.
  
  As if the gameplay wasn't already perfect enough, the creators made sure not to lose their focus: 
 creating a historical game. Although the player chooses the destiny of his empire, the creators 
 made sure to fit in enough historical battles to keep players in the mindset of reliving history. 
 It is an amazing experience seeing your armies face war elephants for the first time as Hannibal 
 attempts invade your empire.
  
  If you like strong strategy games but want a little more than a fast-paced build-then-destroy RTS, 
 pick up Rome: Total War - it won't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TotalWarHero
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  At its release the graphics on the game were simply amazing. A year later they are still awesome. 
 I found this game to be incredibly enjoyable, since most strategy games today simply dont have 
 much strategy. However, Rome combines amazing sound, graphics and gameplay into one BIG package. 
 The only complaints i have are moving large numbers of regiments is tricky, a few problems with 
 AI, and a few too freqeunt rebellions in campaign mode. However, these small complaints pale in 
 comparrison to the gameplay and visual splendor of the game (its absolutely satisfying watching 
 cavalry snap throught a line of retreating soldiers) .
  
  A big thumbs up 4 me was replay. Ive had the game almost a year to the date and i just played it 
 b4 i wrote this review, and i have been on a frequent basis. You cant say that about every game. 
 Bottom line is great graphics, great gameplay and good sound too. 
  
  SO GO BUY IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honestabraham
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2005 6:41 pm PT
Review:  To begin with, I try to weigh my reviews down to leave some room for improvement, but honestly, 
 this game deserves every rating I gave it.
  
  First, gameplay. Think Risk, but when the battles start, think Warcraft times 10000. An epic strategy 
 map encompasses a huge area, from England all the way east to slightly past Turkey, from Germania 
 to the far Southern reaches of northern Africa, this map is amazing. You can play for hours and 
 not possess an eighth of the world. At this point you may be thinking "Why the hell give a game 
 a 9 on gameplay for a map?" Now hold your horses. The reason that pushed this game from an 8 to 
 a 9 in gameplay is one-fold. There is no sweeter reward than crashing chariots, elephants or straight-up 
 horses head on into a crowd of peasants. This single moment propelled this game to the forefront 
 of my favorite games. An amazing feeling of power erupts from charging and running down fleeing 
 spearmen after you slaughter their general. This leads me to the one downfall of this game: tragically 
 stupid AI in points. When you order horses to run down some running barbarians, they often catch 
 up with them, slow down, catch up, wash-rinse and repeat. 
  
  Graphics feel, quite honestly, epic. Zooming out to get the individual detail of units, and then 
 zooming out to view your entire battle-field is a great feeling. Shining armor, crumbling towers 
 and flying flame-arrows are all guilty pleasures that this game provides. 
  
  Sound is just right for this game, but can get repetitive. However, the voice over work is spectacular, 
 sounding much like you'd hear back then (if they didn't speak Latin.) 
  
  In the end, Rome: Total War is quite simply the best strategy game money can buy. Go out and get 
 it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lerkov
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 28, 2005 5:05 am PT
Review:  The gameplay in the missions and during lan and internet battles is awesome. 
  
  Lets just say that if u love bodies, strategy, and realistic battles you got ur game right here.
 
  
  I love the elephants as they smash through armies, i love how the tiniest things affect the troops 
 and the battle! Running downhill or uphil, the snow, the trees, stuff! The graphics are good cuz 
 they can be adjusted to ur liking.
  
  The worst thing has to be that it takes so long to adjust your armies specialties and promotions 
 and stuff. It might just be taht my version is too low or something but i feel that i shud be able 
 to select multiple units and make them all veterans at once. 
  
  Furthermore, the bodies! the bodies! theres so many of them its amazing! Too cool. The sound is 
 also good! one can hear a burning ball fired from an onager fly past the camera and almost every 
 person in the regiments has individual sounds! 
  
  Everything's good, just not perfect... and it doesnt have to be. 
  Addictive too, beware! u wanna 
 try every army at least 3 times! and thers a lot of those! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 27, 2005 7:35 am PT
Review:  Rome total war rocks its a pretty good game. 
  
  The bad: the graphics could have been better. and the sound a little bit.
  
  The good: intense 
 combat, fun too play, pro AI, good maps, and great arcithecture. 
  
  Rome total war is great its fun but the graphics could have been fixed a little bit. But this game 
 is a must buy for almost everybody, its fun the intense ai is dangerous. Heard its even better 
 on exspansion. The game isnt perfect i never give perfect because NO games are perfect. But 9,1 
 from me means that this game is very good. Figthing in snow, desert, woods everything its just 
 plain plain fun but it everybody almost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: generaltono
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:55 pm PT
Review:  rome total war is a good game only if you love history love to lead an army of great numbers have 
 to be very smart in leading you armys. this game is almost perfect but they could have done a little 
 more. i loved the large armys and vast types of units you could choose from but i did not like 
 that you could not us all the armys that are in the costum games in the story mode and that you 
 could not mix troops from other armys into larger and vast armys that graphics were good for a 
 stradgy game but i hated getting all those missions from the senate and you can not take rome or 
 attack unti you are stronger that what you start with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moraeche
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2005 2:53 pm PT
Review:  From the start Rome Total War let you be the emperator of the ancient Roman Empire, leading your 
 armies into outstanding battles, crushing and destroying everything that is in your path to victory, 
 but also managing your cities and making diplomacy with strategic neighborhoods.
  
  At the beginning you feel like "this is going to be complicated", well and it is, but when you 
 learn how to manage your empire and armies, all you have to do is start making your way to ROME 
 and glory, and to get to this point you'll have to make your way through very different levels 
 of difficulties, be a wise general in you battles, and smart in your foreign affairs.
  
  I'm very satisfied of what the game offers in video, sound and game play. I just don't like the 
 fact that the naval fights are so simple and without any action. 
  
  This game puts a high standard for new releases in this type of games, I hope you enjoy it and 
 felt like a truly ROMAN.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tasuke
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2005 8:51 am PT
Review:  After seeing the video for this game it caught my interest immediatly and after i bought it and 
 started playing it gave me exactly what i wanted. The battles are immense if you build up your 
 armys to full capacity and taking on other huge armys. But if you go against most countrys with 
 nothing but cavalry expect this game to be easy. I think its a must have strategy game and kutohs 
 to whoever has a good system to run its full potential. It tends to get boring at times building 
 armys then taking on other cities. But becareful when your fighting for rome not to piss off the 
 Senate or youll be screwed early in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdeangulo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 9:28 am PT
Review:  This game it's the best war-strategy game i've ever played.
  Try it out. The learning curve is a little bit long, but once you learn how to earn money, start 
 making your empire. 
  
  The graphics are O. K. I play on a Laptop so i can't experience the full thing. So please tell me 
 if i'm wrong but i think in a faster PC the graphics will be awsome.
  
  The music it's in order with the game. The chants while the battle goes, gives the game a epic 
 sense. 
  
  If you like games like CIVILIZATION, SIM CITY, AGE OF EMPIRES, or any game that combines management 
 and strategy you should play ROME TW.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RNoN
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 24, 2005 12:56 pm PT
Review:  A really good game long but good
  
  the battle interface really convenient (other games can learn)
  Difficulty could be adjusted 
 to meet one's demand
  
  But there are a few flaws (like the chariots that just help you die faster)
  And when commanding 
 an action on more than two cavalery units, they might start to develop a mind of their own. in 
 other words they might misunderstand you. IN other words you'll say go left and they'll go right.
 
  
  so have fun
  bye
  i need more words so bla bla bla check 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 10:27 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War has a great combat system, you need tactics, not just brute force. The battles 
 are also huge as are the maps, and you can zoom in to see some cavalry or a horde of war elephants 
 trample over a group of infantry.
  
  The graphics are great, much better than the previous Total War games. The multiplayer is fairly 
 good too, you can do deathmatches and team-based co-op. The game started at $40, so its a pretty 
 good deal. Overall this is a game of very little complaints and is one of the best historical strategy 
 games available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KiwiTeen
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:28 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War is the first in the Total War series that I have played and I LOVED IT! 
  The game play is exciting and compelling and the graphics are quite good. The music and sound is 
 excellent, you can defiantly play the single-player campaign more than once and the game is jam-packed 
 full of features and more features. The battles are spectacular and one can enjoy seeing disciplined 
 Roman formations grind Barbarian hordes into dust, a Macedonian phalanx break a charge of heavy 
 cavalry, catapults crush men beneath heavy stones or observe Britannic chariots cut down infantry 
 in their path (and thats naming but a few of the fantastic scenes one can be spectator of!) . 
 
  
  My only complaints are how hard the game can get whilst trying to manage your empires economy, 
 keep your people content, oversee new construction in cities, attempting to raise new armies to 
 replace those lost while fending off Barbarian hordes and reinforce your men committed to holding 
 back the Macedonian flood (all the while trying to remain within your factions budget!) . Though 
 I suppose the challenge is what makes this game so attractive and re-playable. 
  
  All in all a great game well worth playing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: breshpe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 21, 2005 4:47 pm PT
Review:  When I played rome total war fot the first time i was "petrified" because te graphics ,the gameplay 
 all was very good. The historic aspects, the diferents civilization ,the cities and all the things 
 you can do with them. The battles are excelent and the difernt units in the battle too. Perhaps the 
 sound it isn`t very good but is quite good .
  
  The game is excelent and I recommend it to all people how know what is a good strategic game. Do 
 youy want an excelent strategic game? Here you have one.
  
  Thanks for reading my review.
  Breshpe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malonegamer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:29 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War for me is in a league of its own to quote gamespot it is 'the very defenition of 
 an Epic Strategy Game' The game is simply phenomenal and very addictive, trust me you need to allow 
 for days of sitting in front of your PC if you buy this game. What makes this game so special is 
 it breathtaking scale and detail, from organizing your economy to leading your armies across deserts, 
 forests and snow laden lands in search of glory. The epic battles clinch it for me, the superb 
 3D graphics make them the most realistic ever. Thousands of individual soldiers fighting it out 
 in front of your eyes is awesome. I could if time permitted go into great detail about this game 
 but I'd rather just say this,'BUY THIS GAME, NOW' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 02dthompson
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 21, 2005 5:12 am PT
Review:  Well, I really thought that this game was brilliant when I got it. But when I had played it for 
 a few weeks, maybe nearly a month I got a bit bored with it. It just seemed to repetitive like 
 every team had exactly the same units and that every battle was more or less the same. As for the 
 campaign, I also thought at first that that was amazing, I mean come on, it has brill graphics 
 and loads of stuff to do but again, after a while I thought that it got to repetitive, I never 
 exactly completely destroyed a faction because I got a bit bored, it all seemed the same to me.
 
  
  Btw, I just got brand new computer with everything u need for new games (not going into details) 
 and it HAS STILL GOT A LAG!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecolddodo
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Rome total war is the game that will make you spend hours of your free time in front of the computer. 
 Both RTS and TBS parts of the game are incredibly good. In RTS part of the game you control huge 
 armies and plan strategies, and in TBS part you build an empire just as in Civilization, only better 
 and with more micromenagment. RTS part also has stunning graphichs and it would be worth to buy 
 this game only becouse of that.
  All that makes this game great and I am suggesting it for you to buy it..
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatinsandwich
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 20, 2005 7:55 am PT
Review:  great games that change the mould of the gaming world come around very few times and this is definitely 
 one. its huge battle maps and epic battles are unmatched and were unheard of before the series 
 came to the market with shogun total war and then its predecessor medieval total war. rome has 
 stayed true to this point and click style of controlling vast armies in the epic style battles, 
 obviously the graphics have improved over the years and the level of detail is very close to perfection 
 however you do need a good pc to play this game and there are bugs but with the patch downloads 
 this can be fixed these glitches are small enough to be overlooked romes main feature and why it 
 has been a great selling series is because of its battles and realism these epic battles have captured 
 the savage fights that took place around that era to nearly perfection not just visually but the 
 sound affects are just as realistic and make you feel like you are in a battle especially when 
 a horde of charging barbarians crashes against your roman front-line this just is not seen in other 
 titles. The choices of factions creates a lot of varying factors that make the games playing life 
 much longer the differences in the styles of fighting are enough to keep gamers there for a long 
 while and with its expansion pack barbarian invasion out as well this looks to be a very long lasting 
 experience for the gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smalljosh
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:15 am PT
Review:  Rome Totoal war has to be one of the best games i have ever played. I saw it in a pc gamer magazine 
 a few months before the game came out and wanted it more than anything the world. i got at christmas 
 and have been playing it on and off (mainly on) for almost a year now. In all this time i have not 
 come across a more addictive game. there is just so much you can do there is the historical battles 
 some fairly easy others can take a lot of goes to complete but all are amzingly fun, the start 
 up movies before a historical battle introducing the upcoming fights are so deep and interesting. 
 Then there's the campaign that will last you for years there is so many factions to pick from each 
 presenting individual challenges and tasks, For example the romans have to listen to orders given 
 them by the senate or face exile and civil war with the senate and the other roman houses. If you 
 are starting to get bored of the game you can dowload a mod which lets you play all tje factions 
 in the campaign eg you can be spain. you can also dowload more historical battles. ENJOY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakeob1106
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 17, 2005 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I thouroughly enjoyed this game. As a fan of Age of Empires I was kind of reluctant to check out 
 this game, but I was pleasantly surprised at the graphics, gameplay, and depth. I miss the actual 
 building og cities like in AOE, but you have a more simplistic building system in This game. I 
 will definately be checking out the expansion pack for this game which offers more races to play 
 as, as well as more war units. Also keep an eye out for AOE 3 which comes out in a few days. I'm 
 now having to use filler words to reach the one hunderd word minimum so super cala frag ili stic 
 ex pea ala docious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guun63
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 15, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This is the most amazing RTS i have ever seen. right from the beginnig you get thrown in it this 
 is and will be the most exiting RTS i have ever played what more can you say.. I just cant stop 
 paying it.. but its great but it still has its down sides its a super great game no doubt about 
 that its a must have game for your collection!!!.. the game play is good. the campaign could be 
 better maybe a little more difficault. The battle's are amazing just amazing the intenseti is outstanding 
 i just love to sometimes just take a huge battle against the comp. overall a super great RTS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigi05
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  the game was a little small at first, but after i got the RTR patch, it was awsome! if u start 
 out with the game itself, it pretty simple, the three roman factions to choose from. now there 
 is a way to get more denarii, make the un-unlockabe factions playable, and play as the rebels. 
 the game did have a lot of ways to cheat. if u didn't look for these and only played the game, 
 it would turn out to be the challange u were looking for. im looking forward to the expansion to 
 this major butkicking stratagy game. "Never underestimate the power of the lesser peoples". "A 
 good general only fights when he knows he can win, and retreats when he knows he cannot". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZZRPuig
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  Just amazing at first sight. Very nice graphics, fun gameplay, deep strategy, lots of units and 
 almost anything you can ask from a RTS. But unfortunately, as I said, it's deeply bugged.
  
  I'm not talking about some anoying small bugs, it's the hole game engine that's broken. There 
 is a good number of minor bugs, but the main one it's related with the AI. The bug completely destroys 
 it. You will understand it better if I say that I finally abandoned the game when I had almost 
 finished the whole campaign, and in all this time I was never attacked by the enemy. The game reduces 
 to sit down calmly massing your forces and attack where you wish one you have enough. You don't 
 even have to defend your conquered cities, the bug (among other thinks) makes your enemies unable 
 (unwillingly would be more exact) to take them.
  
  In brief, the bug takes all the challenge from the game. If there is no challenge there is no strategy, 
 and without strategy nor challenge there is no fun, even no game.
  
  The worst of all is that you can realize that without this and other bugs it could have been the 
 best RTS you ever played. And that is really frustrating. It's like having a handful of dyamonds 
 in your hand and see how they spill betwen your fingers. Really disapointing, that's even worst 
 than to realize you have spent your money on a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xwolfghost
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2005 6:48 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best in series, not because of the new and definalty improved graphics, but 
 for its campaign improvements and all the little things.
  
  The game starts with an intro of some of the historical maps you can play and an example of the 
 massive battles that await you in playing the game.
  
  The tutorial is a good start for the people who haven't played any of the old total wars but if 
 you had you should anyways because the campaign map has a massive change to it. Instead of single 
 province movement it is now a 3d movement. You can now move freely through your province and through 
 your allies provinces if you have a military access deal. 
  
  To start off you can play any of the three Roman fraction. Every fraction has its weight to pull 
 off against fractions that are twice there size. 
  
  The new battle zones are put as a square around the two armies and has most of the old rules like 
 once you are out of the zone you can't get attacked. The major map difference you will notice is 
 in the seige assults. You now have the option of placing troops on your walls and that means you 
 need a way to attack, siege towers, ladders, and and an option to tunell under the walls and bring 
 them down from under and a safe distance. Also there are battering rams that only seem to proof 
 usefull on wooden walls.
  
  The caslte looks have improved from just the walls to. There are now the barracks and blacksmith, 
 plus the houses so it is full. Thus if you attack the buildings with the new fire ability it will 
 start to burn and turn to ruins but its not a good idea if you are capturing the settlement because 
 you then have to repair it.
  
  With the newer games you expect to have a better management option and Dice has givan that. There 
 is an option to see how much wealth is being produced and from what as well as what is bringing 
 the wealth down. With that is the settelements happiness, the things that are affecting them such 
 as the amount of soldiers you have in the garricon and so on. You also have the option to move 
 your capital closer to unhappy settlements to improve it.
  
  With the new 3D map you will notice alot of things that are added on such as roads to imrpove the 
 movement of your soldiers and wealth. If you have a trader, roads, and a trade agreement with another 
 fraction you will see the caravans moving along the road to the other settlements as well as to 
 ports for boat trading routs.
  
  The water system is the same movement wise as the ground movement and the battles have not change 
 much. If there is a natural disaster you can see the clouds above your fleet. Its alot of little 
 things that Dice has noticed to add in RTW.
  
  In the battle maps is more big changes that have been made. In the older version of TW you would 
 see units running foward but it looks as if they are running side ways. The new graphics engine 
 has changed to more 3D effects. With that the horesman have improved in the battles. Instead of 
 them just stopping in front of the enemy and fighting hand to hand the hores will run over the 
 units and mostly destroy the front line of the enemy. The same goes for routing units, instead 
 of loosing time on stopping and killing the horses pillage the enemy while running the same pace.
 
  
  With all overal this game is without a dout the best in the TW series and at the top of the list 
 for strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metamorbis
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 13, 2005 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I originally got this game because I saw my friend playing Medieval: Total War. I am also a big 
 fan of strategy based war games. I was hoping for big results when I got this game and it delivered.
 
  
  The unbelievably great gameplay of the orginal Total War games is back, but this time you must 
 capture a city inside of a province to obtain it. This adds a great deal more strategy in where 
 you want to expand your empire. Another great feature is the governor system. This is where you 
 have one of your family members rule over one of your settlements, but the thing is they have to 
 stay there. You can turn this feature off if you like a more action packed less strategic game.
 
  
  This is possibly the most addictive game is the history of forever. I have had the game for a week 
 and I have played about 50 hours of the seemingly never-ending imperial campaign. 
  
  Overall, if you like war or strategy games, buying Rome: Total War is a no-brainer. If you like 
 any type of video game, buy it and set aside a few hours each day so you can command your army 
 for the glory of Rome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rohhirum
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 12, 2005 6:43 pm PT
Review:  The best part about this game is the graphics. The units march as one and u can have around 80 
 men in a unit. The units are very historically accurate with their gladius's and all the above. 
 The units have interesting formations like the testido form (which the roman armies use like the 
 formation in gladiator when the chariots are fighting the gladiators) . Some calvalry have the wedge 
 formation. The archers aren't as strong as they should be. But they can fire on the enemy and the 
 enemy will lose morale and when the enemy u were firing on goes into melee u they may retreat easier 
 than normally. And when clavalry and elephants charge the enemy the enemy infnatry fly into the 
 air. So this game is very realistic except for the navy battles which auto resolve. And the ships 
 take forever to sink. You can also defend cities from walls make siege stuff wehen u are siege 
 a city.
  The campgaign map is where u manage cities, build units, assasins, spies, diplomats, ships, taxing, 
 moving armies, settign up ambushes and, other interesting stuff. You can also build watch towers 
 and forts (forts if u have a general with you in that army) . 
  Overall this game is great except for the navy battles which are the only draw back. The difficuly 
 is alittle easy except if its on very hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allstar42
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best RTS I have ever played. The very first was that of the original Age of 
 Empires, and has the genre come a long way. I enjoy not only the Civilization type army movement/city 
 management, but the amount of diversity in the multiplayer modes as well. The AI is excellent, 
 providing quite a challenge, but not too overbearing as to quit and break the disk. Just a quick 
 tip for those looking to buy the recently released expansion Barbarian Invasion : when you install 
 the expansion, all your original Rome: TW files are lost, and your multiplayer will not work. It 
 is desired that you install Barbarian Invasion to a different directory if you still wish to play 
 the original. Have fun exploring Rome's frontiers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwollenFridge
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 30, 2005 12:45 am PT
Review:  I honestly believe that with Rome: Total War, Creative Assembly have created the pinnacle of strategy 
 gaming.
  
  A lofty statement to be sure, but this is one of the few times such hyperbole can be backed up. 
 Rome: Total War is aptly and often described as two games in one: a very deep, very immersive turn-based 
 strategy game with a depth comparable to Civilization and complete accessibility, as well as a 
 brilliantly designed real-time tactical strategy portion in which you fight battles. The turn-based 
 portion is played on an absolutely stunning 2-D map, which is littered with information that is 
 very intuitive. Mountains are visible, as well as choke points, and obviously cities. It's easy 
 to do everything - want to find out how busy your roads are? Simply zoom in and look at the amount 
 of traffic on that road. What about how much that city is making per turn? Just click on the city 
 and a screen containing all the information you will ever want comes up. Pretty much all the information 
 you could want is at your finger-tips and accessible. For people who are overwhelmed by all this, 
 though, there is always an option for an NPC to advise you as what to do, and occasionally it's 
 valuable to hear her. Still though, it's hard to see why anybody could find it confusing, and the 
 advisor may not have your specific plans in mind, so it's often best to go with your intuition 
 and learn on the go. Another thing is family members, basically your generals (sons and sons-in-law) , 
 and their wives (daughters and daughters-in-law) . Family members are somewhat like living characters, 
 but if they die, you will lose them forever. However, if you never take them out in the battlefield, 
 if and when they need to command a battle their prowess may be woefully underpowered, and if you 
 never keep them in cities, they never get good management and so on. A dead character is a terrible 
 event, as it's one less general to lead your guys into battle. Of course, captains can also be 
 used for battle, but they are naturally not as good.
  
  So the turn-based portion is utterly fantastic. Now what about real-time?
  
  Well, the real-time 
 portion is equally stunning, if not more so. The turn-based was a cohesive fusion of all turn-based 
 games before it, but there's really not anything on the market like the real-time portion of Rome: 
 Total War. First off, the battles can get bigger than any other game, easily, you can see thousands 
 of units on the screen simultaneously without even a dip in framerate, and it's truly spectacular 
 overall - most of all the sieges, which are awe-inspiring with massive walls, huge doors and tons 
 of siege equipment. But even more important is the gameplay - tactics like assaulting spearmen 
 with cavalry is pretty much suicide. You have to use units on the go but you also have to do it 
 intelligently, and often will find yourself flipping back and forth over vast tracts of distance 
 to make sure everything's going alright. Battles will often be very challenging, and even if they're 
 not hard to win, you still want to do it with minimal casualties because it carries over to the 
 turn-based map. Luckily, this kind of challenging is the kind rarely nailed by any game, it's insanely 
 fun instead of extremely aggravating and only compels you to play more when you lose or win.
  
  Another cool thing about these two games, so to speak, is that they affect each other. Position 
 one army near an army that's about to have a battle and it will reinforce soon after the battle 
 starts. Units that die in the battle will die on the turn-based screen. Terrain or bridges seen 
 on the campaign map are present in the battles placed near it. It's awesome how the interplay between 
 the two games manages to connect them into one seamless game, and is a truly monumental feat by 
 the Creative Assembly.
  
  Perhaps the greatest testament to this game is that you really only have to do the parts you really 
 like. Don't want to mess with the turn-based? Then just have the computer manage things on the 
 campaign map, or just play the pre-set historical battles, or just play skirmishes you set up yourself, 
 or even take it online, though with the excellent AI there's not much incentive to do that. It's 
 just as easy to to focus entirely on the turn-based mode - just have the AI auto-resolve every 
 battle that happens. But if you do either, it is my opinion that you're really missing out. The 
 only real reason I tilted this to a 9.6 instead of a 9.9 is that a few players may just not want 
 to play strategy games. But anybody who is remotely interested in any kind of strategy game - check 
 out this game. It is my belief that no strategy game you can find will best this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qwilleranfan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 10, 2005 4:50 am PT
Review:  When I went out in search of a copy of this game, I had trouble finding it. I set out a couple 
 weeks after the release date, and it took me a visit to two Future Shops, an EB Games, and a Best 
 Buy before i finally found one, the last copy on the shelf, at Staples. So, after taking it home 
 and installing it i was already looking forward to this game. After playing the tutorial, I configured 
 a custom battle with over 3000 units. My computer crawled, which i thought almost impossible for 
 an RTS.
  After more extensive play, through the campaign mode and historic mode, I was fairly certain this 
 was a good purchase. Many times have i simply closed my eyes and listened to the heart pumping 
 thunder of a thousand soldiers marching into battle. Never before have I seen such intensity. It 
 made for better gameplay too, because subconsciously I wanted to keep as many of my really cool 
 soldiers alive as I could.
  If I were to have to say something negative about Rome Total War i would have to think quite hard 
 (as I just did) . The only minor thing that could be changed is the world map. Although it does 
 provide many options and much depth, I felt some things could be better organised.
  All in all, Rome Total War is fantastic. It sucks you into the game immediately, is easy to learn, 
 and quite hard to master. Rome is going down in my books as one of the best games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacon10210
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 7, 2005 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War accomplishes something that few games do. It mixes Real-Time battles with a turn 
 based campaign mode. To give players more options it allows you to pick a difficulty level for 
 both the battles and the imperial campaign. So if your bad at the campaign and just wanna fight 
 battles thats ok, you can set the campaign to easy and the battles to medium or vice versa. 
  
  The graphics in Rome are some of the best ive seen in the stratagy genre. The imperial campaign 
 map has depth to it and you actually have to manuver around rivers and moutains. To make everything 
 more realistic, where you enter a battle on the campaign map will determine what the battle map 
 looks like. The armies will even enter the map from the correct directions. So for example you 
 attack an army on the other side of a bridge, the battle will probably start with you on one side 
 of the bridge and the other army on the other. 
  
  You will need a pretty good computer to play the largest battles (with the unit sizes turned up 
 to huge, but a normal computer will do unless you wanna go extreme) . The battle interface is easily 
 learned and used, considering many commands are simply point and click. 
  
  Rome contains alot of new features the previous games didnt contain. Now you can scale the castle 
 walls with seige towers and ladders (not to mention the defenders can put men on the walls to fight 
 you off) . Getting down from the walls is easy. Just click to move your men on the ground and they'll 
 take the staircase down. Many units can use the ladders and siege towers (one at a time) so you 
 dont have 1 all alone inside the castle.
  
  The combat system has also greatly improved. Attacks by individual men are now syncronized so that 
 if they slash at and kill a man, the animation will show it exactly like that. Calvary charges 
 now look much better and it feels like they're really hitting with some momentum, instead of the 
 last game where they would just simply hit and stop once they reached the enemy unit.
  
  Overall Rome Total War is a great game. Definately a great buy with excellent replay value in the 
 campaign which is why i gave it such a good value rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andremafia
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 1, 2005 11:31 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War it's a game that shows the rise of the Roman Empire. It has a great campain, at 
 the campaign begining you can play as one of three Roman family's: The Julii, the Brutii and the 
 Scipii, the units are the same and the only diference between this family's is the territory which 
 you begin the campaign. The Julli begin with the north of Italy so you'll have the conquer the 
 north of Europe. The Scipii begin in the middle so it's your choice what you want to do. The Brutii 
 begin on the south of Italy so it's better to start expanding your territory to Greece and North 
 Africa. Your campaign is to conquer 50 territories and became the supreme ruler of Rome, yes, Rome 
 has the control of the senate and you'll have to gain people's support to became the emperor, when 
 you attack Rome the other two familys will become your enemies so you'll have some hard time trying 
 to defeat them. After some time you'll unlock new faction to make campagn with, each faction has 
 it's special buildings and soldiers 
  
  The game has a good custom batle where you can fight batles with thousands of soldiers, where you 
 can choose from all game faction. Another great thing about this game are the Historical Battles, 
 you can fight battles that really happened.
  
  
  This is the best Epic Strategie Game till now, so it's a great game to add to your collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sethbaird3000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2005 9:53 pm PT
Review:  First I would like to say that overall pretty much the only bad thing you can level at this game 
 is that it is easy the only difficulty a experienced strategy gamer is very hard which isn't too 
 hard either. The graphics in this game are probably the best you have ever seen in a strategy game 
 that of course can improve with settings set higher you will see individual soldiers fighting and 
 calvary crash into soldiers and send a few of them flying through the air. Also there can be up 
 to 10,000 guys in full 3D on the screen at once possibly even more but that is what the developers 
 have been boasting about and it is true. The music is also quite good and switches to fit the situation 
 when you give a march order you will hear the crash of hundreds of boots and the music changes 
 to a fitting march theam. Also the game's strategic layer is very realistic it is a much better 
 idea to have your infantry charge at enemies into their side than their front and the only way 
 for calvary to attack spearmen in phalanx formation without suffering heavy losses is to flank 
 them or hit them in the back. Your men can get tired and wont fight as good and will move slower 
 of course so can the enemies men they will also get tired faster if they are going up a hill. It 
 should take a person who is new to strategy games 30 to 60 minutes to learn how to play this game 
 but people have played other strategy game should be able to jump right in and play these two advisers 
 that tell you about stuff as you encounter it in the game should be able to tell you all about 
 the new parts of the game. All in all this is the best strategy game I have ever played and if 
 you didn't get all the information you wanted you can probably find it in other reviews and in 
 movies and previews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 481989
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 10, 2005 4:15 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is simply one of the finest strategy games ever made. No other game comes close 
 to offering the experience Rome: Total War provides, even previous Total War titles.
  
  As you should already be aware, there are two parts to a Rome: Total War campaign: the overlying 
 campaign map and the individual battles, fought on a seperate map rendered to duplicate the geographical 
 features on the space on the campaign map the two armies are fighting on. Rest assured, this makes 
 Rome: Total War a fairly complex game. You have to essentially learn how to master two entirely 
 seperate modes of play. It's not impossible, but still hard, yet still easily approachable even 
 in the beginning despite the rather mediocre tutorial (which mainly focuses on battles) . In my 
 experience, even in my very first campaign I felt very confident about my abilities as a commander.
 
  
  Speaking of which, the AI, while not being particularly bright, is still pretty decent, especially 
 in campaign mode. You actually have to play politics with other nations in the campaign map, and 
 developing intricate political alliances becomes one of the most important parts of the overall 
 campaign. The AI in the battles, while good enough to keep you entertained for several months, 
 becomes very easy at all settings once you start to get really good. There are also some annoying 
 glitches in the AI that become apparent and exploitable once you gain more experience (however, 
 by the release of the Barbarian Invasion expansion, most of these issues should be resolved) . But 
 the AI is still good enough to present a challenge to you.
  
  One of the best features of Rome: Total War is its sound. The soundtrack completely fits the mood 
 of ancient warfare and sounds nothing short of awesome when played over the sounds of thousands 
 of soldiers marching, shrieking and dying. 
  
  It's also a technical accomplishment for Rome: Total War to have thousands of soldiers on the battlefield 
 and still retain a smooth framerate on even the most mediocre machines with the setting turned 
 all the way up. The amount of soldiers, obviously, is something that sets the Total War series 
 apart from all other real-time strategy games. However, while soldiers in previous games were rudimentary 
 sprites that frankly looked a little ugly, Rome: Total War has fully 3d units. No matter how many 
 times you play, you'll never get enough of zooming in close-up and watching your cavalry smash 
 into the flanks of the enemy . It just looks so cool. (however, it should be noted that when you 
 zoom out the engine switches out the 3d models for sprites, but at that distance it shouldn't make 
 much of a difference) .
  
  And, in case you're wondering, Rome: Total War does have a fairly active mod community. It's not 
 anywhere near as big as the mod communities for games like Half Life and Battlefield 2, but then 
 again it doesn't have to be, because Rome: Total War is so easy to mod it can be modded by hand 
 without using any kits. At present there are two realism mods in development, which are set in 
 the same time frame as the original game but make it far more realistic, called Rome: Total Realism 
 and Europa Barbarorum. RTR 6.0 is currently out and available at DLX, while EB will not be released 
 until late 2005. There is also a Medieval mod called Chivalry: Total War being developed, a Napoleanic 
 era mod called Napoleanic Total War 2 (the sequel to the mod for Medieval: Total War) , and a mod 
 based on east-Asian myths and legend called Blue Lotus.
  
  Overall, RTW is a complete masterpiece, and can last you literally for months on end. If you like 
 strategy games, or even if you don't, this game is a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonebreak
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2005 12:23 pm PT
Review:  i have found this lots of fun to me , always looking to conquer just 1 more territory b4 i quit. 
 balancing the cities has never really appealed to me , but this game gives a good of amount of 
 satisfaction as one watches the improvements and growth. and watching the wardogs run down the 
 enemy while zoomed in is a treat, sound effects with a 5.1 system is very good hearing the arrows 
 fly and the war cries and screams. i hv only played the single player campaign mode so far, so 
 not sure how the multi player action is to comment on that. the assain is a hoot when he can successfully 
 elimate enemies and gathers more skills with each assignment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 20, 2005 5:05 am PT
Review:  With all those RTS games out there. There really has to be a new thing with them to even try them. 
 RTS games really have been the same for years. Until now! This game brings more realism into RTS 
 games than ever before. The map is around realistic size of Europe and the battles are around the 
 realisic amount of soldiers instead of the old 200 pop limit. The campaign mixes up a turn-based 
 board game and a Real-time strategy game and it mixes pretty well. The turn based part controls 
 the main part building troops, moving troops, and economical control. The real amazing part of 
 the game is the battles. The game allows you to have a simulation of it ,but you will almost to 
 never do this for the battles are in a amazing amount of variety with strategy. You can take on 
 800 soldiers with 400 if you use the correct strategy. Moving you general in the battlefield can 
 change the mens motivation. To the front will give them amazing motivation ,but the problem with 
 this is he can die and your men almost instantly become afraid. In the back will do almost the 
 opposite not really motivate the troops ,but enough to keep them fighting. It all depends on the 
 strategy you wish to do. City sieges are amazing with the types of ways you can take them. This 
 game will bring you back many times to play it over again to try out different strategies to see 
 which is better. The only problem I have to say is that it took me 6 months to complete the campaign. 
 I definitely highly recommend this game to any RTS fan! If your not an RTS fan and thinking of 
 getting into them, you have to try this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ciro_xyz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 3, 2005 3:17 pm PT
Review:  ''Today we face our foes. They are brave men, but only men, they can be killed!'', are the words 
 of a proud Roman, facing his enemy. Rome: Total War is simply a game that brings history to life. 
 You can choose to play with one of three ruling families of Rome. 
  You can play historical battles or a campaign. Game also includes intuitive tutorial that introduces 
 basic gameplay, so you can start playing the game comfortably only after a half an hour or at most 
 one hour.
  
  At the beggining of a campaign game, three ruling families of Rome work together under the govern 
 of the Senate. The Brutii, the Julii, and the Scipii families receive orders from Senate, which 
 also chooses its members among those families. Prove yourself to Senate and your man can be Prontus 
 Maximus, which is the highest rank in a Senate hierarchy. Plebs also give their opinion of you, 
 and you can easely access this information via Faction screen. 
  
  Politics, economics, construction, recuitment and other stuff like that is managed on a map, while 
 the REAL game takes place on a battlefield. That's where Rome: Total War shows its teeth. Houndreds 
 of soldiers are tacticaly deployed face to face with their enemy. This is a strategy game, and 
 size of your army on the field does matter, but does also your tactics. Tactics are something that 
 puts this game aside and gives an extra star to gameplay. You don't need to have a huge army to 
 beat your enemy, you can, if you are a good tactitian, win a battle with a fist of men. You even 
 dont have to kill all your enemies, you can only frighten them so they run away. It's all up to 
 you, the tactitian of the day. 
  
  Every unit in Rome: TW is design for a particular task. You can not send cavalary to fight pikemen 
 or auxilia. You can, but that would be suicide. It is much better to use your archers to kill those 
 long-speared-bastards, and use your cavalary for charging attacks on enemies light inflatry or 
 archers. Cavalry can be especialy useful when in pursuit, that's when your enemy is frightened 
 and you want to finish them of like a true Roman. 
  
  You use artilley to take enemy walls and buildings. You can use onagers (catapults) to take men 
 too, but they are inacurate, so even with fire ammo they can't do much harm. Fire is good when 
 your settlement is beign attacked and your enemy uses rams to break thorugh walls or gates. Then 
 you order your archers to use fire on onagers to burn them down. 
  
  As I already sad Rome: Total War is not about quantity, it is about quality of your army and you 
 as a general, or imperator, if you wish. 
  
  Taking enemy cities, towns and settlements is not a hard task, if you have the right tools. You 
 first siege the settlment, then you wait for your engeeners to make siege equipment for your army, 
 and then you attack. You can order engeeners to build ledders, siege towers, rams, and saps. Howewer 
 you should be careful when attacking large cities with good wall defenses, because they have towers 
 that use flaming arrows to burn down your rams. You should first take towes down with your catapults, 
 and artilery, and then you can deploy battering rams. To safely reach enemy walls you have special 
 ability that some of your troops can perform, called testudo formation. In testudo soldiers shield 
 themselves so arrows are almost unharmful to them, wether flaming or not. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonX_portugal
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 24, 2005 11:48 am PT
Review:  Once in a while a game comes along that puts my life on hold. They're few and far between (thankfully, 
 since I have a life to live) but when they arrive, plans get cancelled and my ass gets sore from 
 sitting in one spot for so long. Gran Turismo 3 was one of those games. So was Halo. Well Rome: 
 Total War is also one of those games; it pushes the limit of its genre to new heights like only 
 a truly classic game can do. 
  I will start off by saying that Rome: Total War is not perfect, but then, if it was, someone would 
 have to reposition me in my computer chair from time to time to avoid me developing bedsores. In 
 fact, some of the downsides to the game are so astoundingly frustrating that I have literally shrieked 
 at the computer in both horror and anger on numerous occasions and have found my blood pressure 
 rising to almost dangerous levels. However, it's the fact that I keep coming back and wasting my 
 free time playing the game that confirms it as a true triumph (pun intended) . 
  However, before I vent my frustrations on the few aspects of the game that cause such outbursts, 
 I will first heap my praise upon it. The scope of this game is stunning. Medieval: Total War was 
 a large game, but Rome is humungous. The campaign map part of the game is where you will make your 
 major decisions and where you will determine what kind of empire you want to have. Here you will 
 train and deploy armies, manage settlements, and control your trade routes. The sheer amount of 
 options available to you as a ruler is enormous and can be a little daunting if you are not a fan 
 of the genre or have not played any of the other Total War games. You have the ability to do anything 
 from changing tax rates in settlements and recruiting soldiers and spies (the norm for the genre) , 
 to forging diplomatic alliances, making obscene demands from other factions, choosing a suitor 
 to marry your daughter and disinheriting a particularly disgraceful family member. You can even 
 have armies hide in forests, ready to ambush passing armies and build forts and watchtowers at 
 strategic locations in the field (only if you have a family member at the head of an army) . I could 
 list all of the different things that you can do but that's what the manual is for. Let me put 
 it this way: any strategy fan will be very satisfied with the amount of control you have over every 
 aspect of your empire. 
  Probably the biggest improvement to the campaign map is the fact that in RTW the positioning of 
 everything is actually relevant. If you are attacked by two separate armies from two separate directions 
 on the campaign map, they will attack you from those very same directions in the ensuing battle. 
 This alone lends an immense amount of strategy to deciding when and where to attack and how to 
 defend. Also, the terrain on the campaign map is accurately reflected in the battle screen, meaning 
 that if you are attacked while near a bridge or river crossing, you will likely be defending the 
 bridge in the coming battle. Armies and diplomatic agents must also deal with true to life routes 
 for passing through territories and therefore must plan their journeys accordingly. Finally, true 
 strategy is needed not only in deciding where troops should be trained and which territory they 
 should be stationed in, but also where in that territory they should be placed. Moving armies with 
 naval fleets is also much improved over Medieval, as you now load armies onto fleets and move the 
 fleets individually, avoiding enemy fleets as necessary. You can also have a fleet take an army 
 to an enemy territory and not worry about it being trapped there as was the case in Medieval - 
 if it turns out that you're heavily outnumbered, just hop back on the fleet and live to fight another 
 day. I could go on and on about the campaign map but I'll just say this: it's without a doubt the 
 most satisfying and intuitive strategy map out there. 
  Now for the other half of the game - the battle sequences themselves. These are truly impressive. 
 The maps you fight on are generated in accordance with the terrain your armies are on when the 
 battle commences and wow, does terrain ever matter. I found myself horribly outnumbered by the 
 Spaniards in one particular battle but was fortunate enough to be defending a large hill at the 
 time. My artillery and archers chewed the Spaniards up from long range while the effort expended 
 by my enemy having to march up the side of a mountain to get to me ensured that they were very 
 tired and wavering before the battle proper even began. Needless to say, it was a slaughter in 
 my favour. The scale of these battles is also consistently astonishing. Seeing literally thousands 
 of men fighting it out individually is a thing of almost unmatched beauty (and savagery) . And finally, 
 assaulting towns and cities is a hell of a lot of fun. The cities are actual cities, not just little 
 hilltop forts. This means that once you break through the walls (either with seige engines such 
 as catapults or by rams or sap points etc.) you have to then fight through the city streets and 
 either kill all of the enemy defenders or capture and hold the city square for 3 minutes. Oh and 
 it should be mentioned that each city is accurately represented right down to every building that 
 was constructed in it and laid out as you'd expect a city to be. It's all extremely satisfying. 
 
  The graphics in this game show an amazingly high attention to detail. Each individual unit looks 
 just as it should, with legionaries boasting the famed lorica segmenta and Germanic naked fanatics 
 being, well, naked. Though the individuals units are fairly low polygon, the texture work and the 
 sheer numbers this engine can draw more than make up for it. Also, the randomized animations for 
 each unit truly make it seem as if each person in the battle is doing their own thing (hopefully 
 while still obeying your orders) . The effects, such as flaming arrows, rain, burning buildings, 
 and clouds of dust kicked up by cavalry in arid regions, are also fantastic. This game engine is 
 a marvel. 
  The sound is equally impressive. The screams of dying soldiers, the pounding of cavalry hooves, 
 the whizz of loosed arrows and the clank of steel on shield are all magnificently recreated. Echoes 
 and reverberations that modify these sounds (such as when fighting in city streets or in a forest) 
 also sound spot on and really add to the atmosphere. The musical score is also very well done both 
 on the campaign map and during the battle sequences. 
  And now for the reasons that I love to hate to love this game. The first problem is the AI; there 
 are times when it is incredibly f'n stupid. On the campaign map, when you direct armies or diplomats 
 to go to a specific location, the AI calculates the route and it doesn't always do it efficiently. 
 Since terrain limits where your units can and cannot go, there are often multiple routes to any 
 given location. The problem is, there are times when the AI will fail to notice the shortest route 
 and send your army way the hell off north and around some mountains when all it had to do was send 
 the army east across a bridge to get to the same place in 1/3 of the turns. This wouldn't be so 
 bad except that once the army moves, you can't cancel that movement and redirect it. In Medieval, 
 you weren't committed to any move until you hit the "end turn" button. Not so here. This can be 
 especially frustrating when trying to relieve a settlement under siege and your army, by default 
 of the AI's idiocy, goes the completely wrong direction and ends up being unable to assist before 
 the settlement falls. This only happens if you give a unit a destination that takes more than one 
 turn to complete, but it is drives one to insanity when it happens. Another AI problem has to do 
 with the behaviour of some units in the battlefield itself; some of your orders will be randomly 
 and blatantly ignored and others will be, oh how shall I put this, misunderstood. For example, 
 I was leading an assault on some spearmen with some of my cavalry. Cavalry, do not fare well against 
 spearmen, at least, not from the front. I had two divisions of cavalry go in opposite directions 
 with the intent of forcing the spearmen to face one direction, leaving their rear exposed to the 
 other cavalry force, which they predictably, and necessarily, did. However, when I ordered my flanking 
 horsemen to charge into the spearmens' exposed rear, they ran toward the spearmen at first but 
 then ran right by on their flank and attacked from the front instead and got horribly slaughtered. 
 On another occasion, while sieging a city, the enemy sallied to meet me. I outnumbered them horribly 
 as I had a large contingent of reinforcements to rely on, so I was unconcerned. However, it turned 
 out that the AI controlled my reinforcements as they were head by another of my faction's generals, 
 and they had the siege equipment (onagers) . This wouldn't have been so bad had they not insisted 
 on keeping the catapults out of range of anything at all and instead sent their horsemen to all 
 stand directly under the enemy walls and get slaughtered by arrows and boiling oil. Keep in mind 
 that no amount of mouse clicking could give me control of these idiots and there was nothing I 
 could do but swear and watch my beautiful cavalry get annihilated. Needless to say, I reloaded 
 and started this battle again. These incidents don't happen often, but when they do, it can turn 
 a sure victory into an embarrassing rout. Finally, there are the crashes. The game has crashed 
 five times in the last 12 hours of gameplay and while this may seem trivial, it has always been 
 after winning a major battle. Yes, you can reload and do it again, but this usually means fighting 
 the same 45 minute large scale battle again and then having it crash in exactly the same manner. 
 The only way I've found to rectify this is by withdrawing from the battle before it begins and 
 fighting it elsewhere. (Lord help you if you're besieging someone and can't change the location 
 of the fight) . Oh and for the record, I am running the latest patch (1.1 as of now) and my drivers 
 are all up to date. 
  Yet, despite that sickeningly long paragraph of downsides, I still love this game and it still 
 consumes me. For those who think that RTW might be too complicated for them, keep in mind that 
 there are two very helpful advisors that offer you tips of just about anything you need (one for 
 the campaign map and one for the battles) and you can automanage almost every aspect of empire 
 management, and / or autocalculate the outcomes of the battles themselves so you only need to have 
 it as complicated as you want. This game is a masterpiece with quirks and it's well worth the money 
 of any gamer who has the time to devote to it. One thing is for sure though: it's getting colder 
 out now as winter approaches so I'll be indoors more where there will always be more Germanic hordes 
 to slaughter. Unleash Hell! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonoid42
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 25, 2005 3:57 am PT
Review:  And yet, here I am reviewing one... and positively! That alone should say something about how good 
 of a game this is. Frankly, I heard talk of this being a great game from some RTS fans who nabbed 
 the demo. Knowing that this game was about historic Rome and wasn't set off in some (personally) 
 lame fantasy space world, I figured I'd give it a shot, just to see if I could like an RTS game. 
 Sure enough, I do. Anyway, enough back story; R: TW offers a lot, even for non-RTS fans. The world 
 map mode essentially offers you a Civilization-like gameplay option with no actual battles if you 
 so desire. Sure, that kinda kills the point of the game, but it's an option. Battle strategies 
 actually work (i. e. flanks, something that never worked in games like Starcraft or Warcraft) and 
 total world domination isn't terribly easy to achieve, so the game doesn't get boring very fast. 
 Overall, a worthwhile game, even if you don't like RTSs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Katur-
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2005 1:59 am PT
Review:  Over-all its one of my favorite games. Great gameplay, greart graphics and the story (even though 
 minimal) is still very fun to play out. Nothing is better than taking Rome and the SPQR for yourself 
 and commanding the entire Roman Empire as your own. The graphics are amazing, expecial seeing that 
 there are thousands of ancient soldiers on your screen at one time. Although you wont come here 
 for a great history-text-book like trip but nonetheless it is still great if you are a advid Roman 
 historian. The roman soldiers all look authentic and the forces are all realistic.
  Overall, a must have for anyone liking strategy, Rome, Ancient times, or military. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2005 2:58 am PT
Review:  When i Bought this game I could not wait till i got home to play it. When i finally got home and 
 installed it I headed right to the campain and i chose the Julii and now i Rule all of Northern 
 Europe and Russia and the one state of western north africa. This game is Amzaing The gamplay is 
 so addictive for the campain it's turn based but when you attack an enemy you can head in to a 
 real time fighting were and you control squades of troops. you can control Many Fractions LIke 
 the Romans, the Celts- The Gauls and Britons, Germans Etc. There is a very good Custom Battle mode 
 were you just choose your Fraction and troops and start attacking each other on a battle field. 
 In Rome total war there is a very good multiplayer. The Grafics in this game is well desined they 
 are 3-D and you can acually see the soldiers faces. This is certainly one of the best RTS games 
 ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlieyow
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 2, 2005 12:50 am PT
Review:  At the beginning of this year, I was starting to give up on the RTS genre and decided to just retreat 
 into an RTS hole with only my copies of AOE II and Myth to play. That was when a friend of mine 
 told me about a game coming out called Rome: Total War. I had played Shogun previously and remembered 
 it with some fondness, but I also remembered some of the glaring problems with it. However, I am 
 a complete Roman history nut, so I decided to check this game out. What this ended up being is 
 something that I was entirely unprepared for. This game is incredible in just about every single 
 way, from the flawless presentation to the deep and involving strategic combat.
  
  When I say flawless presentation, I should have said this is a flawless game. It very nearly is. 
 It is deep, challenging, has a great AI, excellent unit design, and is just flat out fun to play. 
 There isnt really that much that needs to be said about it, but Ill give you as much as I can.
 
  
  First off is the bad. In a cool touch, every loading screen has a quote about war from a famous 
 poet or author from antiquity (Homer, Virgil, Catullus) and this would have been a great feature, 
 but there are quite a few mistakes in it. For instance, it credits Virgil for the quote It is 
 sweet and fitting to die for your country, but in my extreme geekery, I know that is actually 
 a Virgil quote. Conversely, it credits either Horace or Terence (I cant remember which) with the 
 quote Fortune favors the bold when in actuality, that is a Virgil quote. These dont actually 
 affect gameplay, but it is so sloppy that that I have to deduct appoint for it.
  
  Luckily, that is just about my only complaint. There are some minor issues, like occasional sound 
 stuttering and the game has crashed on me once or twice, but these are both very, very rare.
  
  The rest of the game is absolutely superb. You will gasp the first time an elephant tears through 
 your ranks, and cackle with glee when you send it crashing through theirs. This is also quite simply 
 the most realistic simulation of ancient battlefield tactics you will ever see. Do you want to 
 use one of Alexander the Greats tactics? I have, and it actually worked. One of the most fun things 
 to do is randomly reenact a great battle from history. The animations are quite simply superb. 
 You will not see two guys just hacking at each other like in most RTS's, but you will actually 
 see them fighting, parrying each others blows. And you won't forget the first time you send your 
 cavalry into the rear of an enemy formation.
  
  In closing, this game is almost perfect, and you should buy it now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoRay31
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2005 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is a fantastic strategy and, at some levels, RTS game. It blends excellent strategy 
 board game characteristics, on the order of Supremacy and Star Fleet Battles, with features from 
 the Total War series. It is easily one of the more subtle titles to have hit my PC in ages. Consequently, 
 the gameplay can be nuanced or brutal or both and the strategic tasking that the game presents 
 is intricate and virtually unmatched.
  
  At one very basic level, Rome: Total War is much like a strategic board game. At this level, management 
 decisions are made and certain challenges are doled out by the nefarious Senate. The greater part 
 of your resource development and provincial management happens here and the layout and graphics 
 seem simple at first but after much exposure reveal subtle details, like alpine trees swaying softly 
 in the wind. At a secondary level, Rome: Total War is much like an RTS without all of the resource 
 trappings. In this setting, players enact regimental military operations on a battlefield (which 
 may be a gully, a gap, a fortification, a towering city in the Sahara) , using intelligent moves 
 to beat opponents that may be significantly more powerful.
  
  Attempting to combine these two gaming aspects could have been an abysmal failure but it seems 
 that, in almost every conceivable way, Rome: Total War is a staggering achievement. For me, this 
 is easily the most engaging and immersive non-FPS since Starflight was made available for the PC 
 some time in the mid 80s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War is a countinuation of The Creatives Assembly's famous total war series, which allows 
 the player to control one of several ancient civilisations such as the gauls and Romans and also 
 some of the barbarian nations such as germanics and scythians, manage their chosen group on a 3D 
 strategy map (which is new to RTW) and control 'vast' armies with 'realistic' moral and fighting 
 implemented in a glorious 3D engine!
  
  Not only this but with RTW you can now siege enemy forts and settlements, sounds fun right? well 
 it looks the business, graphics are extremely good, but the obvious consequence is, you need a 
 fantastic PC to get anything beyond 4 thousand troops on the battlefield.
  
  In the previous total war games, the battlefield was an ugly map with 2D sprites which was the 
 bare minimum, it is pretty atrocious, but the sounds were spot on, from the charging, inevitable 
 clash of weapons, men dying , cannon and arrow fire it was very good.
  Also the battles would last a satisfying amount of time, and perhaps a realistic representation 
 of battle length considering its just a game the battles could last more than 30 minutes (in reality 
 battles would last perhaps days obviously they cant recreate it nor want to) .
  
  In RTW the graphics are brilliant, but the draw back of having 3D graphics not only because of 
 the system demands are that the 3D map is pretty poor, TCA has tried to make a map reminiscient 
 of slitherines Legion were you have a map and you can move a army anywhere on it instead of using 
 the risk board like in other total war games. Whilst you can move troops anywhere onland so long 
 as its not obstructed by mountains, theres no amount of strategy involved, so what if you fight 
 in the mountains or the plains it makes very little difference, you'll never have to smash an enemy 
 army thats created a fort you can even move your army around other armies unless they block a river 
 crossing, and it takes bloody ages to reach a city you want to attack.
  
  Then we get into the other major concern with RTW,, the battles CA screwed them up!! the strongest 
 part of total war and they ruined it! Sieges are the most boring excercise in RTW, no joke, you 
 have the timer still but it can be infuriating when you have to break a city wall down and march 
 a troop thats run outta stamina so they move like snails up a winding street and find that all 
 thats in the city square is a peasant and uh oh the time has run out ,you loose! Also their are 
 blatant errors too when scaling a wall, a troop magically lifts a ladder or if going out of a tower 
 stand on air before falling into the wall.
  Also pathfinding is seriously bad even more so during sieges, troops in a group might go down one 
 streeet when another unit hooses to go round half the city and go down a even smaller road thus 
 using up its stamina and being no longe combat effective.
  
  Next we have missile units, the most over powered unit in the world, its abit like Lord of the 
 rings, were 1 arrow from a short bow will kill a heavily armoured legionary... hmmm! and then imagine 
 the egyptians who rely on archery firing a volley of 120 arrows every 6 seconds, archery fire can 
 win a battle alone.
  
  Also another MAJOR worrying aspect is that when two units collide you can enjoy the fighting for 
 perhaps... 2 minutes max before a units moral collapses and they run with 80% of them dying in 
 the retreat, whislt its true to history that most men died when they turned their backs, the famously 
 brave barbarians will charge and retreat in such short time you'll feel underwhelmed by it all, 
 and hey if you think thats bad wait till you control the awesome phalanx's, except in this theyre 
 pathetic and cavalry can charge through them even though theyve lowered 5 pikes in each horses 
 face, brilliant!!!
  
  Lets see what they got right WITH the fighting, well now cavlary charges are superior no longer 
 do they function as infantry on horseback, they'll charge into an enemy and you can get a feeling 
 for the impetus behind their charge, now enemy soldiers will fly in all directions HOWEVER yes 
 cavalry are overpowered and if you play multiplayer and encounter armies of just cavalry just leave, 
 calvary is just overpowered.
  
  These problems with the fighting are not just my concerns, go on the official forum and TWC and 
 you'll clearly see that the majority of nonfanboys and genuine total war fans are extremly displeased 
 with RTW and its a damn shame CA screwed up my favourite historical period with this mess, alot 
 of RTW is also fantasy, the egyptians at the time were more Greek like wereas in RTW they have 
 the slow moving phlanxes but they look like soldiers from the times of the pharoes. You have overpowered 
 barbarian units just to give them a chance such as 'Bull warriors' and weird ones like 'head hurlers' 
 which throw heads which can kill heavily armoured opponents.
  Also phalanxes are extremly underwhelming to use, they dont charge into each other, they move slowly 
 and stop away from an enemy, then step to the the side and keep going and going and going, no fun 
 at all.
  
  Now onto sounds, well the voice overs are so very very VERY bad and the music is actually, very 
 good it has some awful tracks such as barbarian winning music (tribal drums yea right) and the 
 credits music is cheesy eastern european pop music but the music is dynamic in that it'll change 
 to fit the pace of a battle from deployment, archery , movement and the fighting.
  
  Now the most worrying part of RTW, the AI, its utter rubbish to put it politely, you'll only be 
 able to play battles in RTW a certain number of times until you get tired of seeing an enemy army 
 controlled by the computer on very hard line up in a big line irrespective of its army composition 
 and just charge, yes even with a general charging a wall of spears its stupid enough to do that, 
 the AI will also stop mid siege and retreat even though it has 3 siege towers agains tthe walls 
 and 16 unist left and you have just two units on the walls!!
  
  All flash and no substance sums this up, im sorry if its seem negative, but RTW can be fun but 
 it was touted to be revolutionary and even waiting 4 years for it as a die hard fan its left a 
 bitter taste in my mouth, and i didnt write this review straight away because problems in a game 
 take time to see wereas most reviews here are obviously off the bat and will be insane 10's and 
 9's all round. This review is intended to cut through that and point out the rather heinous bad 
 points in this game which i played non stop for the first few days and will have to wait for a 
 patch to fix it.
  
  It is worrying also to see fans take a fanboy reaction from hearing negative points about this 
 game and pat the game developers on the back saying RTW is a masterpiece when inactual fact it 
 has some very very real and fundamental flaws, I dont want CA to create a game or expansion pack 
 like this, I want them to make something decent again.
  
  Now NO MORE free rides Creative Assembly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 12, 2005 1:53 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is simply an amazing game. If you take away Half Life 2, Halo 2, and Grand Theft 
 Auto San Andreas, this game would have definitely won game of the year honors. Rome compiles an 
 amazing story with amazing strategic gameplay to create a gaming experience that is unparalled 
 to any other. 
  
  Rome is a kind of game like Civilization in that the player plays as one of the three houses of 
 the Roman Empire and tries to take over other surrounding empires in the Mediterrean as the Germanic 
 Barbarians, the Carthoginians, the Greeks, the Macedonians, and the Egyptians. The game has unbelievable 
 amounts of things to do and allows players to take part in history's epic battles. The campaign 
 mode is a great and addictive way to get to know the game and how to defeat your enemies. However, 
 the in battle strategy puts this game on a totally different level than all of the other games 
 in this genre. During a battle, the player will have the option of controlling his troops like 
 a general, telling them where to go and what to do. This part of the game is simply amazing; seeing 
 thousands and thousands of troops fighting each other is simply one of the great moments in gaming. 
 If the player zooms in, they can even see individual characters fighting with each other. The gameplay 
 is simply amazing and creates one of the most realistic gaming environments I have ever witnessed. 
 
  
  The sheer amount of gameplay hours that you will have from this one game is mind boggling. Every 
 time you play this game it is different because you can make one decision that could alter the 
 fate of the empire. It really shows the gamer how power positions are very stressful and lead to 
 many leaders' downfalls.
  
  If you have a computer, like history and strategic games, or just are a gamer, this game has to 
 be part of your collection. This game has changed the genre forever and is so much fun to play 
 that you will be lost in time, and you could be in 250 B. C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Adder
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2005 12:03 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Would get a ten if the AI was better and there were less bugs. There's nothing that 
 really hinders the gaming experience but there's also bugs throughout. Aside from the bugs and 
 the sometimes below par AI the game is nothing less then perfect.
  
  Graphics - Screenshots don't lie, Rome is a beautiful game and everything shows it. The detailed 
 campaign map and beyond compare battle map graphics.
  
  Sound - Great sound. Everything sounds realistic and there's a lot of variation. A notable sound 
 feature is the 'pre battle speeches', basically text strung together (with audio files) that form 
 funny and interested speeches.
  
  Value - Rome is really a game you can play again and again. They're so many things you can do and 
 so many ways you can play it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - Easily one of my favorite games and something I'll not be putting down right 
 away.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolognat13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2005 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This is an incredible strategy game, one of the best I've ever played in fact. For anyone who has 
 ever played the board game RISK you will feel right at home. Basically, the map is broken up into 
 many different territories and your goal is to conquer as many territories as you can. However, 
 while do this you must maintain the towns you conquer and make them profitable. You want to keep 
 the citizens happy, while working them hard enough to build an army to move on and take over the 
 next town.
  
  Not only do you have to manage armies and towns, but you must make alliances and enemies. Eventually 
 your towns grow and your armies expand. Whether you're fighting on the open sea, desert, snowy 
 mountains, or forested areas, the battles are always thrilling. You can chose to have the battles 
 auto-resolved or fight them out yourself. This is one of the few downsides to the game, the graphics 
 during battle that is. The battles are realistic in that without a good general your men will retreat 
 if being beaten and chase after enemies if winning. You have to maintain control over your army 
 as best you can. The graphics lack here a bit, but there really is no reason to get upset about 
 this since there are literally thousands of units on screen at any time.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone looking for a good strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordofinsight
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This game as can been scene has tickled many peoples fancies, but for me, although it is still 
 a great game, it lost its epic quality. Let me clarify epic. Both shogun and medieval you knew 
 you were going to be in for some long hard battles in the campaign game, so much so that when the 
 big battle came, you unplugged, the phone locked the door, made the coffee and got the snacks ready. 
 These types of battles are just missing from the campaign, the area of battle has been cut in half, 
 no reinforcements arrive once the battle has started and even at maximum sized battles it is over 
 within half an hour to three quarters. I can remember the good old 3 hour battles where I would 
 be physically and mentally exhausted from medieval total war, but this one didn't have them it 
 was all over too quick. 
  
  Yes the graphics were better, sound, sieges, the campaign map in my opinion took a leaf from the 
 heroes of might and magic page, so it was better, but managing your agents was a pain in RTW I 
 had no idea where half of them were and the only way to find them was to scroll through each one 
 in turn. 
  
  This game has some good points, but also some bad ones, excellent for the speedy gamer, but disappointing 
 for those of us who like long tactical battles where bad decisions can be rectified by good decisions 
 later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Cynical
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2005 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, I have held no great affection for the Shogun series. I went out and bought the 
 Warlord Edition of Shogun, and it was so tedious and badly done that I refused to even install 
 the demo of Medieval. But when I found a disc with the single-player demo of Rome, I installed 
 it just because I'd heard rumours of flaming pigs. I went out and got the full version very soon 
 afterwards.
  
  My usual strategy diet is the likes of the C&C series, Dawn of War and other such games. In other 
 words, build the biggest and baddest of each unit category, and go kick ass. Its fun, but not exactly 
 mentally taxing. Do that in Rome and even a barbarian warlord will turn your nice mishmash of units 
 into a not-so-nice pile of corpses. This is a strategy simulation.
  
  That last phrase is probably taken by most non-Rome players as being synonymous with 'difficult'. 
 I assure you that it is not. The difficulty settings are very scalable, but even at the lowest 
 diffculty setting a mass cavalry charge, as impressive as it might look (the graphics are very 
 sweet indeed) , will not work against a decently constructed enemy force. What you have to do is 
 match unit types in a rock-paper-scissors (or cavalry-archers-spearman triangle) sort of way. The 
 difficulty settings just change how easily the enemy will allow you to do that.
  
  You don't even need to spend hours wading through tactics manuals to do it. The system is very 
 simple- cavalry beat archers, spearmen beat cavalry, archers beat spearmen and just about anything 
 beats light troops. Light Cavalry move faster than Heavy Cavalry but aren't as strong. There, that's 
 the highly complex Rome: Total War summed up in a sentence. That's all you ever need to memorise, 
 the rest is up to your own preferences.
  
  This game is full of fine touches that make a good game great. Apart from the fantastic graphics 
 (which surprisingly put little or no strain on my system, compared to the likes of UT2004) , the 
 pre-battle speeches are very well done, the previously mentioned flaming pigs (which serve absolutely 
 no practical purpose except to frighten enemy elephants) are nonetheless very amusing to watch. 
 Except when you've spent half your dinarii allocation on them in a custom battle, expecting enemy 
 troops to be perhaps slightly hurt when hit by a fast-moving lump of burning bacon. There will 
 be moments that will make you shout at the screen with relief or frustration- like when you see 
 the highly skilled enemy commander being hit by a rock from an Onager right at the start of the 
 battle, or when you arrange your defences perfectly at a town that's under siege only to realise 
 after you click 'start battle' that there's another gate at the other side of town and all the 
 enemy forces are going for that. The latter involved a single squad of Cavalry Mercenaries fighting 
 over 200 barbarians while my slower-moving Hoplite Mercenaries and missile troops scrambled to 
 their positions. I eventually won the battle with 10 of the cavalry left (with a little help from 
 the throw-everything-at-them sort of charge that only really works against light troops like the 
 Warband) . Rome is like so many other great games in that you produce your own memorable moments- 
 many of your well-executed moves in Rome will be just as satisfying as taking on the entire enemy 
 team with a pistol in CS Source, or destroying a Battleship in Freelancer.
  
  The campaign plays, as many other reviews have stated, like Civilization with decent combat. Individual 
 units- which could be 20-odd heavy cavalry to a Warband over 100 strong- form into Armies, preferably 
 but not always headed by a member of your family. These have a limited number of movement points, 
 which can be varied depending on the units in the army and the general commanding it (smell Civ 
 anyone?) , but importantly the 'Army' is not actually a fixed unit itself- you can freely swap units 
 between armies, say if one of your town garrisons just took a battering your faction leader could 
 lend it some of his Triarii (rather effective Roman spearmen) for example. The one weakness of 
 the campaign game is city management- for no apparent reason at all your cities can go from a reasonable 
 profit to a 1000+ dinarii per turn loss, and reversing this seems to be a matter of hit-and-miss. 
 So much so that you'll find yourself capturing reasonably prosperous enemy settlements for the 
 sole reason that their profitability will counteract the losses made by your own towns. The timescales 
 involved are shorter than those in Civilization (a turn is 6 months as opposed to 20 years) but 
 still break the suspension of disbelief- are we seriously expected to believe that it takes cavalry 
 6 months to march a quarter of the length of Italy in good weather? Or that a city can withstand 
 a siege for 3 years by the simple virtue of having a wall round its food store? This game is often 
 compared to Civ 3, but given the real-time nature of the combat all it inherits from that game 
 is some weaknesses in the turn-based section. Towns descend into civil disorder far too easily 
 (why exactly are they suddenly rioting when I've just won a great victory?) , budgets are impossible 
 to manage, because unlike Civ, you are not given info on income, trade etc. so you don't know if 
 you'll be able to afford a particular improvement, or if it might save you.
  
  These discrepancies do little to detract from the main business of this game- the War of course. 
 With whom is, to an extent, up to you (although the Gauls have an intense dislike for the Julii 
 so don't expect any peace with them to last) . The combat is frantic, like when you realise that 
 those reinforcements you were relying on consist of a family member with a cavalry retinue of 20 
 men, and a squad of peasants who have just run away at the sight of the enemy's weakest unit. Or 
 when the enemy breach your city's wall and your well-planned defence is inevitably thrown to the 
 Wardogs as you charge every infantryman you have to plug the breach. This is strategy heaven. Just 
 one more turn... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellinas
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 26, 2005 4:00 pm PT
Review:  After playing Medieval Total War for 2 years I was in high anticipation for the third installment 
 of the series. But the CA tried hard and achieved to dissapoint the majority of the MTW veterans 
 including myself.
  I wont go into how the game is good flashy and "cool" ---vomit smilie --- I just will merely list 
 all the broken by CA promises to the community:
  1st of all the developers claimed this game to be more moddable than the previous title (MTW-VI 
 2.01) : reality check: LIE!!!
  You cannot add factions mod the Senate and make the battle maps bigger in the campaign and 80% 
 of the gameplay is hardcoded. (note so they can sell the expansion where they will uncode some aspects)
 
  2nd the historical accuracy they have promised to include some accurate units in the "Egyptian" 
 faction: reality check: LIE!!!
  After these lies if one looks at the PATHETIC AI the tiny battlemaps (which were made so the dump 
 RTS fastclickers have faster battles) the enourmous movemend and killing speeds understands that 
 CA wanted to sell primarly to the brainless fastclicking basebuilding crowd and invested in graphics 
 and dump fanatsy to sell...
  On the top of all of these comes the let down in MP aspect which remains sterile and halfarsed 
 with just some pointless battles after the non inclusion of a Multiplayer Campaign...
  My advice is: dont listen to magazines, site reviewers or anybody else borrow the game from a friend 
 of yours and play it multiplayer if its good buy it if its not dont....
  
  Hellinas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpha_company
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 26, 2005 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Mix of real-time and turn-based...
  As in the earlier Total War games, there are essentially two distinctly different types of gameplay 
 in Rome. First off is the campaign world map play (which I spent most of my time in) that bears 
 more than a striking resemblance of Sid Meiers Civilization III. The gameplay here is turn-based 
 strategy, in which you conquer cities and provinces, make improvements, and move armies around 
 the map as you expand your empire. 
  
  Secondly, you have the real-time battles in which you use tactics and maneuvers to crush your enemy 
 in combat. This is where the big deal is with playing RTW because here you basically control your 
 legions to either defeat an enemy on a wide open battlefield, or besiege a town with onagers to 
 break down its fortifications and basically wage a full-on assault to take it over. 
  
  It is advisable to first go through the simple yet helpful tutorial in RTW. Guided by a snobby, 
 English accented lady who acts as your campaign advisor, you will learn how to manage your cities 
 and basically wage war in the world map mode. When you do go into battle, the map zooms in and 
 your military advisor kicks in, teaching you how to place what type of troops, such as archers 
 behind your main short sword-wielding infantry with calvary led by a member of your ruling house 
 flanking its sides. It all sounds very easy but trust me, it can get out of hand if youre not 
 careful. 
  
  Family is the most important...
  RTW has two single-player campaigns: the Imperial Campaign and the Historical campaign. In the 
 former, you play as one of three powerful Roman families: the Julii, the Brutii, or the Scipii. 
 Each has its own history written in detail at the family selection screen, so you get an idea what 
 the strengths and responsibilities are of each house. The Julii, for example, have a beef with 
 the Gauls and Germania. The Brutii have a score to settle with the Greek cities and the Scipii 
 are tasked with subduing Carthage, Rome's great nemesis to the southwest. 
  
  You will notice that there is one faction under Rome that is unplayable, and that is Rome itself, 
 more popularly known as the Roman senate. This is where you get your orders from most of the time 
  if you dont initiate them yourself. The objective is to become the ruling family in the senate, 
 a coveted position which you can only acquire through conquest and basically achieving all the 
 missions the senate has set out for you. These missions comprise simple port blockades to the outright 
 taking of settlements. While it's up to you whether you actually obey the order, through which 
 you get money (something you will run out of quickly if youre not careful) , unique exotic military 
 units or stature by being given a place in the senate, one finds that disobeying the Senate carries 
 with it more disadvantage than it does advantages. 
  
  While much of the game plays like Civilizations, there are welcome differences, such as the fact 
 that governors and generals are limited as they HAVE to be members of your selected family. As 
 such, towns without governors will not be able to advance in terms of structures and units, unless 
 you elect to automanage, where the Senate places an appointed official who runs the city in your 
 name. You can give them priorities, such as to follow a monetary or cultural policy. I am a control 
 freak so I prefer to place a well scrutinised governor in an important settlement so that I can 
 oversee what it builds and so on. 
  
  Make sure you got someone good to lead your army...
  From time to time, members your family marry 
 and propagate (something you cannot control except to say no if a marriage proposition is suggested) 
 so you will get new members to elect governors for new settlements. 
  
  You will also notice that these family members and leaders each have strengths and weaknesses, 
 and those who have militaristic skills can even advance their standing if and when they win a battle 
 (say, from a simple commander to a super commander) . If your family members are selected to hold 
 important senate posts, they'll gain influence and abilities once out of office. This introduces 
 a small role-playing element in the game, as you actually care about trying to further the careers 
 of your family members so they can serve you better. 
  
  To help you decide who does what, look at their cards, which have descriptions of what they are 
 good or weak at, such as good in the field, bad at bureaucracy. This helps you determine whether 
 or not to take them into battle or leave them to keep the home fires burning. 
  
  Selecting a good general for your troops is crucial. While Ive taken many soldiers to battle without 
 a general (and have won) , the battle is often easier waged with one. Of course, the danger here 
 is in getting the general killed and since your family members are few, you will need to be extra 
 wary when letting such an important person go to war, lest you risk cutting down half your family 
 tree by leading promising young sons to the fray before they can sire heirs. 
  
  In addition to traits, family members can attract retinues, along with any other units such as 
 your spies, assassins and diplomats. Retinues are people who can help you improve your abilities, 
 such as priest to improve happiness or a monkey that helps your spy do his job better. You can 
 collect and trade retinue members among your family, so you can transfer them to where they're 
 needed the most. 
  
  Aside from the single-player campaigns, you of course get a skirmish mode and a multiplayer mode, 
 of which there are essentially two types: a fast-paced skirmish game and a slower siege game. 
 
  
  Ultimately, Rome Total War has a lot to offer strategy AND tactical fans alike. With its deep strategic 
 gameplay and exciting, easy-to-grasp real-time battle engine, youre talking hours and hours of 
 sitting around and plotting  and this is just for the single-player campaign. Id say this isnt 
 a title youre likely to uninstall in the next few months or even up to a year. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slnapster04
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2005 5:11 am PT
Review:  Rome is a great game to get to know. It is one of the best RTS's of the year. The fact that you 
 can chooose to a path in being a leader of one of the greatest empire is just a piece of the roman 
 cake. In Rome Total War you are able to be the greatest ruler by simply distroying everything in 
 your path for reasorces or just for the hell of it. Or by stratigicly taking over places of interest 
 and upgrading your settlments as needed and by spawning the strongest army in Europe. Or be creative 
 and just do them both... Eather way i think this is the PC RTS game to get of the year 2004 simply 
 because there is no other RTS like it now and because you can just play this game for hours on 
 end and still have a good time doing what ever you choose! Unlike a lot of other RTS's out there 
 you not only have to please allies and such but you have to meet the needs of your citizens. And 
 use "force" on them if needed. Although i wish they had a campain like multiplayer where you could 
 just play with lots of other people and do everything in the game in that such, the multiplayer 
 is a good peice of this game. I think any real fans of RTS's should love this game for these reasons 
 alone, There are plenty more! Fans who play this game could lost a huge battle and decide to launch 
 a war against that faction or another faction on conquer all the land and enslave all the people 
 left in anger. Or win a battle and decide your empire is not big enough or I think my military 
 could be a lot stronger and keep playing till you need to eat. To run around on easy and launch 
 battle with a bunch of angry peasants should not be the real fun in this game. My main stratagy 
 in this game is to divide and conquer with rome and then terribly turn on rome and rule all... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotageClock
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I never was interested in the total war series until now. The reason? I'm not sure, but when i 
 heard a few reviews about this game, and how much people loved it, i decided to try it. I bought 
 and loved it! 
  
  I have played many RTS (starcraft, warcraft, age of empires) and lost the cds under furniture, 
 and had them scratched. But this game revolutionized RTS. The amount of soldiers you can have is 
 incredible (assuming you have the scale on high) . 
  
  You start off as a roman family in charge of a few towns (later on you can unlock other cultures) 
 and through many battles you expand your empire. You get a tax rate from your cities, and you dont 
 have to worry about harvesting resources. Its mainly about the big picture. 
  
  I started off as julius caesar's family, and i must say, it was such a great experience. 
  If 
 you liked the first scene from gladiator, you'll love this game. I had my legions of swordsmen 
 form the turle formation while my archers rained fire on the barbarians, and they charged my men. 
 I then had my cavalry charge them from the left flank. The game is immersive like this... It draws 
 you right in. 
  
  This game is more complicated than some of the other RTS you might have remembered. You cannot 
 simply micro your archers and get 3000 kills anymore. Its more realistic. you'll have to actually 
 use your brain and military tactics to defeat an enemy (especially when they are stronger than 
 you) . And it isn't so bad if you lose a battle this time, you just lose the men that died. You 
 always have your towns.
  
  The multiplayer is very very fun too, although it is underdeveloped thus far, I think there is 
 an expansion coming. Its still great though, but there aren't too many people online.
  
  Gameplay: Its the typical point and click option. I wasn't too fond of the way it was, but it was 
 fine for controlling the armies. There are occasional bugs that mess up their movements, especially 
 when attacking cities. However, during field battles, after you've told your army your orders, 
 you can sit back and watch everyone duke it out. 
  
  Graphics: Considering the amount of people there are in the fight, the graphics are phenominal. 
 The character models look great, and arcani look as good as a character from an RPG. THe roman 
 soldiers armor glints and their swords flash sunlight while they fight. The graphics are polished, 
 but the only drawback is that you will need a pretty good graphics card to run the game with a 
 lot of units AND amazing grahics. Otherwise, pick on or the other. 
  
  Sound: Some people rave about the sound, but i didn't like it. Almost every different faction has 
 their own music, which i thought was neat, but the music i heard played over and over again (because 
 of all the time I spent playing this game)
  
  Value: On occasion you'll definatly pick this game up and try a campaign. Its replay value is very 
 high, but the games tend to take too long to finish. 
  
  Tilt: I tilted it higher because of the epicness and the revolutionary technology. There are so 
 many RTS that could have been as good as this game, but they lacked strategy. 
  
  Overall: Diehard RTS fans, Regular RTS fans, RTS casuals, Rome lovers, Total war lovers, people 
 who like epic games, people who like military strategy, people who have a decent graphics card, 
 and people who want a nice replayable game to enjoy should pick this up. (theres more on the list, 
 but i dont want to waste space) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrall135
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2005 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Rome Total War is simply put, amazing. The game casts you as a leader of one of three Roman armies. 
 Your goal, conquer!. Each of the many units has great animation and is well detailed. If there 
 is one good thing about this game, it is that the battles are massive. Armies can consist of thousands 
 of soldiers. Luckily the companies are not too hard to control. Each different unit type also has 
 a special ability like the infantry Testudo to block arrows. All units are realistic in damage 
 and defense. Such as the Phalanx's weakness to arrows from behind. This provides excellent tactical 
 depth. There is a certain satisfaction that comes from smashing an infantry column with a cavalry 
 charge. If the campaign isn't for you, there are quick battles and custom battles for some fast 
 action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike1222
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 3, 2005 11:49 pm PT
Review:  I never would have thought that such an in depth game could be designed. Rome: Total War is a masterpiece 
 in my opinion. It is the most strategically and historically realistic game you could ever play. 
 I have always loved history. And this game gets the Roman Empire Era down 100%. 
  
  The gameplay is excellent! You have control of endless aspects of your empires economy, armies 
 and government. But the most exciting part of RTW is the control of the breath taking 3D battles. 
 You control hundreds of men when fighting, defending or invading another city. For the ones that 
 played Medieval Total War, the strategy is fairly the same when it comes to battles. There are 
 a few minor differences that I would like to make note of though. It seems that the morale level 
 of your men is a bit more realistic than MTW. For example, in MTW, there was a battle were I was 
 outnumber 4 to 1. The invading armys general came in first for a strike against my men. By luck 
 and chance, one of my archers hit the general on the first shot. When this happened, every man 
 in his army ran! I won the battle without loosing one man. In RTW, if a general is killed, his 
 mens morale does decrease, but not to the point where they automatically run! They will continue 
 to fight until it is clear that they are loosing the battle. Another difference between RTW and 
 MTW is the incline strategy. In MTW, if your men were attacking from and elevated position, there 
 chances of winning against the defenders were increased by 50%! In RTW, this percentage seems to 
 be a lot lower. Some may like this, some may not. As for me, It doe not bother me. Also, I love 
 taking siege of a city. This is the where a big difference comes to place between MTW and RTW. 
 In MTW, you could always send in an army to invade a castle without any siege equipment. All the 
 men had to do was run up to the front gate and damage it with there combat weapons until it broke 
 open. I found this part of MTW very unrealistic! No army can take over a castle with out some form 
 of siege equipment! In RTW, if a city has a parameter wall, you have to build siege equipment before 
 you attack. You just cant send your men in to attack the front gate and knock it open. They have 
 to have a battering ram. Also, for sieges of cities with high stonewalls, you can use latters, 
 siege towers, or catapults to get through. 
  
  The graphics in RTW are absolutely beautiful! I cannot believe the amount of detail that went into 
 the armies, cities and campaign map for this game. In MTW, armies were displayed through 2D sprites. 
 There wasnt a whole lot of detail and you could only zoom in to a certain distance to your army. 
 In RTW, you can zoom clear up to a Greek soldiers sword and shield and watch each character fight 
 to the death. Cities, towns and villages are another graphically impressive feature in the game. 
 You can see the detail from each block in the stonewall protecting a city. You can see the barracks, 
 stables, archers range and governors palace with clear detail. Also, the campaign map gives the 
 feature of selecting a settlement (Village, town, city) and viewing it through the 3D battle map. 
 Speaking of the campaign map, it is far more detailed then that of MTW. You can see roads, mountains, 
 forest, ports, beaches, and even moving carts on roads, sailing trade ships in ports representing 
 your trade traffic for each province. 
  
  The sound and music in RTW is just as impressive as the graphics and gameplay. Each battle has 
 very moral increasing music that fits the mood perfectly! You can hear the footsteps of hundreds 
 of marching soldiers. You can hear men yelling has they are being killed in the battlefield. You 
 can hear hundreds on soldiers cheer as they win a battle. Also, each battle has an opening speech 
 from the general that is a very neat feature in the game.
  
  I only have a few minor complaints about RTW. For one, occasionally, your men during battle can 
 sometimes get stuck in objects. Like buildings, walls, ect. For example, I had a unit to somehow 
 get stuck in a wall. The wall was consuming half the unit and the other half was standing outside 
 the parameter of it. I clicked on the unit several times to move them out, but the unit stayed 
 stuck in position. This only has happened to me once, but it is a bug that should be patched. Another 
 problem is sea battles. When your navy enters battle, the computers AI automatically calculates 
 the results of the battle. The results show who won, what were the casualties and how many ships 
 remain. Occasionally it will state I have one or so ships left, but after the results screen is 
 closed, my navy is gone as if it was completely sank! Also, some people may like this feature. 
 I have tried to get adjusted to it but I cant. When you have a settlement, you can give it a governor 
 to run it. The advantages of a governor are that it usually helps keep public order, plus you have 
 better control of taxes, income and expenses. Governors can only be a family member of the faction. 
 You cant simply pick non-family individual to run a settlement as a governor. This really limits 
 how fast you can spread your empire. I know that was the point of this, but its not something 
 Im really fond of. The computer pretty much controls how fast you can expand your empire by how 
 many family members you are offered through the AI. Oh you can expand your territory and run a 
 settlement without a governor, but it is usually more difficult to maintain public order and income 
 is a lot less. 
  
  Bottom line, Rome: Total War is an excellent game that every strategy player should have! I do 
 not expect a game to exceed this games features for a long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amlabella
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 3, 2005 3:05 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War is another installment in the series of Total War games. The Total War games have 
 been very good strategy games, but Rome Total War surpasses the previous games on every level. 
 In doing so, Rome Total War has marked itself as one of the best strategy games ever.
  
  The gameplay in Rome Total War is very thorough and is extremely deep. To start off you will get 
 a walkthrough of the gameplay to help start you off. It is very simple, and doesnt take long to 
 understand. Once you are done with the tutorial, you will get to pick one of three different Roman 
 factions. These are the Julii, the Scipii, and the Bruti. There are two aspects on playing the 
 game. First, there is the campaign map. You will have a top down view of all the places and settlements 
 that you own and can try to take over. Also on the campaign map you will see little soldiers, representing 
 the armies you send out. On the campaign map you will be moving small armies, taking care of your 
 settlements, and expanding the rule of your faction. In the game you go by turns. On each turn 
 you can start building things in different settlements, recruit and train soldiers, and move some 
 of your small armies. Each turn is 6 months. This may seem long, but it wont feel like youre 
 moving very fast through time after each turn. As you try to take over settlements, this brings 
 the second aspect of the game. The real time part of the game. You can choose to automatically 
 resolve battles, or to play them yourself. You will have many different troops form your army. 
 You will tell them where to go and who to attack. This battles are very fun, and youll be playing 
 them a lot, trying various strategies.
  
  The graphics in this game are great. When you play a strategy game, the graphics arent as important 
 as other parts of the game. But Rome Total War proves that statement wrong. Easily the best part 
 of the graphics are the real time battles. You will have hundreds and hundreds of soldiers on the 
 battlefield, all showing great animations. It really looks like a real battle. In fact, they looks 
 so real, that a show on the history channel uses the graphics and animations from Rome Total War 
 to reenact many battles. Even the campaign map looks great. This is probably the best looking strategy 
 game ever.
  
  The music in this game is another strong point to the game. The music is very appropriate. It really 
 sounds like the music and sounds of Roman times. Also, on the battlefield the sounds are great. 
 Youll hear soldiers striking their enemies with swords, the shots of bow and arrows, and the battle 
 cries and screams of the many soldiers. 
  
  Rome Total War accomplishes everything you could want with a strategy game. It gives you great 
 sound, some of the best and most deep gameplay youll find, and the amazing graphics are an extra 
 plus. This game is very addictive. It keeps you busy, so youll be playing it for a long time. 
 It is a must own for strategy game fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scisco
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 27, 2005 6:55 am PT
Review:  The Total War series has created a very unique style of gameplay by mixing a turn based campaign 
 map with real time battles. In that respect, it has combined some of my favorite aspects of games 
 such as the Civilization series with an adapted version of RTS that actually makes you feel like 
 you are the general of a battle.
  
  You will initially start the game with several small territories and a few armies to begin your 
 world conquest. Early on in the game you can only choose one of the three Roman factions, however, 
 as you progress you will open other playable factions.
  
  The campaign map is the key to the game. Anyone who can master the campaign map will eventually 
 become a great Total War player. There are numerous aspects to the campaign map that you must manage. 
 
  
  To start off with, city management will be a priority. You must construct the correct buildings 
 in your cities to provide both a flow of income and a good mix of troops. Cities that are buried 
 deep into your territory will not need to produce as many troops as cities of the front. Because 
 of this, construction of income producing buildings will be more important at the heart of your 
 empire while troop producing units are more important near the front. You must also assure that 
 your citizens stay happy or riots leading to revolt will occur. This becomes increasingly difficult 
 as you expand further from your capital. In order to do this you must construct public health and 
 entertainment buildings. 
  
  Beyond this, it will become important to keep track of all of your named characters. These characters 
 have characteristics gained from experience and retainers that are added to the characters entourage. 
 Typically, you would like to have at least one named character in every city. How you arange these 
 can be important because a good general is important near the front while a good administrator 
 is more important in income producing areas that are unlikely to be attacked.
  
  Add to this, a general need to keep track of all your deployed armies, spies, diplomats and assasins, 
 and you can see that there are several layers of strategy to keep the mind busy. The campaign map 
 to me is the heart of the game. If you can master this aspect, you will have no problem with the 
 rest of the game.
  
  The real time battle engine is very well constructed. Many of you may have already seen it in action 
 if you watch the History Channel. It actually makes you feel like a general deploying armies. You 
 will find that there is somewhat of steap a learning curve when it comes to playing this mode. 
 This is especially true when you are dealing with very large armies. 
  
  The most important aspect of this mode will be keeping the troops in correct formations while maneuvering. 
 If you open a gap somewhere you may quickly find yourself outflanked by the opposing cavalry or 
 have your missile troops come under attack from infantry. Most people familiar with previous Total 
 War series will be familiar with this, but new comers to the series will need a certain amount 
 of patience to master this aspect of the game.
  
  To sum everything up, I would recommend this game to anyone who likes the strategy genre. It is 
 a very well concieved and an excellent new addition to the Total War series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 26, 2005 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say about this game apart from wow how did they do it. The game feels so right 
 taking on the role of a roman general has never felt so real. The way this game plays it is just 
 cool.
  
  To sum up this game is hard there are so many good points taken from the past 2 games and add ons 
 it is a near perfect stratagy game. No other game can do what this one dose. the sounds the grapics 
 are all good the single player part of the game is well done and lets you take your time building 
 your empire.
  
  The only let done for this game and the other 2 is that the multi-player part of the game seems 
 lacking, it would be nice in future total war games if we could play the single player game with 
 others online.
  
  To wrap up i think that anyone who has not tried this game yet should as you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donya222
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 25, 2005 3:56 am PT
Review:  I know this review is late coming, but let me tell you since the day this game has come out, i've 
 nearly everyday played the single player campaign. Single player... the rough edge games today seem 
 to ignore for the heavily growing popularity with multiplayer games.
  
  Rome: Total War is a georgous game graphically and in replay value. Playing Real-Time Strategies 
 (RTS) such as Command and Conquer, Total Annhilation, Homeworld 2, and Cossacks, i can honestly 
 tell you now that this game surpasses them all ten fold.
  
  First off, the single player game itself is so fun for the simple fact that you play at your own 
 pace. Whether you choose to attack the Gauls, or simply become allies with them. You can listen 
 to the Senate's mission orders, or be the outlaw of Rome and go against the Republic. Either way, 
 you become really attached to family members, and gain certain respect for enemies you've been 
 at war with for year after year. Yeah, this is only a fraction of the surface this game has to 
 offer, but trust me, it is a beautiful thing.
  
  Controls are simple; in fact, all i ever use when playing this game is the arrow keys and the mouse... arrow 
 keys for camera (up, down, left, right) and mouse to turn the camera and of course the RTS point 
 and click functions we all know too well.
  
  System requirements are high if you want to see the graphical beauty of the game, but don't sweat 
 not having the latest and greatest, you CAN still see 99% of the game the way (i'm sure) the developers 
 would have wanted you to see the game.
  
  Now, multiplayer is very important here on the basis that it is without a doubt the "trend" of 
 this era of gamers, so i gotta admit Creative Assembly hit the nail here. Cooperative play, deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch... either way you look at it, you can do siege, open battle, or bridge fighting 
 in all sorts of terrain, cities, towns, and time of day. Fighting the computer is endless fun in 
 that they actually give you good challenge if you make them hard enough, but even if not, they 
 can be fun to route off the fairly big maps.
  
  My only inside wish (as well as for nearly all other games to incorporate more) is cooperative 
 play through single player campaigns. It is a feature i truely love to play in any game that has 
 it... instead of so much useless talk and unusually serious competitive play, i like to see people 
 working together to fight the emotionless A. I. Can't gamer's just get along? 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edwardcioffi
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2005 7:58 am PT
Review:  I am a well seasoned Total War Veteran. The previous two titles have been my favorite games over 
 all. I thought the battle maps were the strongest part of the game. I found them much better then 
 the Shogun and Medieval, however the fault of the game lies in the Strategy map. There is too much 
 micromanagement of territories which slows the game tremendously. The new 3D map has too many bells 
 and whistles, and is just overkill compared to the previous games. I looked forward to this game 
 for over a year and was very disappointed. The reviewers are giving it many raves, but it you are 
 a TW fan it lacks many elements that you have come to love in the last two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gallego
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 15, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Rome is a new version of the real time strategy series Total War. This time you control various 
 factions and cultures during Roman times, more on that later on. The game does a lot of things 
 right and a lot of things wrong that disappoint most of the veteran players of the Total War 
 franchise. Over all, this game is a welcome addition to the Total War series made by the Creative 
 Assembly guys.
  
  The Good:
  
  Now like all games (and life) there are good news and bad news. Let us look over the good things 
 that this game does.
  
  We start with the newly re-invented strategy map. For those who are not familiar with the Total 
 War games, there are two ways to enjoy this game, the strategy map and the battle map. The strategy 
 map is where you move your forces, literally, govern your nations, plan your next attack and do 
 some diplomacy. The battle map is where you go into the hearth of the game, and the hearth of the 
 action. This is where you lead your troops in the battlefield against the upcoming enemy army, 
 and thus forming carnage!
  
  Now, before Rome, the strategy map used to be flat, 2D, but since Rome came at a new era where 
 anything is possible, Creative Assembly re-invented the map to make it a realistic 3D map. Now 
 players can witness by themselves the beauty of the landscape they govern, as well as see their 
 units in action. What is cool about this new map is the realistic animations that have been done. 
 Its as if you where standing outside of the earth looking down at what happens below. There is 
 always something going on. This makes for some cool looking effect, exploding volcano, floods, 
 storms, you name it!
  
  This new map its better for the player, since essentially when your forces are attacked by an enemy 
 battalion, you can see what type of landscape your forces are in just by looking at the location 
 that they where attacked. This makes for some good strategy since there can be literally thousands 
 of landscapes to fight in. This also allows the player to play strategy and choose where best to 
 fight according to the army that the player has. This brings me to the next subject, the battle 
 map.
  
  Now, if we have a realistic 3D looking map, then of course we are going to get a realistic 3D looking 
 landscape on the battle map. Players will be trilled and sometimes encouraged to fight their battles 
 instead of letting the auto resolve do just that, resolve the battle without the player going 
 into the battle map. But lets say you are a good general that likes to fight all your battles. 
 What will you find in the new battle map? Well not a lot has changed. The controls and menu options 
 are very similar to the previous Total War games. You still got your basic move forward and attack 
 commands as well as your basic grouping and movement commands. But, there is always something new. 
 It comes in the form of special skills. Now each unit has a special skill of their own. For example, 
 archers can fire flaming arrows, or normal arrows, you tell them what to do. Trebuchets can fire 
 flaming balls of fire, or flaming pigs! Pike men can form a spear wall to defend against an incoming 
 cavalry charge. It all depends on the unit. Not all units have special skills, so be aware of those 
 units.
  
  You might be asking, Special skills, so what? Well these special skills allow the player to choose 
 a better strategy when facing an enemy as well as give the player an advantage, well, a new way 
 to fight their battles. But, be warned, special skills have weakness, so be on the lookout.
  
  Now lets go back to the strategy map, since its probably where you will spend most of the 
 time playing this game. On the new strategy map, you can see your cities grow from a small village 
 to a huge city! For each level of city there are new technologies and new units available. Of course, 
 the bigger your cities are, the more this puts stress on your economy, so make sure to research 
 some economy wise technologies as well as use your diplomats to make trade agreements with other 
 nations. A big source of income is ports. The game allows for a lot of ways that you can manage 
 your nations, simply choose the one that fits you. You can either strengthen your home economy 
 by building huge cities and conquering the trade market, or raid the cities of other nations.
 
  
  There are a few things that the game does well when it comes to non military units like diplomats. 
 Essentially you will build these types of units as much as you build and army. You will need them 
 so do spend some time looking at the various non military units and getting to know them. The way 
 you move units as changed from past games on the franchise. You no longer grab one unit and place 
 it in another nation as if where a piece in a chess game. Rather, you have movement points. So 
 now, your unit has to march and you can see move as it literally walks to the desired destination. 
 There are a few things that can slow or speed up your units movement points. For example, roads 
 make it so that units move longer distances, but mountains make it harder for your units to pass. 
 This is the way all units move in the game.
  
  The last thing I will say about the good, wonders of the world. There are special building scattered 
 across the world that give the controlling faction special abilities. For example, the Pyramids 
 of Egypt give the controlling faction a boost increase of population happiness. This brings me 
 to my last point, the counsel, or for the Romans, the Senate. The game introduces a new Senate 
 like feature for all factions. The Senate will give you quests which you must do in order to be 
 on its good side. But, the rewards are satisfying, so be on the lookout for any quests given to 
 you by the senate.
  
  The Bad:
  
  The Bad, which this game has quite a few:
  
  The Senate: Sure its good to go on quest, but sometimes the senate gets on your way of conquering 
 the known world. Maybe you dont have the money or the manpower to comply with some of the demands, 
 but the Senate doesnt care and it will keep giving you orders until you simply decide to ignore 
 them. Sometimes these orders are beneficial to you, but other time is just not good. So be on the 
 lookout.
  The AI: On hard settings, even the bravest soldier can find the AI to be quite easy. Of course, 
 it depends on how long you have been playing a Total War game. Veteran players find it easy, while 
 rookie players find it hard. But you can fix that by looking online for some mods that do work 
 and do improve the overall difficulty of the game.
  
  The Naval Battle System: Still no real good battle system for ships on the sea. No realistic battle 
 map for sea battles, none at all.
  
  The Clones: Most of the time while fighting on the battle map, the player will ask him/her self 
 if they are watching a Star wars Episode 2: Attack of the Clones. To make realistic units, CA decided 
 to make them all look alike, clones of each other. So dont be surprised by how many twins your 
 population can come up with. (Of course, this was fix in their newest game, Medieval 2 Total War)
 
  
  Diplomacy: Most of the time, you will get the feeling that you are doing diplomacy with a 10 year 
 old. It improves a bit on hard settings, but not quite. Again, some easy mods you can download 
 of the net can fix this.
  
  The Right Down Ugly:
  
  Bugs: From installing the game, to playing it, too many bugs. Of course you can always fix it with 
 the various patches that are available now, but when the game first hit stores, if felt more like 
 a beta version being released. A lot of players like me had difficulty even installing the game. 
 Some cant even play multiplayer games as it doesnt work properly.
  
  Well this is the end, over all I give Rome Total War an 8/10. It is an addicting game that players 
 will love (or hate) . You dont need a high powered computer to play it, my three year old graphic 
 card and three year old computer handles this game quite well, even on high settings. Since I was 
 never able to play the multiplayer part due to bugs, I did not include it in this review. But Im 
 sure it is standard like the other Total War games, a chat room, you join games, and you kill your 
 opponent. Multiplayer is a big part of the Total War franchise, so make sure you check it out.
 
  
  Well this has been a nice public service announcement by Gallego, thanks for reading and enjoy 
 the game if you ever buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgranda
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 18, 2005 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I can sum this game up in one word: Amazing!
  The seamless integration of turn based strategy and realtime tacics sets this game far above the 
 competition. I have been an avid player of the Total War fanchise and have seen in this title that 
 all of the pieces came together perfectly. One of the first things that strikes me is the intuitive 
 flow of game play and the accesibility of the game mechanics. City managment is very user friendly 
 and the information presented in the various screens regarding cash and resource flow are consise 
 and understandable. I love how they included a camera mode feature so at anytime you can view your 
 cities from bystander perspective. Unit selection and force construction are one of my favorite 
 parts of the game; entering the battle screen with the right mix of troops for a balanced attack 
 and once my foot soldiers are engaged charging with my cavalry to crush the enemies flanks. I feel 
 that having this realtime combat brings so much more intensity and suspence to this game. I can 
 tell you that it sure beats watching your army sprite walk over to any enemy and slash its sword 
 until one of the life counters is depleted. In a sense Rome: Total War is really two games wrapped 
 into one, is gives the stategy lovers a chance to construct armies, run a dynasty spanning generations 
 of children, AND test their meddle in tactical unit to unit combat! I could write pages of accoladed 
 for this title but the most usefull one I can think is simple. BUY THIS GAME! This game must be 
 in your collection. Don't miss out on one of the best games created since Civilization. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngbloodza
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2005 3:05 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is pretty straight foreword if you choose arcade, but how they even out soldiers is 
 amazing, and how they can have so many units on one field, and everything feels so real, from the 
 units names, to the style they fight with. THis game has expanded alot form its predecessors. Not 
 only the graphics engine, but the campaign map, and the gameplay. The campaign map is alot of fun, 
 takin gover territories, waging war and forming alliances. Overthrow Rome wIth your faction, and 
 take over the flat europe and asia. Not only Campaign map, but also instant battles, which are 
 fun because you can make the battle in your favor, or you could make it in th eenemies favor, if 
 your a veteran, or very good. There are lots of maps, and you can choose cities, weather, and time, 
 which all effect the gameplay, like desert units, will probably not be very good in cold conditions, 
 but can reign terror on you in the desert, and Units that are used to forset, and hiding, will 
 probably be better at hiding, and using strategy then taking them down. A problem was, that all 
 the same types of units look exacly the same, no different models, and also I think that it can 
 get quite boring after a while. It will still be very fun for at least 40 hours. I think you're 
 getting you moneys worth. I totally recommend it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dh_roadkill
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome game. Ther's not much else to be said about this epic game. I was never into 
 strategy games until I was convinced to download the demo, then I instantly fell in love with RTW. 
 In some places over the net, you can find advertisements about the "living breathing world map 
 of Battle for Middle Earth". When I compare it to the strategic map of RTW, BFME makes me laugh. 
 But my favorite part is the battles. You can literally have tens of thousands of soldiers in one 
 battle. Each individual soldier is highly detailed (not talking HL2 detailed but you get the point) . 
 And the sound effects just build up on the realistic graphics, especially if you have surround 
 sound. It makes you actually feel as if you're in the battle. Although this is an all-round great 
 game, the AI is not that great. Pathfinding isn't all so great either. I was engaged in a HUGE 
 battle and I was about to be overwhealmed. Luckily, I had some triarii to the enemy's flank, and 
 when I ordered them to charge, the just turned around and marched the other way because there was 
 a beg rock mountain thingy. Asides from that, this is an awesome game for all types of gamers, 
 and strategists will like it even better. I still haven't gotten into the multiplayer because I'm 
 still stuck on the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Longshanks1307
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2005 6:57 pm PT
Review:  These people know how to make actualy strategy games, unlike Warcraft III which is fun but not 
 tactical strategy
  
  Multiplayer needs to be refined and this game would be a classic.
  
  Taking the genre to Ancient times was great, however I was not too wild about the campaign 
 involving the same ole take this place over or blockade the same port and then going into Civil 
 War, also the ending is a letdown, MP is the best fort his however because it is powered by Gamespy, 
 it kinda sucks.
  
  A Must buy for any history nerd such as myself seeing as how this lets you recreate the battles 
 you read about and can only imagine what they would look like and what you would do, no longer 
 however with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wahoo91
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 4, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  For 15-20 hours this game is a masterpiece of intertwined gameplay, both strategic and tactical. 
 Unfortunately, before too long (say 20 hours) it is obvious that the AI in both the tactical and 
 strategic areas is sorely lacking. I make these comments based on playing on the hardest difficulty 
 levels for both areas.
  
  The AI never seems to press any advantage on the strategic areas of the game and is quite simple 
 to beat in the tactical battles. Becuase of this, it is quite simple to defeat the AI by simply 
 doing the same things over and over exploiting their major weaknessess in strategy and tactics. 
 Of course the AI does not learn from its mistakes, making for a limited enjoyment game.
  
  The game mechanics are beatifully setup, if only the opponent were worth fighting.
  
  If you 
 only expect 20 hours of insane fun, with a let down after that, this game is for you. That is not 
 necessarily a bad thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aerdt
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2005 6:37 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War was a great surprise and a much needed breath of fresh air for the "been there, 
 done that" strategy games in the past few years that hasn't seen any major hits lately. Most good 
 strategy games are still being developed in Europe, with some exclusively being distributed to 
 the European markets without even getting a nod from US publishers. Additionally the usual gaming 
 review site usually give the more immersive strategy games only mediocre reviews, because the reviewers 
 generally don't seem to "like" the genre and are more focused on the shiny, but shallow first person 
 shooters. I therefore applaude and support the good GS score.
  
  I truly enjoyed the mix of the turn-based Civ-like strategic gaming with RTS elements. Everything 
 is very nicely presented, from the interface to the graphics to the detail and sound. Rome: Total 
 War is a very good strategy game that might introduce the casual gamer into the more advanced strategy 
 genre without dedicating too much effort and time to manage the learning curve.
  
  Well done!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rijorat
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2005 11:04 am PT
Review:  This is a very impressive strategy game with both Real Time and Turn-Based elements. The auto-managing 
 options can easily be used to shift the balance either way so you can truly play the type of game 
 you would prefer. If you want to keep it turn based just use agents and auto calculate your army 
 battles. If you like real time then set your production queues to auto manage and just concentrate 
 on the battles.
  
  This game is huge. This game depicts all of the land in and around the old Roman Empire to include 
 Europe, Eastern Asia, Northern Africa, and the Middle East. All told, there are from 75 to100 regions 
 available to conquer. Generally conquering the world only requires that you hold 50 of these territories 
 and seize power from the senate in Rome. It follows then that you could actually win the game without 
 even setting foot in a great many of the regions. My first time through I didn't ever set foot 
 into present day Turkey or the Middle East. Now I'm playing as Egypt so I can go the other way. 
 If you want to conquer every territory then just leave Rome for last. Also it is quite possible 
 to hold your enemies at bay with just a few spies, diplomats, and assassins and thus focus your 
 massive armies on areas you intend to conquer. And yes I do mean massive. This game has used an 
 ingenious system to trick the computer into allowing you to have literally hundreds of troops on 
 the field (yes you read that right) with out massive processor time (You read that right too) . 
 What they did was build the engine off of unit based combat instead of individual based combat. 
 So your typical unit is say Age of empires actually translates into an entire legion in this game. 
 The downside is you don't get to micromanage each and every character. You only get to give instructions 
 to the unit as a whole... but since it really is just one unit according to the computer you get 
 to have really big battles with really big armies. I think the most troops you can have in one 
 army would be some where in the neighbor hood of 2200 and that would be if all 20 unit slots were 
 filled with 120 character units. But then you can have multiple armies surrounding another army 
 all of which participate in the battle.... you see where this is going. That's a lot of troops. 
 Just seeing that played out on screen is worth getting the game for. Oh and incidentally even though 
 you only control units. Each individual character in the unit animates independently of the others 
 so you literally get to see the clashing of troops reminiscent of the battles in the movies Braveheart 
 and more specifically the first main fight in Gladiator (Definitely a source of inspiration for 
 this game) . Siege warfare is well detailed too. You troops can use catapults, ballistas (Think 
 big mechanical archer) , battering rams, siege towers, ladders, and sap points. You troops will 
 actually try to climb the walls with the ladders and towers, or bash down the gates/walls with 
 the battering rams. It's really kind of cool to watch.
  
  Another thing that I really like about this game is the fact that a lot of though and detail went 
 into differentiating the different cultures of the time. There are completely different units depending 
 on the region the army is from. If it's native to Northern Europe you see a lot of barbarian horde 
 type units. Rome of course has it's legions, but down in Africa and the Middle East you'll find 
 typical desert units like chariots, elephants, and camels. But unlike most other games you won't 
 find units from one culture in another cultures area... that is until later in the game when you 
 start expanding into the areas where those units are found... or if you receive or hire exotic mercenary 
 units. But typically the various cultures stick to their style of units that are all very nicely 
 detailed to add a lot of atmosphere to the games. When you play as Romans your units speak like 
 Romans would, but when you play as Egypt your units talk like Egyptians. It's a very simple thing, 
 but it really sets the factions apart. A little side note here is that you have to beat the campaign 
 as one of the three Roman families before you can play the other factions, but then again it is 
 ROME: TOTAL WAR.
  
  Okay, the game is good... but there are a few issues that you should be aware of. Some detractors 
 if you will. First is that management of an empire is a very tedious and tiring thing. Hence the 
 auto-management tools. But the auto-management tools are specifically designed to be less than 
 perfect... i. e. this gives you the real feeling of trying to control a vast empire. Auto-Managed 
 territories will typically only do as good as the governor that's assigned to them and even then 
 they might not do exactly what you want... but that's the price you pay for letting someone else 
 run your empire. On the flip side if you're like me and not willing to settle for slip shod management 
 you can as emperor micro-manage every city. That is you can choose what buildings are built and 
 what armies are built and if you have a governor in place you can manage the specific tax rates 
 and game schedule.... but if you don't have a governor you only get a general policy setting (Much 
 less useful than the specific settings) . My advice is to try an keep a governor in every city... bribe 
 a few if you're short on named characters. (Only named characters can be governors) . The other 
 issue that you need to be aware of and the more serious of the two is the technical flaws. On occasion, 
 the game seems to crash for no obvious reason. This can be frustrating, but as a counter the game 
 does auto save after each turn. So at most you'd loose a few troop movements, so city management, 
 and maybe a battle or two. But to be safe make sure you save after any battle you win by more than 
 just sheer numbers... i. e Heroic Victories where the odds were definitely not in your favor. (Yes 
 you can pull off some stunning reversals of fortune in this game based how organized your units 
 are and specific tactics that the computer may not think of countering such as hit and run and 
 flanking assaults. (Think massive cavalry assault from behind while the enemy is already busy fighting 
 with your "front line".) But in regards to the technical flaws they are there, but they don't happen 
 very often and they certainly shouldn't prevent you from buying this game and experiencing one 
 of the best strategy games every made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptUnderpants
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2004 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Mmmm well after Medieval this game had alot to live up to.
  
  I for one can say this game is the best game of it's 2 types out there by far. Your are getting 
 the best war simulator and a great RTS to boot.
  
  The RTS map has evolved alot and is much more enjoyable to play. Keeping track of your territories 
 and there output is alot easier. keeping your people happy seems alot easier and massive revolting 
 armies do not appear out of nowhere! So you can concentrate on invading and battle simulations. 
 The units are alot more entertaining as well, i personnally love the War dogs and Headhurlers (yes 
 the Headhurlers actually chuck decapited heads at the enemy) 
  
  The simulation maps are very good to look at, and the the units look very good, even close up!
 
  
  I would suggest you look up the shortcut to unlock the other factions before you start playing 
 it, as playing as the Romans was all abit to easy. I am at present doing my best with the Brits, 
 there not very advanced but they have chariots :o)
  
  This game is a real step forward in the genre. Its also almost impossible to stop playing :o (
 
  
  Long live King Pants!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: randar23rhenn
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2004 6:49 am PT
Review:  The Total War series is a great series of games... it started with Shogun: Total War, which on 
 its own was a great game, but had an incredible learning curve. Rome: Total War fixes all the problems 
 in the series, adding 3d graphics, a shorter learning curve, intense battles, and a truly awesome 
 campaign.
  
  Gameplay: Rome: Total War (RTW) 's gameplay is incredible. The campaign mode, which is the meat 
 of the game, gives you a campaign similar to the Civilization games in many respects, however it 
 does what Civilization does not (in my opinion) , it makes it fun. 
  
  You start off as the Julii family, a faction in rome, and conquer the world as you see fit. You 
 can also do campaigns with just about any other faction once you have unlocked them. The campaign 
 is basically world conquest. You build up your forces and treasury, and then proceed to storm over 
 the rest of the world. It usually is not a storm however, as much strategy is involved. 
  
  Your generals give awesome bonuses, both on the field, and in the city. Family member managment 
 is extremely important. If you have a shortage of generals, you won't be able to conquer as quickly, 
 but if you have a surplus, you should push hard to gain as much ground as possible.
  
  The campaign mode is incredibly deep, and depending how much you want to delve into it, you can 
 spend even hours on a single turn, micromanaging every detail about every town... or you could 
 simply allow the games awesome AI control the cities for you, while you simply control the battles. 
 
  
  And so we get to the core of the game, the battles. You have a stunning variety of troops to train, 
 and each type is more effective against certain other types. Spearmen, for example, make mincemeat 
 of calvalry, but get destroyed by skirmishers. It has a hidden Rock-Paper-Scissors concept behind 
 it all, but that doesn't hurt the gameplay in any way. The battles can be on an incredible scale, 
 massive hordes of troops duking it out as you sit there moving your troops strategically around 
 the map. The gameplay is simply amazing.
  
  There are also several historical battles you can play, to see if you can change history. All of 
 these are fun excursions into the past.
  
  There is really nothing else they could have done to make this game more fun. In all aspects, the 
 gameplay is absolutely perfect.
  
  Graphics: Admittedly, graphics are the weak point of this game. While they are still good, and, 
 extraordinary for the amount of units shown on screen at once, the graphics are not up to todays 
 standards. This does not hurt the game at all, and, as I said, the graphics are still good.
  
  Sound: The music in this game is simply awesome. The sound effects are also incredible. The 
 only thing keeping the sound from a perfect score is the fact there are some points in the game 
 with no music at all. 
  
  Value: Hundreds and hundreds of hours of gameplay... this game is worth it all, every penny.
 
  
  Tilt: As I said, the best Strategy game since Starcraft, and we all know how awesome Starcraft 
 was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myspence_basic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 30, 2004 1:43 am PT
Review:  For me, Rome: Total War is the suprise game of the year. This isn't really my genre, but I haven't 
 played anything so addictive, nor so consistently entertaining. This game is fantastic in nearly 
 every area one could hope for and stays fresh for a long, long time.
  
  There are basically two types of gameplay in Rome: Total War. The first takes place on the campaign 
 map. This is basically the grand strategy portion on the game. From here you tell your armies where 
 to march to, tell your cities what to produce, build new armies, work your diplomacy and monitor 
 the state of your faction. The gameplay here is surprisingly deep, surpassed only by Civilization 
 in games I have played. The other type of gameplay takes place on the battle map. From here you 
 control your armies in battle against opposing forces. You can fit up to 20 units in each army 
 and each faction probably has about 15 different types of units, making the strategic options immense. 
 The best thing about these fights are that it is really satisfying when you amke the right decisions. 
 Often times in strategy games it is just about producing more units more quickly than the other 
 guy and throwing them together and hoping you win. In Rome, however, making the right strategic 
 decisions really helps. It is immensly satisfying to beat an army three times your size because 
 you manage to get your spear men into a phalanz formation to repel their cavalry charge and then 
 repel their archer's deadly assault by forming your troops into a testudo. The game features a 
 pretty standard rock-paper-scissors type system where infantry will usually beat spear men (provided 
 that you use the right formation and don't attack a phalanx from the front) , spear men will beat 
 cavalry (provided that the quicker cavalry don't get behind them and tear them apart from behind) 
 and cavalry will beat infantry (provided that you charge and retreat and don't let them get swarmed 
 by the more numerous infantry) . As you can see by all the "provided that"s it is never quite as 
 simple as rock paper scissors and what you do post-production is really important. There are also 
 many more complicated units that don't really fit into the infantry, spear men, cavalry mode. There 
 are archers, skirmishers, elephants, siege weapons, incendiary pigs, and more. The key is to get 
 the most out of each unit at the best time. There is, unfortunately, one glaring, frustrating issue 
 during the battles. For some reason, it is nearly impossible to keep a reasonable formation. Your 
 units, always end up facing in some weird direction, usually olbique to the enemy with no way to 
 turn towards them. Your battle lines will be crooked, sometimes perpindicular to enemy for reason 
 that you can ascertain and their is no easy way to fix it other than take each unit individually 
 and put it where you want it, and still then it probably won't be facing towards the enemy. If 
 there is someway to get them to face towards the enemy when they are just standing, I haven't found 
 it, and believe me, I've looked. Despite that flaw, the battles are superb.
  
  The game also includes a really interestin RPG like stat-building aspect. There are all kinds of 
 different "traits" commanders can have from being a legendary commander to a cattamite (which, 
 as far as I can ascertain is some kind of crossdressing entertainer) . Some of them even like to 
 paint their butts purple and act crazy. Each of these traits affect how efficient that general 
 will be at commanding troops, managing cities, and influencing the Senate of Rome (who will periodically 
 give you missions if you are a Roman faction) . There are also retinue which are hanger-ons who 
 can increase or decrease you abilites. Commanders can gain traits and retinue throughout the course 
 of their lifetime.
  
  Another really interesting aspect is the family system. You need family members because they are 
 the only ones who can become generals and the only ones who can manually manage a city. New family 
 members can be born, adopted, or married into. Keeping a good stock of family members is important 
 and makes you think twice about putting them into dangerous situations on the battlefield. However, 
 those generals also are the ones who can command well and have a really powerful version of cavalry 
 so you will still want to use them. Still, its fun if you have one of those black sheep family 
 members who is an alcoholic, likes to paint his butt purple, and crossdresses and then you sned 
 him off to battle alone to battle 2000 Carthigians.
  
  The graphics in the game are really quite good. Each soldier is individually modeled in 3-D and 
 they all look strong and tough. Each type of soldier is quite unique and you will probably be able 
 to tell what kind of unit they are just by looking at them by the time you have played a little 
 while. The most impressive thing is the sheer volume of soldiers the game renders at once. You 
 could have battles of 15,000 soldiers if you have reinforcements and multiple factions battling 
 at once. Each of those 15000 soldiers battles for his life while being trampled by elephants, burned 
 by flaming arrows, and being charged by cavalry. The game lets you zoom right in on the action 
 and there really are few things more impressive in gaming. After each battle there are hundres 
 if not thousands of corpses littering the ground, sometimes you can even tell how guys died by 
 looking at the corpse. Its unfortunate that the environments and city's are rather underwhelming 
 in comparison.
  
  The sound is also quite good. The music is suitably epic and dynamic. It also changes depending 
 which faction you are playing. The sounds of battle are visceral and exciting and you even get 
 to listen to your general make a speech before every battle if you want to. The number of tracks 
 seems pretty limited, but at least the ones it does have fit the game perfectly.
  
  This game is absolutely huge. A campaign lasts over 500 turns, which can probably translate into 
 over forty hours if you like to fight each battle (you can also automate) . Once you complete a 
 campaign, there are lots of reasons to play again since there are about 20 playable factions and 
 no two games will likely turn out the same. There is also an option for a short campaign which 
 may only take you ten hours. There are also a dozen or so interesting historical battle that will 
 keep you busy and a custom battle creator. The custom battles themselves are great as it is loads 
 of fun to just make a couple units of elephants and have them trample 5000 peasant militia. The 
 different battles you can creat really adds a lot of fun to the game. You also go online and play 
 human opponents over the internet. Rome: Total War will keep you battling well into the new year.
 
  
  Rome: Total War is a remakable strategy game. Nothing has ever recreated the epic nature of historical 
 combat quite like it. With the Civilization like turn-based thrown in there too, its like two games 
 in one. I unflinchingly reccomend this game to any gamer who is remotely interested in strategy 
 or all things epic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t85machine
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 27, 2004 5:16 am PT
Review:  Ever since i started playing strategy games i always imagined and dreamed that one day a game would 
 come along that would allow you to march huge numbers of men into the meat grinder of battle. Rome: 
 Total War is that game. No other game (or games, considering all the total war series allowed you 
 to do this) allows you play a campaign as realistic and brutal as this one. The graphics are top 
 notch, the sound is convincing and the new turn-based strategic map and the real time battles seemlessly 
 meld the game's two parts into one. Sure there are some bugs, and it tends to crash (at least on 
 my fairly good machine) but that must be taken into consideration when you look at the sheer scope 
 of the game... it really just blows me away. 
  Some things that would be good in an expansion pack... which i know they'll make. More stability 
 would of course be nice, since its annoying that it tends to crash during loads. Some sort of acitve 
 adoption service or match-maker service would be very nice since most of the time there seems to 
 be a dearth of family members to be governers of your revolting cities that arent even that far 
 from your capital. Finally, a slightly more forgiving AI when it comes to diplomacy, it can be 
 almost impossible at times to just make a faction that is clearly baked give in and be a protectorate... and 
 give suitable tribute, which is only fair.
  
  Other than that im rally enjoying all Crative Assembly has done with their series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2004 10:14 pm PT
Review:  I found Shogun: Total War to be rather difficult to control in battle, so I skipped Mideval TW. 
 Being a fan of Roman History however i came back to the series for Rome: Total War, and I'm really 
 pleased at what they've done with the series. They've updated almost everything about the series 
 from the technical to the gameplay substantially from the first game and it's so much fun to play 
 now that I just wasn't ever able to play for a little while, instead i ended up playing till 3 
 or 4 am reguaraly. 
  As in the earlier Total War games Rome: TW is really two games in one and they're both stellar. 
 You play the strategic, big picture, part of the game on a beautifully illustrated board game style 
 map of the Mediterranean Region and the rest of Europe as well. The artwork here is really well 
 done and it of course isn't just for show. IF you move your army into a forrest on the board game 
 map your battle will take place in a forrest likewise for all sorts of other geographical climes. 
 
  For my money this was the most interesting part of the game, planning and playing the civ-style 
 board game and building your empire. Micromanaging which armies go with which generals, etc. You 
 have control over production of all sorts of things for cities such as entertainment in the form 
 of gladitorial games and circus shows to provide panem et circenceis to the mobs in the city who'll 
 turn on you if you don't attend to their whims. You'll be able to control the tax rate and establish 
 the economic priorities for your empire. None of this has the depth of stats-management type game 
 but it's all very important and will only add to the games addictive qualities. 
  You'll have controls over the implements of foreign policy and domestic policy as well in this 
 game. You can build large armies which are useful both for quelling revolts within your territory 
 and more importantly sending them afield to conquer the enemy. You don't have to conquer everyone, 
 you can talk it out via diplomats and reach agreements that will secure your empire's boundries. 
 You'll play as one of Rome's great families, the Julii, Scipii or the Brutii and be given a starting 
 direction towards Gaul, Africa & Sicily or the Balkans to where you're supposed to go. The Senate 
 will often assign you missions of what they'd like you to do next with your armies such as taking 
 a settlement or blockading a port and these aren't required, you can do as you like. Despite this 
 freedom it's in your best interest to mostly do as the senate asks as it has many benefits to it 
 from cash to offices etc that makes it well worth your time most times. Perhaps the game's one 
 real failing in this regard is that it really under-utilizes diplomacy in many regards. I don't 
 recall reciving more than a dozen diplomats in either game i played. Most of the time they're just 
 looking for trade routes or rarely an enemy on the ropes will look for a cease-fire. 
  When it comes time to do battle Rome: TW is quite exceptional as well. Of course like all the other 
 games in the series the battles involve many thousands of troops. Unlike the other Total-War games 
 the game has now moved to beautiful 3d and it looks great. Even on a machine that's hardly top 
 of the line though, I was able to run the game fine and see my soldiers march. The controls in 
 the battle are similar to the old TW games but they just seem to have a better feel to them, or 
 they're explained better in this game. Battles of course felt chaotic but not because i couldn't 
 seem to understand what was going on but because the outcome was quite unclear at times. The Enemy 
 generals sometimes do smart things and surprise you but they're often quite cautious and just provide 
 you with a good springboard for how to launch your troops against them in the default difficulty 
 settings. That said however they do things right most of the time and rarely make any compltely 
 stupid errors. Unlike other RTS games Tactics are the order of the day. YOu'll reap significant 
 gains by surrounding or out flanking opponents even with less troops you can often win crushing 
 victories this way by using your troops correctly. This is not a strictly Rock-Paper-Scissors affair 
 but more or less an attempt at bringing some realism to the RTS genre. Additionally different factions 
 will use different units and approaches on the battlefield. Carthiginians, for instance, will use 
 elephants whereas Barbarians will use infantry charges heavily. 
  All in all this is a wonderful strategy game that really provides a lot of value and something 
 that will keep you busy for a long time beating all the campaigns, playing as the different factions. 
 Their is a multiplayer which i didn't even play but it's there if you want it. It's got a deep 
 turn based mode and a entertaining real time segment that all comes together to form one of the 
 best packages in years. If you like any kind of strategy game then Rome: TW is probably the strategy 
 game for you
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopskadoop
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is the third in a series of Total War games starting with Shogun: Total War and 
 later Medieval: Total War. Now the third game has come. As most of you can probably guess the game 
 is set in ancient times at the height of the Roman empire. R: TW is a game that has more depth to 
 it than any other strategy game out there. It incorporates (sucessfully) real time strategy elements 
 and turn based gameplay similiar to the Civilization series.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It is rare to find a strategy game that will leave you sweating from the action. This is such a 
 game. The best word to describe the gameplay would be addictive. The battles are all done in real 
 time 3D with hundreds and sometimes thousands of troops on the map. Each soldier swings his sword 
 or spear or axe and this provides for some very cinematic battles. Nothing is as exciting as seeing 
 your first cavalry charge and watching the foot soldiers get slaughtered and knocked out of the 
 way. 
  
  There a good bit of nations in the game that are all playable and most of them have several unique 
 units. You will start the game of as one of three families, the julii, the brutii, and the scipii. 
 All of them have the same troop type. The difference is the start location and who your main enemy 
 is going to be. For example; the julii's rival would be the Gauls and the Brutii's rival would 
 be macedon and the greek cities. The Scipii's rival is carthage and Numidia. The game allows for 
 some great non-linear gameplay by allowing you to attack whomever you like, with consequences of 
 course. The game also suceeds in giving you a purpose or mission of a sort. The Senate will constantly 
 give you missions that usually involve taking a city, blockading a port, or securing trade agreements 
 with certain factions. You can of course choose not to obey the senate and become an outlaw after 
 continued failure. The objective of the campaign is to take rome and secure a number a regions 
 under your control. Getting outlawed is a way to attack Rome but is not such a good idea in the 
 beggining. 
  
  The game's turn based perspective is viewed from a map similiar to the way civilization does it. 
 You have cities that require you to build improvements such as a barracks or a sewer system as 
 well the ability to train troops. Cities have levels of squalor and unrest as they do In Civilization. 
 The only difference is that you cannot construct your own cities which is something I was rather 
 dissappointed with. Cities are not the only element of the non-real time strategy half. Your faction 
 has a number of generals which age and eventually die. R: TW does a good job of incorporating a 
 family tree system into the game . Each of your generals will have unique attributes that come 
 naturally to them over time or are there from the very beggining of their command (age 16) . You 
 can also cultivate your generals do be good at certain things such as being a good commander or 
 being a good administrator. Constant failure of your generals will also bring negative attributes. 
 Aside from attributes, which are called traits, the game also allows a thing called retinue. These 
 are basically underlings of your generals that improve (or hurt) your general's traits in some 
 way. The amount of retinue your generals receive is dependant on the level of education the city 
 they are in or certain military achievments. For example; if you defeat the carthaginians a number 
 of times you may receive a retinue called a "carthaginian turncoat" which improves your command 
 status in battles against Carthage.
  If you dislike Civilization type gameplay then you may set everything to "automated" which leaves 
 you only to worry about battles which is what I will discuss next.
  
  The 3d portion of real time strategy is simply a master peice. When a battle starts you are given 
 a chance to set up the position of your units which are comprised of one type of troop for each 
 unit. Once the battle starts the two side, or one side, begins to make their move towards the other 
 army. There are many things you have to take into account while approaching an enemy such as the 
 morale of your troops and their stamina. If the enemy army is positioned on top of a hill it can 
 be hard for you to charge up the hill since your troops will tire quickly. THe best course of action 
 is to position yourself on the most gentle slope and slowly approach the other army. There is always 
 a different strategy for every battle. If an enemy army has a lot of archers then simply approaching 
 them head on can lead to disaster. If an enemy has a lot of cavalry then speared units are the 
 way to go. Every battle is a new experience and is almost never the same as the previous one even 
 if the two armies are exactly the same in number and troop composition. However, if you dislike 
 such battles and only want to enjoy the civilization type feature then all you have to do is enable 
 "arcade battles" in the options or simply click auto-determine battle.
  
  R: TW can get very addictive. I found myself staying up into the wee hours of he morning playing 
 this game before I even realized what time it is. It would not be so impressive if that happened 
 once but it happened for two weeks straight! Finally I calmed down (mostly because of Half-LIfe 
 2) .
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are very decent especially since the game has to render up to multi-thousand troops 
 on the battle field at once. Helmets and armor have a nice shimmer effect and the models (Unless 
 set to be so) have a good amount of polygons and no stick-like limbs. The battlefield has a nice 
 look to it with random farms strewn about and plenty of grass and trees. The cities are extremly 
 well done and sometimes I feel I would have a hard time telling the difference between this game 
 and counterstrike (1.6) if you dropped me in the middle of the city with a gun. The topography 
 has a nice shadowy look to it from far away. This game is more CPU intensive than anything else. 
 The graphics are some of the best you will see for an RTS. On a side note, the graphics for the 
 world view are also done in 3d and are rather nice as well.
  
  Sound:
  
  Sound was nice but not as good as it could have been. The music is completely engaging and very 
 memorable. The only part of the sound that I disliked was the battle sounds. There could have been 
 much more clashing and slashing sounds. For the most part the sound is very good, however.
  
  Value:
  
  For $50 it will give you a lasting satisfaction. This is not a game you play 
 for 4 days and throw down. 10/10 for value.
  
  Tilt:
  
  This game has offered me countless hours of fun and has also caused some sleep loss and missed 
 schoolwork. 9/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2004 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Finally! Amidst the dredge and trash that gets thrown on the video game market and labeled "revolutionary 
 masterpiece" we finally have something deserving of the title! Mind you, I'm a huge fan of the 
 entire Total War series, and my expectations for Rome were extremely high.
  Rome does not disappoint in any way whatsoever, and shines on all fronts.
  
  Graphics: 10
 
  Beautiful, crisp, right down to the individual General's and their guard, the world map, everything 
 is just GREAT! For those of you who value graphics above gameplay, this will definitely make a 
 wonderful first impression.
  
  Sound: 10
  It does not get more immersive than this. I have never played a game that gives more believable 
 audio to the field of battle than Rome: TW. The clash of swords and spears, or the sound of thundering 
 cavalry as they flank and surprise a Phalanx from behind. It will have you screaming in response 
 with your men, yelling "Charge!" at your screen. You're going to love it. 
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Always the staple and rule to the Total War series, there is something about the 
 gameplay, political intrigue, massive epic battles, that will have you playing this well into the 
 wee hours of the morning. The addictive nature of this game is almost frightening. Everything about 
 it is fun and enjoyable. 
  
  Summing it all up, if you liked any of the Total War games, you would be an absolute fool not to 
 pick this one up. The multiplayer portion is wonderful. Though again it does not allow you to play 
 multiplayer in the overall campaign, one of the wonderful things Rome TW does do is allow to craft 
 up any kind of battle you can imagine to pit you and your friends against, and some killer AI to 
 boot! You can setup Epic city sieges that rival the Battle of Helms Deep :) If you can imagine 
 it, you can make it into a battle. 
  
  Pick it up today, and I can promise you, if RTS's are your thing, you will not be disappointed. 
 
  
  That's my take, take it or leave it! Strength and Honor! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilguerriero2003
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2004 1:38 pm PT
Review:  It is one of the few that has made a revolution in the strategy gaming giving players the ability 
 to manipulate the world with politics and war (war mainly) .
  I've played the Total war series since Shogun (which was a great start) but I really feel that 
 this game is at the top as it was expected or even better. I won't tire u with a long description 
 of the game. In a few words it is a turn based strategy game
  in the conquer Europe based in the history of the Roman Empire beggining in 270 year B. C. with 
 all the historical events and soldiers detailled in every particullar. But when 2 armies (or more) 
 crush than it changes to amazing real time battles. It's not only the graphics that are amazing 
 or the wonderful sound of everything that give life to the world but it's the feeling that u are 
 really there feeling the heat of the battle giving orders for your troops who fight in the most 
 realistic way ever. U see armys crush and 
  your soldiers fight diying or winning. The game is huge but at the right size. I like to play FPS 
 or Driving games too so I'm not a player oriented only to strategy games, but this time I can only 
 be amazed by this game and everything that is done in such detail and realism. You can expect to 
 play it for a month or more playing 5 hours a day and after u finish the campaign for the first 
 time than u'll try to finish it with the other factions that become unlocked after that (It's a 
 way developers found to make u even more addicted to the game) . The game offers a very long lasting 
 value being open ended and with so many quests that are there for u to achieve. The only thing I've 
 found as a downside (if u want to consider it that way) is that it isn't a game for a casual player 
 who doesn't want to be addicted and spend much time with games or that really hates history.
  This is the only game that has impressed me so much that I haven't found any bad point or flaw 
 although I have played it for about 2 months now, so I suggest u to just try it even if u're not 
 found of RTS coz' u're gonna play it for a very long time being the best strategy game ever created 
 and an absolute candidate for the Game of the year prize. An applause to the wonderful job made 
 by the guys at Creative Assembly who have made a game with nothing left to improve upon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abakan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 10, 2004 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I was tracking this game for a long time now and have read every review and everything that you 
 can find on it. This game is simply amazing. It has something for everybody. If you like to build 
 an empire and control it then you can do so by following Senate's orders and managing your economy, 
 when you conquer most of Europe then you can go against Rome, overthrow the senate and then fight 
 it out with the families that are still left for you to end. Or you can do the same thing but if 
 you don't want to get into the economy part you can just let the AI manage your empire, and all 
 you will have to do is fight the battles that you will engage yourself in. The game offers your 
 special advisors that will guide you in the campaign map or the battle map. And the battles are 
 very spectacular. The thing that I love about this game is that you can command thousands of 3d 
 units at the same time without having your PC crash in the middle of it as the game is flexible 
 for every system. Or you can sit back and watch your generals storm the castle walls, crash a rebel 
 army or kill a leader of a nation using the automated AI system. The choice is yours. You can also 
 choose to have a campaign that will take a long period of time to compete or shorter. And don't 
 worry if you can only see Roman families to choose from in the campaign mode, because once you 
 complete the campaign you will be able to command other nations as well. Or if you are looking 
 for quick action then you can choose the "Quick Battle" option. You can also set up your own battle 
 by pressing the "Custom Battle" option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 19332479171748775393133454756954-mikepalomino
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 3, 2004 10:26 pm PT
Review:  They say Rome wasn't built in a day, and it shows in Rome: Total War, which is unfortunately not 
 the grandiose in-depth strategy game that it's been made out to be. Rome: Total War has a lot of 
 things going for it, but falls short due to some serious bugs and design issues.
  
  First of all, the game is divided into two game play modes: The strategic map, and the battle map. 
 From the strategic map, one can plan out one's conquest of the ancient world. There you can manage 
 your provinces by setting their taxation rate, what buildings to construct there, as well as unit 
 recruitment. This is also where diplomacy and trade take place. The battle map is obviously where 
 combat is resolved, if one chooses to do so.
  
  On the surface, Rome is an amazing looking game with seemingly endless options. There's nothing 
 quite as exciting to see two troop formations come together in a mighty clash of flesh and steel, 
 to direct your cavalry charge straight into the flanks of your opponents forces, to rain down fiery 
 death into a formation of enemy units. If you, like myself, enjoyed the first 20 minutes of the 
 movie "Gladiator" with its spectacular combat sequence, then Rome: Total War will not only satisfy 
 you, but leave you wanting more.
  
  In fact, you may not even notice a problem with the first 10-20 hours of gaming. It's only after 
 you've played the game for any amount of time that you really begin to see the problems seep out 
 of the woodwork.
  
  It becomes apparent that the element of strategy on the strategic map is not very deep at all, 
 and many elements such as trade, espionage, and diplomacy are very abstract and simplified. Every 
 province is controlled by a single city which acts as its capital (whether that capital is a small 
 town, or a bustling city is up to the size of its population) . Geography comes into play when it 
 comes to roads in and out of a city, but this aspect of choke points is not one that I found to 
 be relevant. In fact, after a while, moving units from one city to another reminds me of playing 
 RISK, as you build up monstrous armies and send them out to lay waste to the territories before 
 them.
  
  Overall, the net effect of this strategic map is one of limited options. Yes, there is diplomacy, 
 and one can send diplomats out to other factions to sue for peace, demand tribute or to negotiate 
 trade rights. The truth is, that 99 percent of the time the AI factions never give in to your demands, 
 and trade is so oversimplified that, it really relegates the strategic portion of this game as 
 a vehicle to serve up combat sequences.
  
  (Incidentally, trade could have been so much more interesting if you could trade for certain valuable 
 resources, which in turn could give you access to units and/or techs that would otherwise be unavailable. 
 Unfortunately, trade is simply a matter of having trade rights with another faction, and that simply 
 boosts your income.)
  
  On the strategic map, one also manages the members of your faction's family. As the Romans you 
 have the options of playing as the Julii, the Brutii, or the Scipii. Each male family member can 
 act as a governor of a province or as a general in your armies (or both, but in practice you'll 
 assign them to one of either role.) As your family members age they acquire increased attributes, 
 and retinues (assistants) which also boost their attributes, with the exception that retinues can 
 be passed from one family member to another. Unfortunately, after you have dozens of generals and 
 governors across your provinces, and after they've had enough time to accumulate dozens of attributes 
 and retinues (some of which cancel each other out) it becomes impossible to gauge how effective 
 your general/governor is. In fairness, there are three attributes that are immediate clear: command, 
 management, and influence, which are the most helpful in determining whether they go to war, or 
 on the home front, but for those family members who have a +10% to trade but a -2 to population 
 unrest, this information is not readily available. Then again, after having played for many hours, 
 you tend to worry less, because the game basically snowballs until you have several massive armies 
 wandering the European/African/Mid-Eastern continent conquering all in its path.
  
  One last issue with the strategic map lies in the nature of the Roman campaign. After achieving 
 a certain amount of success, the other Roman factions immediately begin to dislike you even though 
 you are wildly successful, and while the logical conclusion might be that this is the result of 
 envy among the other factions, it just comes across as contrived and manipulative. It would have 
 been nice if you could at least build a repertoire among them, much like one builds a repertoire 
 in Civilization III when one wants to be elected General Secretary of the UN.
  
  As far as combat goes, this is without a doubt the best part of the game. It is both appealing 
 to the eye and to the battlefield tactician in all of us. However, this element of the game has 
 been weighed down by questionable design decisions that are frustrating.
  
  Things such as one's own archers causing friendly fire damage to nearby adjacent friendly troops 
 just rubs of incompetence on the part of the programmers. Archers will blindly fire into friendly 
 units, and slowly whittle away at your troop numbers. 
  
  Double right-clicking a single unit will cause a unit to charge into an enemy, but do the same 
 thing with a group of units and they just linger. In a game where timing is everything, something 
 like this can be devastating. 
  
  Rome: Total War has some MAJOR path-finding issues. Again this isn't really apparent at first because 
 one invades the weaker barbarian neighbors with towns and cities with simple constructions, but 
 trying to invade a city the size of Rome, and you'll quickly find out how idiotic your units are. 
 Large metropolises such as Rome are labyrinths, and makes navigating your units through them a 
 real chore. Moreover, this wouldn't be such a problem if the designers hadn't designed a system 
 to keep the attacker from taking their time. If the defender can occupy the city Central Square 
 for 3:00 minutes they win by default. This is all well and good when one has a sizeable defense 
 force, but when you're talking about an overwhelming military force of over 1500 troops losing 
 to one a third its size simply as a result of the fact that it takes over two minutes to move your 
 army from the city gates, is downright inane, and frustrating.
  
  Your armies are limited to twenty units, and while this may seem like a lot, it really isn't, when 
 you factor in your general unit, and support units like archers and siege weapons such as onagers, 
 you're left with a half-dozen infantry and cavalry troops. 
  
  Siege weapons such as ladders and towers are limited to one unit, a really stupid design choice. 
 Once a siege tower is placed against a wall, it cannot be used by any other units, which seems 
 to me like a very inefficient use of siege equipment.
  
  Reinforcement armies under an AI general are incredibly inept, and end up squandering their numbers, 
 if they even move at all. (I've played a few engagements where they simply stood where they started 
 and never moved, and because the AI has control over them, you cannot switch over to control them.) 
 
  
  These are the most glaring issues, but not the only ones. There are some performance issues too. 
 Considering that even on my modest machine, the game runs pretty well at high-res, but once flaming 
 arrows start flying, the FPS rate drops to a lovely slideshow crawl.
  
  While I have not played multiplayer, I admit that I am disappointed that multiplayer is limited 
 to skirmishes, and one cannot play a multiplayer strategy game.
  
  Overall, Rome: Total War captivated my attention for several weeks, but now after the dust has 
 settled, and reality has caught up to my sense of excitement, I can't but help wonder if the game 
 was released a few months too soon. Perhaps another six months of development would have given 
 CA the time it needed to iron these things out. Unfortunately, it looks like the only way we'll 
 see any improvement is in an inevitable expansion pack.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2004 7:37 am PT
Review:  After taking it out of the box, installing it and doing my usual first glance playing, I really 
 thought this was just another re-make of the Total War and Civilization series - a series that 
 I have spent many, many hours playing, from Civilization through to Civilization - Call to Power, 
 Call to Power II and Civilization III.
  
  The thing is, once you start playing, the sheer depth of the strategy portion of the game becomes 
 mind blowing - I really like the Senate bit as well as checking out the family tree, since these 
 are clearly very important aspects for ultimate success!
  
  As far as the battles are concerned, it makes most other pure strategy games like the ones I pointed 
 out above look a bit silly. In fact, true to the nature of the Total War series, the built-in tactical 
 options and terrain variances makes this aspect of the game just as exciting for me as the pure 
 strategy bits - something that doesn't come easy for a hard core strategy gamer like me.
  
  The graphics are mind blowing, even in close-up battle views and the 3D strategy map is awesome 
 compared to most other similar games.
  
  The one and only complaint that I might have - still thinking about it - is the fact that even 
 when running on a fairly super duper computer, the mouse cursor in both the strategy map and battle 
 map portions is fairly slow and makes gameplay somewhat cumbersome. It may have been a good idea 
 for Creative Assembly to allow a graphic option where one could disable the software cursor and 
 stick to the hardware, like in the Blitzkrieg series for example. It won't look as nice but in 
 the long run it would make the game even more enjoyable in my oppinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 15, 2004 1:51 pm PT
Review:  First I need to say that if you are a big Age of Empires or Dawn of War fan this game is not going 
 to feel the same. The mantra is not action, action, action. Its think, think, think. You need to 
 carefully plan out your strategies to taking over the empire of Rome and this my fellow Roman, 
 is not an wasy task. This game combines elements of your typical RTS with elements of the game 
 Civ. You start out as the Faction Leader of a small province of Rome. You get orders from the Senate, 
 make allies through use of diplomats, spy on allies and enemies alike, and of course enter into 
 battle. Building armies, developing cities and technologies are all important. However, the most 
 important and tricky aspect is managing your cities. This becomes harder and harder as you get 
 more and more under you control. Leadership within your faction is extremely important so managing 
 that family tree is crucial to maintaining control of your provinces, especially the ones far from 
 your capital. So as you can see, there is a lot to do and after playing for a while it can be overwhelming.
 
  
  The good and the bad of the game centers around all of the features. I mean after all its not many 
 RTS games that give you this kind of depth in managing every aspect of your faction. However, this 
 can be a negative as your faction gets bigger and there is so much to control. The game offers 
 up advisors to assist you in learning all of the tricks of the trade, but really you just need 
 to play the game to get a feel for what to build and when, who to ally with and who to attack and 
 when to ignore the Roman Senates orders.
  
  The battles are very well done and strategy tends to be the key. Even against overwhelming odds 
 the presence of a good general and some key battle hardened troops can turn the tides in your favor. 
 The one major problem I have with the battle system is the fact you can't replenish your troops 
 between battles without traveling to one of your cities or marching another set of troops to your 
 army. You can buy mercenaries, but they are awfully expensive. Another issue I have run across 
 is that the system for seiges can be exploited very easily. When you seige a city the city can 
 hold out for X number of days before surrendering. During that time the army in the city can come 
 out to attack you to repel your invasion. You also have a timer during the battles that the attacker 
 must win or lose within or else the battle is a draw. Sp, you can use your cavalry to just run 
 around until the time limit runs out and cause a draw, however since the city is under seige they 
 have to physically turn you away so draws are actually defeats for the city. Basically you run 
 around with your cavalry, take a draw and do this until the seige counter goes to 0 and you take 
 the city. Not a very Roman way to do battle I know, but its a hole in the seige system of the game.
 
  
  The graphics and sound in this game are beautiful. You do get a good sense of managing this huge 
 empire in the map mode and the battles are cinematic in nature. There is a little slowdown with 
 the mouse at times and the camera angles can be a little problematic in the heat of battle. However, 
 presentation is not a problem for this game.
  
  Overall, this game has a lot of pluses and if you like to manage every aspect of a game this is 
 the RTS for you. However, if you are more into Age of Empires or Warhammer Dawn of War you may 
 want to steer clear of this game or atl east utilize the automanagement feature for all of your 
 cities.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sevenwarlocks
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2004 5:33 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is an awesome game in scope and depth. It is more than fun; it is absorbing, engrossing, 
 -in fact, mesmerizing. With R: TW, The Creative Assembly has realized not only the potential that 
 they themselves have promised with the previous games in the series, but, to a large part, the 
 potential of the modern PC to produce epic strategy games that will appeal to serious strategy 
 gamers. Truly, I have not felt so transported by any game in a long time. I dream of living and 
 fighting in classical or ancient times, and with R: TW, my imagination has been given a powerful 
 shot in the arm.
  
  Oh, -this game is enhanced by truly beautiful music, -maybe the best I have ever heard in a game.
 
  
  But that being said, -there is no doubt that this magnificent game was released too early. As is, 
 it simply isnt done. Enemy AI is not particularly good in fights, but I find that forgivable. 
 The real issue is friendly AI.; units can be very hard to control, and the interface is not very 
 intuitive. And when you are battling it out in a city, fun-but-problematic changes to God-awful-miserable. 
 Units break in half when ordered to turn; divisions become stuck on walls; units will ignore the 
 wide street that leads from where they are to where you are ordering them and walk instead in random 
 directions, sometimes even leaving the city! While I, as much as anyone, understand the reason 
 for this games popularity, I do not understand why so many gamers and critic have opted to give 
 CA a pass on this glaring, -frequently agonizing issue. It is because of the bugs that I can't 
 give this game higher than a 5 for value. Should have been a perfect 10.
  
  Have I kept playing nonetheless? I have. In fact, I have now played R: TW for well over 150 hours, 
 and I still find myself learning new strategies, getting a feel for new units, and just being mesmerized 
 by the depth of the game. This game teaches us, at last the difference between the words great 
 and flawless. Not every flawless game is great, and not every great game is flawless. For the true 
 gamer, great is better.
  
  The bottom line is that if you are a PC strategy gamer, you should not only own this game, but 
 play it incessantly. Well, nearly incessantly. I hope you will take time out occasionally to complain 
 about the glaring bugs, -at least until CA does something about them...
  
  BTW,
  
  A few people told me they have been using my Scipio strategy, and like it. Here it is if you are 
 interested. Ill be adding my Bruti and Julii strategies once I have them finished. 
  http://forums. gamespot. com/gamespot/show_messages. php? board=35243&topic=17037639
  
  Also, my 
 blog is a Scipio family journal. If you like it, -just keep flaming me until update it. http://forums. gamespot. com/gamespot/journal. php? user=sevenwarlocks
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MastrogiannisT
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 9, 2004 10:53 am PT
Review:  A great game it has figures from civ 3 and medival war and you can become an empior and a conquer. 
 The graphics and the sound are great also the gameplay. All enemies are very clever but if you 
 read the guide you can finish the game. I thing the game is a example for developing future strategy 
 games. You can stuck to playing for hours. You must have good strategy to conquer all the world. 
 I think it is the best game in this year.
  The main object is to destroy all the enemies cities and armies. You can use army, spies murder 
 some kings. After you must develop a big army make some useful alies and built and develop some 
 cities. In the beggining you must have strong allies with your neibourghs but after you must make 
 war with them. The final target is to become the leader of Rome and run the empary like a good 
 empior. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romulus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 8, 2004 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Total War series from the beginning with Shogan. Creative Assembly and Activision 
 have again reached a new pinnacle of excellence. The strategic game has advanced into a new generation 
 with a much improved AI (although there are still those moments of opponents being brain dead) . 
 The tactical portion is also far better, and more fun, than its predecessors. The AI here is also 
 much more refined than previous versions of the series.
  
  There are many additions built in to assist the new player in making crucial decisions such as 
 the ingame advisor and easy access to the technology tree.
  
  In summary, Rome: Total War is a perfect addition to the wargamer's collection.
  
  Romulus 
 - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpetrolino
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 1, 2004 6:09 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to waste everyone's time by rehashing all the great things everyone has already said 
 about this game ... I will only say this ... this game is awesome and once you start playing it, 
 I guarantee, you won't be able to stop ... Here are my comments briefly ...
  
  Don't be concerned by City management. The interface is very simple and straightforward and your 
 decisions are grounded in common sense - nothing tricky here. City management does not dominate 
 the game nor does it overwhelm the novice RTS player. If you have a question, go to the gamespot 
 forum ... Your colleagues are very helpful here ...
  
  A few gripes ... No control over naval battles is irritating and quite disappointing, but should 
 not deter you from getting this game ...
  
  Sound is solid, although not stellar. Graphics are impressive given the huge number of units on 
 the screen at a given time. Presentation of the game is lacking though (but who cares really) .
 
  
  Keep in mind, if graphics are important to you, you'll need a pretty fast processor and high-end 
 graphics card to get the full enjoyment out of this game. Before I upgraded my card, this game 
 did not impress me as much as it does now.
  
  Gameplay ... very straightforward and easy to control. The in battle pause feature allows you to 
 really think through your strategy and is a welcomed feature to this game. Seige towers can, however, 
 be frustrating as occassionally, the units controlling them will have to be repeatedly directed 
 to do a task before they'll complete it ...
  
  Value - superb. Non-linear campaigns, on-line multiplayer available, and numerous factions to play 
 as and units to experiment with ... this game will keep you going not for hours, but for days, 
 weeks and months ...
  
  Bottom line ... if this time period in history interests you and you enjoy RTS games (or even have 
 a casual curiousity) you will not go wrong by getting this game. Enjoy ...
  
  By the way ... the original title for this review was "This Game Will S*ck You In ..." But apparently 
 the word "s*ck" is now a bad word ... I mean have things really gotten that bad in this country 
 that I can't use the word "s*ck"? Please ...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerLord
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 26, 2004 1:53 pm PT
Review:  From Shogun to Medieval, the Total War series was always revolutionnary. The cool 3D real-time 
 battle have always been impressive and rich. Easy saying: Rome: Total War is the best of the series, 
 plain and simple. 
  
  First of all, the graphics are simply amazing. During a battle, 3D zoom will catch your breath 
 away. Watching a cavalry charge , or 10 units of Urban Cohort infantry marching toward their enemy, 
 lifting dust and shaking ground is impressive. There are many cool units, the coolest being the 
 elephants. When they charge, zoom in, prep Coke and popcorn and enjoy ! Dozens of enemy soldiers 
 flying in the air singing "I'm like a bird and only fly away!" (did I get the lyrics good? :) ) 
 and falling back dead on the ground. The environement is astonishing: shadows, mountains, snow, 
 rain and lights are beautiful. Obvisouyl, the folks at Activision revised their recepee before 
 they cooked that baby up, because there is a definite improvement when we compare Rome with its 
 predecessors. Two thumbs up for the graphics !
  
  The sounds were also amazingly done! If you have a good 3D sound system, you will hear everything 
 single sound. I just love the voices: "UNITS ! MARCH !", "ARCHER ! USE FIRE!", "CAVALRY, CHARGE!" 
 and then seeing those units responding makes you feel like you are in the game. The music is ok, 
 althought repetitive. Too bad the music wasn't given so much effort as the voices and sounds... 
 all-in-all, it was also very well cooked ! When it comes to the gameplay, it is easily mastered. 
 The gameplay on the map was heavily rebuilt, and it is much more fun ! Graphics were also heavily 
 retouched to make it look more real. You can now position your armies on the map to block opponents, 
 or position them in forests for ambush, ssuming one army will come this way and pass by the forest, 
 a battle automatically engages , the enemy still marching in a row, while you can position your 
 units to maximise the damage. A lot of fun, again ! There are some camera angles issues sometimes 
 that I found annoying. They do not ruin anything, it just makes it harder when fighting on cliffs. 
 Strategy is very important in Rome: Total War. The weather, the altitude, the terrain, the angle.... 
 all very important. Using your general well, positiong your armies, counter-units will play a gigantic 
 role in the outcome of a battle. Numbers are the least of your concern when facing a 10 stars general... 
 
  
  There ARE downsides to this game, and people who give it a 10 haven't played it long enought to 
 have discovered them. Like its predecessors, the game gets boring. Eventually I will be able to 
 replay it when I'm bored ... you will feel a surge of enjoyment for the first 5-6 hours, then slowy 
 the excitement goes away until the only reason you play is to conquer the entire map (which is 
 huge!) without even bothering to fight the battle and automatically resolving them ... 
  
  All in all, Rome: Total War is an amazing game, that will keep you going for a few weeks, if not 
 months. Its rich graphics, sounds and gameplay will catch your breath away. This is again one game 
 worthy taking space on my HD. If you were a fan of the previos titles, do not hesitate and grap 
 a copy at your closest shop! If you're a strategy game freak, again do not hesitate and buy this 
 game right away ! If you hate strategy game, still get it ! Plain and simple: althought repetitive 
 after a while, it is one of the best game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Framnk
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 25, 2004 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is one of the better games to come out so far in 2004 in my opinion. Turn-based 
 strategies that also have decent graphics seem to be few and far between these days (when was Civ 
 III released?) so R: TW makes a welcome addition this year. It is nice to be able to have the change 
 of pace between turn-based and real-time when fighting battles. 
  
  I haven't played Shogun: Total War or Medieval: Total War but from what I can tell the game play 
 of R: TW is similar although with better graphics. The part of the game most people will jump into 
 is campaign mode which lets you take control of three roman factions (at first) which each have 
 some slight differences. While one faction may be more war oriented another will be more culturally 
 oriented. In practice, however, it doesn't seem to make a huge difference which one you choose. 
 
  
  In campaign mode you basically try to conquer as many provinces as you can and eventually Rome 
 itself. Rome and the other factions appear as allies to you at first and later become your enemies 
 as you march into Rome. There are MANY other factions in the game and a lot of them become playable 
 once you beat them in a game.
  
  Battle mode can happen when you decide to duke it out with an army or conquer a city. The game 
 offers you the ability to auto-resolve conflicts however battle mode is where most of the fun of 
 the game lies. 
  
  The real-time battles take place on dynamic maps that include terrain features seen in the campaign 
 map. If you are the attacker you have the option of deploying your forces how you see fit within 
 a specified area before the battle begins. Once you are done deploying you start the battle and 
 the fun begins.
  
  I find that the control scheme during the battles is very good although it takes a while to learn. 
 Once you get the hang of it you can position your forces exactly the way you want them and even 
 force them to maintain certain formations by creating groups. By right-clicking and dragging you 
 can control how your forces will be lined up at a destination position. You can also set waypoints 
 before reaching each position. Unlike a lot of real-time strategy games, I don't feel overwhelmed 
 when fighting the real-time battles. The pace is slow enough that you really can use strategy and 
 control your units effectively. A couple of tips that I've found: 1) Use the spacebar when moving 
 around large armies. This lets you know where other units you've moved will be positioned so you 
 don't bunch them together. 2) Go into the option and remap the control scheme to FPS style! This 
 let's you use the mouse for selecting and dragging while also using the ASDF side of the keyboard 
 for camera movement and rotation. The game got a LOT more fun after I discovered this!
  
  Most of the game revolves around city building and managing your various family members which are 
 your generals and governors of the game. Your family members can take on good and bad traits as 
 they live their lives and although some of these seem random (especially "coming of age" traits) 
 other traits appear as a direct result of your actions or the circumstances you put your family 
 members in.
  
  Now for my biggest complaint with the game so far - the AI can be really shoddy sometimes. I haven't 
 played on the hardest difficulty setting yet but both allied and enemy AI really seems clueless 
 most of the time. On the campaign map the enemy AI seems incapable of putting up any kind of strategic 
 defense against your troops and will group together in odd combinations. During real-time battles 
 it gets worse. Usually the only time you have to worry in a real-time battle is when the enemy 
 abushes you or has overwhelming odds. The enemy doesn't seem to have any idea how to use their 
 forces to their full effectiveness and you usually only find yourself in a tough situation when 
 you've made a mistake.
  
  The allied AI is even worse and frustratingly so. The game incorporates the ability for nearby 
 allied units to appear as reinforcements when you start a battle. Supposedly these reinforcements 
 appear off the screen and join the battle in progress controlled by the AI. In reality the AI reinforcements 
 seem to always appear immediately, do a full charge with every unit straight towards the enemy. 
 Since fatigue is a factor in this game and some valuable units such as your general's cavalry move 
 faster than infantry this usually means the ai controlled allies take huge losses when before you 
 can get there to help them out (if you're not following the same foolish tactics) . Even in the 
 most basic AI shouldn't send the most valuable unit (your general) charging into the thick of a 
 fresh enemy force. That's just plain stupid AI.
  
  On the campaign map the AI fairs somewhat better but not much. Diplomatic agreements such as alliances 
 and cease fires don't seem to mean little. Rarely will an ally attack your enemy for you and cease 
 fires are usually broken in a few turns with no consequence (Civilization had a nice model for 
 consequences of broken agreements that would have worked well in this game) . Therefore the diplomat 
 unit seems only useful to enforce missions given to you by the Roman Senate and to buy off barbarians 
 appearing in your territory when you have no large force with which to attack them.
  
  If you can get over the AI issues, Rome: Total War makes for an entertaining and visually appealing 
 game. The music and sound effects are excellent. There's one haunting melody that you'll hear a 
 lot but it's so subdued it doesn't become annoying. One lasting memory I'll have of this game will 
 be the stirring speeches given to your troops (ala Braveheart) that are customized to the battle 
 conditions and your general's traits. Nice twist! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kAnSaSdUdE
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 25, 2004 4:26 am PT
Review:  Best strategy game ever. Period. No other game in its class comes close to delivering the fresh, 
 exciting gameplay that Rome: Total War is able to dish out. I dont think my eyes have ever gotten 
 as big as when i first played this game. Just the feel of controlling a 1000 man army makes my 
 mouth water. This game offers the best in almost every area. The graphics are the best ever seen 
 in a game of its kind, the sound is absolutely amazing (you can hear thousands of footsteps as 
 you march your army into battle) , and the gameplay... oh the gameplay ^^. One major flaw with basically 
 every strategy game to date has been the issue of flexibility. Players would be stranded with a 
 very limited number of options to choose from in terms of troop movements, flanks, army assembly, 
 warrior types, and attacks. That isnt so with Rome: Total War. Everything about this game has been 
 nearly perfected. I would recommend this to not only fans of strategy games, but to any serious 
 gamer who ls up for anything. Get up, and go buy this game. Now. Or i will find you and you will 
 suffer the consequences. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovegreen
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2004 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Roads, aquaducts, gladiator games and other joys of the Roman civilization ought to be something 
 every dirty barbarian would embrace without hesitation. The logic of imperialism might work on 
 paper, but the local population is rarely thrilled, and Gaulls, Greeks, Egyptians (etc.) mostly 
 have to taste some Roman steel before they get the point. 
  
  Your Legions will encounter everything from Kathagian Elephants to half-naked Germannic berserkers, 
 in the battle to civilize the known world. The Total War series have always made an example of 
 living up to its name by throwing litteraly thousands of troops on to the huge battlefields. Its 
 a rare joy to let the camera follow your katapults' boulders in their gracefull flight towards 
 the human antheap of soldiers, before you send in your generals private cavalry to chop the heads 
 of the fleeing barbarians. 
  
  AWhat we do in life ecco for all eternity - and should you wish to spend a rather big portion of 
 the coming months to create a virtual Roman Empire this game cannot be recommended enough, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artman420
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 23, 2004 9:24 am PT
Review:  If you are now or ever have been a fan of the RTS genre then you owe it to yourself to check this 
 game out. It has all the things anyone could ask for in an RTS game. The gameplay is awesome, not 
 once did I find myself feeling overwhelmed or bored. The game keeps you interested at all times. 
 Graphically it is the best looking RTS game I have ever had the chance to play, it makes Generals: 
 Zero Hour look 5 years old. The amount of units you can have on the screen at any given time is 
 awesome. If you are a fan of the movies Gladiator or Troy then you will love this game. The sound 
 in the game is just amazing especailly if you have 5.1 surround sound as I do. The game has great 
 replay value and there is always something new for you to do. If you get tired of playing with 
 the romans then play as egypt. The amount of differences between each faction is also amazing. 
 I have not found a whole lot of similarities between them. I havent found any real downsides to 
 this game as of yet, but then again I don't expect to either. This is THE BEST RTS game ever created, 
 if you don't buy it or try to play it then you should be shot. It makes all other RTS games look 
 like they are different versions of Snakes and Ladders. Go out and buy this game now!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordan55
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2004 1:25 am PT
Review:  Rome Total wars perfect blend of strategy, empire building ,and rts make it a most memorable game. The 
 very detail put into every important aspect of the game make so much more of a difference than 
 it sounds. The fact that you can watch a city outside of a battle and see all the people walking 
 around adds the little bit of detail that makes Rome the most realistic game that could ever attempt 
 to do so much. Rome total war is as good as I thought it would be, and even greater in some areas. People 
 that have played other total war games will take great notice in the clash of when cavalry charge 
 home against infantry. The humungous cities make Rome even more realistic. I recommend this game 
 to anyone who played and enjoyed medieval total war. they will be amazed at the huge list of new 
 features and humungous leaps in the diplomacy system. Thumbs of to creative assembly. This game just 
 shows how much you can do in four years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 19, 2004 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War is like Civilization on steroids with huge RTS battles. By the time of the release, 
 it can be considered as a new reference for combining the best of both RTS and turn-based elements: 
 a superb integration. If only one word shall be used to describe this gem, it can be elegance. 
 This wargame is sometimes brutal, yet always in an overall spirit of elegance. It's the same historical 
 elegance from the Civ series when dealing in the strategic map ( but now with 3D scrolling ) . The 
 attention to detail is impressive; and the transition mechanics from the map to a specific battlefield 
 are just simply marvelously done. The player who only have a 15-20 minutes of free time can choose 
 to play a historical battle - there are 10 of them at retail, most are impressive as well. For 
 the accomplished strategist, playing a long campaign can take an eternity... it can be a micromanagement 
 paradise.
  
  Not everything is perfect though; Rome could have easily been THE best strategy game ever ( in 
 the 9.5+ ) if not because of the AI. The strategic AI is above the competition, that's not the 
 point. The AI on the battlefield needs work - that's all. Let's make it right: considering the 
 ambitious features and scale of the battles ( mainly those involving huge cities/ walls ) , the 
 coding is already impressive. A couple of patches ( like the process Firaxis did for Civ III ) 
 and we can expect a nice polish for a tactical AI.
  
  The graphics are as good looking for the deatails shown on the main strategic map than the battlefields 
 themselves. It's even preferable to see all the units involved NOT too close ( and at long range 
 like armies of ants converging, though it's laggier ) , since the developers had to cut the number 
 of polygons for obvious purposes: at a closer range, each unit looks like ''1998'' but you won't 
 have the opportunity to zoom specifically that often since you'll be quite busy managing the overall 
 battlefield.
  
  The sound coding and musical score are top-notch. The quality is ultra-professional. However, in 
 time it can become tedious to hear the same grunting like ''Aye, aye, cpt'n'' or the diplomat saying 
 '' I shall speak with them at once '' gazillion times per turn. Moreover, this redundance is stressing 
 the player to disable voiceovers and/or music in some instances and Rome seems to be plagued with 
 the same side effects on that matter that many of TBS classics.
  
  Earlier we mentioned this game can be brutal, and some attacks very sneaky & unexpected. Yes, mostly 
 at higher difficulty levels - overall at medium the game is just right setted, '' quietly polished'' 
 . The moves of rivals are more predictable than Medieval: Total War. Some Medieval addicts may 
 whine about this. On the other hand, with a more objective analysis, the moves & combat system 
 are just simply adapted upon Ancient Times when historically, things were moving more slowly. Everything 
 was planned and deployed upon a much larger period of time: Rome's mechanics are even more realistic 
 ( not ultra, just right for a game to deliver a great fun factor ) and present a real feeling of 
 what should be a good city management and troop preps for waging a successful war. There is only 
 one additional minor gripe ( along with moving diplomats which becomes tedious ) : confusing orders 
 given to your troops while invading a city: personallised CTRL-groups can be quite messy when they're 
 entering a walled city. It's better to click on each unit and monitor individually.
  
  Despite some minor flaws, Rome: Total War remains an outstanding masterpiece, a complete wargame 
 to be cherished by warmongers. For a much greater challenge, the advanced player can play a barbarian 
 nation ( like Gauls ) or an eastern faction ( like Seleucids, Parthia ) : the difficulty gap is 
 huge between them and the powerful/easier to pick Romans. This game is truly an evolutive step 
 for the Total War franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcisbest
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 19, 2004 8:10 am PT
Review:  I have been with the Total War series since Shogun, and I have to say, Creative Assembly has put 
 more work and time into Rome then any of its previous titles. This game has just about everything 
 you could want in a realistic/historically oriented RTS. 
  
  The graphics obviously are what impress at first, but there is so much more. The AI is very realisitc, 
 and darn near perfect. There are litterally dozens upon dozens of units, each with their own unique 
 characteristics, to choose from, spanning over many factions. The best part about this, is that 
 they are not only all historically accurate, but unique and fun to use, giving each faction a real 
 "personality" to its armies. 
  
  If you are the ancient warfare buff, you will be blown away by the attention to detail: barbarians 
 taunt and work themselves into a frenzy at the start of battles, men raise their shields for cover 
 under arrow fire, elephants can go "crazy", requiring their handlers to put them down with a spike 
 through the head, legionaries throw pilas before closing in with their swords, later Roman infantry 
 can form the tetsudo.... in short, if you read about it in a book on ancient warfare, it will probably 
 be depicted. All aspects of Roman-era warfare are included, from sieges, complete now with the 
 ability to "sap" under walls, to naval battles. It may sound corny to say that these battles are 
 "epic", but believe me, when you see 2500 actual little 3D characters assaulting a walled city, 
 with siege towers, ballistas shooting, onagers hurling flaming pots, and another 2500 defenders 
 dumping oil and shooting arrows down at you, all you will be able to do is sit back and say: "WOW!". 
 
  
  Even if you aren't so much into historical realism, you will still love this game for its RTS perfection. 
 The camera is smooth and intuitive now, allowing you to zoom at will on any unit, at any time, 
 with the click of a button, smoothly pan, and change the angle. Units are varied and require inteligence 
 to employ effectively, presenting unique challenges. This should be appealing to fans of sci-fi 
 or modern military oriented RTS games looking for a change of pace: i. e., its a whole different 
 way of playing RTS games when the kill distance is dictated by the length of a spear throw, requiring 
 a much more up close and hectic style of fighting then you may normally be accustomed to. The game 
 is in real time of course, but you can pause at any time, and issue as many orders as you want 
 during the pause, so those desiring a slower, pseudo-turn-based style shoudl be satisfied.
  
  Alll of this described is just for the 3D battles. The other half of the game concerns empire 
 building on a campaingn map of the entire Mediterranean, European, Mid. East, and N. African areas 
 of the world. Again, as with the battles, attention to historical details is excellent. You will 
 truly get the sense that you are managing an empire in the Roman world, as you collect tribute, 
 build paved roads to speed movement of you armies, establish forts on the frontier (which, unlike 
 in previous Total War titles, cna be built ANYWHERE in the province, and in as many numbers as 
 production money permits) , and watrch your cties grow with Hippodromes, Collosieums and temples. 
 This brings to mind one very cool aspect: at any time you can go to the 3D view of you city, in 
 peace time, and pan the camera at your will, getting a lay for how your city is coming along. Its 
 pretty cool to start out with a village, and watch as it turns into a gigantic, walled city with 
 Triumphal arches, temples, streets, and monuments, all in 3D. 
  
  As with the 3D battles, those who aren't necessarily turned on by all the historical accuracy, 
 will still find a suprisingly robutst, "Civilization"-esque empire builder. This can be tailored 
 to any difficulty, with the ability to have the AI manage taxes, troop, and building produciton. 
 The diplomatic system is also much improved over previous Total War games. Complex negotiating 
 is possible with other factions, family management plays a large role as well, with each member 
 having unique traits that can be altered by "ancillary" characters that give almost an RPG feel 
 to the game. For example, you can groom some men to become experienced field commanders, while 
 others become expert governors. This investment into your charactes really draws you into the game, 
 as I found myself cursing out loud, and feeling generally sad and angry, when some Britons killed 
 my aging faction leader, who had won a great many battles and gained so much influence in teh world. 
 
  
  
  Basically, there is just way too much to descirbe. Pretty much anything that needed to be fiexed 
 in previous Total War games, from the dimplomacy, to the graphics, has been completely overhauled, 
 and all for the better. This game truly has something to offer for everyone, wheather you are looking 
 jsut for historically accurate depictions of ancient warfare, or an in depth empire-builidng game, 
 or you just want a fresh change of pace in your RTS gaming, or all three! Rome pulls you in initially 
 with its amazing graphcs and sound, put keeps you playing with its immense depth and fun factor. 
 Once you start, you WONT want to stop unitl you become the supreme ruler of Rome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djynen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 18, 2004 2:47 am PT
Review:  Up til' now, the Total War Series has slipped under it's radar. Although it has earned the respect 
 of hardcore gamers, the niggling annoying features in previous incarnations were a major turnoff. 
 Fortunately, with Rome: Total War, the Total War series finally comes into its own. This is the 
 most fulfilling Strategy game created to-date - it's every hardcore strategists wet dream. The 
 game itself is extremely configurable - you can command the computer to supervise the management 
 of conquered cities, and automatically resolve any military conflicts. Or, as you gain experience, 
 you can master these features yourself (a choice which pays off in the long run) .
  
  The number of military, diplomatic and espionage tactics that you can pursue are near-infinite. 
 Rebel army blocking your trade routes? Either bribe them with a diplomat, or annihilate them with 
 an army. Beseiging a large town? Either attack the town immediately with ballistas and onagers, 
 or wait for several more turns and starve them out instead.
  
  The piece-de-resistance of this game is the real-time combat engine, which rivals Warhammer: Total 
 War in sheer detail and visceral brutality. It's possible to zoom-in to watch realistic battles 
 between enemy troops, or zoom-outwards to get the overall view of a battle. From my experience, 
 the game engine runs smoothly on midrange PC's (AMD 2000+, 1GB RAM, GEForce FX5700 Ultra) . Seeing 
 a group of infantry being hurled into the air or crushed by a cavalry charge is awesome to behold.
 
  
  The best aspect of real-time combat, is that it relies less heavily on the rock-paper-scissors 
 system that other RTS games have used (eg. Age of Mythology, Empire Earth, etc...) . A specific 
 unit is not required to counter another unit. For instance, both Hastari, Principia and Trarii 
 can be used to counter cavalry - but a spear-wielding Triarii would still be the best choice. Once 
 you start playing, it is intuitively obvious which is the best counter-unit to use.
  
  The only negative aspect of the game is the prologue/tutorial. At no point are you allowed to save 
 the game, which means you must spend 2-3 hours trudging through the tutorial before you can finish 
 it. This will definitely be off-putting to new players. A word of advice to Creative Assembly: 
 Add a savegame option to the prologue in a future patch.
  
  In summary, RTW is a bona-fide classic of its genre. The Total War series has reached a whole new 
 level with this latest entry. Like other fans, I look forward to Napoleon: Total War!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afratnikov
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2004 3:29 am PT
Review:  Rome Total War is a "must have." People who played Medieval: Total War probably own it, people 
 who haven't, should play it to experience the unique tactical combat. The game's graphics and large 
 scale battles make the game superb. However, after several weeks of playing the single player campaign, 
 the game became too repetitive for me. I have since moved to another game, but I plan to play Rome 
 TW again soon. 
  
  Gameplay 9:
  1) Campaign map: The interface is great. All of the options are explained when you hold the mouse 
 over a button and the layout allows quick management. There is also an option of the computer managing 
 the cities. The strategic part of the game, as gameplay is concerned is great. 
  2) Flow of battles: Managing your troops during battle can become a difficult task. I often have 
 to pause (I spent most of the time in pause mode) the game to arrange my troops to adjust the formation 
 to enemys maneuvers. If you want to increase the difficulty significantly, don't use the pause 
 option. 
  3a) Difficulty (battles) : I have always liked the unique combat system of Total War, where tactics 
 matter. However, the AI can be predictable, after you have played the game for a while (I have 
 played both Shogun TW and Medieval TW before, so maybe that is why I can fool the AI) . For a new 
 player to the series, however, it should provide a nice challenge. In the end, the smart and creative 
 player will be awarded. 
  3b) Difficulty (campaign map) : It is difficult to survive the first few turns of the game, but 
 after that, it becomes simple. In the beginning you may be attacked early on and without sufficient 
 defense you may lose. It is unlikely though. The middle game is pretty simple with continuous building 
 and expanding the empire. Later in the game, when the cities grow very large, they will become 
 unhappy. However, at that time you should have almost won the game. You have the most power and 
 you know you could win, but it just take too much time. Here is where the game becomes repetitive. 
 
  
  Graphics:
  Combat: Simply revolutionary. There are many games that feature beautiful, complex unit designs, 
 and rich environments, but in Rome Total War the emphasis is quite different. In RTW, the individual 
 unit models are quite simple but get the job done; however, when you have literally thousands of 
 these units marching, it is quite a sight. The engine will also adjust the polygon count on units 
 depending on how far away they are. So you can see two individual soldiers fighting up close and 
 thousands of other soldiers fighting in the background without a good frame rate. 
  Campaign map: The campaign map is beautiful as well. It is the best campaign map I have seen in 
 a turn based strategy map; it is in 3D and is very interactive. You can build roads in provinces 
 and that will make your troops move faster. The battlefield on, which two armies clash, look like 
 the area on the campaign map. If the battle is in a city, the city size, civilization type, and 
 even buildings built will all be reflected on the battle map. 
  
  Sound: 
  Combat: The music is combat quite good and adjusts depending on whether you are moving or attacking 
 (just like in Medieval TW) . The general's speech before each battle is a nice touch and pulls you 
 into the fight. But after a while I found myself going right to the battle. The rest of the sound 
 effects are well done.
  Campaign map: There is little sound except the music. But the music is pretty good and unique. 
 If you like it, that's good, but you may grow tired of it after a while. 
  
  Value: 
  Rome TW potentially has great value. Each campaign takes a long time and there are a lot of distinct 
 civilizations you can play as. However, you will most likely not play through everything the game 
 has to offer (because there is just too much) . Furthermore, there are historic battles and a battle 
 creator. And, if you didn't get enough, there is multiplayer. 
  Again, can spend hundreds of game hours on the game, but most will most likely move on to another 
 game. 
  
  Tilt: 
  I think this is a must have. Even if you won't play every different race, this game will still 
 provide you with a lot of fun hours. And after a while, you may find yourself coming back to the 
 game and play it again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfernoBane
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2004 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Rome: Total War has the perfect blend of turn based strategy and real-time battles. 
  
  The tactics needed for both the campaign map and the battles keep you on your toes and never get 
 old. The graphics are superb and the sound is very good. I love the music; it sounds like the movie 
 Gladiator and fits the theme very well.
  
  It has an epic feel to it that most games cannot match. It takes a very long time and hard work 
 (on the harder AI settings) to win and then "take over the world."
  
  The selling point of the game is its massive battles, the campaign map and all of its features 
 (which are very good) are just the means of entering said battles and giving you a reason to fight.
 
  
  This is my first Total War game and it is a breath of fresh air. In most RTS games no matter what 
 you set the AI to you can simply create a mass of units and charge. Give or take micro-management 
 depending on the game, and I hate micro-management.
  
  In R: TW you *must* use strategy. See a group of spearmen? Engage them in the front with infantry 
 (fodder) and swing around with cavalry and hit them in the back. They will break and run if they 
 do not die trying to. Simply charging them with your heavy cavalry will result in chaos.
  
  I do have a few gripes with the game, there are some AI problems. If you can destroy their siege 
 equipment you will see the AI units sit in range of city walls and get killed to a man by arrows 
 and never move. I have run into a few graphical and sound bugs, but nothing game breaking. That 
 is what patches are for.
  
  In the end, this is the best strategy game I have ever played. If you like them as much as I do, 
 you owe it to yourself to try this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hippy777
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 16, 2004 10:13 pm PT
Review:  It's almost too indepth. Seems like work at times instead of play. However, this game will go down 
 in history as a classic and will set a new bar of excellance. Super indepth game play both on the 
 battle field and on the campaign map. The only thing that really irks me right now is how it handles 
 revolts and city bribery. (When a city revolts huge enemy armies of different unit types appear 
 in the city for you to have to fight to regain the city) The armies in a city after a revolt should 
 be all peasant based. Other than that one tiny annoyance, this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irish27
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 16, 2004 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I own all the Total War games and this one represents a big leap forward for the franchise. Game 
 play is similar to the two previous games which is a good thing. The big improvements are in the 
 graphics and in the turn based portion of the game. The turn based game is deeper and more fun 
 to play. The tactical portion of the game is as great as ever, but the improved graphics make it 
 more fun. I always have thought that this type of tactical game play would fit in well with a game 
 like Civilization. The increased depth of controlling your battles would add to the experience. 
 Hopefully that will happen someday! All in all these games have an original style and outstanding 
 game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost899
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 13, 2004 6:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best possible war statergy game on the market which blends the world managment 
 and war action with excelent results. you trully fell as if you are conquring the world as you 
 send your thousands of troups to victory or to thier doom as you conquer the foolish seltelments 
 around rome. gameplay consists of civlisation stlye management of your settlements and all out 
 war on huge scales (skirmish and sigge stlye) which is excelent to watch your troops win and painful 
 to be defeated. Graphics are good especialy in the war sequences with dust raises from the ground 
 to the scenery around you. Sound is brillient in this game with the music ajusting to your gameplay 
 and the cherrs of your troops help to bring you in to the game. This is a well worth game for any 
 world conquring genals out thier and will keep you hocked for ages 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrxdemix
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 13, 2004 2:54 am PT
Review:  There have been quite many Real-Time strategy to hit the gaming community, and Rome: Total War 
 is the newest addition. Games such as Warcraft and Rise of Nations are known to be the kings of 
 Strategy games in their own respect, but RTW does it in a whole other way. Most strategy games 
 give you control of units which you use to construct buildings and create an army, and RTW does 
 the same, but with a different concept.
  
  In Rome: Total War, there are basically two different game modes, the campaign map, and the real-time 
 battles. Both are extremely fun and addictive, and can have you at your computer for hours on end. 
 When you start RTW, you will end up doing the tutorial game first because of the fact that it unlocks 
 the campaign. It will teach you how to play the game fairly well. There is a persons face on the 
 top right of your screen and he/she talks to you and tells you what to do next. This is backed 
 by voice audio, which gives you the option to not read and just listen to what they have to say. 
 You will fairly soon be aching to play the campaign map, so all you have to do is quit the tutorial 
 and choose the Imperial Campaign.
  
  In the Imperial Campaign, you are greeted with the choice of a few things. First, and most importantly, 
 you choose which Roman faction you want to play as. You can choose from the Brutii, Scipii and 
 the Julii. All are very similar, besides the fact that they start in a slightly different portion 
 of the map. You are also able to choose difficulty, arcade or non-arcade style battles, AI management 
 and also the choice of a long or short campaign. The short campaign will basically just put you 
 head to head with one or two other factions which whom you have to defeat. The long campaign lives 
 up to it's name, and gives you the mission to expand and take over 50 settlements. In addition, 
 the long campaign makes you have to be the leader of the senate by the end of the game.
  
  You will find yourself taking over settlements, blocking the ports of enemies, the choice of building 
 from a multitude of units, and the biggest attraction, battling. Battles in this game are unbelievably 
 fun and enjoyable. You will find yourself commanding from just a small amount of units, to having 
 so many units on your screen, that you can't even see the ground. Soldiers cheer when they are 
 feeling that the battle is in their control, generals command the units to attack, siege units 
 launch giant cannon at your enemies stone defense, and much more. This game immerses you into the 
 battles and makes you feel like your not only watching a really cool war movie, but controlling 
 it.
  
  The gameplay is obviously great, but what is there to say about the graphics? Let me tell you this, 
 you have the ability to make the units pretty much lifelike. The metal armor that your soldiers 
 wear reflect sunlight and shine, horses actually look like horses and not lincoln logs, and you'll 
 be afraid to touch your monitor when you see 1000 swords clashing against eachother. The graphics 
 are arguably some of the best for any Real-Time Strategy game ever made. There is absolutely nothing 
 to argue about them. You also have the ability to turn them down so that your computer can actually 
 handle the game. Let me tell you, this game really does have a lot going on, so trust me, graphics 
 are a not a problem.
  
  Gameplay is good, graphics are beautiful ... what about the sound? All I have to say is that this 
 game makes you feel like you really are there. Hearing 500 hastati, 300 velites, 100 equites and 
 a general unit marching in synchronized motion is something you will only find in this game. Everything 
 in this game has a realistic sound. When you fire your huge cannon balls out of your ballista and 
 they hit the wooden walls of a barely fortified city, you will hear the crushing of everything 
 in it's path. Not to mention that you can have your missile and siege units fire flaming ammo. 
 Hearing your arch-enemies buildings burning to the ground while your units march is something that 
 will give you goosebumps. The music track itself is remarkably good, and if you look on forums 
 you will see people asking where they can find the music files so they can listen to them all day. 
 It's an understatement to say that the audio in this game is good.
  
  Some people don't like games unless they last a long time. I mean, who wants a game that you play 
 for one weekend then say to yourself, "I should have just rented it". Listen when I tell you that 
 the replay value of this game is, and believe me or not, unlimited. When you beat the campaign 
 for your first time, you unlock almost all of the other factions. Granted, this gives you the opporotunity 
 to use the historical phalanx with the Greeks, the phaoroh's archers with the Egyptians, the cold 
 blooded barbaric britons, and many many more. Playing different factions isn't just like using 
 a new character, it's like a whole new game. They have different buildings, different units, a 
 completely different culture. Not to mention that you can also play historical battles, multiplayer 
 and even custom battles. Historical battles in themself are enjoyable and very well directed. Multiplayer 
 can be really fun and custom battles can give you the ability to fine tune your settings and try 
 to see what it's like to put your armies on huge and see them go running by the thousands into 
 your chosen enemy.
  
  That leads me to the part that is really important to this review, the cons. Honestly, this game 
 really doesn't have much wrong with it, but there are a couple. First off, I have got to say that 
 the most noticable problem is the AI. You will find enemies just sitting there while you launch 
 hundreds of arrows at them and they just slowly die while doing nothing. It really is sad to see 
 such a great game have bad AI. It really doesn't harm the game in any serious way, though. The 
 game also seems to not be polished. Only by trying the game will you notice that it seems like 
 they didn't put those extra two or so weeks into the game. It is somewhat hard to explain but you 
 will notice when you get into the game that it just is missing those little tidbits that would 
 have made it a bit better. One more thing is that the multiplayer seems to be fairly poor. Connection 
 problems are evident, options are limited, and it just really doesn't match up to be a good multiplayer 
 game. They will probably fix this in the future.
  
  All in all, this is a classic game. You will hear about this game and how great it is for years 
 to come. Though it isn't like the average Starcraft game and is set in a much more historical time, 
 this game has a spot in history of it's own. I recommend it not only to RTS players or TW fans, 
 but to every single person that has a computer. You will be satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmkump
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 13, 2004 12:47 am PT
Review:  Epic! Rome: Total War is an Epic.
  
  Gaming since my Atari 8 bit and forever since addicted in this hobby called computer gaming. Been 
 computer gaming so long that this computer stuff is starting to bore. Give me another FPS with 
 just better graphics but same old game play and I think I'll die of gaming old age right now.
 
  
  Started to lose interest. But once in awhile, something pops up that gets the old ticker thumping 
 again. Dungeon Master was one. Doom was a technical surprise (but doomed us to shallower games 
 ever since) . Combat Mission was an old wargamer's orgasm.
  
  And now RTW shows up and I'm once again in stunned shock. The graphics floored me. How do they 
 do that with so many models at once without stuttering to a halt? Technical masterpiece!
  
  But oh, there is so much more! I've owned the other Total War titles and was not satisfied. But 
 RTW seemed to offer whatever the previous had in so much more elegance, excellence, and style.
 
  
  What is even more of a surprise to me is that I hate RTS. I really do. I'm sick of em'. Strategy 
 my eye! I've tried to like them. My God I've tried. But I've given up hope. But the tactical portion 
 (or what others call RTS) of RTW is just brilliant! I can't get enough of it. Easy to control, 
 pause with orders (in single play only) , and tactics that work. This is brilliant! Did I say that 
 already? Well, its brilliant.
  
  The strategy campaign portion is very enjoyable too. I first played 28 turns (14 years) on Easy 
 for both strategy and tactical. After getting accustomed to things, I started over and bumped up 
 the difficulty. Now I'm having an outstanding time.
  
  My favorites of this game are many. The ability to move armies in regions that have zone of control 
 (with hidden ambushes) instead of just occupying regions is a winner. Family tree. Sound effects 
 in tactical game. Diplomacy options. Incredable number of different types of units. Large battles 
 (and controllable!!!) .
  
  I don't care what type of player you are or what your favorite flavor of gaming is. If you don't 
 give this game a try, you are cheating yourself out of experiencing a true Epic of computer gaming. 
 You don't want to miss out. 
  
  Epic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake22
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 12, 2004 7:35 pm PT
Review:  I played MTW into the ground and I have eagerly awaited this release since announcement. I must 
 say they have improved apon MTW and this is deffinately the best of the series. Doing missions 
 for the Senate can get annoying at times but adds alot to the game once you get past the annoyance. 
 Unlocking other playable factions is a nice touch as well, adds something to work towards. If you 
 enjoyed MTW at all then RTW is a must have and i can assure you that you will not be let down. 
 
  
  There was an issue with the elephants being a tad too powerfull but with the newa patch that is 
 resolved. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 11, 2004 11:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best ever in its genre, perhaps even the best game of all time (if you include 
 challenge, fun, immersion, etc) . When playing Rome: Total War, hours vanish in what seem to be 
 minutes. Be warned: do not play late at night or you will keep playing and pay for it in sleep. 
 I can not remember playing a game as addicting. Rome: Total War improves upon its predecesor in 
 every way. 
  There is no reason not to own this game. Don't be cheap and wait for it to go down in price. Get 
 it now! Well, if you are broke, OK, wait for a price drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlascott
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 11, 2004 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I was a great fan of Medieval: Total War, but the 2D battle graphics were getting quite dated.
 
  
  I tried the Rome demo and was somewhat underwhelmed.
  
  The game was released, and everyone loved it ---so... off to the Microcenter I went...
  
  Enter 
 Rome: Total War. First, the gameplay is better and more refined. Developing cities is logical, 
 and your choices have a direct effect on how well each city does. The campaign graphics are so 
 refined, and the 3D camaign gameboard is beautiful, elegant in its design, and gives you a tons 
 of info at first glace -- with more detailed info a click or two away. Kudos to The Creative Assembly. 
 Their interface beats any other of this type of game in my opinion. Really refined, and the board 
 is a breeze to navigate.
  
  The combat in the demo was a bit boring. Combat in the game itself is the most fun I think I have 
 ever had in this kind of game. The graphics are really beautiful and functional. I have a Athlon 
 3000, 1 GB ram, and a Radeon 9800 Pro (all running stock) and I turned all details all the way 
 up, and the game runs like butter. Game play itself is every bit as deep as Medieval, the controls 
 are similar but easier to use. Of course, this is apples to apples -- I had just as much fun beating 
 No One Lives Forever 2, Warcraft 3, Unreal Tournament 2004, and Return to Castle Wolfenstein -- but 
 these are very different games. Forget any historical-based RTS games (Age of Empires, Civilization, 
 etc) . This is the one you want. Deep, complex, but so refined that accessing and enjoying the depth 
 is a breeze.
  
  Downside? This is reaching, but yes, it does take a bit more time to learn this than, say, Warcraft 
 3 (but no more time than actuallly learning what all the Warcraft 3 units do and how to use the 
 heroes) , but thats because this is really 2 games in one! Really a drawback? Not in my eyes! The 
 only other thing I'll mention is that occasionally, your troops ignore your orders. For example, 
 I finally break down the Gaul's reinforced gate, and send a wave of wardogs in to unsettle their 
 heavy infantry -- and order my hastati to get in there are engage.... but they stand there instead, 
 so I order them to engage, and they stand around some more, so I order them to charge for a third 
 time, and then they go ---but by this time, many of my war dogs are now alpo... this doesn't happen 
 much, and I will warn players that you need to deactivate skirmish mode on units that offer it 
 if you expect your soldiers to engage in hand to hand combat. 
  
  Needless to say, I agree with the review -- this game should go down as one of the best of all time. 
 It is a rare game I will play an entire weekend (getting to be such an old man as I am -- Im not 
 even 1/2 into Doom 3 and stopped playing it) but this one had me in front of the computer for probably 
 12 hours this weekend. As the Roman Julii, I have all of northern Rome, the Alps, Gaul, part of 
 Germania, and I had most of the Briton Isle under my yoke (but they keep revolting, no matter how 
 low I set the tax rate) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radx800pro
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2004 9:27 am PT
Review:  I'v always shy'd away from RTS and RPG type games. Mostly because of the lack of Action and repetitiveness 
 of things. I've never made it past the Demo except for Full Spectrum Warrior, which is becoming 
 a bit repetitive now.
  
  I tried Rome TW Demo and liked the turturial. The game really tries hard to make it as easy as 
 possible for a newbie like myself to RTS. It did however take me a little while before I was playing 
 for hours at a time. You have to do a lot of reading with the guide that comes with the game or 
 you'll fail often.
  
  The graphics aren't a 10 (comparing to FPS) but it gives the illusion that it deserves a 10 because 
 of the incredible size of your Armies and all the chaos that happens so quickly in a battle! I 
 haven't really even scratched the surface yet (because I have to keep redoing things because I 
 have to learn as I go) . If you go back to a previous saved game to try something over again, the 
 mission may change on you. This in itself gives the Game so much replayability!
  
  If you've ever thought about trying an RTS game but didn't feel you could get in to it, this is 
 the time and Rome Total War is the Game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcana
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 9, 2004 5:06 pm PT
Review:  This review only concerns the turn-based, geopolitical & geostrategic dimension of RTW, since the 
 author admits to being a very mediocre RTS commander on a tactical battlefield. I have previously 
 enjoyed Shogun TW & Medieval TW in their analogous turn-based mode. The following are impressions 
 derived from about 66 hours of play. 
  
  I first won a "short" campaign against Greece & Macedonia as the green Roman faction : it was relatively 
 easy, but required a lot of tenacious & tedious logistics. I then lost a short campaign as the 
 Egyptian : I underestimated my neighbors and got sandwiched between the Numidians and the (way 
 too rich) Seleucids, crushing the first in western Egypt for the heavy price of being crushed in 
 the Middle East (at Sidon & Jerusalem) by the second. In a third campaign, as the blue Roman faction, 
 I experienced severe financial problems : my capital (in Italy) being too costly to maintain, I 
 abandoned it and accepted to lose it to rebellion, confining myself to the three Sicilian cities, 
 a rare geostrategic shift which brought my finances back in the green. That campaign needs to be 
 continued, but the Senate keeps giving me missions against nearby Carthage, tasks which threaten 
 my sole, secure power-base in Sicily (because the Carthaginian fleet is too strong) : so I have 
 to ignore the Senatorial missions until I am ready to strike against "Tunisia" (But since I do 
 not own a city on the Italic peninsula anymore, I do not fear Rome's wrath : I'm more Sicilian 
 than Italian now!) .
  
  I have also tried a few hours of campaigning as the Parthians, but in 270 BC, they were far from 
 constituting a notable empire, and this shows in the game : they have a very limited budget and 
 they must expand against the very rich empire of the Seleucids. Playing the Parthians seems to 
 be a great challenge, even though your starting cities are very secure (isolated on the eastern 
 edge of the map) . I had to resort to the money cheat-code (Open console, then type : add_money (space) number 
 ... but this cheat seems to only give you 20000, once per gaming session) . I do not like to use 
 cheats, but in this case, the financial imbalance between the Parthians and the neighboring Seleucids 
 is so considerable that if you do not get more cash, you will be condemned to stagnate near the 
 eastern edge. Historically, the Parthian Empire existed and expanded from 247 BC until 224 AD, 
 so within the game, in 270 AD, the Parthian realm is not yet in a position of power. Can you start 
 a strong empire in 23 years?
  
  Since the developers have designed a new game-engine for their third title in the TW series, the 
 geostrategic map is much more colorful and pretty. And although the mechanics of moving around 
 units have become more tedious, the logistics work well once you get used to their quirks : units 
 move seamlessly (except when there is a traffic-jam near a city & a port and you have to micromanage 
 the exact point of mouse-clicking origination or destination) .
  
  Up to now, my only significant beef is that you cannot choose any other side than the three Roman 
 factions before having completed some objectives as a Roman : the other playable factions (such 
 as Gaul & Egypt) unlock when you first complete any Roman campaign, or when you beat a specific 
 faction within any of the Roman campaigns (even if you do not finish it) . We had no such limitation 
 in Medieval TW, and I resent this arbitrary limitation to a consumer's freedom of choice. Also, 
 to add insult to injury, some minor factions will never become available for human control : why 
 not ?! If a gamer wishes to start in a weak position to have a great challenge, why deprive him 
 of this choice? I suggest that a future patch unlocks ALL the factions for free play. After 66 
 hours of play, there are some factions I am dying to try out, but the designers have arbitrarily 
 decided that they are not available : bummer.
  
  Another problem I have encountered, during my first Egyptian campaign, was with assassins. I created 
 a few to kill the pesky Seleucid diplomats who were swarming my realm, offering bribes to some 
 troops I was moving around. My first assassin started with a 48% chance of success : I reloaded 
 the game-save 10 times and he failed on the 10 attempts (an odd 48%) . My second assassin started 
 with only a 16% chance of success : not only did he fail 4 times in a row (with my reloads) , he 
 died each and every time, killing himself for his shameful failure. I find that the imbalance is 
 very unfair. Unless you bribe a foreign diplomat, the only way to get rid of him is to assassinate 
 him : since my finances could not afford to pay the extravagant bribes the Seleucid diplomats were 
 asking and since my two assassins were not worth the expense, my realm was infested with Seleucid 
 diplomats who were hunting for moving troops to bribe (the Seleucid, in the comparative graph, 
 seemed to be excessively rich) . Is there a problem with assassins? Are diplomats too strong? 
 
  
  For the adepts of Grand Strategy, RTW seems to be an awesome game, much more fun & fluid, and clear 
 & crisp to micromanage than those weird, cumbersome, pseudo-RTS Europa Universalis titles. And 
 TW's geostrategic map-style has now mutated to a very much improved esthetic beauty & complexity. 
 And if you don't like to micromanage the economy when you own a dozen cities, you can turn on one 
 of the two automatic management AIs that are available to serve you, so that you may concentrate 
 on moving armies and fighting battles.
  
  A masterpiece... but unless you specialize in the tactical clash of arms on the battlefield, the 
 strategic, turn-based campaigns (short & total) are long-drawn affairs, not very much suitable 
 for multiplayer. But you can always turn on the auto-management AI, which is a no-no for a CIA-style 
 analyst such as I. So, it is a lot of tenacious toil, but it's relatively fun if you enjoy the 
 meticulous minutia of masochistic micromanaging. 
  
  Those of you who enjoy RTS games such as WarCraft 3 should avoid Rome TW (unless you confine yourselves 
 to the tactical battles) : there is too much slow & tedious turn-based management required. The 
 first Age of Empires and Age of Mythology are much more suitable for RTS play in the era of Antiquity 
 : they are great blends of Grand Strategy and tactical strategy in a flowing RT format. But Rome 
 TW is a worthwhile masterpiece in its own "niche" : a patch with upgrades and/or an expansion (like 
 the Shogun TW Warlord Edition) would make it shine like a SuperNova. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StChristop
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 9, 2004 5:35 am PT
Review:  What can I say?
  
  This is a must play. I am very picky on Total War series. I didn't really like the mediveal and 
 the rest. But, this game has surprised me and became addicted to this game right away. The custom 
 and histrocial battles are awesome. It just made you want to even play more and more until you 
 realized it how amazing this game is. The multiplayer is even awesome. It allows you choose your 
 own kind of army any you want and spend your money on them. I believe this game is for hardcore 
 stragtey fans. Buy this game right away. You wouldn't want to regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gryphon_GB
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 7, 2004 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. It is a wonderful mix of strategic and operational warfare in era of the Roman 
 Empire. It's also quite addictive. I can't remember the last time I was so addicted to computer 
 game. I've lost too much sleep to this game already!
  
  The game is fairly easy to learn and has a really good advisor feature to help you pick the game 
 up quite quickly. However, mastering the right strategic choices and the right tactics on the battlefield 
 is quite challenging. 
  
  I particularly enjoy the growing family tree of the faction the player is charged with bringing 
 to ultimate power. I mourn the death of my favored generals and governors each time one dies of 
 old age or in battle and am eager to see the potential of each young family member coming of age.
 
  
  The graphics are fantastic - both on the beautiful campaign map and the battlefield. It is truly 
 impressive to see a massive army on the march and then charging into battle in a violent clash.
 
  
  This game is a must have for all those players who enjoy strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retrosepa
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 7, 2004 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the previous Total War games such as Shogun: Total Warm well, especialy Shogun. 
 I knew that Rome will be even better then the previous titles, but I didn't know how great. I've 
 read many previews and played the demo before this game was released, and I just couldn't wait 
 for it to be available. 
  
  I think everyone knows the basic story so I won't go on about that too much. But the single player 
 capaign is something that has stuck with all the Total War games (turn based) and is very similar 
 to the boardgame Risk. I think the developers actually used Risk as a basis for their Total War 
 series. With the new updated graphics, the whole 'board' look so much better.
  
  The graphics in-game (when fighting a battle) is something to actually be amazed by. I never dreamed 
 of seeing so many well rendered objects (warriors) on the screen at the same time. The land is 
 rich with trees, lakes, grass and castles. There are some graphical glitches within the games, 
 but nothing a patch cannot fix.
  
  The sound is also something worth mentioning, with the warriors cheering, chouting at their opponent 
 when charging, the thunder of hundred of horses rushing towards their victim. I suggest you turn 
 the sound up when playing this game.
  
  Overall this is a very enjoyable game, something every RTS lover should get their hands on. Even 
 if you don't like RTS games because of the mining and all that, you should at least try the demo 
 found on GS DLX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedester
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 6, 2004 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Rome is all anyone could have asked for for the next TW game:
  
  1. vastly improved visuals which make it easier to see what is actually happening.
  2. massively 
 improved siege battles
  3. a more intuitive and natural control system in battles
  4. a huge and diverse range of units
  5. a well executed overhaul of the strategic part of the 
 game as well.
  
  Not a perfect game (no game is!) , but a perfect sequel. 
  
  If you liked the others you will already own this no doubt. If you havent played the others start 
 with this one - it will blow you away.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kraut04
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 5, 2004 7:12 am PT
Review:  You want to command a roman legion to your complete specifications. Hear your troop yell your name 
 and thunder toward your enemys. You want to finally have the amount of men on the field count each 
 man as one man instead of the usuual one man representing like 10 with a health bar.... there are 
 no health bars in real war! This game blows away the competition on an epic scale. no other game 
 looks so good and truly captures the the most fun and immersive points in a world conquering game. 
 The only bad thing about this game that I can come up with is that you should not play this games 
 campagain mode unless you have alot of time on your hands cause you won't want to stop for hours. 
 It is that cool! I have always wanted to play a game like this the other previous total wars were 
 good but did not even come close to the epic proprtions of this experience. i have played practically 
 every epic conquering game out there and this one is my favorite and will be for a long time! I 
 can't even imagine what Total War has in store for future releases! Simply put it is a stunning 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stupiddk
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2004 5:30 am PT
Review:  ROME: TOTAL WAR is a masterpiece. This is easily the best game in the series. The gamplay is absolutley 
 amazing and is quite easy to get used to too. The engine that generates the environment and the 
 soldiers is beutiful. AI (Artificial Intelligence) will liteally ambush and will use real Roman, 
 Greek, Goth, and Carnage tatics on you. The graphics are crisp and are really for the loving. The 
 sound of this game is very on point and has a nice feel to it. I Believe that the game though beutiful 
 and fun to play, can get quite reptitve. I mean, one can only take so much battles in before you 
 get bored right. The multiplayer may be fun, but only for real die hard fans of defending a castle 
 and/or attacking one. In the end thoug I must say that this is one heck of fun game that anybody 
 that is a fan of huge RTS battles should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamoz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 4, 2004 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Hi,
  I felt obligated to do this review and only because all gamers need to become aware of this 
 
  extraordinary masterpiece. There are a lot of very good games around, but only few magnificent
 
  ones, and believe it that Rome: Total War is one of them, like its predecessor. Lets crack on 
 it then, shall we?
  
  The developers have done a very good job, graphics wise. The strategic map is more 3-D now, compared 
 with the Medieval: Total War. Its definitely more impressive this way, but it can be a bit frustrating, 
 for the old Total War fans, to find a specific item like your assassin among all these 3-D graphics 
 and animations. However, if you get used to it, then you are ready for the greatest adventurous 
 and strategic game experience ever made until now. The in-battle graphics are amazing and much 
 superior to its predecessor. You can actually zoom face-to-face with your soldiers and there are 
 different animations for each individual, thus making it more realistic. Its definitely more enjoyable 
 to play all battles, especially when assaulting cities. 
  
  I was impressed with the sound as well. There are an infinite number of sound clips for each occasion 
 to avoid repetitiveness. For example, in the beginning of every battle, you can hear distinguished 
 dialogues from your armys general, to increase the moral and spirit of his soldiers. The improved 
 sound has definitely improved the battle experience. I loved the realistic sounds of the assassinations 
 performed every time. 
  
  There are a lot of changes compared to the previous one, and I felt that they have tried to make 
 this game as much life-like, realistic and similar to those days that the events occurred. For 
 example, you are required to choose your family faction among the three main ones available and 
 you have access to the Rome Senate. This means that the course of your actions is very dependent 
 to the Senates will and has an impact on your popularity towards the people. Somehow, you cannot 
 easily keep happy both parts and trying to get the best balance, makes the game just more fun. 
 I loved the interaction between the diplomats. Your diplomat can now make offers, or demand as 
 well, alliances, trade rights, payments, map information, sell regions, etc
  The ships can also transfer armies and leave them in any place on the map, thus you can avoid straight 
 contact with the enemy. 
  
  The main difference though, that it is noticed immediately on the map, is the separation of the 
 regions which is based in towns/cities rather than countries. This is how it used to be anyway 
 those years and improved the realism of the game since it is harder to conquer an entire country. 
 
  
  You will love the 3-D animation of the strategic map that apart from being interactive, it seems 
 to be highly corresponding to your various actions. So, for instance, if you improve the roads 
 between your cities, you will see the change upon the map as well. If you start trading, you will 
 also see caravels or ships come and go. This was for sure an improvement over the previous game. 
 
  
  The campaign seemed to be a bit longer to finish, whereas the battle durations tend to be a bit 
 shorter. This was very wise and makes the battles more attractive to play manually. I loved the 
 idea of having to conquer most of the cities and then having to fight against the other Roman factions, 
 take over Rome and become the new Roman true Emperor. 
  
  The main downside that I can think of is that I would like to be able to play by choosing any of 
 the other non-roman factions as well, but maybe then they would have to rename the game itself. 
 The reason for that is that because each faction has different cultures and armies, but I guess 
 the Senate would not make any sense if you were joining a non-Roman faction. 
  
  Finally, they could improve the tracking of your various sources (armies, agents, assassins, etc) 
 because it can be really hard to find them when you have expanded your kingdom. In addition to 
 this, they could provide a functionality (like in the old game) to quickly identify which cities 
 are about to rebel against you, rather having to go through each one.
  To sum up, I believe this is the best strategy game I have ever played, like its predecessor with 
 a few more features. The level of gaming experience and learning gained is spectacular. It is game 
 that lets you think before you act, thus not get bored easily and spent well worth your money. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: l_brigham00
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 4, 2004 5:23 am PT
Review:  I couldn't help but adding my take on this magnificent game, even though this is the first review 
 I have ever done. In all seriousness this game deserves a ten. The battles are amazing and highly 
 addictive, because they're fun to play and turn out differently every time. Any RTS fan should 
 not be without this game. This game can be very closely analogized to civilization, excepting that 
 the time period is from about 300 BC to 50 AD (I think) . There are some real life battles that 
 took place during this period available to play; for instance, playing the Carthigian battle with 
 Rome after Hannibal trekked through the Alps to come at the Romans from behind (see demo) . The 
 main imperial campaign is a lot of fun because you there are so many different factions and nations 
 you can play (at first you can only play one of three Roman families, but as you complete the imperial 
 campaign, other factions become unlocked like the Egyptians, Macedonians, etc) .
  
  Bottom line is that if you are into history and/or RTS games this is definitely for you!!! What 
 are you doing - get off your arse and get it now! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 3, 2004 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Thihs game is an instant classic. I had not played the first two Total War games. When I want my 
 strat. fix I usually go back to the latest in the Civ. series but I think RTW will be my new favorite. 
 I have only been this excited about a few games over the years. This one rates right up there with 
 Empire from the late 70's, the Ultima and Wing Commander series, and the Civilation series as a 
 game that sets a new standard. It takes a really great game to get me excited, (shooters get boring 
 for me after a few hours) and this one made me say WOW over and over again.
  
  The game takes about 30 minutes to learn the basics which allow you to play. The advisors make 
 learning the game fun and easy. I do think that it will take many hours or even many days of gameplay 
 to master the games nuiencs however. and I do not think that anyone will be able to truly master 
 the game as there are so many possibilities.
  
  I am playing with all graphics settings maxed out and everything runs smooth with no hint of hesitation. 
 Great job writing code guys.
  
  The sound is imersive and real, it makes you turn your head to see "what was that sound over there 
 or in back". I highly recommend listining to it through an EAX 3 enabled sound card and good speakers.
 
  
  I do wish that someone would enable a game of this quality to display over two monitors as so many 
 now have dual monitor graphics cards. I also would like a manual that is more readable, 6 pt font 
 is not easy to see, especially for us older guys. Except for that there is absolutly nothing else 
 I can find to criticize.
  
  Anyone who likes Strategy games or Battle Epics or great story lines or amazing graphics and sound 
 or who just admires a masterpeice work of computer code writing art should get this game. Those 
 who just like shooters should try it anyway as you just may have a new favorite gendre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineComedy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 2, 2004 8:20 pm PT
Review:  When I tried Medieval, I wasn't able to get into it too much, I felt its interface is not clean 
 and intuitive much, and there was too much micromanagement so I didn't really play it more thatn 
 a few hours, but Rome on the other hand is an amazing achievement for Creative Assembly. In the 
 demo I already felt this is something special, but the full game got me totally addicted. 
  
  This game suckes you in and never lets go. The 3d graphics and movement is very well made, 
 everything in the battlefield oozes reality. The strategy game, without considering the battles 
 is a full game in its own merits. After playing around 50 hours I really can't find a noticable 
 weak point in this game (not able to full navy battle is one of them) .
  
  In terms of longetivity, I think for me it will easily surpass GTA: Vice City, one of the games 
 I played most in my life. Three Roman factions to play, each around 50 hours without rushing the 
 gameplay plus the unlockable factions and the history battles. If I could give this game more than 
 10 in the value, I would easily (and that from one who is not going to play MP at all) .
  
  Simply put, no matter, I'll say again no matter what genres you like, everybody NEEDS to play this 
 game. Thanks to CA for bringing my personal 2004 GOTY to the stores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KindGalaxy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 1, 2004 6:44 am PT
Review:  I never intended to buy this game. However the demo was so enjoyable that I just could not pass 
 this game up. Never had I played the previous Total War games, so this was my initiation.
  The menu interface is slick and easy to use, just 3 clicks and you can find yourself in a random 
 battle for some quick action.
  The campaign is epic, at first you have but 3 choices, 3 houses of Rome. However you can unlock 
 other civilisations to play as later on for a change of pace. Each civilisation (including the 
 unlockable ones) have a video clip telling you what they are about and such - and it does suck 
 to into the mindset of those you are playing. If you are Brutii don't be surprised to find yourself 
 enslaving the numerous provinces you capture, if you are the Carthagians don't be surprised if 
 you exterminate more Roman towns then what could be considered humane.
  The loading screens have a 'famous' quote from the era, anything from Caesar and Sun Tzu to Homer 
 and even Spartan Ideology quotes. This is a nice touch.
  I say this is a learning experience because, without even knowing it, you are actually learning 
 in this game. You are learning the art of diplomacy, the art of subterfuge and of course the art 
 of war on a scale and depth I've not seen in any other game.
  You are sucked into this time period, this world.
  The battles are huge. This is not your average 
 RTS where you tank-rush (or Hero-rush in the case of WarCraft 3) the enemy. This is a game that 
 requires alot of thought on your part to win the battle.
  Siege units look great and are wonderfully animated - placing ladders upon stone walls and then 
 watching your troops climb up and attack enemy archers is a jaw-dropping experience.
  The leadup to battles often has your general/leader talking to the troops of the day, telling them 
 what they are up against, whether you have any allies on your side, what the mentality is of the 
 enemy and so forth. Which has a lovely, gladiator-like feel to it.
  I could write for hours on the many little things this game has that make it stand out, but frankly 
 I wish to get back to the war.
  This game is, at least, RTS of the Year and - if not for Half-Life 2 or The Sims 2 this could well 
 be Game of the Year. It is a must buy for any strategy fan out there, whether you are new to the 
 Total War series or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheStorm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2004 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Wow I will go slightly into this, I would rather go back and play but this game is just... EPIC. 
 I know that word has been used a lot but some don't understand how epic this is. I liked the first 
 two Total War games, they were fun, but this one tops them all.
  
  I usually write long reviews but this one needs just a few words. If you even don't like the RTS/TBS 
 you will most likley like this game. It is one to remember and get. I got this game and am suprised 
 I could not leave. Usually with me and RTS's I would play a while then quit, but just like StarCraft 
 I could not stop playing this game, even some of my friends who don't like these games started 
 watching over my shoulder and giving me advice, I had no idea they had been sitting there for almost 
 4 hours watching me, to them it was like watching a movie.
  
  Ah stop reading this go get... NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thore33
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 30, 2004 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Definately a great game. The 3D map really increases the importance and fun in the World mode. 
 It actually reminds me a lot of Civilization as far as the world map goes. You can even go so far 
 as to line yourself up on the world map and attack from a mountain, and the battle will place you 
 on the mountain with the enemy below to get swallowed.
  
  The advisors are mediocre, but well integrated into learning the game. The tutorial (prologue) is 
 not just a series of lessons, but a mini-campaign. There is not much time wasted learning a game 
 you already know due to the fact that once you're "done" with learning, you are already in the 
 middle of a campaign. 
  
  My only problems with this game are some of the interface issues. Some of the most important icons 
 or scrolls are very difficult to get to. Things like your faction family tree, or what Senate missions 
 are currently available, are either almost impossible to find, or take a series of 4 or 5 buttons 
 to get to. Other things like army formations are also not available like they were in the first 
 games of the series.
  
  Other than these small problems, the game is great. Great graphics; great sound; great strategy; 
 and totally worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desertdback
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 30, 2004 6:21 pm PT
Review:  This game just rocks. I don't know how you could not enjoy this game from soo many different perspectives. 
 It automatically jumps up to Warcraft/Starcraft standards, but in a totally new and redefining 
 way when it comes to RTS. It takes everything boring and repititive out of RTS and just reflushes 
 it with a beautifully looking and engaging GUI and battle system. What can I say I cannot stop 
 playing this game. ENJOY AND don't say I didn't warn you! I have not played any of the other total 
 war game, yet I came into this game and with its wonderful tutorial jumped right into playing and 
 was amazed by how it captured me. I am usually a gamer that gets bored with a game pretty easily, 
 but this one has captured me from the beginning and now a couple days later, nearly to the end. 
 So much fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HomerJSimpson76
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 29, 2004 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Really I have played this game for hours and just cant stop except to sleep, eat, school and write 
 this.
  
  Gameplay 10 Campain map is great *escaially with new family system* and battles are very historically 
 accurate.
  
  Graphics 10 New engine is fantastic and u can see the sock when the calvary hit the spear men.
 
  
  Sound 10 Music goes great with game and love hearing CHARGE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Values 9 only because its $50 and im not rich.
  
  GET THIS GAME ITS THE BEST RTS AND IS A CLASSIC 
 ALREADY. hope this review helped U. This was my first review so sry if I didnt help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daywalker13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 29, 2004 1:14 am PT
Review:  ROME: Total War is by far and away the best Total War title to date. It is utterly astonishing 
 how they've managed to fix everything I found annoying or deficient in the previous two games while 
 adding some amazing gameplay and graphical features. The Rundown: 
  
  Battles (did we mention they're in 3D?) : 
  
  The fully 3d-rendered units (as opposed to 2d 
 sprite units and 3d terrain, as in the previous titles) look fantastic. More importantly, it's 
 much easier to differentiate one unit group from another, or your units from the enemies, as the 
 3d models don't have some of the overlap problems the 2d sprites in the previous games did. The 
 physics seem realistic enough, though I'll agree with some things I've read elsewhere in that some 
 units seem to move way too fast. Watching a calvary charge into a line of swordsman is really impressive 
 as some swordsmen get knocked down by the horses, while others are cut down by swords. Really, 
 really neat. 
  
  They've tweaked the 3D camera as well, and I find control of my viewpoint to be much easier than 
 in MTW, but I couldn't tell you exactly what's changed. Finally, the sheer quantity of units you 
 can put onto the battlefield at once is staggering. Not to mention the fine graphical effects you 
 get with things like: flaming arrows, fiery catapult shot, ballista, sieges, javelins, just EVERYTHING.
 
  
  Campaign mode:
  
  This is really where the game shines, to be honest. Yes, the battlefield improvements with the 
 fully 3d-engine are great, but the complete overhaul of the campaign portion of the game has to 
 be seen to be believed. Rather than the old "risk"-style board, you have a fully realized 3d map 
 of the world circa 270 B. C. Units get moved to exactly where you want them, allowing you to setup 
 ambushes with troops in forests, or create chokepoints at bridges and rivers. Other reviewers have 
 talked a lot about this, so I'll leave it here. 
  
  In the previous two games, what really seemed to be missing for me was the through-line, if you 
 will. Sure, you were marching your armies around and taking territories and building them up and 
 building more armies and so on, but there wasn't really a sense of immersion outside of the battles 
 themselves. That has completely changed with RTW. The combination of the excellent advisor system 
 and the ongoing "struggle" with the Senate (initially) and the other families of rome gives you 
 a real sense that you're fighting to establish your family's place as one of the great houses. 
 
  
  The family management interface is a lot easier to use, and some of the new family abilities are 
 very fun as well. I loved the fact that I could simply build a fort on one side of a chokepoint 
 bridge in enemy territory to provide an in for defeating them: I was vastly outnumbered, so I couldn't 
 attempt to take over the province right away, however with a fort blocking their approach to my 
 lands over the bridge they couldn't really do anything to me, and so for several turns I was able 
 to simply keep sending additional reinforcements to the fort until I had enough strength to sally 
 force and crush them utterly. 
  
  
  Overall, this is simply one of the best games I've ever played, especially considering the utter 
 lack of bugs so far (haven't found one yet) . And the little touches just make everything work so 
 well together. The first time the campaign map "zoomed" almost seamlessly into the battle map engine 
 and I heard my faction leader delivering a rousing speech prior to a battle, I was hooked. You 
 will be too. 
  
  The training/prologue portion of the game is very helpful in getting started, but you won't really 
 feel comfortable with everything in the game (if this is your first Total War title) until you've 
 been playing for a good hour or two. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigs39
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 28, 2004 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I found the first two games of the series fun but very hard and somewhat frustrating to control 
 all the armies, but this game is a lot better. Here's my thoughts:
  
  Gameplay: The strategic aspect is awesome, you control your faction in a turn based sim and have 
 to control everything from cities, armies, and navies. You must keep aquiring cities to make your 
 faction richer and stronger while trying to contend with raging hordes all around you. It's a hard 
 balancing act to have enough armies to defend your cities while sending out Legion's to conquer 
 more and keep doing things that the senate wants you to (I can't wait to get powerfull enough to 
 kick their butts, they are a pain) . Once you activate a battle the map zooms in to where the action 
 is and you deployee your armies and control them. It's a lot of fun to move your battering ram 
 up to the gates of a city and crush it then to "Unlease Hell" as your units say when you tell them 
 to attack. 10/10
  
  Graphics: These are the best graphics yet for a real time sim. There are tons of units and if you 
 zoom in during the battle you can see each unit doing it's thing. Before the battles start is the 
 best, your commander gives his battle speech and it's usually pretty funny. While he's giving his 
 speech the PC flips from unit close up to unit close up and the spearmen are banging their spears 
 on their shields, the bowmen are holding their bows over their heads and shouting, etc. The strategic 
 portion of the game also has nice graphics you can also zoom in and out on this map. While there 
 is nothing super cool to look at the overall graphics are executed perfect. 9/10
  
  Sound: The sounds are great, swords clanking, screams, commanders exhorting above the battle din, 
 stomping feet during marches. The only problem I've had is that every once in a while the sound 
 justs totally drops out and will not come back until I quit the game and restart it. This may be 
 a problem with my PC but I don't think so I haven't had this problem with any other game. 9/10
 
  
  Value: I don't usually buy games when they first come out but after reading the reviews and seeing 
 the demos I couldn't resist putting out the $39 (on sale at Fry's) . I have not had any buyers remorse 
 in this case. I can't stop playing and it looks like it's going to take a long time to finish even 
 one campaign. There is a chance that after several weeks it may start to seem repeatitive, conquer 
 city, build up city, build up more troops, conquer next city, repeat. For now there is more than 
 enough varity going on with your family tree, the senate, the diplomacy, the ever present barbarian 
 hordes, and many other things to make it a great value even at full price. 10/10
  
  Reviewers Tilt: I like it, I like it a lot. I have always wanted a game that blends turn based 
 strategy with real time battles and this game does it perfectly, well as close as you can get after 
 all there's always room for improvement (like being able to name each unit or controlling the navy 
 battles) . 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer11115
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 28, 2004 9:13 am PT
Review:  It's easy to see why Rome: Total War is something of a... How do you say... Superb game. It has 
 the graphics, it has the sound, and most of all: It has the element of gameplay. Looking at the 
 screenshots and maybe even a couple of video clips, you'd see what I meant in terms of the graphics. 
 They are AMAZING. True, the faces [of the troops] aren't individualized... The cities aren't as 
 populated [with citizens] as they could be... But let me ask you this... Who cares? If you're looking 
 for a game plotted with citizens, go and check out Simcity. This game is based on, as its name 
 suggests, war. And it does one heck of a job in presenting it.
  
  With that said, you'd need to hear the game to experience the full effects that come with Rome: 
 Total War. It's almost surreal. Everything and anything seemed to be covered in this department 
 - From the music down to the thundering footsteps of your troops. Even the voice work is impressive. 
 You could challenge a 9 with an 8, depending on how high your standards are... But whether it's 
 superb or great, it takes care of business and it does it fairly well at that.
  
  Now comes the Gameplay. Being a strategic war game, RTW comes with fairly typical goals in mind. 
 Don't expect any dramatic role-playing twists or epic storytelling. That part is left for your 
 imagination to mold. Conquer the map and you win. While this may seem rather simplistic, there 
 is actually quite a bit of depth added to the surface of a polished piece of art. More over anything, 
 the game has two pre-dominant features which boast its gameplay. First, the battles. On anything 
 set below normal, don't expect any significant challenges... On Hard... Well, let's just say you'll 
 have to really start to apply yourself. Especially for those bigger, more important battles. Did 
 I mention that the game has AMAZING graphics?
  
  The second feature is the campaign mode. Whether you're into it or not, RTW does quite the job 
 in providing the features necessary to get what you, as a gamer, want. The standard micromanagement 
 option is, naturally, there. But then you have the option of placing such tenous tasks under the 
 self-sufficient AI. In either case, it meets the needs of the gamer - Extreme and otherwise. And 
 worry not! The campaign map has been revamped into a 3-dimensional world. Say Good-Bye to the traditional 
 TW map.
  
  As if the Campaign mode weren't enough... And it's accompanying battles, of course... You have 
 some additional features that add to an already superb experience. There is the Historical Battle 
 Mode for those who seek to challenge history (With customizable difficulties of course) , a Custom 
 Battle Mode (You make the battle) , a Quick Battle Mode (All out WAR!!!) , and a multiplayer feature 
 which I have yet to test. Rest-assured, when looking at the bigger picture... I'm sure it'll fuel 
 an already blazing fire. 
  
  Rome: Total War is a Superb game that does more than provide a pretty picture. Expect some intense 
 battles as well as a complex campaign mode that is sure to engross you for hours on end. And let's 
 not forget the multiplayer mode for those who want to face some truely unique challenges. In summary, 
 this is an easy "YES" as to whether this game should be apart of your collection. So go out and 
 buy it! [if you haven't already] . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSS383
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 27, 2004 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin I just wanted to try and describe the game with a phrase. Awesome 3D large scale 
 battles and great strategy that every strategy gamer would enjoy. The campaign has been very enjoyable 
 so far. After a little while things can get a little busy but it hasnt been a problem, you just 
 got to do some creative thinking which brings you into the game alot. The thing I most enjoy about 
 the game is the engrosing feeling of the 3D battlefield. This feature is going to be most peoples 
 main reason for playing the game so I want to go over some good and bad things about it. First 
 off, there really isnt anything bad about the 3D battles, but there are a few things I feel like 
 nit picking about. Graphics are the first point. Im the type of gamer who owns about 200 PC games 
 and buys a new game every two or three weeks so I've seen alot and if the game I buy doesnt try 
 to push some kind of envelope it leaves me wishing for more, and this game does push all kinds 
 of envelopes except for graphics which it made good not awesome. I know that the developers wanted 
 to keep the polycount down on the models on the battlefield because of the masses of soldiers, 
 but with some of the high end PCs and video cards out there. there should have been a high quality 
 battlefield & strat map option. Alot of people say it doesnt matter but it really does help boost 
 the legacy of the game and make playing it more engrossing and enjoyable. Like I said earlier though, 
 the graphics are good just not spectacular. One other very small nitpick of the game that would 
 help push along the realism factor is if your soldiers spoke their native language after recieving 
 orders. I think I've heard some other languages during battle but english seems dominant. Other 
 than these two small points, it would be very cool if you could actually fight sea battles with 
 your navy, which are done automatically in the game, but again this doesnt really hurt the game. 
 Also just as a comment, the sounds in the game especially the music really gets your blood pumping, 
 you'll see what Im talking about.
  So overall the game is an awesome strategy game, and if you have played any of the Total War series 
 and enjoyed them somewhat, you're gonna love this game. As for others with no experience with the 
 series, "buy this game", pretty much any type of gamer will enjoy it, for me it ranks as one of 
 the best strategy games I've every played.
  
  OK, I just wanted to do a little followup on this early review of the game I did. I've been playing 
 the game like crazy and after playing for so long you begin to find things that could have been 
 done better. I've only noticed a few interface things that could have been done better such as 
 the camera you use on the 3D battlefield. When attacking a huge city equipped with "Epic Stone 
 Walls" the largest there is, the camera can get anoying at these times and some others. There are 
 some other small interface things that could have been done better on the strategy map portion 
 also, I just cant think of them now. OK, NOW FOR THE REASON I WROTE THIS FOLLOWUP - after you play 
 for long periods of time and your empire starts to become really huge you can bet on spending sometimes 
 30 min to even an hour on a single turn (1 YEAR) . Managing your empire becomes a very tedious job 
 and you begin to have money problems with your growing cities. This starts a downward spiraling 
 cycle of building more garrison to be able to adequetly tax a city and the garrison cost more to 
 maintain so you break through a threshold of having so many forces in cities for public order garrison 
 you cant afford to spend any on offensive forces which kinda stagnates the game and those 3D battles 
 that drove the game forward earlier become few and far between. If you are the type of person who 
 cant sit down and finish a turn or two you will forget what your strategies were, like what were 
 you gonna go with army A and B and why were you were producing unit C at this far off city. It 
 makes you not want to stop playing but again it makes you not want to sit back down and figure 
 out what you had already done in a saved game. I hope you get the point, its still an awesome game 
 but the management is like being a lone air traffic controller at some huge airport and yeah I 
 know you can set cities to automanage but I want to manage my empire so I can get the best out 
 of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iliastse
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 27, 2004 8:12 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing startegy games, about 8 years ago, I had imagined a game with 3D graphics 
 engine an impressive strategic map & animation. I didn't know that it would be RTW. You 'll find 
 campaigns such as the Imperial, Historical Battle, Custom & Quick. You have to decide if you'll 
 use the Arcade Style Battle. If you dos so, you won't have the complete control of the game, sych 
 as morale of men, weather conditions and altitude differences. The Prologue is nth more than a 
 tutorial, but a good one. In Long Campaign you need to conquer 50 "areas" and of course Rome. In 
 the Short Campaign just 15 and one or two factions (it depends on thenation you choose) . The Historical 
 Battle has major historical battles and in the Custon Battle you create you own. The Multiplayer 
 is what gives RTW "immortality". I liked myself the Macedonian's cavalry, hoplites and pike phalanxes. 
 Theoritically, RTW is the perfect strategy game till now, with no mistakes and minor disadvantages 
 (the multiplayer could have been better) , but I'm sure we 're going to see an add-on from Creative 
 Assemply. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullLeader00
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 27, 2004 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Well I only have two complaints but I will save that for the end ... first let me explain why this 
 game is incredible.
  
  Gameplay: There are two components to this. First its the Strategy part where you take control 
 of armies and countries and you have to intelligently run the finances and population growth and 
 building progression, etc. The Micromanagement is great. With more options than the first game, 
 Rome Total War does an excellent job creating a real time strategy game that makes you feel like 
 you were there. The second part which is my favorite is the battle gameplays. The new War Engine 
 is incredible. Now you can control armies in the millions of soldiers and the new units make this 
 game fun. Huge elephants and flamming catapultes are a couple I love to attack with. The terrain 
 and the smart AI makes it very challenging to say the least.
  
  Graphics: What can I say? You have seen the pictures ... and they are quite impressive. The battle 
 scenes in real time are too sweet and when you see the flaming ball hit smack dab in the middle 
 of a greek army and see the soldiers fly all around ... you will then realize how incredible this 
 graphic engine really is.
  
  Sound: I loved the first game and the sounds and music they used. same with Rome Total War ... 
 sounds like they used the same music company but all in all they did a great job incorporating 
 music and sound effects to the game. Before each battle you hear your commander give a speech and 
 it pumps you up!
  
  Value/Tilt: There are only 2 things that drive me crazy which i will eventually get over. 1 is 
 that it is pretty damn hard game. Even on the easiest levels you have to micromanage a lot! to 
 be able to be profitable for each country is hard but that is the challenge so it is not much of 
 a complaint. the second is the fact that there is so much going on. In the first game you only 
 saw what you had and didn't worry too much about other factions ... but here you have 2 allies 
 from the very beginning so you have to stay intune with what they do! all in all the challeneg 
 of the game is definitley there, but whether you are a fan of RTS or strategies in general ... 
 this game is awesome. I give it a 9.2 because in today's games this game is clearly ahead of the 
 bunch ... with a few adjustments this game could even be higher ... but i can't wait for what this 
 company can make next!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: morphy3
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 27, 2004 5:58 pm PT
Review:  To call Rome: Total War a "RTS" doesnt do it justice. It is a full scale battlefield simulator, 
 with a Civilization-style campaign map to boot. No longer do we have to settle with outdated graphics 
 and sound to enjoy the best wartime game (s) ever made. No longer do we have to play substandard 
 cartoonlike games like Age of Empires to get modern graphics and animation. If you arent afraid 
 to get complete realism and face brutal consequences for mistakes, then pick this up as soon as 
 possible.
  
  My only few gripes involve the AI at easier skill levels, and a few technical glitches that pop 
 up sporadically with adding/removing units from groups. Aside from that, you have a perfect battlefield 
 sim! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahazen001
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 27, 2004 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I rarely... let me repeat this... RARELY take the time to type out a review, so just the mere fact 
 that I am doing this tells you something about the quality of this great game. I am a huge military 
 strategy/history buff (as I would imagine many of the people who play these types of games are) 
 and let me just say this game is faithful to the history of the Roman Empire and it's military 
 tactics beyond belief. 
  
  The game plays out on two levels: the strategic and the tactical. The stategic level being the 
 general strategy of your family and placement of your armies in the game world and the tactical 
 being the down and dirty work of fighting the battles. Both are done extremely well and you can 
 tweak your gameplay experience to suit your interests. So for example, if you are a classic delegator 
 and would rather leave the battle fighting to your heirs, then you can simply autocalculate the 
 battles. As long as you put your most capable family members at the head of your larger army's 
 (most capable commanders that is) , they can take care of business without any problem, which will 
 free you up to manage the grand strategy of your expanding empire. If you are a true disciple of 
 Alexander the Great and Julius Caesar however, the game lets you play out the tactics they used 
 in their battles with ASTONISHING realism. One example of this is placing your weaker, less experienced 
 troops in the center of your formation, thus letting your enemy press in early and then realizing 
 too late they are being encircled and cut down by your hardened veterans (a classic tactic made 
 famous by many great generals) . Spies and assassins also work extremely well in this game and enable 
 you to gain huge advantages if you utilize them correctly. I could go on and on about the attention 
 to detail from a tactical perspective at great length, but you get the drift. 
  
  The family system in this game is also quite remarkable and something that deserves mention. As 
 you start to get into the game, you will actually find yourself being proud of your progeny, for 
 example when you see a young 20 year old sired by one of your best commanders becoming a capable 
 commander in his own right, one that you know you can count on to crush even your toughest enemies 
 for years (and turns) to come. This is something they could have left out of them game and it still 
 would have been great, but the fact that they included it and did such a good job with it is just 
 another reason this game is going to be considered a masterpiece for years to come.
  
  So, in summation, let me just say this... buy this game today, you will not regret it. 
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zilor
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 27, 2004 2:57 pm PT
Review:  When I first laid eyes on the full size of the campaign map... my brain nearly shut off. It was 
 incredibly massive, it seemed overwhelming in a cool sort of way. An I knew I had to conquer it 
 all...
  
  The way they changed the map from the previous Total Wars is awesome, being able to setup blockades, 
 hold mountain passes, and basically use the world map in a more tactical way has just helped to 
 make the game all the more enjoyable. 
  
  The battles are amazing, I have never seen something with the scale that this game pulls off, mainly 
 cause no other game has even tried this kind of scale. The troops moving in, the elephants tossing 
 units into the air, cavalry tearing through archers, all amazing and beautiful.
  
  There really isnt one thing I can fault the game on, reviews should tell the good and the bad, 
 but really what is bad isnt worth mentioning at all because most people would never notice or care. 
 The game is perfect and should be bought by anyone who likes RTS games even the slightest bit. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imperialarc
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2004 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best I have played so far. Strategy gamers will NOT be let down by Rome: 
 Total War. The imperial campaign map is great in itself and most importantly, the battles are beautifully 
 done. Creative Assembly have practically out done themselves this time around. Newbies to the genre 
 will have no trouble getting used to the game's interface and gameplay as there are advisors in 
 the game that will teach you about every detail in the game. Great job CA!
  
  Go out now and get it. Play the demo if you must but you have to get this in your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kef
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 27, 2004 5:55 am PT
Review:  For 2 years now weve eagerly soaked up the previews, salivated at the thousands of screenshots 
 and movies, then finally got the tiniest taste of the action in the demo. Now play the game: Rome 
 Total War. What a ripper! Its finally out! Im pinching myself because I can barely believe it. 
 Im sure Im dreaming. For me, it is easily THE most highly anticipated game since Civ3 in 2001.
 
  
  So the big question is: does it live up to the hype? The short answer well, if a buxom brunette 
 asked me for coffee, of course I'd say YES! Do I wish I was at home playing it now and not stuck 
 at work (writing this review) , yes, yes and YES! (That probably explains why buxom brunettes dont 
 ask me for out for coffee) .
  
  If you havent played any previous Total War games, its hard to explain. Take crispy doses of 
 turn-based strategy. Mix in big, juicy chunks of real-time strategy. Bring to the boil, then smother 
 with fresh, extra-thick gameplay. Make sure you're cooking this in a giant-sized pot, like the 
 ones used by navy cooks. Cause kiddo, you aint finishing this game in a month of rainy weekends 
 (which is pretty rare here in Sydney) .
  
  What are you waiting for? Go out and buy it OR ELSE I will show you the sharp end of my gladius. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKokopelli
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2004 4:08 am PT
Review:  In a year with disappointing titles, the Total War series once again reclaims the RTS market with 
 this newest release. Players familiar with the previous Total War titles will have no problems 
 playing this game. For the players new to the Total War series, the tutorials are easy to understand 
 and greet players with a well-designed game that follows the overall ease of use found in the games 
 predecessors. I must admit that I have only played a few custom battles in the short time that 
 I have had this game, but it has already won spot for one of my favorite titles. If this game does 
 not win the RTS title of the year, the judges should seriously look at some professional help, 
 because this is game of the year material. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brc320
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 25, 2004 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is nothing short of amazing. Anybody who likes strategy games should play this! The games 
 hybrid nature of both turn based and real-time strategy provides an unbeatable combination which 
 is nearly impossible to find in today's single-dimension games. This game is flawlessly executed 
 and is truley a sight to behold. No wonder they made a TV series around it. That's how accurate 
 it emulates the Roman times.
  
  I have played all of the Total War games and while I thought they were good at the time, but this 
 blows them completely out of the water. The graphics are awesome for this type of game and scale. 
 The gameplay is truley thought provoking and encourages you to think outside the box. It's amazing 
 how real-life historical strategies come into play throughout the game. If you know your history 
 you will have a serious leg-up in the game.
  
  The experience of Rome: Total war is rich with depth, challenge, and strategic options. Compared 
 to the mindless FPS titles which you can finish in 20 hrs. or so, you could play this game for 
 months and constantly find new dimensions to it. The strategies and ways to victory are virtually 
 limitless, while their presentations are a joy to behold.
  
  It's refreshing to see a game come out that is truly refreshing and captures the true scope and 
 grandure of our real-world history. This game encoumpases the ancient world and gives you a feel 
 of Rome you can't get anywhere else. This is gaming at it's finest! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stegma
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 25, 2004 10:03 am PT
Review:  I have to say that Ive been getting bored of most games very quickly lately. This game, has been 
 one of the most anticipated in my "Wish List" and beyond a doubt, it has delivered!! 
  
  The game play is absolutely over the top. You can play for hours and hours without being tired 
 of the game ( like we use to back in the day) I just played for 15 hours non stop which is something 
 I havent done in a while with a game. 
  
  A great improvement over the other two Total War games is the way the we utilize the map. Instead 
 of having puretly divided sections, you may have armies anywhere along the map, blocking passages 
 (eg. mountains) , guarding cities. You will actualy have to march your army to a destinations.
 
  
  A big part of the game that wasnt a part of the previous is your family. In order to properly run 
 your empire, you need to have a strong family to command it. A great amaount of detail was put 
 into this to make it interesting with giving your generals traits that realy show in your empire 
 performance. 
  
  Most of all tho, are the Graphics, I love the battles because of the detail and great look of it. 
 Not only that but the command of your forces is much better than the previous TW games. 
  
  Anyways, read the GameSpot review for all the great +'s of the game. I cant give the game any -'s 
 at all so thats my review.
  
  I have to thank the people who worked on this game because it truely does push a game to new levels 
 when you put the of energy, thought, creativity, time and devotion into a game. These are the games 
 that matter and matter for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: British_Apostle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 24, 2004 11:43 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Rome: Total War for about 5 to 6 hours so far and they have completly rekindled 
 my love for the genr ta started me down the path of gaming. Nothing beats the satisfaction of seeing 
 enemies dissolve beneath my battle hardened Brutti Legions or slaughtering a greek city and burning 
 it to the ground. The Campaign map is completely revised and truly a sight to behold. But of course 
 the real sight to behold is the real time battles in the brand new graphics engine. I had 15,000 
 Roman Legionnaires faced against over 30,000 German Barbarians. I amassed a huge calvary legion 
 with over 3,000 men and horses. I flanked around the main skirmish line and hit their 5,000 supporting 
 archers and butchered them. I then wheeled the whole legion around and slammed into the rear of 
 the barbarians effecivly smashing them. They fled the field with less then 5,000 men and the satisfaction 
 I felt as the master tactician and the victor was increcdible. While the campaign is progressing 
 incredibly their version of quick matches is also incredibly fun. I love playing as the Carthaginians 
 and letting my war elephants rampage through enemy formations crushing their morale. The Greek 
 city states are also fun with their heavily armored phalanxes. All in al Rome: Total War is simply 
 a Masterpiece of divine portions. It is easily the best strategy game I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Ninja
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 24, 2004 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for awhile now and just got it yesterday. It's a great game a real 
 upgrade from "medieval total war". You can mow down a army of warriors (not including spearmen bad 
 call) . If your a strategist this game is a must own so get it now!!!!
  
  The battles are great and immersive you will be playing this countless times. Also, you can get 
 a close up of an an soldiers face while fighting.
  
  I guarantee you that you will love this game go out and buy it if not then get out of my face. This 
 game can have huge ass armies fighting each other its just incredible the campaign is great single 
 players greater and multiplayer just leaves me speechless.
  
  "GREAT GAME". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harden007
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2004 5:48 pm PT
Review:  For me, this game really recreates the feeling of Rome, much better than any other Roman game. 
 The strategy is excellent, and there are just so many good ideas in there to even mention. Large 
 playground (campaign map) , and many nations involved at the start of the game are a nice place 
 to begin. Three Roman families and the Senate are trying to control the world and eventually all 
 of Rome as well. As you defeat other nations in the campaign, they become playable in future campaigns 
 (very neat idea) . Also the troops having to march to their destinations rather than just plopping 
 down on them is an added touch of realism. That seems to be what this game is all about, realism 
 and fun. The battles are very impressive, despite what the "graphics nerds" think, and just add 
 to the theme of realism. While this game is similar to Medieval: Total War in its concepts and 
 ideas, it's such a vast improvement that veterans of Medieval will recognize it, but still have 
 a lot to learn if just starting out. All-in-all, Rome: Total War is probably the best strategy 
 game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomahawk22
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 24, 2004 3:41 pm PT
Review:  So far so good, amazing graphics, same good 'ol Total War battles, and some nice improvements. 
 More challening too on the harder levels too, which is great. If you liked Shogun or Medieval at 
 all, this is a MUST. I hope they have an "Attila the Hun Attacks" expansion or something. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Just what i expected, with a couple nice hotkey improvements and the good 'ol Total 
 War style battles. But the extra bonus of more campaign like movement of armies into mountain passes 
 etc. is great. In fact, the strategy part of the game seems to be the most enhanced with more realism 
 and options. You must maneuver columns of armies into enemy territory wisely BEFORE the battle. 
 The historical challenges the Romans faced you also face -- do you expand to the Danube and fortify 
 it, how do you deploy your limited armies etc? Thankfully the designers added features, rather 
 than taking any away from us -- except you can't save replays on ordinary battles. THat should be 
 reinstated.
  GRAPHICS: Awesome, you've seen the trailers, you've seen the game.
  SOUND: I like the background music, and the "Traiiri!" or "Attack!" voice sounds are good and not 
 annoying.
  VALUE: It's the best of Total War yet, very enjoyable. Bottomline: BUY IT!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magogian
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 24, 2004 4:12 am PT
Review:  I've played Shogun and Medieval for years on end. However, neither comes close to Rome: Total War. 
 (Not that they are supposed to) .
  
  Simply put, this game is amazing. The strategic depth down to the intricate tactical details all 
 come together to create on immersive experience. Poeple are saying how this game is for everyone. 
 I dont really think so. But, I think most people out there would love this game. Its definetely 
 is an epic strategy game as the gamespot review puts it. 
  
  Graphics: Great. The high point is the battles of course.
  
  Sound: Very good. From the rumble 
 of cavalry to the banging of spears on shields. Its all a lot of fun.
  
  Gameplay: Incredibly fun. It can be somewhat annoying in the beginning. But most poeple should 
 get a hang of it pretty quickly. Once you do, its a blast.
  
  Overall: Best game of the year (or at least in the top 3)
  
  Btw, I'm surpised at how well 
 my computer has run the game, even on high grahics settings. People will slower computers shouldnt 
 have any problems running the game, you just may have to keep the graphics settings low. 
  
  I haven't tried the mp. So, I cant speak to that however.
  
  Regardless, BUY THE GAME!!!! 
 You'll love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosyndrom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2004 2:23 am PT
Review:  Rome: Total War, is a great RTS, compareing it to other RTS, then yes it has great everything, 
 which requires great skill, for the settings you place it on. There are many factions to choose 
 from, and the Multiplayer is good if you can find a good host. Really don't both with any DSL/Cable 
 host trying to provide 6 people, you will be in a world of hate. Lets take a look in the single 
 player portion of the game.
  
  Rome: Total War - Single Player
  
  Modes:
  
  Prologue
  -Intro Movie
  -Tutorial Level
  + Required to start your other SP modes, but if 
 you dont finish it, it doesnt matter, you may quit and start any mode.
  
  Imperial Campaign
  -Choose 1 of 3 factions, and expand your empire, have mercy or crush the enemy, 
 its really your choice.
  +You start off with limited settlements, and must expand your faction of Rome, this includes a 
 full 3d map view to make your choices, whether they be the good or for the bad.
  
  Historic Battles
  -Fight in real historic battles during the time period.
  +Choose the battle, 
 and hope into the action
  
  Custom Battle
  -Choose a map, choose your faction, choose your ally, choose your enemy, choose map feats, and 
 choose your units.
  +Feel like making your own history? This is the mode for you.
  
  Quick Battle
  -Jump right into the action.
  +Great fun if you dont want to deal with all the 
 annoyances for the other modes.
  
  Rome Total War - Multiplayer
  I found the multiplayer a little annoying, although it had a good concept, it had some problems. 
 So you click MP, and it takes you to an continueing screen, you must enter your CD-Key in before 
 starting the fun. The CD-key has all capitals on the jewel case, so after 20 times of failing of 
 entering the right CD-key I soon found out that your not suppose to turn caps on when entering 
 your cd-key, not that big of a problem yet.
  
  So then I finally got in, and there were only 4 games going on I was expection 100+ games, because 
 this game is so great, I was soon to find out that the game requires a very good internet connection, 
 yes that was after I played a game with 5 other people and it was like lag hell. Anyways I slaughtered 
 them well lagging, no problem.
  
  Just do careful searching and you will be all good!
  
  All in all, the game is fantastic, a great buy, and hopefully some fixes on the MP soon, Im 
 going to go play now, thanks for reading.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcahill92129
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 24, 2004 12:40 am PT
Review:  one word.... AMAZING. this game is everything and more i wanted from this game. the graphics are 
 really good for a RTS, gameplay is great, just like S: TW and M: TW. Sound is decent, and this game 
 has unbelieveable replay value. The only thing i wish we could have was the ability to play more 
 factions. unless you can after you play as the Romans of course. but this game is still awsome. 
 the battle are even better from Medieval, and the sieges and battles are way more fun. the management 
 of your empire has gotten easier, with a few exceptions. I love this game and ill be playing this 
 baby for a loooon. g time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
