-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rowan's Battle of Britain
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/rowansbattleofbritain/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 14, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.3, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 39 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Developer: Rowan Software
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Jan 31, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It delivers almost everything a fan of the genre could ask for: immersion, attention to detail, 
 visual appeal, and -- above all -- truly realistic and intense flight combat. 

 Rowan Software has a long history of producing high-quality flight simulations, including Dawn Patrol, 
 Flying Corps, and GameSpot's 1999 Flight Simulation of the Year, MiG Alley. Shortly before Battle 
 of Britain was released, Empire Interactive bought Rowan and announced that its focus would shift 
 to video game consoles -- which means that Battle of Britain is something of a farewell to Rowan's 
 fans. If this indeed turns out to be the case, hard-core flight-simulation enthusiasts will long 
 remember Rowan for its final PC game, which delivers almost everything a fan of the genre could 
 ask for: immersion, attention to detail, visual appeal, and -- above all -- truly realistic and intense 
 flight combat. However, Battle of Britain may require a significant time investment in getting 
 the game to even work properly, and it's almost completely inaccessible to novice pilots.      
      The flight combat in Battle of Britain is very intense    

 Battle of Britain is probably the most comprehensive treatment of the epic air campaign ever done 
 on the computer. To achieve this, Rowan has split up the sim so that it's actually two games: one, 
 a strategic layer in which you manage the entire air effort of either the Royal Air Force or the 
 Luftwaffe, and two, the traditional in-the-cockpit depiction of aerial combat. Both games are superbly 
 done and furthermore well integrated so that switching from one to the other (joining in a particularly 
 interesting battle, for example) is quick and easy. It's the ultimate combination of a strategy 
 game and a hard-core simulation.   

  The game features five flyable aircraft, which cover the major fighter combatants involved in the 
 battle: the Supermarine Spitfire and Hawker Hurricane for the British, and the Messerschmidt Me-109 
 and Me-110 on the German side. The fifth aircraft is the Ju-87 Stuka dive-bomber, which makes for 
 an interesting (if often short-lived) ride. Furthermore, the three German medium bombers that flew 
 in the battle (the Do-17, He-111, and Ju-88) all have gunner positions that you can man (similar 
 to the gunner positions available in the recent B-17 Flying Fortress: The Mighty 8th) , although 
 you can't fly them as the pilot.   

  The aircraft models aren't spectacular, but they do look quite good, as does the terrain from high 
 altitude. Down low, the terrain does get somewhat uglier, though this is fairly common to the genre. 
 The cloud effects are outstanding, but unfortunately they tend to be a real burden on the processor, 
 and they'll drag down the performance of low-end and midrange computers. The cockpit graphics are 
 very crisp, uncluttered, and easy to read, and you can manipulate the internal switches and toggles 
 with the mouse when you set "engine management" to manual mode. In this mode, you even have to 
 go through a full flight check to get your engines started.           The cockpit graphics are 
 crisp and uncluttered    

 The aircraft that flew in the actual Battle of Britain were quite challenging to fly in real life, 
 and that challenge has been re-created in the flight models used in the game. The game engine is 
 a modified version of the one used in MiG Alley. Whereas the high speeds possible in jet aircraft 
 made hard maneuvering dangerous in that game, the planes in Battle of Britain are just finicky 
 enough (especially the Me-109) to make them challenging to fly without being frustrating. However, 
 one aspect that  is  frustrating is the game's attempt at modeling the pilot's head-bobbing when 
 you make abrupt maneuvers, which is certainly a factor in real life but is simply annoying on the 
 computer. There's apparently no option to disable this effect.   

  The presentation is essentially window dressing for the game's main strength, which is its simulation 
 of dogfighting. Simply put, Battle of Britain offers the best World War II dogfighting experience 
 available in any computer flight simulation. One reason for this is that the air battles can become 
 absolutely enormous, since hundreds of aircraft can fill the sky. The scope of the game is much 
 larger than that of any previous flight sim, and when you're in a dogfight with planes zooming 
 by and small specks filling your view in the distance, this will really hit home. In these huge 
 air battles, even the most experienced pilots will find themselves thankful for the aircraft directional 
 icons and the attitude indicator, which in some less demanding sims might be considered cheats. 
 The large-scale dogfights in Battle of Britain push air combat on the computer to the limit.   
  

 All of this is just the flight simulation part of the game. As noted, the campaign mode is really 
 a game in itself and is probably the most detailed treatment of the battle to be found for the 
 computer. As the German player, you command Luftflotte (Air Fleet) 2 and 3, which is based in France 
 and Belgium. (Luftflotte 5, which is based in Norway and Denmark, had a much smaller part in the 
 battle and is not included.) You have the ability to plan all raids, order reconnaissance missions, 
 and decide how to allocate your fighter escorts and what kind of instructions to give them with 
 respect to positioning and protection of the bombers. You watch your formations assemble and see 
 the British interceptors as they are sighted by your planes. When combat is initiated, you have 
 the option to jump into any of the aircraft involved in that particular mission or to simply let 
 the computer resolve the battle for you.           The terrain looks good at high altitudes    
 

 As the British player, you'll command historical formations like the Polish 303rd Squadron, as well 
 as the rest of Fighter Command, in your quest to beat back the German air onslaught. You'll have 
 to decide which squadrons to assign to patrols, which ones to rest, and which ones to keep in reserve. 
 The extent to which you protect valuable industries, such as power and aircraft manufacturing, 
 determines the number of aircraft you receive as reinforcements. It's an almost complete picture 
 of the battle in every detail. Pilots suffer from fatigue, so you can't just send your squadrons 
 up to intercept (or, as the Germans, repeatedly assign bombers to mission after mission) -- if you 
 do, you'll suffer decreased performance and additional losses. The campaign progresses through 
 four stages: the initial convoy raids on shipping in the English Channel; the Eagle attack period, 
 when the Germans pressed their attacks against radar sites and airfields; the critical period, 
 when industries and the main British air bases were the target; and the final blitz on London. 
 Film clips and artwork add to the historical atmosphere, which is well maintained throughout the 
 game. Multiplayer options include deathmatch, team play, or cooperative play in the various single-shot 
 scenarios. Unfortunately, there's no provision for a multiplayer version of the campaign.   

  While hard-core flight-sim fans will appreciate the game's attention to detail and superb flight 
 experience, the prognosis for more casual gamers or simulation novices isn't quite so good. In 
 fact, if you don't have a good amount of flight-sim experience, you should probably steer clear 
 of Battle of Britain until you have logged more virtual flying time. Simply taking off in Battle 
 of Britain's aircraft is an accomplishment in itself, even with relaxed realism options enabled. 
 The training missions have no voice-overs or other instructional aids. Hard-core and novice players 
 alike will be disappointed with the inability to remap keyboard commands. While a throttle-and-stick 
 combo is recommended, inexperienced players might not have the knowledge or inclination to program 
 (or download) a configuration file for these or might not even have such hardware in the first 
 place. Battle of Britain is geared specifically toward the simulation enthusiast, and newcomers 
 should beware.           Novice pilots will be in for a serious challenge    

 The last issue with Battle of Britain is one that has haunted many recent sims: its technical problems. 
 Some players have reported being completely unable to run the game without it frequently crashing, 
 which may be related to video drivers and card incompatibilities. There are documented fixes for 
 many of these problems, but some of them require editing a game resource file, and many people 
 will understandably shy away from a game that requires so much user adjustment just to get it running. 
 Also, the stuttering that plagued some systems in MiG Alley reappears in Battle of Britain, and 
 susceptibility to stuttering doesn't seem to be easily correlated to system specs or driver versions. 
 The game also won't recognize some USB joysticks.   

  In spite of these problems, Battle of Britain could end up being a classic in the genre. Unfortunately, 
 many players won't be able to appreciate it because of these same problems. Those lucky enough 
 to be able to run Battle of Britain out of the box, or persistent enough to tweak the game until 
 it works, will discover a truly impressive simulation like nothing to date since European Air War. 
 If you're experienced with air-combat simulations and you manage to get it working well, you'll 
 undoubtedly fall in love with Battle of Britain.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
