-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rugby 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/rugby2004/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.2
Critic Score: 5.1, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 4.8, 55 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: HB Studios
Genre: Rugby
Date:     Nov 4, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rugby 2004 is by no means authoritative, and it certainly won't convince newbies that the sport 
 makes a worthy computer game. 

  Here in North America, it doesn't matter how popular a given sporting pastime is across the rest 
 of the globe. If we didn't originate it or refine it, we generally don't care about it or even 
 recognize it. On a professional level, sports such as soccer, cricket, and rugby enjoy massive 
 worldwide appeal but barely register here on our sheltered shores. And that may be just the reason 
 EA Sports' latest athletically oriented game, Rugby 2004, seems so subpar -- it just isn't important 
 on EA's home turf. Graphically dated, poorly presented, and too darned tedious and repetitive in 
 single-player mode, Rugby 2004 may gain some favor because of its uniqueness and perfectly timed 
 release (coinciding with the real-life Rugby World Cup) , but it is by no means authoritative, and 
 it certainly won't convince newbies that the sport makes a worthy computer game.  

          Rugby 2004's scrums will be ponderous and perplexing events for those unfamiliar with the 
 game.     

  Out of the chute, Rugby 2004 looks both bad and rushed. First-timers may want to sit through the 
 lackluster opening -- a banquet of none-too-stimulating animated video snippets culled from the minds 
 of Canadian developer HB Studios -- but they will undoubtedly opt out the next time. When you first 
 arrive at the menu interfaces, you'll quickly realize this is not a distinct PC build. It's console 
 all the way, from the roughly rendered background graphics to the blocky, ultralow resolution text 
 and horrid control. You can't type your name in -- you must instead select letters with your mouse. 
 And you can't use the keyboard to navigate. Indeed, this inconvenient control setup continues even 
 during a contest, where you're never really sure which device you should use to scroll the menus 
 or make selections. Sometimes your mouse will do the trick, sometimes the keyboard, and sometimes 
 your gamepad.  

  And then there are the options -- or rather, the curious positioning of them. If you want to adjust 
 the graphics, for instance, you'll do so even before you begin the game, from a separate launch-configuration 
 utility. That's right, you must decide in advance such matters as resolution, shadowing, detail, 
 weather (on/off) , and antialiasing. To modify the audio settings, you must actually enter a contest 
 and select from the in-game menu. Thankfully, you can decrease or switch off both the crowd volume 
 and commentary volume. This is important, as the crowd tends to drone on and on, and the commentary 
 is pitifully weak. In fact, the game's programming and trigger points virtually destroy any value 
 real-world broadcasters John Inverdale and Gordon Bray may have otherwise brought. Sounding energized 
 when there is no excitement, jumbled when the action heats up, and flat-out wrong or noticeably 
 behind the play much of the time, Inverdale and Bray are most enjoyable when silenced.  

  Before you get under way, you'll want to decide on the structure of your gameplay. Rugby 2004 offers 
 several alternatives, including a training pitch. Here, you'll practice several of the sport's 
 finer points without the pressure of winning and losing. Sadly, the training pitch isn't nearly 
 as informative or instructional as it could and should be. In fact, there is no instruction at 
 all. Instead, you merely decide which part of the game you need to improve, then attempt to master 
 your controller and run your plays against the artificially intelligent adversaries. You'd think 
 that in the absence of any real tutoring, EA could have at least supplied an option whereby you 
 could work on your game without any opposing players on the pitch. This would have been a great 
 boon to newcomers, who would be able to get a better grasp on the basic elements. Alas, such an 
 option is not available.  

  Once you're marginally familiar with the controls, you can select from two game types: a quickie 
 one-off exhibition contest or a substantially more involving real-life tournament. In each, you'll 
 choose your difficulty preferences -- easy, normal, hard -- and the half length. In tournament mode, 
 you can also choose arcade or simulation play and a random or 2003 schedule. The Master League 
 also allows you to trade players and customize and manage your team, though you can't build your 
 own tournament from scratch with teams of your own choosing.  

          Like EA Sports' FIFA series, Rugby 2004 effectively captures the architecture of many of 
 the world's great outdoor stadiums.     

  However, you can build your own players from scratch. For Rugby 2004, developer HB Studios has 
 instituted a solid player-creation and editing tool that lets you design to your heart's content. 
 Naturally, if you want to play fairly, you won't stock your team with oversized behemoths who can 
 run at light speed and tackle with a mere flick of their massive forearm. In any case, you can 
 choose a player's hair length, skin tone, girth, name, and even the sound byte associated with 
 that player -- it's all up to you.  

  On the pitch, the game doesn't get much better. From a purely visual standpoint, Rugby 2004 is 
 leagues below other EA Sports endeavors, even those from two or three years ago. The camera work 
 is particularly poor, often jumping about ad hoc to follow the path of the ball or strangely diverting 
 to an inconspicuous corner of the pitch when a penalty is called. You'll eventually want to use 
 one of the distant perspectives, as it takes in more of the field and doesn't feel quite so herky-jerky. 
 But then you'll lose much of the animation intricacies.     

  No matter, really, because the players generally move in a simple fashion. There appear to be two 
 or three running motions, a couple of tackling motions, and a couple of falling motions. When players 
 slow down, they don't really run at a slower pace. Instead, they move their arms and legs at the 
 same speed but somehow don't cover any ground -- as if they were running on ice. When they make a 
 transition -- say, from sprinting to jogging or when turning from a diagonal to a horizontal orientation -- they 
 do so abruptly, instantaneously altering their direction and position in the blink of an eye.  
 

          Rugby 2004's roster management utility allows you to create any number of players, then 
 customize their abilities and appearance.     

  That having been said, the game does a respectable job of modeling the features and attributes 
 of rugby's star players. And there are plenty of them scattered among the 60 teams and 1,500 players 
 HB Studios has incorporated within the game. Though the heads are generally too big for the bodies, 
 the faces look quite good, and the statures are distinct.  

  Conversely, the peripheral scenery is only fair. The game purportedly replicates an impressive 
 65 real-world stadiums, and indeed you'll notice the architectural differences whenever you get 
 a nice wide-angle shot of the environment. Some are monstrous high-tech affairs, others are classically 
 designed, and some are just plain antiquated. The crowds look good from a distance, where they 
 appear as a living, breathing mass brandishing club-specific flags and colors, but up close they 
 look more like the blurry passengers from a ghost train.  

  The game also supports varying degrees of weather and both daytime and evening matches. However, 
 all those little visual flairs so predominant in many top-of-the-line sports games are conspicuously 
 absent. You won't find rain droplets, big muddy puddles, or dirty uniforms. There are no sun effects 
 or lens flare, and a dry pitch really doesn't look much different from one that's soaked. The overlay 
 graphics, though supposedly trying to duplicate the polished feel of a television broadcast, are 
 not nearly up to the standards set in other EA Sports endeavors and are nowhere near real TV.  
 

  But all of the above could be somewhat forgiven if Rugby 2004 delivered strong, exciting gameplay. 
 Unfortunately, it does not. In simple terms, the game is messy. For starters, the dizzying camera 
 work and jumpy animations do not paint a clear picture of the proceedings. The control setup seems 
 poorly defined, and players off the ball tend to run around ridiculously. Scrums look rather effective, 
 but there seems to be some question as to what, exactly, you're supposed to do while it continues. 

  This brings us to a key point. There are simply too many times when the unfolding events could 
 do just as well if you weren't there. Scrums are one such example, but even worse are those persistent 
 and persistently annoying instances when the game really does fall out of your control. Over and 
 over again, you are presented with set animations -- say, a kick or a line out -- where you are permitted 
 no input yet can't fast-forward through them. This is monotonous to the extreme and not acceptable. 

  For the most part, carrying the ball is an exercise in frustration. Most confounding is the game's 
 depiction of fatigue, where the ball carrier grows weary as he rumbles down the pitch but his pursuers 
 do not. It would appear that HB Studios' rugby ball weighs just about the same as a medicine ball. 
 There are a few ways around this, however, and once you discover some of the game's hot plays you 
 will win your fair share of contests.  

          Providing virtually no instructions and no chance to work on your game without the presence 
 of opposition players, Rugby 2004's training pitch is far from perfect.     

  Two- or four-player human-versus-human affairs are a bit more appealing, if only because another 
 real-life person will make mistakes the AI does not. You friends must be gathered around your computer, 
 though, because the game does not support any form of remote play.  

  Bereft of the graphical bonanza found in such series as Madden, NHL, and Tiger Woods, Rugby 2004 
 will not appeal to eye-candy fanatics. Nor -- with its poor instruction, disjointed sound, and questionable 
 gameplay -- will it grab the attention of rookies. True rugby fans may be able to see more clearly 
 behind the confusion and low-grade presentation, but even they will eventually grow annoyed by 
 the flaws. If you enjoy the sport and really have a strong desire to try your hand at its virtual 
 facsimile, there are few other alternatives, but even then Rugby 2004 may not be worth the hassle. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Masterful_Cabba
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  Rugby is a fanstastic sport, full of flair, action and passion- not that you could tell any of 
 that from this game which shouldn't be allowed near a computer. Whilst some graphics are average, 
 and the ability to make your own player is fine, its slow, jerky gameplay and commentary which 
 seems completely unrelated to what's on the pitch, even die-hard rugby fans should give this game 
 a wide berth.
  Whilst it tries to gradually press the gameplay into you, it has none of the intricacies of the 
 actual sport, and the training mode is unspecific, and dull. That you have to choose the options 
 before you even enter the game is stupid, and, although it has an accurate representation of the 
 players, it is too static, the camera angles too odd and overall, just awful.
  That being said, it does have a few uppoints, such as... it comes in a nice box- nope, forget it- 
 this game is one to be avoided at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigershark13
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 9, 2005 9:09 am PT
Review:  Everyone please do not be fooled by this game, rugby IS an enjoyable sport. This software however 
 isn't. Before anything else lets try to be positive, the game has some qualities: it's cheap and 
 ...... oh how am I kidding! This game sucks on each and every aspects! The sound is flat and doesn't 
 convey the hard hitting fun of the sport. The commentaries are repetitive to the point that its 
 seems that the commentator himself wanted to get the heck out of this game.
  
  The game doesn't offer alot of diversity. Sure you have your standard exhibition, tournament and 
 pseudo-franchise mode where you have so little control over your team (which for the purpose of 
 this mode starts by default with a roster of "not yet developed" players) that you don't feel motivated 
 to continue building your dynasty. Add to this a poorly constructed create a player option (which 
 is nothing more than an EDIT a player option!) and there you go, this is rugby 2004.
  
  Graphically this is a throwback to the 3DO era! Sure the game looks better then its predecessor 
 but the players still look like fossilized stick-matches. They do not (at all) reassemble their 
 real life counter parts and other for the fact the first row players all look like King Kong Bundy 
 the models are identical regardless of their position (since when are wingers bigger than flankers!)
 
  
  But all that could have been put aside if the gameplay was solid... and trust me it isn't. The 
 game is slower than ever, the controls are COMPLETELY unresponsive: controlling a rock, a maul 
 or a throw in is impossible which would be that bad if rugby wasn't a sport where you spend most 
 of your time ACTUALLY ROCKING AND MAULING!!! (at least the scrum mechanism was improved) The AI 
 serves a purpose of comic relief more than anything else, your teammates don't give a damn about 
 your preselected strategies and your opponents don't seem to have understood what sport they are 
 actually playing. Last time I check kicking for 3 points when you are down 5 on the last play of 
 the match isn't an option, go for the try moron! But in the ends it all gets balanced out by the 
 fact that if you try to do anything else but run in a straight line with the player you control 
 you'll likely be involved in a pointless juke move that will lead your men to enter in a pointless 
 animation reminiscent of a convulsion that will slow you down just enough for you to get tackled. 
 
  
  No more, I lost enough of my precious time on this game, I'm going back to watching paint dry! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MNDZA222
Rating: 1.4
Date: Jul 23, 2004 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This is, by far, the biggest piece of crap I have ever played. I got this game today for 9.99 and 
 it is not even worth half of that. It was between this and Madden 2004 for 9.99 also. I should 
 have chose Madden.
  The graphics in this game are horrible and look like they were done in a day.
  The gameplay is 
 rediculous. All you do is push one button the whole time and there is really no strategy to it.
 
  The sound is crap too even though it took forever to install all the millions of sound files on 
 my computer.
  Basically, this game seemed good on the cover, but failed miserably. I will now go outside and 
 burn the disc. Thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
