-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Runaway: A Road Adventure
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/runawayaroadadventure/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 19, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 580 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Tri Synergy
Developer: Pendulo Studios
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Aug 28, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It has pretty much everything you'd want out of a solid adventure gaming experience. 

  Runaway: A Road Adventure is a new entry in the traditional adventure game genre from Spanish developer 
 Pendulo Studios. Well, Runaway is new to the United States -- the game's been available in Europe 
 for quite a while, but it's just now showing up on these shores with fully translated text and 
 English dialogue. In the fast-paced world of PC games, a delay of just a few months can make your 
 game look dated when it's finally released, so you might expect a delay of well over a year to 
 be Runaway's death knell. However, adventure games depend more on creativity than technology, and 
 it's for this reason that Runaway is just as enjoyable today as it was when it was originally released. 
 The game is a reasonably well-made attempt at revitalizing the adventure game spirit of old, and 
 though it may not quite live up to the standard-bearers of the genre, it's certainly of sufficient 
 quality that adventure fans should give it a look.  

          Runaway takes you to all sorts of interesting locales, most of them more interesting than 
 this.     

  The story in Runaway follows Brian Basco, a recent college graduate based on the East Coast who's 
 looking to continue his studies out West. Brian takes off on a road trip so he can begin a postgraduate 
 stint at UC Berkeley, but he doesn't even make it out of town before his plans are reduced to shambles 
 by a collision with damsel in distress named Gina. Brian's big heart demands that he help Gina, 
 who is not surprisingly being pursued by some jackbooted mafiosi, and together they take off to 
 flee the thugs and also discover the secret of a mysterious artifact entrusted to Gina by her slain 
 secret-agent father. If this setup sounds a little far-fetched, it is, but as you wend your way 
 through the plot, you'll find a fair number of interesting places and people, as well as some unexpected 
 twists (especially toward the end) . Overall, the story is pretty evenly paced and should satisfy 
 all but the most discriminating gamers.  

  If you've played just about any point-and-click adventure game from the past decade, you'll be 
 right at home with Runaway's control scheme. If you click a spot on the ground, Brian will walk 
 there. The cursor is context-sensitive, so if you pass over an object, you'll get a magnifying 
 glass that lets you examine it, and if you highlight a path for moving offscreen, you'll get an 
 arrow that lets you go there. Hitting the right mouse button lets you cycle through any other relevant 
 actions, such as operate or take. Your inventory is available at the touch of the Tab key, and 
 you can even move to a new screen without waiting for Brian to walk there by double-clicking (which 
 is a huge time-saver) . The puzzles are almost all of the "combine item A with item B and apply 
 to hot spot C" nature, which is what you'd expect of an inventory-based adventure game, though 
 there's a good amount of dialogue-tree character interaction going on as well. In gameplay terms, 
 Runaway is pretty much by the numbers, but it works well for what it is.  

  Visually, Runaway has a lot of panache. Adventure games are scarce enough as it is these days, 
 and it seems like most of the ones that do come out use CG as the basis for their backgrounds, 
 whether they're real time or prerendered. Given this, Runaway's look is refreshingly traditional. 
 It features a huge number of lovingly hand-painted backgrounds that will remind longtime adventurers 
 of their old favorites, and the character models are cel-shaded 3D models that animate very well 
 and blend in perfectly with the backgrounds. It's really a treat to see this much style put into 
 a game's visuals, especially in a game that will run on an original Pentium with no 3D accelerator. 
 The game's sounds are less remarkable, however. What few effects there are generally sound fine, 
 and the music is pretty good, though a bit understated. The voice acting, alas, ranges from pretty 
 good to pretty bad, and it's even glaringly obvious in a couple of spots that the same actor or 
 actress was used to voice multiple characters. None of the voice acting is so horrendous that you'll 
 want to cover your ears (or just turn off your speakers) , but it does detract from the charm of 
 the game somewhat.  

          Your adventure will span the United States and a variety of cultures as you seek to solve 
 the mystery.     

  Runaway has a few other shortcomings. For instance, the game just isn't as humorous as it could 
 have been. Perhaps it's because this version of the game is a translation, but the humor demanded 
 by some of the game's story elements, like a trio of drag-queen divas stranded in the desert, isn't 
 quite there, at least not in force like it ought to be. The writing isn't a total bore, but you 
 won't get the constant one-two comedic punch as you would from a game by Tim Schafer or the Two 
 Guys from Andromeda. On the technical side, some of the objects you're meant to interact with are 
 nearly impossible to pick out from the backgrounds, and you'll probably end up having to comb every 
 pixel with your cursor looking for a hidden hot spot before you locate certain essential items. 
 This can be a real pain sometimes, though on the other hand, it does make you pay more attention 
 to the details in the game's art. Finally, some of the puzzle solutions are really on the odd side 
 and not entirely logical, so you'll end up picking up every available item and trying to put them 
 together in every possible combination in hopes of stumbling on an unorthodox solution.  

  Nevertheless, if you've been searching for an adventure game worth your while, Runaway: A Road 
 Adventure is for you. It has pretty much everything you'd want out of a solid adventure experience, 
 like diverse settings, a good storyline, wacky characters, and lots of complex puzzles. Even if 
 some of its elements aren't up to the standard set by the greatest adventure games ever released, 
 Runaway is still a good game that's recommendable to fans of the genre, as well as those who maybe 
 haven't tried this style of gaming before.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: raziel2646
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Runaway is really a masterpiece and I think every adventure player must play it at least once. 
 Everything is working great in this game, great story, great graphics and great gameplay. It reminds 
 you of old superb Lucas Arts adventures like Monkey Island and full throttle. Runaway is undoubtedly 
 the Full Throttle of its time.
  The story may be the best part of the game and it really sucks you in. Playing runaway is really 
 like watching a movie. But the difference is you have to think a little to make progress. Runaway 
 is not a very easy adventure, and you really get stuck occasionally and don't know what to do ( 
 at least it went for me like this, both times I played it ! :D ) but I think the difficulty was 
 OK, and a good adventure game have to be this way.
  The cartoonish graphics is really interesting, and it makes a joyful theme. There is no bug in 
 the graphic part and it's really well done. Camera is always placed in the best position then you 
 can have a good view of the location. Exploring the inventory is fun and combination of the objects 
 is almost reasonable.
  Music is just fine and it helps you to have a better feeling of the situation. Voice of every character 
 exactly suits them and it makes every one of them more likeable - even the bad ones! 
  Runaway is one of the best point and click adventures I've ever played, and if it wasn't I wouldn't 
 play it twice! And right now I'm thinking of playing it once more! Anyway, if you're a fan of third 
 person point and click adventure games, this game is your best choice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raihan_07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Runaway- one of the most surprising games I've ever played. Comical graphic helps to think odd 
 about it. But if one starts to play it'll be difficult to resist. A very good storyline is a very 
 important fact for a hit game. It has a very attractive storyline. Good movement system, mediocre 
 puzzle and relevant topics have made this game extra ordinary. Sound quality is good. Music style 
 is well matched with the story. Puzzles are related with various types of topics. So gamer may 
 find different test with different puzzle. Cut senses are very attractive. Location selection of 
 this game is very good. Character design is simple superb. Every character has different specific 
 activities. There is a very good combination between technology and tale in this game. Superb story, 
 comic graphic, suitable sound and low requirement have made this ordinary game to extra-ordinary. 
 Play it. You'll enjoy it. Bye everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonOfSparda018
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  I have to admit... I love adventure games! I've been a fellow admirer of games such as Monkey Island, 
 Indy & the Fate of Atlantis, The Longest Journey, etc. And although I approached this game with 
 a little skepticism I must say that this game is a great adventure!
  
  The best plus for the game is the graphics. The cartoon style backgrounds are truly magnificent. 
 Each location is brought to life with rich detail and color. It seems that the authors truly worked 
 hard on the visuals because they surely are the game's strong point. Sound is ok too, The music 
 isn't bad either but sometimes I felt that in certain locations the music wasn't fitting in propely. 
 
  
  You will surely get to like the game characters, especially the main one, Brian. Each character, 
 like in every good adventure game, has a story of his own to tell and will help you in some way 
 or another. The story is narrated in a very good way and it will get you immersed in in no time. 
 In the end you'll feel you went through a very satisfying experience.
  
  I truly hope that great point n'click adventures such as this one keep on coming out!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death-in-Dark
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Now... this game was shockingly great. I thought it would be a crap cz I was not that impressed 
 when I saw the screenshots.2d graphics... funny movements... but guyz... trust me, if you are an adventure 
 and puzzle lover.. then you can blindly go for this one. In the beginning the story seemed to be 
 a common one just like some other games... but you will be surprised to see the climax at the last 
 stage which actually changes the whole idea of the game. Some fantasy stuffs like aliens... spirits... lost 
 civiliations are perfectly blended in the story... the puzzles are preety easy. but it will make 
 you sweat to actually understand what to do... music is just right... some slow western stuff matched 
 the environment. voice was very nice. specially brians. The only thing I have complain about is the 
 cynamatic movies... movies in the first and the middle part of the game are very nice as the 2d-3d 
 renderetion goes very well together... but at the ending specially when the game finishes... the 
 cutscene was very funny. very badly drawn and disturbing to watch... why they did not make the finishing 
 in 3d like the beginning? hah... did pendulo studio has financial crysis? neways. final verdict.. different 
 and worth-playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  I first came across the Runaway series when I downloaded a trailer for the sequel and it was so 
 funny it had me in stitches. I then dually brought both but never got around to them until now.
 
  
  Good Points:
  
  Good story.
  Great graphics.
  Decent sound.
  Superb voice acting.
  Good control scheme.
  
  Bad Points:
  
  Some obscure puzzles.
 
  Kinda short.
  
  The story starts out with Brian Basco a shy college leaver on his way Berkley to continue his studies 
 in physics. On his way he runs into a beautiful damsel in distress called Gina and of course he 
 decides to help her. Only problem is trouble seems to follow her in the form of two Mafia goons. 
 What do they want? Well play the game and find out. :P
  
  Runaway is basically an inventory based point and click adventure. You have to meticulously look 
 at every area to find items that can be used to solve the many puzzles in the game. For example 
 use this item, combine it with this other item and use it at this spot. This style of game play 
 is nothing new but Runaway does it well.
  
  Runaway has great hand drawn backgrounds that remind me of those earlier classic adventure games. 
 The character art is in superb CG that really looks the part and fits seamlessly with the backgrounds.
 
  
  The sounds in the game are of decent enough quality, there's just not that many of them.
  
 
  I'm a person who can appreciate decent voice acting and Runaway has some superb voice acting in 
 it. The main characters are flawless and most of the wacky characters you'll find having good voice 
 acting as well. I would have liked to have seen some more humour in the story but at least there's 
 humour in it.
  
  Every adventure game needs a decent control scheme and Runaway has that. Just like the adventure 
 games of old the cursor is context sensitive, click a spot on the ground to move there, move your 
 mouse over an item and a magnifying glass will let you examine it. The inventory can be accessed 
 by hitting tab or moving the cursor to the top of the screen. This control scheme is nothing new 
 but it really helps speed things along and an adventure game novice could pick them up in seconds.
 
  
  Some of the puzzles are a little bit on the obscure side I can't really explain without spoiling 
 a puzzle or to but needless to say you might get stuck on them.
  
  The game seems a little bit short to me but that could be just me. It took me about ten hours on 
 my first play through and i'm not an adventure game expert. There just seemed to be more that could 
 have been included.
  
  I've loved some of the classic point and click adventure games and i've hated some as well. The 
 graphics, story and it's wacky characters make this game one to love.
  
  Runaway might not blur genres or do anything never seen before but it's a solid adventure game. 
 Buy it!
  
  Review system: QX6850 Extreme (3.0GHz Quad Core) , 4GB RAM, 768MB Geforce 8800GTX, SB Audigy 2 ZS, 
 WIN XP SP2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: horror_wh0re
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game because i enjoyed games like broken sword and monkey island and i wasnt disappointed. it 
 was like a mixture of the two, the gameplay and challenging puzzles of broken sword and the look 
 and humour of monkey island. it is really hard at times and i was even tempted to cheat, but im a 
 good girl so i didn't! 
  the only bad thing i would say about this game is that there are times when you have to go back 
 and forth which can get annoying. but the humour and puzzles are great. if you enjoy challening tasks 
 (and you are a bit clever too) you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decebal
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 28, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  If you check out adventure game reviews on gamespot, than probably this game is not for you. Gamespot 
 is for mainstream stuff like Gears of War, and Halo 3... and it's rare that you'll find a decent 
 review for anything that doesn't fall in that category. That being said... here is my 2 cents about 
 this game. Loved it. It doesn't revolutionize the genre or anything... but for what it is... it's 
 great! If you bump in to it, don't pass the opportunity to taste one last sip of something different. 
 Games like this will soon be forgoten, and replaced by wonderful sequels like GTA 4 and Starcraft 
 2. Who needs new franchises when we can buy the same game with better graphics over and over again 
 right?
  
  Forgive my sarcasm... I'm very bitter today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GraveMistake
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  This game simply brings you back to the old days of adventure games and gives you a little breath 
 of fresh air with the comic like characters. You get to explore many different places and look 
 for many different items, some worthless and some worth your while. The characters are a breath 
 of fresh air to talk with as they all have their own little unique characteristics and flaws. The 
 story sucks you in and you just can't wait to find out how it is going to end. You don't need to, 
 BUT, you should play this game before playing Runaway 2, just to get what the 2 main characters 
 are all about. Besides Runaway , is way worth the $19.00. So if you have not played this game yet 
 - it's a must!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soul_666
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Runaway has everything one could want from an old school graphic-adventure game, except the most 
 crucial part: comprehensible puzzles.
  Almost every solution is that far-fetched, I can't even imagine how the developers came across 
 them in the first place. What happens is: you will end up playing the game with extensive consultation 
 of walkthroughs or you'll follow the trial and error principle.
  Another big glitch is that you have to scan every inch of every scene for important items, because 
 sometimes it seems like the developers intentionally hid relevant items in the, granted, very detailed 
 and carefully crafted 2D-backgrounds.
  
  The story is interesting right from the start, but really picks up pace after about 4/5 through 
 the game. The characters are believable and likable, a few exceptions aside and yes, I'm addressing 
 the **** here.
  Overall graphics and sounds, especially the voice acting, are good, but not great.
  
  It's 
 a great game for fans of traditional adventure games, because, well, there aren't a lot to choose 
 from these days. For everyone else: try to get your hands on the demo first ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hammy777
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  Its has some similarity's on over LucasArts Adventure game Curse of Monkey Island, well the graphics 
 of course, the great CMI cartoony feel to it, but don't expect to see Herman Toothrot, Guybrush 
 Threepwood, LeChuck, Eliane, Murray and Wally, instead expect seeing Americans and whole lots of 
 them as you travel all over America and maybe other cultures too, you play as Brian Basco, and 
 I really he just got on college blah blah blah just find it out yourself, the gameplay is basic 
 point &amp; click style and once again it is not the SCUMM engine, the game is great for the adventure 
 game seeker for extra adventure fun too, another adventure game for those adventure gamers as they 
 relive again the adventure genre and a fun time too while waiting for the adventure games to go 
 back to the market once again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 8, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  The game is pretty old now it's on the market since 2003, but as Runaway 2 comes near i wanted 
 to write a review for one of the best adventure games.
  As known you are Bryan who decides to help out a girl thats being chased by some mafioso guy's. 
 The adventure starts imediately and the first scene is in the hospital. I must say the locations 
 become better and better as you progress. From the first scene in the hospital you go to a museum, 
 desert, wild west type town, crater from a comet, ancient caves, and so on...
  You'll meet a whole bunch of crazy and interesting characters, the scenes in which you play have 
 a tottally diffrent theme from each other but still contribute to the main story. ffs you'll be 
 talking to a guy about aliens in order to help you, helping a guy to make it's statue in order 
 for him to help you, you'll need to take many items in your inventory to combine them and make 
 the final thing in order to use it.
  In one word everyone that likes adventure games will surley love this game.
  
  For the graphics: 
 well the game is made like the classic, old-school games with click-point type of gameplay so the 
 graphics are not much diffrent. It features beautifly made hand-painted backgrounds with a lively 
 colours and a 3d character but which blends with the background perfectly.
  
  The music is also great, although considering all it may be the weakest element in the game.
 
  
  All and all: If you've mised this game buy it right now, if you played it you'll surley want to 
 play the incoming 2nd part too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmanuel05
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the cover of the game and the screenshots I thought "oh this is just one more 
 adventure game. There's nothing special about it" But since I am too curious I decided to give 
 this a try. So I bought it. I have to say than in only 5 minutes playing the game got me INTO the 
 game. I was feeling as I was part of it, just like a movie when you are the main character. The 
 story line of this game is just amazing, characters' role, sound and effects, voices, everything 
 is amazing. And to conclude the hall of fame this game is also very funny. I would recommend this 
 game to all adventure gamers, you will just love the game. I can't wait for the 2 part to comeout, 
 I'll be waiting :)
  
  I hope my review and my personal thoughts have helped you somehow, I really would like people to 
 know about this game and the originality of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_calzone
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  Runaway is a pretty well designed adventure for what concerns the appearence. Not for what regards 
 the story or the puzzles. Sometimes it even gets illogical.
  
  Brian, the main character, talks tooooo much... And the remaining characters spend so much time 
 in talking about the obvious when you ask them something. This dilutes the already banal story, 
 plus being frustrating and boring, but fortunately you can skip almost every phrase.
  
  The most difficult thing in the game is spotting some necessary hidden/well-camouflaged object 
 in the scenarios.
  
  For the rest, the game is quite non-interesting and linear. You can esily end it in a day if you 
 got time to waste... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitalgator
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 24, 2006 12:52 am PT
Review:  This is an adventure game, nothing else. With a story that makes you want to hit your self in the 
 head with a heavy object, over, and over, and over again, till you cant see straight, you can get 
 caught up pretty easily in its complete linear. With no way to die, their is no real challenge 
 or sense of accomplishment, once you complete the short game. The graphics are nice to watch. Interaction 
 with the environment is pretty inversive, if you don't keep track of the time it is easy to get 
 lost and the hours to fly by.
  If you get this game cheap its worth it if not you wasted your money.
  With Runaway II advertised 
 for release, some adventure gamers, are looking to the first installastion in the series to tell 
 them how the second one might play out, us that have played the first are looking to the sequel 
 to bring this sub-par game up to speed, and up to playable.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShraZ_Zy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 27, 2005 2:03 am PT
Review:  This adventure games is for the old school adventurers! You have to think alot in this game and 
 be very good at knowning what to click at. This game has beautiful background and cinematic gfx. 
 Good music and voice make the game enjoyable. Great script and adventures! You also have to use 
 your inventory and put things together. Highly recommended for pure adventurers. Pick it up it's 
 under 20bux
  
  Once you start out this game you never want to put it down, it's like a book story.
  
  The 
 only con is that the lips weren't fixed for English. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arnir
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Runaway is a good point and click adventure and it will give a satisfying if somewhat short gaming 
 experience.
  
  The mouse controls the game with the usual inventory and menu setup as used in most adventure games. 
 Different cursors tell you if you can examine or manipulate the object in question. The ESC key 
 takes you to the menu where you can load and save games plus adjust game settings. On a few screens 
 hot spots (important objects) can be frustratingly easy to overlook.
  
  Most, if not all, of the puzzles are inventory based. Combine object A with object B, etc. Other 
 characters in the game sometimes play the role of inventory item as well and are required to solve 
 certain puzzles. The puzzles fit well into the game and advance (or at least dont hinder) the 
 plot line. A couple of the puzzles are involved and at least one requires repetition that gets 
 old quickly. As with many games, reality needs to be put away on occasion. At least one puzzle 
 required one to manufacture some items that never would work in reality, but the clues were pretty 
 straightforward on what to do. I cant really think of any one puzzle that didnt make at least 
 some sense after being solved which is important to me. No maze puzzles or action puzzles, but 
 at least one sound (tone/note) puzzle which wasnt too hard for me  and I am essentially tone 
 deaf. It was more like the old concentration game as colored lights backed up the sounds.
  
  The game is divided into chapters that are fairly non-linear within the chapter. Some critical 
 plot points must be played in order, but there are usually several puzzles in play at one time. 
 This allows the player to let the subconscious work on a hard puzzle while the conscious tackles 
 an easier task. A few plot twists left me confused in a good way, but more left me shaking my head. 
 Probably necessary to move the game along, the main character makes some stunning turnabouts in 
 character from time to time that seem inappropriate. 
  
  The graphics are cartoonish by design and they work well. The voice acting is good although some 
 of the stock phrases are a little too random. Some voices of course, are better than others. The 
 cutscenes are good if not a little long. One grating thing for me was that that the mouths arent 
 synced very well with the voices which was distracting. The music is serviceable and I caught myself 
 humming along from time to time. I dont really notice music much in adventure games, but it never 
 annoyed me. 
  
  Runaway has some adult themes (and some skimpy outfits) but nothing too racy. I would rate it PG-13. 
 I dont recall any vulgar language but it does contain violence, murder and drug use. 
  
  Anyone looking for an adventure fix should give Runaway a try. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FSDude
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 25, 2005 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Runaway: A Road Adventure is a point and click inventory based adventure game. You play Brian, 
 an average guy and student who is on his way to California to complete his studies. Just as he 
 is on his way, he decides to stop at a bookstore to pick up something. In the process he runs into 
 a mysterious woman named Gina, who is being pursued by mafia hitmen. Gina desparately convinces 
 Brian to help her and Brian reluctantly agrees to. From there they both end up on an adventure 
 beyond their imaginations. 
  
  Runaway plays identically to many other inventory based point and click adventure games. You collect 
 items and interact with other characters through point and clicking (and right clicking to change 
 the command icons) . The graphics are of the cartoonish nature and of good quality. The voice acting 
 I felt was good as well. Not the greatest I've heard, but none the less definitely not annoying. 
 The game soundtrack I thought was excellent (a very Euro-Style one for sure) . The story line is 
 interesting, if not maybe a little short. If there is one other fault about the game, it is the 
 sometimes rather highly abstract puzzles. Although such seems to be a common trait of traditional 
 old-skool style adventure games. Also once the game is completed, there is very little reason to 
 replay it afterwards (other then to just enjoy the story) . Another thing common in this genre.
 
  
  All in all, I found Runaway: A Road Adventure to be an entertaining adventure game. While the puzzles 
 were sometimes rather difficult and required some hints to get me through certain portions of the 
 game, the storyline was good enough to keep my interest there. If you are an adventure game fan 
 as I am, then I do recommend that you give Runaway a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orly23
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 29, 2004 10:25 am PT
Review:  For a person that likes the occasional Action/Adventure title to get away, if only momentarily, 
 from FPS or Third Person Shooters I thought that title had potential. It had been a while since 
 I saw an Action/Adventure game that I actually wanted to buy. So, I bought it and got what I paid 
 for...$29.99! The game was descent at its best. The gameplay was simple, just because it was a 
 point and click. The puzzles were ok, some where easy some where obvious and then there were those 
 that didn't make too much sense. You know the ones that you get stuck and the games forces you 
 to click on every little thing because you've overlooked something! Then it turns out you had to 
 click on a rock behind a tire in order to move is so a lizard could go running away and you could 
 ask someone if they liked lizards so that they might offer to give you a hand with the propeller 
 of the airplane you are supposed to fly. Ok, it wasn't that bad but sometimes it felt like it. 
 The graphics were decent. Don't expect revolutionary graphics, they are mostly cartoons. The story 
 is interesting but played out. You have to rescue the damsel in distress. Unfortunately the game 
 should last you a weekend if you play it sporatically and once you finish it, well you've seen 
 everything there the game has to offer. On the other hand the game is relatively cheap so when 
 you take that into account the game is decent. Overall I give it a 7.9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TROAB
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 14, 2004 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up for $20 off the discount rack, and I feel that I got my money's worth. I 
 grew up playing games like Sierra's King's Quest and this game made me nostalgic for those games.
 
  
  First the good things:
  The cartoon style 3D to 2D graphics were great, it would have been nice if the lips matched the 
 voices but I'll attribute that to translation.
  The story was actually pretty interesting, it took a twist that made it much better than where 
 I thought it was going.
  
  Now the complaints:
  The cutscenes looked awful. They would have been much better had they been done in the style the 
 rest of the game was in.
  There was only one way to do everything, I would have much rather liked to have a multitude of 
 different ways to accomplish each puzzle. Even if you knew what you had to do, sometimes you couldn't 
 do it unless you did something else first. In one scene I knew what I had to do wit the coffee 
 beans and I know how to do it, but I couldn't do it until I had offered them to another character.. 
 it took me FOREVER to figure this out. It felt too short. Now maybe this is because we live in 
 the age of the internet where the temptation to cheat is alot more readily available than it was 
 back in the 80's. I felt that if the game had been longer it would have only been because I had 
 to spend hours trying combinations of totally random objects and pixel hunting around the screen. 
 Worse was the fact that some items would be useless the first time you tried to take them but if 
 you tried again later suddenly your character would decide they were worth taking.. despite the 
 fact that no apparent need had presented itself. Anyways, I would have a preferred a story with 
 a length similar to FFVII. When I heard "A Road Adventure" I imagined there to be alot more locales. 
 And in my opinion the game might have been better setup so that you might be able to backtrack 
 further... I didn't like feeling like I was playing "levels." Rather than unlocking a new area, 
 I was limited to playing in the new area, and my inventory reset.. it was as if I was playing 6 
 mini-games.
  
  I don'tr want to sound too negative. I like adventure games, and I hope that any more that come 
 out will be better. This one had all the technical stuff right, but the gameplay was lesser than 
 some of the games of old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2004 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game at first, but after I got a while into it, I got extremely bored with it. The 
 game looks great and starts off with some interesting puzzles, but in the middle it starts moving 
 at a snails pace. The storyline progresses at an excruciatingly slow rate while you are stuck 
 in some huge areas trying to solve poorly designed puzzles. The bane of any adventure gamer is 
 the pixel hunt, and this game has at least a few of them. When youre not pixel hunting, then chances 
 are you are solving an illogical puzzle. And when you are not doing that, youre solving some unoriginal 
 puzzle that you have seen in other adventure games or brain teaser books.
  
  The best part about this game is the graphics. This game is beautiful to look at and has a style 
 that is unmatched by any other adventure game. The cartoony cel-shaded look really adds a lot to 
 this game. The characters fit in perfectly. Every character is exaggerated in some cartoonish way 
  exaggerated facial features, exaggerated accents, exaggerated personalities, etc. All of the 
 characters in the game are likeable and show that the game was made with lots of inspiration. The 
 games soundtrack is really good and most of the voice-acting is top-notch. The main character 
 has this gee whiz dorkiness that actually ends up being kind of charming.
  
  But its just so hard to get into this game. The storyline is decent enough, but it progresses 
 so slowly that you can almost forget whats going on in it. Since the puzzles are not fun and interesting 
 enough to keep you interested, you have to labor through the game to enjoy it. Many times you will 
 find yourself resorting to a walkthrough, and then rolling your eyes at some of the absurd things 
 that you are supposed to do to make it through the game. This is the problem with mediocre adventure 
 games. The good ones manage to have logical and predictable solutions. The mediocre ones like this 
 force you to try to read the developers minds and guess at an inane solution. I really wanted 
 to like this game, but it was a disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 30, 2003 7:59 am PT
Review:  I wanted to like this game; after all, adventure games are my favorite genre. But lets admit it, 
 there are more bad adventure games than good ones (see most titles from DreamCatcher) . I have pet 
 peeves about every genre, and my pet peeve about the adventure genre is pixel hunting. Since when 
 is pixel hunting a puzzle? Well guess what, this game is long on pixel hunting and short on puzzles. 
 What puzzles are there are pretty good (fingerpad, gasoline, etc) , but they are few and far between. 
 The graphics are nice, the story is OK (not great) and the characters are interesting enough. But 
 the lack of puzzles and the often repetitive nature of some puzzles (key, badge) took away from 
 my enjoyment of the game. Grim Fandango/Siberia this is not. However, it is not as bad as other 
 adventure games, so a 6.3 sounds about right for the game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theflashback
Rating: 5.4
Date: Oct 25, 2003 8:57 pm PT
Review:  American dream came true! Brian got a lot of money along with a brainless chick and a brand new 
 Ferrari. I always ask myself why people come up with such a cheesy Hollywood like plots? Runway...
 
  Is it really adventure game? Hell no. Tired with a lot of boring conversations, linear walkthrough, 
 completely non logical puzzles, and one more thing... blood. If I wanted to see people die I would 
 have played freaking Doom. I simply do not understand. Look at success of Myst. Or Riven. Or Siberia. 
 The games are logical, the puzzles are complicated but you do not have to brute forcing them, no 
 killing. Fancy. I think 75% for the game to be successful is the idea that at the end comes down 
 to the plot. The Runway has completely lost in this competition. The graphics is very nice and 
 professional, the sound is very cool too but the plot is just something that broke the whole thing. 
 You give something to a person and then you are forced to leave the scene to come back immediately 
 for things to magically work out. Dah What is that clicking every pixel on the screen to finally 
 get what you want. How logical to load a machine gun with freaking lip sticks Anyway, I want to 
 say thanks to all the developers that work for Pendulo Studios, they did an amazing job, it is 
 unfortunate that the script was completely out of sync. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 5.6
Date: Sep 27, 2003 3:36 am PT
Review:  I was excited by this game, since I have always liked cel style animation. And I was not disappointed 
 by the graphics at all. They were top notch, and captured the spirit of adventure gaming quite 
 well.
  
  Too bad the puzzles are so completely and utterly awful. They make absolutely no sense. Players 
 must "brute force" every puzzle - using inventory items in every possible combination to try to 
 find the correct one. They almost never have any logic to them. And the game sections are separated 
 by long cut scenes where, essentially, you sit back and watch the game play itself.
  
  The plot is on the cheesy side, as well, which I could stand if the puzzles were fun. But they're 
 not.
  
  The sound is equally horrible, with annoying pseudo-rock music tracks repeating constantly in the 
 background. The music does not fit the environments or contribute to the feel of the game. It does 
 not create tension, or suspense or anything else that the game really needed. The voice acting 
 is often overwrought, with the main character so completely overacting the part that he too becomes 
 annoying.
  
  Add to that an inventory system that is overly awkward, and this game rates a "don't bother" with 
 me.
  
  There are worse games out there, but this game simply doesn't meet the basic standards for adventure 
 game fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vovan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 15, 2003 11:49 am PT
Review:  It's been a long time since the fans of the adventure genre were given a quality game. After such 
 classics as the Broken Sword series, the developers tried to concentrate on fully 3D environments, 
 which, even now, aren't realistic enough to make an enjoyable adventure game. While it is true 
 that in the action genre, 3D dominates, but there the player has no time to watch the environment. 
 The quality of the surroundings that works for a shooter isn't enough for an adventure, where the 
 player has time to explore and enjoy the environment. Runaway takes a little step back from the 
 fully 3D paradigm and gives the player a more classic 2D background with only characters being 
 drawn as 3D models. More about that below.
  
  Gameplay 9: The game contains a great variety of puzzles that are hard enough to keep youplaying 
 through the night, yet are all backed up by the story and make sense in the context - and thus, 
 you are not forced to whip out that solution guide to make it through a spot. I want to reiterate 
 the point that unlike a few of the adventure games of the recent past, Runaway actually makes sense 
 story-wise. It is true that it might be a little "cheesy", but that's the style of the whole game, 
 so it doesn't detract from the game play. And with the presence of a coherent plot, and with all 
 the puzzles tying into it in some way or other, the game just feels right. It does, indeed, feel 
 like an adventure, rather than a mix of random hurdles you must jump.
  
  Graphics 10: Like I said above, the environment on each screen is a very detailed 2D image. While 
 it is true that this adds a certain amount of staticity to the game, the backgrounds are very well 
 drawn, and contain a good amount of details. All the characters in the game, on the other hand, 
 are 3D models, yet the technology used to give them a certain cartoony look is greatly employed 
 here, and the characters don't look out of place at all. Combined with the great background artwork, 
 they create a specific "Broken Sword"-eish atmosphere that I am sure a lot of the fans of the genre 
 have missed in the recent games.
  
  Sound 8: The music goes well with the atmosphere of the game and does not distract. The voice acting 
 is pretty good, but you could tell it is a translation sometimes.
  
  Value 9: Combining the plot, puzzles and artwork, definitely gives you a classic must-have for 
 any fan of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 99X
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 7, 2003 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Games like Runaway: A Road Adventure come along only rarely in the adventure game genre. Where 
 most games now are trying to use the latest 3D graphics, Runaway takes a step back to give more 
 of the classic style to the game. Perhaps this is one of the game's best features.
  
  Graphics: The look of Runaway is excellent. From the highly detailed backgrounds to the interesting 
 characters, everything is right along with the story. Combining traditional artwork with the new 
 3D Cell-shaded technique makes for an interesting blend that works very well together. The animation 
 also is very well, making for some very good cut-scenes. 
  
  Game play: The game is pretty much a straight forward adventure game, with all the mouse clicking 
 and inventory fun you can expect. The game play in Runaway is actually pretty well suited for all 
 players, nothing too hard or too easy. Some things in the game are very well hidden, making it 
 a little more difficult then other games of this nature. The Story is very well throughout and 
 keeps you interested while playing. 
  
  Sound: The sound in Runaway is excellent. The dialog and music fits right along with the game. 
 Some songs tend to be a little repetitive, but thats nothing we haven't seen in other games. 
 
  
  Tilt: Over all, Runaway is an excellent game, especially for any adventure game fan. Combining 
 new and old techniques, they have really made a great game definitely worth the 30 dollar price 
 tag. Happy Gaming!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrisart
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 7, 2003 8:15 am PT
Review:  Runaway: A Road Adventure
  
  
  
  Gameplay: Runaway in itself is a classic game where you take the role of a main character click 
 around on the screen and combine weird items into the world greatest clue solvers. Taking the comedy 
 feature and making a game out of it is a brilliant way of earning its money and it does make you 
 laugh once in a while. But its by far not reaching at the level of the Discworld, Monkey Island 
 and the Broken Sword series. All in all its an addition to the everlasting diminishing adventure 
 style we all came to love back in the days.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Runaway is the sore mix between the all loved 2D with the all not so 
 used to 3D style. Personally I don't like 3D in these kind of puzzle adventures, the 2D part's 
 of these games is what gives each character a unique characteristics and looks. The day the developers 
 put 3D into games like these really turned my view on them for the odder point of view. The game 
 itself doesn't look that bad but at points its really ugly to look at, keep it 2d guys!!
  
  Sound: The sounds in this game is not bad but not great, some of the music scores are really annoying 
 and I eventually end up turning music of. I don't want to talk much about sound since the score 
 pretty much lays out what I want to say about it. Voice acting is good....
  
  Value: The game is worth playing if you miss the old fashion adventure game, its not to long but 
 its rewarding to see the old style in action again. I just wish the made it pure 2D instead of 
 adding the 3D into it.
  
  All in all a good way to get back to the old days, but the try to make it look like a new thing 
 didn't work out to well in my case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zsciaeount
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 6, 2003 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Adventure gamers don't have much to be happy about these days. The genre that drew a lot of my 
 generation into gaming in the first place has been limping along for the past few years in America 
 (despite going relatively strong in Europe) . So few adventure games are released each year that 
 almost all are "game of the year" because they've run unopposed. In what is a valiant effort to 
 help save the genre, game reviewers have been rather kind to mediocre adventure offerings in hopes 
 that it will spur sales. Thus, the overhyped titles like The Longest Journey, and last year's Syberia, 
 which was horribly paced, and absolutely inane. It's sad to think that the last great adventure 
 was the 1998 masterpiece Grim Fandango.
  
  Well, adventure fans: rejoice! Runaway does what other recent games have not been able to accomplish: 
 it proves that the adventure is still an enjoyable genre!
  
  Runaway focuses on the exploits of a young grad student named Brian, who makes a last-minute side 
 trip on his way across the country. That decision turns out to be something that changes his life 
 forever. A young woman running from the mob darts out into the street, and Brian hits her with 
 his car, injuring her. With that one fateful moment, Brian gets drawn into a web of mystery involving 
 dark secrets.
  
  Runaway's story is quite good. The characters are interesting, and the plot moves along at a nice 
 pace, presented through a series of conversations, and pre-rendered cutscenes that emulate the 
 style of the game's engine. The story unfolds in chapters, interspersed with Brian talking directly 
 to you in a retrospective fashion. All in all, it's a decent narrative that never gets too burdensome 
 or takes itself too seriously. After some of the never-ending conversations and cheesy plots of 
 games like The Longest Journey and Syberia, Runaway's crisp and fast-moving story is a welcome 
 return to the days when adventure gaming was fun.
  
  One of the big selling points of Runaway has been the graphics, which combine intricate hand-drawn 
 2D backgrounds with cel-shaded characters based on 3D models. Though it's been done before, Runaway 
 manages to integrate the characters, objects, and backgrounds better than any 2D game before it, 
 providing a wonderful amount of detail. Some of the backgrounds are a bit dark, but that's a minor 
 issue. Characters are a bit stiffly animated at times, and the animation lacks the variety of, 
 say, Curse of Monkey Island, but it's still pretty good by adventure standards.
  
  If there is one puzzling thing about the graphics, it's that characters are wonderfully animated 
 when they move to pick something up or shift in a chair. They smile, gasp, or grunt in fluid motion, 
 but the minute someone's mouth opens to speak, the entire screen becomes static, except for mouths 
 that are stiffly animated, and aren't synched, at least not to English. This is puzzling, as you'd 
 figure with a robust graphics engine, you could have people move and talk at the same time, a feat 
 which has been technically possible since Loom was the hot new CD-ROM title spinning in our double-speed 
 CD-ROM drives.
  
  In the sound department, Runaway delivers. Some have criticized the voice acting, but I think it 
 works. Sure, it's not on par with LucasArts titles, but the voicing is competent nonetheless. The 
 sound effects are generally good, and the music is excellent, though the game lacks any memorable 
 musical themes.
  
  In the gameplay department, Runaway falters a little bit. The challenge seems to have been artificially 
 increased by some non-intuitive gameplay requirements. For instance, early in the game, you are 
 presented with a situation, but there's really no story element that indicates what exactly it 
 is you're supposed to be doing. After you pick up a few objects, it becomes a little more obvious, 
 but a little more direction would have made the actions seem more sensible. Furthermore, when you 
 examine a bag early in the game, Brian rifles through the contents and pulls out a pack of matches... 
 but, it still doesn't seem to be enough to help you solve the puzzles. Little did I know that I 
 had to search the bag AGAIN to find another item. This is cheap. Also, when examining inventory 
 that needs fixing, for instance, there's no verbal cue, like, "If only this pen had some sort of 
 ink..."
  
  That said, once you get an idea of what it is you're supposed to do, most of the puzzles make sense. 
 Like Full Throttle, you will cover a lot of ground, but you're confined to a series of small areas 
 to explore, so there's not a lot of trekking around countless screens. That said, each area presents 
 a good challenge, so don't take that to mean that your adventure won't be difficult.
  
  All in all, Runaway is a fairly long game. Sure, it's not Longest Journey long, but then again, 
 no one really can honestly tell me they enjoyed sitting through sixty hours of droning dialogue. 
 Instead, Runaway consists of about an hour total of spectatorship, and a good 12-15 hours of active 
 gameplay. Certainly enough to keep you busy for a while.
  
  If you're hungry for a good adventure, Runaway will fit the bill. This is the first great adventure 
 in 5 years, and one not to be missed. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
