-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Runaway: The Dream of the Turtle
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/runaway2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous cartoon graphics.
 Good, if straightforward, selection of puzzles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Conventional point-and-click mechanics.
 Terrible script and voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 12, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 7.0, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 349 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: cdv Software
Developer: Pendulo Studios
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Mar 16, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There isn't anything dreamy about this so-so adventure aside from a few half-decent puzzles and 
 great graphics. 

  A blast from the past in more ways than one, Runaway: The Dream of the Turtle is both a sequel 
 to the little-known Runaway: A Road Adventure from 2003 and a modernized take on the golden age 
 of Sierra and LucasArts adventures. So don't expect much in the way of innovation from this wacky 
 road comedy, which plays out like a standard point-and-click adventure complete with regular pixel 
 hunts and the usual assortment of frustrating puzzles. The Pendulo Studios game is noteworthy for 
 its distinct, cartoon graphics and teenybopper attitude, but these somewhat debatable pluses just 
 drag the game across the border that separates the flatly mediocre from the occasionally entertaining. 

          Oh, just a couple of things...     

  This is a tough game to get into if you're over the age of 15 and have a Y chromosome. Dream of 
 the Turtle is kid-centric to such an extreme that you might initially think that you've installed 
 some sort of game version of  Teen Beat  magazine by mistake. Everything here plays out like a 
 pubescent girl's daydream, complete with a soundtrack that's equal parts boy-band wimp rock and 
 Eurotrash disco. The lead character is a soul-patched, thong-necklace-wearing guy named Brian Basco, 
 and he is coolness personified... well, coolness personified by the focus group, at any rate. All 
 of the other characters are similar stereotypes. Brian's girlfriend, Gina, is a gorgeous babe forever 
 needing to be rescued. Mad-professor type Joshua wears Coke-bottle glasses and is convinced he's 
 an alien. A sinister dame called Tarantula channels Cruella De Vil. An ominous American army colonel 
 smokes a stogie, wears an eye patch, and is obsessed with the Vietnam War. Whoever wrote this tale 
 certainly didn't waste any time coming up with original characters.  

  Much of the storyline and presentation are similarly derivative. You can tell that Pendulo was 
 going for an off-the-wall vibe similar to that presented in LucasArts classics like Maniac Mansion 
 and Day of the Tentacle, but this tale of globetrotting, aliens, and various weirdoes tries way 
 too hard. Dialogue is always extra-cute and obvious, and is typically delivered in a flat monotone 
 that makes it clear that the game's first language isn't English. Poor translation from the original 
 Spanish presumably derails the game's many "jokes," and all of the one-liners are offered up with 
 a nudge-nudge, wink-wink delivery that quickly goes from something you groan over to something 
 that makes you search for the nearest heavy object to throw through your monitor. Depressingly, 
 the game's wit reaches its height right at the beginning, when Brian announces the arrival of a 
 lemur by saying "I'll be a monkey's uncle!" There is something of an edge to everything, at least, 
 although it's a teen-friendly edge that's about as sharp as a butter knife. So you get mild sexual 
 quips, brief flashes of skin, and babes in dental-floss bikinis just titillating enough to scandalize 
 an eighth-grade classroom, but nothing more.  

  With all that said, Dream of the Turtle somehow retains considerable charm amid all of its annoyances. 
 Cartoon visuals give the game a cheerful, fresh look that encourages you to keep playing just to 
 see what locales the developers will surprise you with next. Settings are also extremely diverse, 
 ranging from the opening Hawaiian island to a frozen Alaskan cabin to a sunken pirate ship. You 
 really get a sense of participating in a great adventure, even if it's with a bunch of cardboard 
 cutouts that you don't particularly like. The only drawback is a tendency to repeat animations 
 whenever you revisit a location. Note to Pendulo: Lokilani may be quite a hottie, but nobody wants 
 to see her seductively and slowly turn around, flip her hair, and sexily roll her eyes each and 
 every time you sidle up to her beachfront bar for a chitchat.  

  Most of the puzzles are well done, too. There isn't anything earthshaking here, but the game presents 
 a sense of internal logic that makes it easy (well, relatively easy, at any rate -- this is still 
 an adventure game) to figure out what goes where to open what door and the like. You roll along, 
 picking up whatever isn't nailed down and experimenting with different approaches to problems until 
 something works. As usual with this sort of adventure, however, there are times where common sense 
 gets tossed out the window and you're left scratching your head. What you need to do to gain the 
 help of the Australian surfer in chapter two, for instance, involves a range of activities including 
 gathering butter, making chalk, conning a soldier into climbing a tree multiple times, and getting 
 a nut to fix up a beachside mechanical bull.  

          Odd, but still probably not the strangest thing you've seen in an adventure game.     

 
  Also, many puzzles are drawn out just for the sake of stretching the game. You often hit on what 
 to do to solve a problem right away, but then need to fine-tune your approach to actually move 
 ahead. Quite often you'll see exactly what needs to be done, but you have to go through the motions 
 with something else before the game allows you to proceed. Right at the beginning, for instance, 
 you immediately figure out that you'll need to use whiskey in the peeing toy puppy to take out 
 the lemur (don't ask) . But the game insists on you trying this trick with water first before allowing 
 you to use the booze. Also, you frequently have to do the exact same thing two or even three times. 
 The dumb army grunt by the beach, for example, has to be conned into climbing a tree twice so you 
 can swipe his photo and his truck. Although the travels and travails of Brian Basco go on for a 
 good 15 hours, you get tired of his trip well before that.  

  Perhaps the biggest disappointment about Runaway: The Dream of the Turtle, though, is that there 
 is probably a solid adventure buried under all the teen-girl posturing and awful dialogue. Even 
 though the game has a lot of problems, it's got an undeniable spirit about it that at least communicates 
 the developers' love for their work, as well as a great appreciation for classic adventure games 
 from the late '80s and early '90s. That's something to praise, even if the actual game is an also-ran. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vahid_xbox_360
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  From its startling opening scene straight through to its unexpected ending, Pendulo Studio's much 
 anticipated Runaway 2: The Dream of the Turtle is a keeper. It delivers first-rate cartoon style 
 graphics, lots of over-the-top characters, and wonderful game enhancing music. Its inventory puzzles 
 are whacky enough to be fun and logical enough to prevent hair pulling. The twisting story line 
 dishes out surprises with gusto while showcasing the game's saucy dialogue. 
  
  Runaway 2: features a point-and-click interface and is viewed from the third person perspective. 
 It is available on DVD or by download from the official website, and is not for the small of hard 
 drive. The minimum install is 2.5 gigabytes. Full install is 5.7 gigabytes. It is copy protected 
 and needs no patching.
  
  Bucking the current trend, Runaway 2 comes with a thorough and engaging paper manual. The manual's 
 humor and art invited me into the game before I loaded it. 
  
  Story: "I'd love to catch some rays, but this is no time to get a tan." Brian 
  
  The story 
 begins as our hero, Brian, shares the experiences of one ill-fated day with his friend Sushi. 
 
  
  Brian and his girlfriend, Gina, have been enjoying an idyllic life in Hawaii. Gina arranges a day 
 trip to Tiki Falls on nearby (but inexplicably difficult to reach) Mala island. Things do not go 
 smoothly. In the heart stopping introductory video, Brian pushes Gina from the plane as she begs 
 him not to. Gina floats through the skies only to sink unconscious beneath the azure waters of 
 an unnamed lake. Meanwhile, Brian's plane crashes in the jungle. 
  
  Brian must rescue his lady love. Naturally, this will not be an easy or straightforward task. It 
 can only be accomplished by quick thinking, the ability to use what is at hand, and the help of 
 a few old friends. 
  
  Game play: "Hurrying is for the weak of bladder and bad burglars." Kai 
  
  This is a pure adventure 
 game requiring no "twitch reflexes." You cannot die. Mostly you'll wander around trying to get 
 Brian out of the scrapes he's gotten himself into. This involves a great deal of interaction with 
 non-player characters (NPCs) . You must pay attention, both to your environment and to the dialogue 
  and you should be prepared to engage in some original thinking. While you will be required to 
 do some "to and fro," the goods you need will be fairly close at hand. There are no red herrings, 
 and Brian discards any extraneous inventory at the end of each chapter. 
  
  The game is divided into six chapters, which can be replayed at will from the options menu. Beautiful 
 video sequences play often and may provide important clues. 
  
  When you finish the game, be sure to watch the credits roll for a sneak preview of coming attractions. 
 
  
  Characters: "This old bird's wings are still aflapping." Otto
  
  The cast of characters is large, though never dull. Some of the personalities are caricatures, 
 and in this game, that works. 
  
  Brian is aided in his quest by a few old friends from Runaway 1: well-heeled techno geek Sushi; 
 Saturn, an inventor extraordinaire; laid-back and eco-friendly Rutger; and Joshua, who believes 
 he is in telepathic contact with aliens. 
  
  In addition, Runaway 2 introduces its own lengthy list of quirky souls. These cartoon characters 
 are diverse and full of pizzazz. Beautiful, shapely Lokelani, the island bartender, is the girl 
 of every guy's dreams. Otto, the ancient, creaking pilot is every passenger's nightmare. Square-jawed 
 Colonel Kordsmeier is eager to fight. Deadly Tarantula is as ruthless as she is beautiful. Barrel-chested 
 Captain Malatunez is strong and deadly. And that's just for starters. 
  
  Many individuals have disproportionate or unusual features. Both Joshua and Rutger sport large, 
 misshapen heads. Most of the women are well-endowed. Brian, our hero, has square eyes. In spite 
 of (or maybe because of) the exaggerated features, this cast is fun to meet. Not all the NPCs are 
 human, which adds to the charm. 
  
  Be warned that one character's attire is a bit suggestive at times. In addition, Gina is briefly 
 seen nude from the back (waist up) , and from the front, though the frontal nudity has strategic 
 blackouts. 
  
  Dialogue: "I'll nonchalantly slip it into my pocket. Well, not too nonchalantly or I may inadvertently 
 saw a branch off the family tree." Brian
  
  Runaway 2 contains a large amount of consistently amusing, facetious dialogue. Brian has an opinion 
 on everything, from the appearance of NPCs to his opinion of your latest instructions. 
  
  Sometimes his comments are just witticisms or refusals. Occasionally his comments are a roadmap 
 to what you need to do next. Brian interacts with the NPCs via dialogue trees. You can listen to 
 all the choices (as I did) or zero in on the necessary ones (if you can) . His frequent asides made 
 me feel as if I were helping a friend, albeit a very goofy one. 
  
  The NPCs are talkative, and some cut scenes feature lengthy exchanges. Keep alert for the many 
 references to pop culture found throughout the game. 
  
  It's a big cast, but each voice is just right for that personality. The pirate Malatunez is deep-voiced 
 and menacing. Joshua's edgy personality is brought to life by his high and frenetic voice. Lokelani's 
 voice is seductive. Brian's voice is pleasant and easy on the ear, portraying an affable, if cheeky, 
 young man.
  
  Puzzles: "What the heck. This isn't the first time I've taken something without knowing what I 
 wanted it for." Brian
  
  Brian has an incredible ability to accept challenges for which he is ill prepared. Luckily, he 
 is good at using his wits and whatever is lying around to get out of these situations. 
  
  The puzzles are predominately inventory based, and sometimes you need to combine objects. Combining 
 inventory items is easily done by dragging one object to the other in the inventory screen. The 
 catch is that every now and again, it must be done in a certain order if you are to be successful. 
 
  
  I had a small problem with the brown background of the inventory screen. Brown articles tended 
 to "disappear" into the background. 
  
  For variety, there are a scattering of easily worked-out logic puzzles. You'll need to listen closely 
 to a conversation or two for one unique puzzle. 
  
  Though there are a few whacky puzzles, most made sense in a cartoon adventure game kind of way. 
 Even the ones that stumped me had solutions that I could "see" once I got a hint. 
  
  There are no sound puzzles, no mazes, no puzzles requiring color discrimination, and no timed bits. 
 You'll not find any sliders or mini-games. 
  
  Graphics: "Looks as if I'm in the middle of a jungle." Brian
  
  Runaway 2 is a beautiful game, 
 as fun to look at as it is to play. In keeping with its cartoon nature, some of its graphics are 
 flat and lack texture, but this does not impact the game. Colors are vibrant though never garish. 
 Most settings are full of light, movement, and sometimes kitsch. Delightful details such as Brian's 
 shape seeming to morph as he moves behind a giant bottle ( la a fun house mirror) abound. 
  
  Brian's quest to find Gina sends him to diverse locations ranging from the tropical jungle 
 of Mala Island to the icy environs of Cicely, Alaska and includes a luxurious yacht and a not-so-luxurious 
 pirate ship of the past. The humor of the game is not confined to the dialogue. Entertaining touches 
 are found in the most unexpected places. Is that really Indiana Jones I see? 
  
  The cut scenes are gorgeously produced. My favorite locale was under the water -- complete with 
 filtered light, schools of fish, and an old wrecked ship with bubbles languidly drifting towards 
 the surface. 
  
  While I never pixel hunted, I had to increase the game's brightness in two locations. This was 
 easily done from the in-game menu. 
  
  Background and Ambient Sounds: "I like the way it sounds, and if you knew me better, you'd realize 
 it suits me to a 'T.'Brian 
  
  There's not much to say about the background music and ambient sounds in Runaway 2 except that, 
 like most other elements in this game, they are well done. The original score and environmental 
 noises are placed almost perfectly. In some games the music quickly becomes annoying, and overwhelms 
 the exploration or the puzzle solving. But not in this one. Days later my toes are still tapping. 
 
  
  Interface: "I've always bragged about being able to carry a bunch of stuff without a back pack." 
 Brian
  
  Runaway 2 employs a classic interface. Use the left mouse button for movement and the right mouse 
 button to cycle through the possible actions. Hovering the mouse over a hotspot reveals a description 
 at the bottom of the screen. 
  
  Saves are at will and unlimited. Each save has a generously sized picture plus the chapter number, 
 and you get to name each save. Perfection! 
  
  Once he has visited an area, Brian transports instantly by double clicking on the desired place. 
 The Esc key flashes through the opening screens, and left clicking skips repeated dialogue. Happily, 
 this game is Alt+Tab friendly and includes captions.
  
  Access to the inventory screen and the options menu is at the top of the screen. From the options 
 menu you can save, load, exit, and make adjustments to the sound and appearance of the game. 
 
  
  A summary of Runaway 1 is available from the options menu. It is not necessary to have played the 
 first game to enjoy the second. However, those with Runaway experience may pick up on a joke or 
 two that the uninitiated might miss. This is a great feature! 
  
  The inventory button opens a large split screen with Brian on the right and your inventory on the 
 left. It's a very engaging system, as Brian will gesture, make faces, and comment on your inventory 
 selection. When you combine inventory, Brian says something witty, drops off the screen, and pops 
 back up as the new invention appears in your inventory. 
  
  Small Problems: "No man, don't you worry. We all have our little flaws." Ben
  
  Runaway 2 is 
 both well conceived and executed, but it has a few small problems. 
  
  Loading and saving times were bit protracted. Infrequently, I spotted a misused word or a mislabeled 
 hotspot. On the rare occasion, the spoken word did not match the captions exactly. 
  
  My only serious problem occurred when Brian could not pick up a necessary piece of equipment. Following 
 a walkthrough step by step did not correct this difficulty. Happily, loading a previous save and 
 playing through again did solve it. 
  
  The U. S. release is rated "T" for crude humor, language, mild violence, sexual themes, and use 
 of drugs. While I noticed a fair sprinkling of sexual innuendo, one cut scene following a puzzle 
 springs to mind immediately as the main culprit. No graphics are seen, but sounds and remarks are 
 heard which may offend. I think the developers could have found a better way to wrap up this puzzle. 
 
  
  Summary: "This morning has been a real humdinger." Brian
  
  Runaway 2 left me wanting more, literally. It did not answer all my questions, and some plot lines 
 remain open. In spite of that, I'm glad I played it. I'm definitely ready to see what the sequel 
 brings.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: b0-0n
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  Runaway 2: The Dream of the Turtle is without a doubt one of the dumbest titles an adventure 
 received the last couple of years, but let's not take that into consideration. The first Runaway 
 from Spanish devs Pendulo Studios surprised friends and foes some years ago and because of that 
 I was quite looking forward to this successor. Those that know the golden age of adventures with 
 LucasArts and Sierra will immediately recognise what the makers tried to achieve with this game. 
 Nothing more than producing a modern version of the classics. However, the devs' weapons aren't 
 strong enough to fade away the vivid memories to those timeless stories and ingenious creativity.
 
  
  The first thing I noticed after finishing the intro and the first of six chapters was the atmosphere. 
 While this was one of the things that sucked me right into the first game, I couldn't get used 
 to the overproduced and fake feeling of this sequel. The tunes are too sweet, the characters a 
 tidbit too d&eacute; j&agrave; vu and clich&eacute; to surprise, the main main character - as well 
 as the devs - tries too hard to be ultracool, and although the jokes are doable they're often too 
 predictable or old.
  
  The storyline is plagued by the same problem: the game tries too hard to make those hilaric adventures 
 relive and loses therefore its identity which should be the power of what the main characters Brian 
 and Gina experience. The writers were obviously less talented and the translation towards English 
 clearly also left its marks. That the voice actors add to that by saying their lines quite uninterested 
 only makes this even more visible. Especially the first part where a monkey plays the main role 
 shows where the makers got their inspiration. The situation where you get the animal drunk is something 
 you saw coming miles away, exactly like the way you're supposed to do this.
  
  The latter is often the case with the puzzles. I quickly found out that you need to fill some sort 
 of toy with whisky but unfortunately I had to test it with water first before Brian would try it 
 with the spirit. Clumsy and strange because at other times these typical time consuming tricks 
 aren't used. Brian himself will go looking for a brench if you need to pull something out of mud 
 and when you've made a catapult he'll quickly pick a stone from the ground himself.
  
  Luckily, most of the puzzles are very logical and hunting pixels will be limited to what we don't 
 mind in this genre. The rest of the time you'll be collecting objects, combining them in your inventory, 
 try out crazy stuff and now and then scratch your head to start over again. This part is certainly 
 good, especially since the more frustrating pieces are enlightened by the handy and intuitive interface.
 
  
  Graphically things are also very much ok. The cartoony surroundings and characters were created 
 with lots of color, sharpness and love and also variation is plenty present. This all helps to 
 keep playing, you'll want to know what's coming. From the cold Alaska to the sun and tropical plants-filled 
 Hawaii and from a pirate ship to a US military base, you'll constantly be able to enjoy beautiful 
 environments and images. The animations are also very well done, eventhough we would have like 
 to have the possibility to skip them when we enter a room for the seventh time. Runaway 2: The 
 Dream of the Turtle has become a game that does certain things very good but other things a lot 
 less. We hope for a third episode where the makers let go of their obsession with the old classics 
 and concentrate on their own talent, storylines and characters. Also they can let go of their everything 
 is cool as that's what kids love -atmosphere and go back to the more mature line of the first game. 
 Combined with good puzzles and beautiful graphics this should result in a game that offers and 
 innovates more than this sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoLake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  Well, first of all I have to say that I'm a BIG fan of the classic graphic adventures. I love Lucas 
 Arts, and I played a lot of graphic adventures of the second half of the 90's and before. I also 
 played Runaway, and another game from Pendulo Studios, Hollywood Monsters, is one of my favorite 
 games of all-time.
  
  As you can imagine, I was so hyped with this game. And I wasn't disappointed. The gameplay is the 
 same as the original Runaway, very effective and simple. I don't like innovations in graphic adventures, 
 so I was very satisfied with it.
  
  The story is amazing, makes you want to continue playing the game, you don't want to stop, and 
 you want to know more details about the storyline. The characters are fantastic, very well defined.
 
  
  The graphics are fantastic, specially if you play it at 1024x768 or less. I played it at 1680x1050, 
 but they were still very good. They are very detailed, and the movies have a great quality.
  
  The sound is also very good. The soundtrack fits well with the game, and the voice acting is 
 very good. My version, the spanish one, have a professional voice acting, and you can recognise 
 some famous voices.
  
  Finally, I recommend it to classic graphic adventures gamers, lovers of Runaway: A Road Adventure, 
 gamers with time and people who want to start in this genre. For me, it's almost a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HummaKavula
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 10, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  I love adventure games, Grim Fandango and Monkey Island are two of my all time favourite games. 
 So when I saw this game I got interested because the game has great graphics and it looks pretty 
 cool. So how could I go wrong right? Well, it did for the most part.
  
  The story is pretty scattered all over the place, Gina disappears somewhere and it's up to Brian 
 to find her. But Brian doesn't really seem to care alot, because he cheats on her. What is that 
 about? He claims he loves her, and then just forgets about her and goes for a quickie with some 
 other girl?
  Later on there's some conspiracy about aliens coming to earth or something, it's pretty ridiculous.
 
  
  The dialogue and script is terrible, but you have to listen to it all the time. The game desperately 
 tries to be funny, but fails at every single turn.
  The jokes are just so lame and stupid that it's just not funny.
  Most of the dialogue of the 
 characters are just useless nonsense or dull backstory of their past. So you'll most likely just 
 skip past every line, and you might just miss some useful information you'd have to sit through 
 50 lines of blabber to hear. The voice-acting is pretty horrible too, just like the music. UGH, 
 somebody make it stop.
  
  The characters of the game are lame and stereotypical, it goes from whiny teenagers to army officers 
 with a cigar and an eyepatch. And they all have terrible voice-acting and dialogue.
  
  The puzzles are straight-forward, but they mostly make sense.
  It's sometimes very weird that 
 you try to combine two items or something and you can't but it's VERY obvious that you DO can. 
 But you can only do it after you've spoken to someone or something, it's ridiculous.
  And sometimes you need an item you just don't know where it is, you've checked everywhere, but 
 what you don't know is that the item you're looking for is a place you've already checked before. 
 He just goes through the stuff and says Hmm, there's a pretty useful item here, but I don't want 
 it... yet. .
  Are you kidding me!? Just pick up the damn item so I can use it later!
  
  The game also helps you out alot, more than necessary. Sometimes you've figured out what to do, 
 like say combine two items, and he says Yeah! Good idea!!! and combines them, and then he just 
 takes control and says what you're supposed to do when you could've just figured it out yourself.
 
  
  I haven't beaten the game yet, so I don't know for how long you're supposed to suffer through this 
 nonsense game. I'll probably pick it up sometime in the future just to complete it, but I've had 
 enough of this for a while.
  The game does have an undeniable charm to it, because it looks great, the developers obviously 
 spent alot of time making it look good, but not enough time to make it an enjoyable game.
  
  There's a solid adventure game buried in there, but the developers just tapped the surface 
 of what it could've been. If the characters were less stereotypical, and the dialogue made sense, 
 was funny and was alot shorter, with puzzles that you can figure out without wandering around for 
 an hour, and some good voice-acting, this could've been a good game.
  But unfortunately it's the opposite, so... don't play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norm325392003
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I played the first Runaway game followed by this one. I like the fact that they do follow a chronological 
 order and continue where the previous leaves off. I don't agree that the voice acting is bad. In 
 fact, I think it is pretty good. Like the previous, the environment is absolutely gorgeous. My 
 only complaint is that the voice script is sometimes too long and sometimes seems to wander off 
 into oblivion. I got bored a couple of times and skipped through, after quickly reading the script. 
 I have always been a fan of adventure games from the early Sierra games like Colonel's Bequest, 
 and King's Quest, Quest for Glory, and Lucasarts Monkey Island Series. I like the combination of 
 2D and 3D animation in the Runaway series. It's the simplicity of point and click that I like. 
 This game gives that. I only hope to see more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 29, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Humorous point and click graphic adventures have always had my interest, and Runaway seemed to 
 bring back memories of Monkey Island right from the artwork.
  
  Runaway: The Dream of the Turtle begins with Brian Basco on vacation with his girlfriend Gina, 
 in Hawaii. They decide to take a little plane trip to see the famous Tiki Fall on Mala Island, 
 but strangely enough, all trips to the Island have been cancelled, except for one by Platypus Tours. 
 Reluctantly, Brian boards the plane with Gina and their pilot, Otto. But it's not until they find 
 themselves losing altitude really fast with an unconscious pilot in the cockpit. With only one 
 parachute available, Brian does the heroic thing: makes Gina put it on, forces her out of the plane 
 and tries to soften the landing. That's where the adventure begins, with Brian's quest to find 
 the missing Gina. Stuck in the middle of the jungle, his first task is to get as many useful things 
 as possible and reach civilization to ask for help.
  
  The game is divided into six chapters, but don't think they will be short and easy to get through. 
 As any good graphic adventure, key items have creative uses beyond what you would expect them to, 
 so sometimes you might not see the solution for a puzzle right away and will experiment with everything 
 on everything else, but other times it becomes all so clear. Word of advice: look at everything, 
 touch everything, watch the changes in your cursor as you move it around in a certain area. You 
 might miss something important, like I did right before leaving the plane.
  
  It does helps talking to everyone about everything, and do pay attention to what is said, since 
 it will either help you later or be just funny and worth reading. Every encounter is memorable 
 and you get to appreciate every character, even the bad guys.
  
  Through his crazy adventure, Brian will get involved with the military, meet with aliens, chat 
 with pirates, disguise himself as a scientist, bring a bird back from the dead, go ice fishing 
 and experiment with alien technology. It seems like all these events couldn't even fit together 
 in the same story, but they do, and they work too.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text, screenshots and walkthrough at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=runawayturtle 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truemattyz
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 24, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  i really enjoyed this game it was difficult in places and in other places it was easy, i like the 
 meduinm diffulculty games (adventure) and this one ticks all the right boxes. some really funny 
 jokes which you usually dont find in games, and another game that i will probably compete so well 
 done pendulo studios= another great adveture. not many errors which i noticed (infact i did not 
 notice andy) so all in all great game and so on and so on. you can tell that it is nopt made for 
 the english hummor as some jokes are not funny and appear to be aimed at some ther type of culture. 
 i fthat makes sence! but apart form the slappy of there own backsides when they get it on it is 
 a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GraveMistake
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Trying to think of the right words for this game was a little bit difficult, cause I had some mixed 
 feelings about it. First and foremost what comes to mind is TO BE CONTINUED , if I had known then, 
 what I know now, I am not to sure I would of bought it and played it till the the SEQUEL comes 
 out. I have always hated To be continued movies , but at least with them, you have an time expectancy 
 as to when the other half is coming. I haven't a clue how long we have to wait for the sequel to 
 this game, and that is my one MAJOR hangup about it. Other than that, the graphics were stunning, 
 the puzzles were not that easy/not that hard either, the little memory test with Husky Hound was 
 cute and the interactions with the other characters were lots of fun. All in all, if you are a 
 True Adventurer , then this game is a must for your collection - but - you may want to wait until 
 the second half comes out so you can play it straight through. If you can't wait and must get it, 
 you will enjoy it no doubt about it.
  
  I think alot of the criticism this game gets could be because it it a two-parter, heck maybe even 
 a three-parter (lol) who knows at this point. Just remember you have been forewarned - it leaves 
 you at the edge of a cliff, salivating for more at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  Despite the problems with running on 8800 nvidia chipset , the log time that i and many of you 
 waited for a new driver release that cold run this contraption ,etc... despite all that, i, finally 
 finished the game and i must say that i was very pleased. This is a great adventure game, it's 
 an classic one based on third person point and click game play, with great graphics and even better 
 in-games. From the start you are getting attached to the character that is well made and with great 
 voice acting. I was very surprised that this kind of games still runs through the market , i mean 
 , a game that do not requires great performances form your PC, with cartoon graphics, and with 
 funny and ironic speeches. I can not say bad things about this game, personally i haven`t found 
 a single thing that bothered me, besides that incompatibility with my 8800 chipset.
  
  I had lots of fun with this game, and i can not say that the puzzles were easy, well some of them.
 
  
  It's a great game and it doesn't deserve 5.8, but i believe this rate is due to the technical issues 
 that occurred between nvidia 8800 and this game.
  
  If you are a big fan of adventure games , then it's a must have.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  First, I have to admit that I played the French version of the game. So I do not know the quality 
 of the translation in English. With the French version, the dialogs have been carefully translated 
 and the voice acting is one of the best. In fact, what makes this game interesting is the voice 
 rendering of the dialogs. The use of older French in the last chapter is simply one of the most 
 funny and satisfying part of the game. The graphics are simply amazing. It's really fun to observe 
 every detail trying to find any clues.
  
  As for game play, well... it's an adventure game, not an action/adventure game. You talk to people 
 (and I mean long talk to people) , you try to find clues and objects on the screen by clicking and 
 looking at stuff, you try to assemble things in your inventory, and then, when you are stuck, you 
 do everything again just to make sure you did not forget anything. The game has a very slow pace. 
 If you don't have any patience, do not try this game. If you want some action, do not try this 
 game. This is a pure adventure game, like we had in the old days ( days of the tentacle, monkey 
 island, Grim Fandango, Sam and Max, etc.) and it will appeal only to those who like these type 
 of game. TECHNICAL NOTE: if you are running Vista, don't forget to download the patch. Also, be 
 careful when you talk to people. In one case, speaking the dialog in the wrong order will prevent 
 you from finishing the game. Normally, if you just ask everything in the order that is presented 
 to you, then you should not have any problem.
  
  The only deception was to find that the story does not end here, but in a sequel. I find that very 
 lame. An adventure game should be complete in itself and not rely on any sequel. But at least, 
 you do have a sense of having completed something (unlike Dreamfall: the longest journey) . It's 
 just a shame having to wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhiannon-e
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  This is definitely an adventure worth playing. The voice acting and the jokes are great, just like 
 in the first game of the series. The graphics are cartoonish and superbly rendered, the music is 
 enjoyable and doesn't annoy after hours of play.
  
  The gameplay is mostly just right, there were a couple of places where you need to stretch you 
 sanity to think of the right thing to do. But all in all it's common sense, just imagine you're 
 in the situation and you'll figure it out.
  
  The story gets more sci-fi-ish than the first one, you also get to see some of the old friends 
 and get filled in on what happened after the first unforgettable adventure :)
  
  There's one HUGE (in my humble opinion) drawback... just as you get to the most interesting part!!! 
 It ends! A cliffhanger, in other words.
  It's a really good game nonetheless, but I'd suggest you wait till the third one comes out and 
 then play both in a row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juve_star
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  nice and funny, try to have it ... you will like it if you have free times :D !!!
  my dream of the turtle !! ............
  nice and funny, try to have it ... you will like it if 
 you have free times :D !!!
  my dream of the turtle !! ............
  nice and funny, try to have it ... you will like it if you have free times :D !!!
  my dream of 
 the turtle !! ............
  nice and funny, try to have it ... you will like it if you have free times :D !!!
  my dream of 
 the turtle !! ............
  nice and funny, try to have it ... you will like it if you have free times :D !!!
  my dream of 
 the turtle !! ............ nice and funny, try to have it ... you will like it if you have free 
 times :D !!!
  my dream of the turtle !! ............
  nice and funny, try to have it ... you will like it if you have free times :D !!!
  my dream of 
 the turtle !! ............
  nice and funny, try to have it ... you will like it if you have free times :D !!!
  my dream of 
 the turtle !! ............
  nice and funny, try to have it ... you will like it if you have free times :D !!!
  my dream of 
 the turtle !! ............
  nice and funny, try to have it ... you will like it if you have free times :D !!!
  my dream of 
 the turtle !! ............ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Final Form
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 29, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  With better writing, this could have been a geat, old-school adventure game.
  The vibrant, cartoon graphics are truly gorgeous, and the game feels polished to such a degree 
 that's rarely seen in modern adventures. The puzzles are pretty solid for the most part. Unfortunately, 
 though --like most adventure games -- the game has a lot of dialog... and without exception, all 
 of it is just awful. With every single line that's uttered by the subpar voice actors, the game 
 desperately tries to be funny... and it fails EVERY single time. I don't think I even smiled once 
 playing the game. Seriously, Shindler's List has more moments of comic brilliance than this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doug_Poveda
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  After keeping me in suspense for the last God-knows-how-many months, Runaway: Dream of the Turtle 
 has finally come out in stores (if you can find it for Gods sake... oh, (sorry for taking your 
 name in vain so many times, my Lord!) , allowing MY Dream of the Turtle to finally come true. What 
 an appropriate name in this case!, Dream of the Turtle that is, since this games arrival onto 
 store shelves has seemed like a slow-motion sequence in a race by the proverbial tortoise. All 
 of us who played and loved the first Runaway have been on pins and needles waiting for that Runaway 
 2 box to cross the retail finish line, since we enjoyed the first installment like kiddies let 
 loose in a candy shop.
  
  When Runaway 1 (A Road Adventure) came out, I was finishing up my PhD in a physical science, just 
 like the main character in the story, so I guess that is what attracted me to the game in the first 
 place, in addition to the fact that I liked the idea of the road trip across the United States, 
 a theme which many of us have actually lived through, though without all of the intrigue that happened 
 to Brian on his way from East Coast to West... Plus, I know my road trip (which happened to be 
 an eastward-bound journey) did not involve any women as hot as the skimpily-clad Gina. So, I guess 
 I lived a more exciting alternative existence through the nerdy hero, Brian Basco. Anyway, I admit 
 that I was totally set up to like Runaway 1, because I identified so much with the story, because 
 I have always been an adventure lover, and because the game was graphically great and entertaining, 
 with good puzzles and a really really good plot.
  
  So, fast forward to me reading the news that Runaways sequel was going to come out, the Dream 
 of the Turtle. I didnt really expect a sequel because the first game was not really too well-known. 
 Normally, you would expect a sequel of some of the huge-name games, but I guess I must not have 
 been alone in liking the game if there was enough demand for a second volume to come out (and after 
 playing the game, I dont know why I suspect a third volume may be in the works, but I dont want 
 to give any spoilers either!) . After an agonizing wait, I finally got my hands on the game as soon 
 as it came out, thanks to a pre-order. And my expectations have been met to the fullest!
  
  Before giving my own opinions, let me just say that I totally disagree with the gamespot. com review, 
 which I find incredibly unfair, and I even have my serious doubts as to whether the reviewer actually 
 played the game. It is obvious that this adventure-hating reviewer never got beyond Chapter 2 (of 
 6 very good chapters) , since every reference he makes is based on things that happen only during 
 those first two chapters (the first of which is I found to be the only weak one in the game, and 
 therefore no basis for judging Runaway as a whole) . Even so, I dont know how he could have reached 
 some of the conclusions he does after playing the second chapter, which is fun, original and has 
 a huge cast of widely-ranging characters that give us hours of dialogue that I didnt find teeny-bopperish 
 in the least. Au contraire, I thought most of the dialogue was vastly more intelligent than most 
 of the mindless swill games have gotten me used to lately. And in this chapter, which takes place 
 in a BEAUTIFUL set of Hawaiian backdrops, there are some challenging and hilarious puzzles (the 
 best being an easy but funny puzzle involving a new Runaway temptress, Lokelani, a Hawaiian barmaid 
 who has had WAY too many boyfriends!) ... Unlike what you would see in a game meant for dumb teenagers, 
 I thought the game had quite a well-thought-out dosage of raciness, too, with Brian apparently 
 dabbling in infidelity, and two different insinuated steamy scenes in just two chapters, as well 
 as a use of language that was definitely beyond a 13-year-olds normal vocab. Another HUGE giveaway 
 to the fact that the reviewer did not play the game is saying that it has a BOY BAND teenager 
 soundtrack. Pardon me, but the only time any music fitting that description is heard is in the 
 opening sequence of the game! There is kind of a hip-hop-esque title song played, but then 100% 
 of the music thereafter is kind of dreamy and reminiscent of a soft-core version of the Corrs or 
 something like that. So, anyway, saying that the whole soundtrack sounds like the title song 
 appearing in the first 1 minute of the game is yet another giveaway that the reviewer is reviewing 
 something he never saw or heard, besides not mentioning anything from the later (and best) chapters 
 of the game.
  
  As for my own opinions, I would have to say that on the whole the game gradually gets better as 
 we are revealed more and more info and the pieces start to fit together, though each chapter is 
 dramatically different, and therefore some will appeal more to some players than others. Perhaps 
 this irregularity could be a slight criticism of the game. While ALL of the visual aspect of the 
 game is superb, some of the chapters are totally upbeat (like Hawaii, Alaska and Sushis yacht) , 
 while others are kind of melancholy and dark (the military camp) . Having said that, it is also 
 a forte that they are so very much different, since it takes a while to get through the challenging 
 puzzles in each chapter, and so you are ready to move on to a new setting by the time you have 
 gotten through them all. As in many adventure games, the difficulty level rose as I moved on, and 
 many of the puzzles were clever and unusual. Though lots of them were also your typical adventure 
 game puzzles, involving the gathering and joining of different items in some ingenious manner, 
 or talking to the different characters to get some important information. One huge improvement 
 over the first Runaway is that the objects are vastly easier to find, and there is no tedious pixel-hunting 
 at all. The objects are pretty much there for the taking. The games definite number one winning 
 feature is its visual appearance (as the reviewer did hit on) . The artwork and animation is impeccably 
 done, and I really enjoyed the character design. As with the ground-breaking Runaway 1 with its 
 drag-queen band, this episode also has some truly unique characters) . Brian, the main character, 
 has evolved into less of a nerdy geek and more of a cool dude beachcomber, but this seems to be 
 logical since he has apparently been living with his stripper girlfriend Gina for some time now, 
 and he has left the hallowed halls of the Ivy League for the hipper west coast Berkeley type scene. 
 The aforementioned visuals take us through even more settings than there are chapters in the game, 
 thanks to some sub-plots and sidetracking, with short stints to places like San Diego, Spain and 
 Mexico, as well as the main settings I mentioned above. The places are also well-woven into the 
 story, since they all have their fitting role within the complicated storyline (dozens of hours 
 of game play allow for plenty of plot convolution!) , so you are definitely not taken to a bunch 
 of wide-ranging places just for the heck of it. One of the settings (the last chapter, sorry!) 
 was meshed into the story really well, allowing the player to go somewhere completely different 
 from the rest of the game. I dont wanna give anything away, but this last chapter of the game 
 was positively and shockingly different from all the other chapters, with a whole new slew of characters, 
 plot and... well, a whole different way of talking, even. I would also mention that it is well-spaced 
 out with some really greatly-executed movie-like sequences in between the chapters that allow you 
 a bit of an amusing, information-filled rest after a couple of hours of trying to figure everything 
 out in each chapter. Its like getting a nice little prize for all the hard work youve done to 
 solve the puzzles. So you can just sit back, relax and enjoy the movie for a while.
  
  So, I would highly recommend this game to everyone who has been dying to play a game in the semi-forgotten 
 pure adventure genre. How long has it been since we have had such an excellent game to play, with 
 so many references to other games, to movies (I loved the Pirates of the Caribbean mentions, 
 hahaha) , to books... I think you can take this as a very adult and intelligent game that is meant 
 to be savored and enjoyed slowly, like all the classics are. Despite this, the game is not War 
 and Peace or Crime and Punishment either, since I have read some critiques that make it sound 
 like the game should have made some sort of profound statement or contributed amazing innovations 
 to the adventure genre, or sweeping social statements. I dont think Runaway had such lofty intentions, 
 but rather was just trying to be a fun and entertaining game. Some of the characters may be a bit 
 stereotypical, but it is all just in good fun and should not be taken so seriously. Instead, Runaway 
 makes the most of the classic features of adventure games that so many of us having been dying 
 to have back! If you just let yourself get taken away for the fun ride, you will laugh your way 
 through many hours. That is why I most recommend it to old adventure buffs and to gamers who have 
 not gotten to enjoy this genre because of its neglect in recent times. Runaway will be a great 
 introduction for them that will get them interested in this genre after such a tiresome slew of 
 violent fighting games, sports games and mindless killing games with sinister themes. I found the 
 upbeat cheeriness of the game REFRESHING, and something that has been severely lacking for a long 
 time in the gaming world. Congratulations on this excellent game and thanks for living up to my 
 expectations, Runaway! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jijo0068
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 15, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  I am a fan of the old adventures from Sierra and Lucasart. I had high expectations for this game 
 but it all came crashing down with a vengeance.
  
  First of all there isn't many games in this genre and there should be more, but i f they all come 
 with this poor workmanship I can do without them.
  
  This game should be played by a teenager between 12 and 15, if you are older than that like me 
 you will get pretty annoyed by all corny dialog and story.
  
  Ok, the game is about Brian and his girlfriend Gina that you *suprise* need to rescue. I will not 
 actually go into the story any more since it is so thin anyway nothing more needs to be said. The 
 environments and settings are the only good thing since they are stunning and also diverse. One 
 thing though is that I on my computer run 1920x1200 on my 24 widescreen monitor. With this high 
 resolution the game look a bit low res , which brings down the graphics impression which is the 
 only thing that keeps the game afloat. The sound also sounds like a boy band album which is not 
 one of my favorite types of music. With all of this said this could have been a great game if they 
 focused more on adding good story and dialog. The problem now is that you feel that everything 
 is dragged out into a long and painful mess where you have to redo things all the time. This keeps 
 you hanging around in the same place and going back to the same characters over and over. When 
 doing this most animations keeps playing over and over which is very annoying. I found though that 
 you can double-click the locations to jump directly to it which helped a bit. If they had added 
 story as a mean to lengthen the game instead of having you do things that seams overly complex 
 and involves to many things it could have turned out a lot better.
  
  This game left me disappointed when it could have been a very good game but ended up with a bitter 
 aftertaste, they did not even finish the story but at this point I don't think I care if they make 
 a sequel or not. If you are not a teenager stay away from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  Whats makes Runaway 2: The dream of the turtle a real adventure game?
  Is it the bizarre, a bit wacky, puzzles? or maybe it's the bizarre, a bit wacky story-line? anyway 
 you look at it, Runaway 2 is a true, classic adventure game.
  
  One thing the game doesn't share with most adventure games is the graphics. most games in the genre 
 suffer from robot-like characters and stale, boring backgrounds... but not Runaway 2 ! each environment 
 is uniquely beautiful and each character has its own outrages look. The in-game cinematics can 
 be exhausting in some occasions but nothing too serious.
  
  Another place where the game shines in the voice-acting; The main character voice is well suited 
 and all the dialog is flowing and believable.
  
  The only problem with the game is that it's too short. Just when you finally find yourself fully 
 immersed in the story, the game is over. For an experienced Adventurer the game with take 10 hours 
 or so; There are a few really challenging puzzles in the game, but other then that it's smooth 
 sailing all the way.
  If you are new the genre, Runaway 2 is a great place to start, offering wacky characters and story 
 combined with a beautiful setting. just remember to keep your turtles safe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Runaway 2: Dream of the Turtle is the sequel to the amazing classic adventure game Runaway: A road 
 adventure. Runaway: A road adventure was a huge success in Europe selling more than 600.000 units. 
 Reason why it was so successful is that the game featured old-school graphics and gameplay with 
 great and interesting story and very catchy and interesting characters as well as great music adding 
 up to the mood. Runaway 2: Dream of the Turtle builds up from where Runaway stopped. Early pictures 
 and videos and statements from the development team promised to develop even better adventure this 
 time around which really seemed like too optimistic promise considering how good runaway was. But 
 after playing Runaway 2 I must say it really brings the game to a whole new level and at the same 
 time keeping all of the things that made Runaway so good. Anyways let me start from the beginning
 
  It's been some time after the adventure in Runaway ended and Brian and Gina are on vacation and 
 decide to take a plane trip to Mali Island where everything goes bad. Now as I don't want to take 
 out the fun while you play the game I won't go into details about the story and wont write spoilers. 
 To continue, Gina is pushed from the airplane by Brian and the adventure begins.
  Graphically the game is better than its predecessor and features 3D real time special effects: 
 light, atmospheric effects, footprints, camera changes, panoramic views, etc.
  The environments are full of details and are just amazing to see. Visually Runaway 2 features a 
 huge number of lovingly hand-painted backgrounds with 3D cartoonish style characters with very 
 good animations that's blends perfectly with the background. The gameplay is same as the original 
 runaway but overall the game brings some new interesting twists and changes that will surprise 
 many who played Runaway.
  The once known Brian has changed drastically in appearance and mentally, or is he? - Is he that 
 much changed or is he the same old Brian, I'll leave that for you to find out!
  Runaway 2 now introduces itself a bit more seriously also as there is some minor adult scenes, 
 for example the opening scene with Gina. The game introduces new characters like Koala, Lokelani, 
 colonel Kordsmier and Camilie who's character is actually taken from a real-life girl that won 
 the contest to be made as a character in the game. Also there are quite a few characters from the 
 original Runaway returning as Joshya, Sushi and so on
  The main story in the game is about rescuing Gina although the story takes few very strange and 
 interesting turns. So basically from one basic story it evolves into a bigger different story as 
 to the point of US army, aliens and some "old-classic with highly tech" stuff being the plot o 
 the story.
  Runaway 2 takes you in many different places: Alaska, Mali islands, sea and each of these places 
 contains very different styles. For example in Mali island there are some beautiful beach places, 
 war camp, underground temples and ruins, jungle and so on to explore! The puzzles in the game vary 
 from easy to extremely hard, from very logical to very illogical ones, from believable to some 
 really crazy stuff. There is always the pixel-hunting on occasions and a bit repeating dialogues 
 with characters in order to move forward, you will also need to visit some places a couple of times 
 in order to be able to progress.
  The characters are very interesting though and offer some decent portions of humor as well as plenty 
 of dialogue. The game features the same inventory from Runaway and there are options available 
 of which questions and/or answers to ask and/or answer!
  Overall it's a very rich experience and more than 14-15 hours of enjoyment.
  
  The sound is 
 once again a success with Runways 2. It features some really good music that dynamically changes 
 when you enter different scenes or places! The voices of the old characters are performed by the 
 same actors in the original Runaway and the new ones are also good. Overall very catchy and quality 
 music!
  
  Any adventure games lover must own Runaway 2 period. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
