-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rune
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/rune/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 27, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.7, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 552 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Human Head Studios
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 29, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The simplistic melee combat system combined with weak enemy artificial intelligence makes Rune an 
 ultimately shallow and repetitious experience. 

 From the first scene, in which a camera swirls around a large rock as a somber narrator provides 
 lengthy, droning exposition, you'll get the sinking feeling that Rune, the third-person Viking-themed 
 action game by Human Head Studios, is not going to break any new storytelling ground. It's quite 
 accomplished technically, but Rune represents an incremental advancement of the action genre rather 
 than a radical rethinking. Rune's one gimmick - the explicit absence of ranged weapons - is both 
 its most unique feature and biggest failing. This simplistic melee combat system combined with 
 weak enemy artificial intelligence makes Rune an ultimately shallow and repetitious experience. 
   

  The makers of Rune have stated that they performed extensive research into Norse mythology to create 
 the game's story. While this is probably true, it turns out that every fantasy tale ever written 
 may have been a result of this same research. Rune relies on such hoary high-fantasy staples as 
 goblins, dwarves, castles, skeletons, dungeons, and magical swords. You play the part of Ragnar, 
 newly appointed hero of your Viking village. But if it weren't for the fact that a few of the game's 
 characters are well-known Norse gods and that Ragnar wears a hat with pointy horns on it, you'd 
 be just as likely to think you were playing a game set in any other fantasy universe.   

  The game's story - such as it is - is generally advanced through in-engine cutscenes. The voice 
 acting isn't terrible - unless you count the actor who plays the part of the lead villain, Loki, 
 whose performance is way too over-the-top. Luckily, you can skip the noninteractive story portions 
 of Rune without missing any important game details. But, oddly enough, the game doesn't always 
 let you actually skip them. Some scenes are interruptible with the action key, while some aren't 
 - and there's no apparent pattern.   

  The game's plot and storytelling deficiencies don't really matter, because Rune is a pure action 
 game. You control Ragnar from a third-person perspective, as in the Tomb Raider series or the recent 
 Heavy Metal: F. A. K. K. 2. The designers have done a great job overcoming the camera problems inherent 
 to this type of game. In fact, you could make a case that they've solved them for all time. The 
 camera always stays at your back. You look around with the mouse, as in a traditional first-person 
 shooter. If you back up to a wall, the camera moves inside Ragnar, and he becomes translucent. 
 You can use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out on him. You can actually zoom in to a first-person 
 mode, though it's generally useless for fighting since you can't see your weapon. The end result 
 of all this is that your view is virtually never obscured; the camera control is both intuitive 
 and seamlessly integrated into gameplay - the holy grail of third-person action game design.   
 

  Rune uses the Unreal Tournament engine, and it looks very good. You start out in a beautifully 
 rendered Viking village. It has a nice open design and some bright colors, and it promises that 
 Rune will offer some unusual settings. Unfortunately, in the very next stage, you're plunged into 
 a series of dark caves and dungeon hallways that comprise the first quarter of Rune's roughly 45 
 levels. The caves are, maybe, 15 percent prettier than the caves you've been forced to march through 
 in countless other games. But at some point, being able to render the same scene slightly better 
 than in the last game cannot be considered progress. These first levels are especially dreary, 
 but Rune does get better.   

  After the caves, you'll visit castles, Viking towns that look surprisingly like Unreal's Nali villages, 
 and some Dwarven workshops filled with giant rotating gears. These places are all more than competently 
 designed, and a few of them are actually quite impressive despite their familiarity. The darkness 
 of the environments even occasionally works to Rune's advantage. Seeing nothing but the glowing 
 eyes of a pack of undead through the murk of a cave is effectively creepy.   

  Rune also wisely dispenses with any kind of heavy-handed soundtrack. The environments are filled 
 only with appropriate ambient sounds and the blare of combat. Music occasionally underscores some 
 of the action, but it's subtle enough to be ignored. The silly taunts hurled at you by some of 
 your foes are significantly less unobtrusive - they get old fast and often seriously detract from 
 the grim atmosphere Rune attempts to evoke.    

 Rune is almost completely linear. Puzzles generally involve flipping a switch and figuring out its 
 purpose or simply hunting around for the hidden ledge that will permit you to reach a higher point. 
 Everything is stripped down to the bare essentials. You can jump, climb ropes, and hang on ledges 
 to pull yourself up. The jumping tasks Rune includes are generally easy. It isn't a game about 
 precise maneuvering.   

  This leaves combat as the core of Rune's gameplay. All 15 items in the game's arsenal are variations 
 of a sword, a mace, or an axe. The left mouse button swings your equipped weapon. With most of 
 the weapons, you can combine the mouse click with the forward, back, right, or left movement keys 
 to get a different swing. You can also toss the weapon a short distance. If you're holding a shield, 
 the right mouse button will raise it - at the expense of being able to attack at the same time. 
 You can pick up runes, which provide your weapon with energy. When you have enough energy, you 
 can exchange it for what amounts to a spell effect. Each of the weapons has a different rune power. 
 By nature, some are defensive (for example, they can make you invisible) , but most increase the 
 potency of the weapon.   

  The problem with the combat system, and ultimately the problem with Rune, is that it's entirely 
 too simple. You can defeat virtually every enemy, or pack of enemies, by using the same strategy: 
 strafe left and right while you press the attack button. The timing changes a bit from foe to foe, 
 and a select few require a little running around on your part. But, generally, your experience 
 in the game's first battle is remarkably similar to the one in most every battle afterward. It's 
 fun for a while, but the entertainment value runs out before the game is finished. It's possible 
 to defeat enemies with more advanced maneuvers just for the sheer challenge of it, but rote tactics 
 will see you through the entire game. In fact, you can easily beat Rune without ever raising your 
 shield.   

  In games with ranged weapons, the architecture can help differentiate one battle from another. 
 Put a few snipers in a position or add an enemy who's lobbing area-effect munitions, and you force 
 the player to use the environment tactically by locating cover and ducking in and out of weapon 
 range. Without any ranged weapons, every battle in Rune becomes identical. You wait for your enemy 
 to close in on you and then start swinging. The levels become backdrops rather than part of the 
 action. And it doesn't help that the enemies aren't particularly smart. Obstacles often confuse 
 them, as most will simply run directly at you regardless of the terrain. So for instance, if you 
 put a pillar in between yourself and an enemy, he will often keep running in place toward it without 
 attempting to navigate around it.   

  The Unreal Tournament engine provides Rune with a stable basis for its online component. Rune's 
 melee-only conceit actually gives the multiplayer mode a freshness that lacks in the current crop 
 of shooters. Facing off with an opponent and clanging your weapons on the ground for a few seconds 
 before running full speed at each other, swords drawn, is an experience unique to Rune. You can 
 even pick up an opponent's severed head and beat him to death with it after he respawns. But these 
 novelties, no matter how pleasurable, can't carry the entire game. Multiplayer often devolves into 
 a bloody mess of mindless button mashing. Out of the box, Rune supports only deathmatch and team 
 deathmatch, which means the developers are relying on the mod community to create some interesting 
 content.   

  The best platform action games introduce a series of player skills and then gradually force the 
 player to combine them in a long sequence of increasingly complex tasks. Rune introduces a simple 
 skill, puts that skill to a simple test, and then keeps repeating the test for 20 straight hours. 
 It's an undeniably beautiful-looking experience created by a team of skilled technicians. And that 
 makes Rune's failings, as a game, even more disappointing.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: CageSpot
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  My all time Favorite game for 4 years from 2000 - 2004 this was the best i remember seeing every 
 one on there playstations 360s and everything i remember holding up Playstation2 Soul calibure2 
 and Rune for PC i picked one to complete and went back to rune it was amazeing rage expernice by 
 a warrior hand picked by god himself
  
  the story was solid easy enough just like the other oldern dungeon games u play as a handpicked 
 warrior out to stop evil gameplay easliy upgradeable but a great gameplay expernice graphics okie 
 not gonna say much but it was 2000 the graphics were good then From wat i can say is dat Rune is 
 the best barbarian Axe Game ever And im not just saying it With a good computer a great system 
 makes this game a 2000 HIT!
  
  
  Story: 9-2 - SOLID
  Gameplay 8-8 - Great
  Graphics 7-7 - not bad
  
  TOTAL REVIEW - 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xqmxqm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 12:18 am PT
Review:  I think a large portion of the reason why GS gave rune so low a rating is the reviewer treated 
 this game as another TR or UT. But definitely it's not. I prefer to classify it as a mix of fps 
 and action-adventure. 
  The graphic: Good. Vivid and dynamic. The effects created by unreal engine remains acceptable even 
 today. The winds of a great valley in a later level is pretty cool, I think.
  The plot: Good. Evenly paced and logically consistent, which is good enough for an action-based 
 game.
  The gameplay: Excellent. The basic controls are easily mastered and cool combos can be grasped 
 later. Mutilation and rune powers are interesting.
  The sound: Good. Well fitted into the background and that's all I require.
  Multiplayer services: 
 Quite good. There are still many online players to find after 8 years since its release. Intense 
 and compelling matches.
  Overall: rune is a badly underestimated game, especially on its publication, which was largely 
 due to lack of advertisement and postsale services. Anyway you can't expect every small studio 
 to invest in such fields as much as tycoons like EA or blizzard. So, show some understanding and 
 give rune a try. Probably you are not to be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  RUNE is a true thriller as far as adventure games go and delivers top notch gameplay and graphics 
 for it's time which was only seven years ago, doesn't seem that long ago to me. Story is good and 
 better than they say it is. So why don't you, that right I'm talking to you... buy this game for 
 between ten and twenty dollars and insert it into your PC disc tray and play it and appreciate 
 and old and great classic. What are you waiting for already. RUNE was fun when I played it and 
 the puzzles were the only flaw I could find in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 19, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Among luscious scenery (courteously of the Unreal Tournament engine) , you have been recently initiated 
 into the Odinsblade to protect the rune stones from Loki and prevent him from unleashing Ragnarok. 
 You&amp;#8217; ll then will be frolicking with the dwarves and goblins, taking the occasional swim 
 whilst chomping on a lizard and/or drumstick and washing it down with a goblet of good mead - the 
 true viking way. Lacking only are the women but all is not lost. There is an opportunity to 'ride' 
 with the valkyries...
  
  Yes, that sums up the game. Rune is all about Ragnar and his sword. Well, he also can use a mace 
 or an axe. Actually there are five different types of axes, swords and maces. This makes Ragnar 
 very happy indeed. All this is viewed as a 3rd person so you can see Ragnar in full, barbarian 
 action - jumping, climbing, swimming, beheading opponents and throwing. No missiles allowed here. 
 It's all about vikings and their weapons. Heck, you can also throw your victim's limbs and heads 
 or use them as weapons.
  
  A known fact is that Vikings and magic don't mix. However Odin being a clever chap disguised magical 
 powers inside of rune stones. You pick up a rune stone and voila your weapons will become an instant 
 death machine. All the different types of weapons conjure different magical powers; stuff that 
 makes viking chicks turn on their heads and on top of that there is even a rune stone that gives 
 you bloodlust &amp;#8211; that is: god mode for a limited time. If this doesn't impress chicks 
 mention this bloodlust rune has the endorsement of Odin.
  
  What also makes Ragnar extremely happy is the graphics. Considering the game runs on a modified 
 Unreal Tournament engine, Ranger is giving a 'two spleens up'. Skipping through towns, forests, 
 mountain passes, caves and dungeons, Ragnar highly recommended this trip to anyone with a lust 
 for adventure.
  
  The sound effects are pretty awesome as well. Ragnar was impressed with the bone-crushing sounds 
 of his war hammer thrown the dwarf's head and then tumbles down right in front of him. Other sounds 
 like slashing, grunting and puffing makes Ragnar exited. The acting is nothing to scribe on the 
 runestone about however Ragnar is more interested in killing and eating. The musical score even 
 though it does appear from time-to-time is nice to hear and suits the mood however Ragnar wishes 
 that the scores lasted a little longer as he invested heavily on that travelling bard.
  
  There are the typical difficulty settings of easy, medium and high however don't let that fool 
 you. Odin only demands the best vikings to ride with his valkyries hence that even the medium settings 
 will give you a challenge. The length of Ragnar's paradise is quite long (as endurance is a must 
 when walking that rainbow mountain bridge in the afterlife) yet considering the diverse locations, 
 you wish this never ends.
  
  If you want to show your manhood among other men (and women) , the multiplayer option is a must. 
 Create you own server (as there won't be any permanent servers anyway) , invite your steroid infected 
 mates and play happy slaps. Considering there are no missile weapons (other than throwing your 
 weapon) this is the pure show of male testosterone. And considering this uses the UT1999 engine, 
 believe it or not, there is a modding community. The best ones being the coop mode - yes bring 
 on your fellow men, hold hands and battle together in the name of Odin.
  
  Overall, this game is for hardcore barbarians. If you show a sign of weakness, you will die. If 
 you flex your chest muscles and failed to bust a dwarf&amp;#8217; s head between those pecks, you 
 will die. If you want elves and missiles, you must die. If you cannot jump, don't play basketball. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maggon_rohit
Rating: 8
Date: May 20, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Vikings, a breed of battle hardy men. War is what they knew best. This game lets you play as Ragnar 
 who is out for blood, a traitor's blood. Conrack who starts worshipping Lord of te underworld, Loki. The 
 plot is simple Loki wants to bring Ragnarok on earth and is helped by the viking Conrack and his 
 men who are killing more and more people to send them to the underworld, amassing an army for Loki 
 to take over the world. Our character Ragnar along with his father and some men of his village go 
 to stop the evil Conrack but they all end up dead except for Ragnar who is now guided by the great 
 Odin himself to stop Loki and his minions and in the process get his revenge.
  
  There are 3 basic types of weapons at our disposal swords, maces and axes. While moving from level 
 to level we keep getting better and better weapons and each has a unique rune power. Some of them 
 are pretty useful while some make no sense at all. We can cast lightning, turn enemies to stone, freeze 
 them, hit them and make them allies which helps quite a lot in situations where you have to deal 
 with more than a few which at times becomes overwhelming and there are a quite a few such situations 
 which keep you on your toes so that you donot underestimate your enemies. You can do some really 
 sick decapitations with your swords and axes if you get them right. You can cut off the weapon bearing 
 arm of your enemy to make him totally helpless, but these things you have to learn with each level.
 
  
  There are not a lot of differant types of enemies that you get to fight in the game, you have your 
 standard goblins and zombies, other vikings and dwarves and still more powerful undead and some 
 Yeti like giant creatures. The best part of the game is that you have to go toe to toe with them, you 
 cant hide behind your shield for as long as you want, shields have health and they break when their 
 health reaches 0. You have to keep moving constantly to avoid being hit. The AI is pretty good and 
 the enemies really bring down the Hp if they connect with your flesh.
  
  We dont get to change armours but our character model goes through apparel changes from time to 
 time and eventually he looks like a proper viking like the ones seen in some movies full with a 
 helmet with horns.
  
  The levels take place  village. But the caves tend to 
 get a little repetitive. We also get to go to Valhalla the Norse heaven. The puzzles are pretty good, and 
 all levels have a lot of enemies to kill.
  
  So apart from very few types of enemies to fight and some repetitive caves a fun game to play if 
 you can learn to properly swing your weapns, which is probably the best thing about the game, its 
 all about melee combat, no bows and arrows, vikings fought their enemies while looking in their eyes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryguybond
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is WAY underappreciated on this site. I've played this game through several times and 
 countless hours in LAN parties. It's original, a break from the standard FPS. the best part is 
 running up to a guy and cutting their arms or head off and then watch them jump away in a panic. 
 ahhhhh good memories. i think the ratings on here should be at lease in the mid 8 range. the weapons 
 are cool cuz they give you different types, the graphics are top notch (for their time) , and the 
 sound is good (who ever has a problem with sound?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enesjusufi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 4, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  BEST MULTIPLAYER GAME EVER
  
  Thats right, its so extremly funny when you learn to play it... i play only Multiplayer, which 
 is the most fun of this game... there is either Team Game, Deathmatch or 1 vs 1 or 2 vs 2 Servers... 
 the Gore of this game is EXTREMLY HIGH, amputated arms, legs, bodyparts and heads with so much 
 Blood... actually i think this game has the most GORE of all the games i played, well maybe Soldier 
 Of Fortune ranks up there, the gore is extreme yes, but that makes it more realistic when you slice 
 someones stomache open with a laaaarge sword.
  
  The weapons are simply awesome, you get to carry many weapons at the same time, shields included, 
 (you can even pick up other objects like severed limbs and fight with it!) . There are 3 type of 
 category,5 Hammers,5 Swords, 5 Axes and of course many other objects you can pick up and fight 
 with or throw at someone.
  
  TEST IT!!!! RECOMMENDED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 20, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Coming on the heels of the Half Life's, SIN's, Quake's and Unreal's of the game world, this choice 
 morsel was quickly dismissed in favor of bigger guns, badder explosions, alien invasions, yada 
 yada yada. And that is truly unfortunate, for this little gem of a game offers up a delightful 
 turn away from the super marine path and takes the player on a mystical journey into Norse mythology. 
 But don't let the word delightful mislead you; I use that term because, for me, it sums up the 
 pleasures of leaving high tech weapons and machinery behind at a time when the market was glutted 
 with those elements. Rune is an intriguing diversion, but it is far from light-hearted. Indeed, 
 much of the game is quite dark and foreboding, as the hero (you) sets off on a quest to avert Ragnarok 
 (read, end of the world ) . Your journey will take you from dark caverns, to snow swept mountains, 
 thru green forests, and finally into the Underworld itself. Along the way you'll encounter everything 
 imaginable from the pages of Norse mythology, and then some. Vikings, trolls, goblins, dwarfs, 
 snowbeasts, cave crabs, the undead... even Loki himself will try to bring your quest to an end. 
 Game-play, sound, graphics are all enjoyable, even by today's standards. And those critics who 
 blasted the melee combat mechanics as simple obviously never spent any time on one of the multi-player 
 servers, where a small but fiercely loyal community of individuals and clansmen regularly meet 
 for some of the most entertaining on-line play I have ever experienced.
  
  Ordinariliy, I wouldn't bother to write a review for a game this old, but when I saw what a disservice 
 the expert critics had done to this jewel, I had to speak up. Granted, it's not everyone's cup 
 of grog, but if you can find a copy, it's easily worth the bargain bin prices I'm sure it retails 
 for today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babyjug
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  Rune is a viking hack 'n' slash based on the Unreal engine (by now, you must have heard that 400-billion 
 times) . It is a good game, but nothing innovative or something to write home about.
  A lot of the aspects of the game can be compared with Unreal, strangely enough. Graphics-wise, 
 the game delivers what you would expect from it, but definitely not anything beyond that. The environment 
 seems flat, and does not give off a feel of ambience. The same applies for the character models 
 - there is not detail. The sound part of the game? Meh... Same deal. Not really anything that is 
 worth while. It, too, seems flat, and in the cut-scenes there are sometimes delays, so the sound 
 is out of sync with the characters mouth-movement. 
  The single-player campaign was just sheer disappointment. It takes a long time, before you get 
 the feeling that you are actually going anywhere, and it takes en equal amount of time before you 
 actually get to face some 'real' enemies. In the beginning, you are fighting some weird crab/turtle 
 like creatures, and other equally weird creatures, that seems to have no place in viking-mythology. 
 Multiplayer, is another thing. Though it is not great, it is certainly better than singleplayer. 
 It is not something you can make several hours fly by with, but if you are just hanging with a 
 bunch of friends, and need some competition (or just need to be doing something) , then it is alright 
 as an alternative (with stress on alternative) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilillo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 16, 2005 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Rune is another game of action of the same kind of other thousand, may be that is one of the reason 
 whereat almost nobody knows this game and and received serious critics. May be if the game came 
 a few years before, it should be a big bang, but if we compare this game with the actual action 
 games, Rune doesn't show to us anything relevant and has some bad points, wherever the game isn't 
 bad, but there are many games better.
  
  The history, for someone like me, is the best of the game, immerse in a obscure atmosphere, fighting 
 vs beasts and barbarians; and the future of your friends depend on you. It is not an original theme 
 but now is so difficult to be original.
  
  In the graphics the game is regular, we see the enemies and the scenarios with nice textures, but 
 nothing extraordinary, and i have to mention that the game has some bugs and problems.
  
  The FX, and music are regular, they only helps you to heard something, but they should takes you 
 to that virtual reality that all we look in an action game.
  
  The game has a multiplayer mode, but it isn't very popular. In the campaign mode the history is 
 almost lineal and a few levels later is really bored just to kill the enemies (always with the 
 same tactics) and solve some puzzles. You will increase your level, strong, life, but these aren't 
 very significant cause the enemies will have the same power compared with you.
  
  Finally, Rune is a good game, but only one more game and not a one to remember. If you like this 
 kind of playmode and this thematic it's a good option to finish the game one time, and never play 
 it again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnDeAd_FuRbY
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 11, 2005 1:51 pm PT
Review:  You play Ragnar a viking who lost his entire village as they went to aid an ally. His longboat 
 was attacked by Conrack the Betrayer. Everyone is killed but Ragnar is saved by Odin the Allfather 
 in his quest for vengeance. It is a very long game with simple click and run melee combat. Easy 
 to learn hard to master. I started playing this game on my vacation to visit family and was easily 
 hooked. There are many weapons each with different rune powers and u get runes to help you in your 
 quest. if you kill enough things you go into a bloodlust mode which is great. The game has a few 
 hard puzzles like The legend of Zelda and it is really good. I enjoyed this game even though it 
 was made in 1998. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 8, 2005 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Rune was another bargain bin purchase for me. The game follows a Viking warrior on a quest to destroy 
 the god of (tricks, pain or death?) Loki and it takes him 15 plus levels of easy warriors, weird 
 plants and cool locales.
  
  Yeah.. just about the only thing thats cool is the locales even though the Unreal Tournament engine 
 starts to strain after a while. The UT engine was really only designed to render indoor environments 
 or worlds constrained in a cube. It sort of bogs down when trying to render things like the elements, 
 or flashy textures.
  
  The game is fairly repetitive and even the addition of a multiplayer component (released later 
 on a separate disc) did nothing for me. 4 player melee combat has never beens something that I've 
 been interested in, but I did give it a shot.
  
  It sucks.
  
  Luckily there are cheat codes and that made some aspects more interesting, but I'd say pass on 
 this grass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nealok
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 7, 2005 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I have a thing for melee combat. Every game features ranged weapons, and the ones that include 
 melee combat usually don't have a lot of depth to them. Usually there is a "bash" button. Even 
 in a game like Morrowind, where there are different styles of attack depending on your movement 
 patterns, the combat doesn't have the same dynamic feel of, say, a traditional fighting game like 
 SoulCalibur or Street Fighter. Rune was touted as some kind of melee tour de force. It is a fun 
 ride, but it is hardly the melee game you've all been waiting for. 
  
  Jedi Knight II is the closest scion of that title, and even it comes up short. Rune's graphics 
 are servicable, and the story is pretty standard fare; it's poorly acted, and told through unskippable 
 cutscenes, to boot. So if you are looking for the next great storytelling extravaganza from Rune, 
 or you think it can compete with Doom III or even Quake III graphically, you'll be in for a letdown. 
 On the other hand, if you are looking for head-chopping, arm dismembering, bowel slashing fun with 
 a sword, axe, or any other swingable implement... you'll still be in for a letdown. 
  
  Rune's combat system often feels too cheap, as if it were guided by the rise and fall of an invisible 
 stock on wall street. You can get somewhat skilled at limbing people or decapitating them -- and 
 once you have a knack for it, you will enjoy much of Rune -- but the system is too unforgiving. 
 Tony Hawk Pro Skater has a complex action system that revolves around precise and careful movement 
 at precise times. But I rarely feel cheated when I don't pull off a trick in THPS. By contrast, 
 in Rune, the game doesn't reward you sufficiently for precision and skill. In the multiplayer game, 
 I understand if I don't lop off someone's leg every time. But in the single-player, when I am wielding 
 a sword that is twice as tall as I am, and I perform my patented Decaptitate-o-matic, the other 
 viking/critter's head had best come flying off in hail of blood and gurgling noises! No such luck. 
 
  
  The game is fun, but it will wear thin on you once you are over the thrill of decapitating people... 
 especially if you don't learn how to do certain maneuvers quickly enough. The one saving grace 
 of this game would have been a steady melee combat system, as it stands, this melee combat wouldn't 
 make me recommend Rune to anyone. The multiplayer element is more of the same, but it suffers from 
 the same lack of precision and predictability of the single-player game. At least I can understand 
 the play balance issues of not instantly decapitating another player better. Then again, one-shot 
 kills do add a level of suspense that you don't find in chip-away-health games. If you really want 
 to kill that guy, just THROW you axes and swords at him. Odds are you'll have a better chance of 
 actually hitting him. To date, (11/13/02) the best melee combat game on the market is Jedi Knight 
 II. Rune has too little to recommend it unless you just lust after viking sword combat. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
