-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rune: Halls of Valhalla
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/runehallsofvalhalla/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  3, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 78 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Human Head Studios
Genre: Action
Date:     Oct 23, 2001
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It simply takes the weakest part of the original game and repackages it with a few ultimately inconsequential 
 bonuses. 

  Human Head's Rune: Halls of Valhalla is unique in a couple of respects. It's an expansion pack 
 that's also a budget-priced stand-alone product. And since it includes exactly zero single-player 
 levels and no support for computer-controlled bots, it's also one of the few exclusively multiplayer 
 games ever released. If you're already familiar with last year's Viking action game, Rune, and 
 weren't impressed with its multiplayer experience to begin with, then you might as well skip the 
 rest of this review. Halls of Valhalla isn't going to change your mind. If for some reason you 
 did enjoy Rune's lackluster deathmatch mode, you still might want to hold off on Halls of Valhalla. 
 It simply takes the weakest part of the original game and repackages it with a few ultimately inconsequential 
 bonuses -- and then it ends up being even less impressive than that description.   

  Here's a listing of features that are  not  included in the game:
  - Single-player levels
  
 - Bot support
  - New weapons
  - New rune powers
  - New animations for any of the new player models   

  While it's understandable -- if grudgingly -- that 
 no new single-player maps would be included in a multiplayer expansion, the lack of even one new 
 weapon or rune power is a letdown and a drawback. What you do get are 34 new multiplayer maps along 
 with the original seven, 15 new character skins, and two new gameplay modes: headball and arena. 
           The Rune expansion has no new weapons, and a lot of other omissions.    

  Arena is a formalized version of a one-on-one (or two-on-two, or three-on-three) deathmatch variant 
 that has been informally implemented for some time within the small community of Rune players. 
 It's similar to the popular Rocket Arena mod for the Quake series. You take turns entering the 
 combat arena. The winner (or winners in the case of two vs. two and three vs. three) stay in the 
 arena to meet the next challengers, while the losers are respawned in a spectator lounge where 
 they can rearm before queuing up to reenter the battle. The biggest problem with this mode is that 
 there's too much downtime while you're waiting for the next fight, an issue Rocket Arena addressed 
 by including multiple combat zones within a single map. The level designers have tried to make 
 the wait a little less onerous by including some time-killing gimmicks in most of the levels, such 
 as a knife-throwing game, horns to blow, drums to beat, and gongs to bang. One map even features 
 a head dispenser. While these are funny the first time you come across them, they're no substitute 
 for actually playing. Compounding the problem, the spectator lounge often doesn't offer a very 
 good view of the combat zone or is placed so high above it that the combatants look like tiny medieval 
 ants. Since there's no option to become a disembodied observer, as in Rocket Arena, Counter-Strike, 
 and other online games, you can't really get a good look at the action and are usually stuck trying 
 to wring some pleasure out of the head dispenser.   

  Headball is halfway between vanilla deathmatch and capture the flag. The basic idea is to find 
 (or manually sever) a head, pick it up, and then toss it into a "goal" area for points. Imagine 
 capture the flag, if the flag randomly popped out of an enemy's corpse. It's enjoyable for short 
 periods, but it generally retains the chaotic sense of deathmatch -- of Rune deathmatch in particular -- and 
 it isn't especially suited to deep team tactics. Since the "flag" can appear pretty much anywhere 
 at any time, it's tough to coordinate a solid offensive and defensive strategy. One especially 
 annoying problem is that, for some reason, picking up dropped weapons takes priority over picking 
 up severed heads. So when you manage to knock someone's block off, you'll often have to bend over 
 a few times in order to finally grab it out of a pile of weapons, probably all the while as you're 
 getting clubbed by your other enemies during the lengthy "picking up" animation.   

  Using populated servers as a metric, headball appears to be running significantly behind Arena 
 in terms of popularity. Which leads to another potential issue: A multiplayer-only game is only 
 as good as the number of people playing it. A week after its release, Halls of Valhalla generally 
 has fewer than a hundred players at any given time. Most people are playing standard deathmatch 
 (and honestly, many of those may simply be playing the original Rune) ; only about a quarter of 
 them are playing either of the two new modes. Even after several patches, Rune isn't especially 
 friendly to high pings, so a large variety of servers is particularly important. It's possible 
 that the number of active players may increase, but in the absence of any single-player content 
 whatsoever, without people to play with, you're out of luck. It's a gamble you have to decide whether 
 or not you're willing to take, and it might not be much of a gamble at all when you consider that 
 Halls of Valhalla really doesn't have that much to offer.           You rarely get a good vantage 
 point while for an arena match.    

  Unremarkable new gameplay modes and calculated risks aside, Halls of Valhalla shares its biggest 
 failings with the original Rune: The melee combat is overly simplistic, the weapons are all too 
 similar despite their appearances, and button mashing is often as successful a tactic as skillful 
 maneuvering. In fact, in an effort to reduce in-game lag, a recent Rune patch (which is included 
 with the game) makes combat even less complex by removing the speed differences associated with 
 retreating and sidestepping vs. moving forward -- all player movement now occurs at the same rate, 
 which not only makes combat less interesting, but it also lets players back away from one another 
 very easily rather than be forced to clash.   

  As a stand-alone product, Halls of Valhalla isn't a good enough game to warrant its purchase, and 
 as an expansion, it doesn't offer enough significant enhancements for the world's dwindling supply 
 of hard-core Rune fanatics. However, the graphics and sound effects are nice.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 20, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  (Note... this is essentially my review of Rune, but since Halls of Valhalla is the multi-player 
 expansion, I've added some additional comments about the on-line play.)
  
  Coming on the heels of the Half Life's, SIN's, Quake's and Unreal's of the game world, this choice 
 morsel was quickly dismissed in favor of bigger guns, badder explosions, alien invasions, ya-da 
 ya-da ya-da. And that is truly unfortunate, for this little gem of a game offers up a delightful 
 turn away from the super marine path and takes the player on a mystical journey into Norse mythology. 
 But don't let the word delightful mislead you; I use that term because, for me, it sums up the 
 pleasures of leaving high tech weapons and machinery behind at a time when the market was glutted 
 with those elements. Rune is an intriguing diversion, but it is far from light-hearted. Indeed, 
 much of the game is quite dark and foreboding, as the hero (you) sets off on a quest to avert Ragnarok 
 (read, end of the world ) . Your journey will take you from dark caverns, to snow swept mountains, 
 thru green forests, and finally into the Underworld itself. Along the way you'll encounter everything 
 imaginable from the pages of Norse mythology, and then some. Vikings, trolls, goblins, dwarfs, 
 snowbeasts, cave crabs, the undead... even Loki himself will try to bring your quest to an end. 
 Game-play, sound, graphics are all enjoyable, even by today's standards. And those critics who 
 blasted the melee combat mechanics as simple obviously never spent any time on one of the multi-player 
 servers, where a small but fiercely loyal community of individuals and clansmen regularly meet 
 for some of the most entertaining on-line play I have ever experienced. I might add that this is 
 one of the most well-mannered on-line communities I have ever interacted with. Most players herald 
 from the Scandinavian countries, and are loyal to the honor codes of their ancestors. While this 
 may sound kind of sappy, you may also find it kind of refreshing, at a time when so many on-line 
 experiences are sabotaged by grief-ers. And while the combat mechanics are easy to learn, they 
 can be difficult to master, and experienced players are able to string together a series of moves 
 resulting in lethal combo attacks. It's pretty funny watching a head go rolling across the floor, 
 even if the head is your own.
  
  Ordinarily, I wouldn't bother to write a review for a game this old, but when I saw what a disservice 
 the expert critics had done to this jewel, I had to speak up. Granted, it's not everyone's cup 
 of grog, but if you can find a copy, it's easily worth the bargain bin prices I'm sure it retails 
 for today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonslayer02
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the greatest games I've ever played. I recommend buying this because once you 
 get the hang of it it's really fun. Also it is based on Viking Mythology and such which makes it 
 very interesting. I'm begging everyone who reads this to give this game a chance. It's like playing 
 Halo with melee and also in 3rd person. The people that rated this game so low probably were noobs 
 who got owned on their first time playing it and gave up. If you try for a day or so you will get 
 the hang of it. Well hope you buy this game, [cv. Demonslayer] 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
