-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rush for Berlin
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/rushforberlin/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting and varied scenario design.
 Challenging artificial intelligence that hones in on your weak spots.
 Detailed visuals complete with destructible buildings and terrain.
 Battle sound effects so loud and realistic that you'll wake the neighbors.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A little too by the book in comparison with other WWII games.
 Couple of AI and pathfinding niggles.
 Occasional visual slowdown in large-scale battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  6, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.7, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 387 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Developer: Stormregion
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Jun 12, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rush for Berlin proves that there is still some life in the WWII RTS genre. 

  Getting into a World War II real-time strategy game is a challenge these days. So many have shown 
 up on our doorstep the past couple of years that newcomers can only get the Nazi-weary public's 
 attention by doing one thing wildly differently or everything incredibly well. You can put Rush 
 for Berlin in the latter category. While this by-the-books effort from Codename: Panzers developer 
 Stormregion is a rehash of WWII RTS conventions, the entire game is so well designed that you don't 
 much care that you've seen it all before. If you can stand to liberate Stalingrad in a computer 
 game one more time, you should sign up for a tour of duty here.  

  Just don't expect anything new. All of the standard WWII RTS conventions are respected so much 
 here that you won't need to even glance at the manual to get the lay of the land. Four separate 
 campaigns that begin with the final push into Germany let you wage war as the Western Allies (which 
 only seems to comprise the US and UK -- sorry, Canada) , Russians, Germans, and French. A total of 
 25 solo missions (figure on 25 to 30 hours of play) take you through well-worn WWII hotspots such 
 as Bastogne, Stalingrad, and bombed-out downtown Berlin.  

          Bombs away!     

  Game structure in Rush for Berlin follows the usual recipe, too. Units include golden oldies such 
 as GIs, mortar teams, medics, Sherman tanks, Panzer tanks, recon vehicles, supply trucks, and so 
 on. As with most other WWII RTS games, Rush for Berlin's focus is firmly on tactics. There is no 
 base building or resource collection, although you are often required to capture enemy factories 
 or headquarters to use for such things as tank and troop production, as well as resupply.  

  Stormregion does do a pretty admirable job of livening up these familiar surroundings. Missions 
 take place on huge maps that are packed with detail. The 3D engine does a fantastic job of rendering 
 all sorts of little touches that add atmosphere to every setting, and almost every building, tree, 
 and bunker can be blown up, knocked down, or rolled over with an armor column. At times, though, 
 too much detail is crammed onto the screen. Muddy trenches, blocks of ravaged apartments, and weather 
 effects such as heavy snowflakes always look great, but they can cause serious slowdown when accompanied 
 by a lot of moving units. Larger-scale battles, particularly in the Western campaign, really get 
 bogged down at times. Thankfully, outstanding sound effects during these massive battles make up 
 for the occasional visual issues. Every shot, explosion, and round fired by a Panzer booms out 
 of the speakers so forcefully that it feels like you're playing a Medal of Honor-style WWII shooter, 
 not an RTS.  

  Scenario design is geared to put you into the boots of the soldiers on the ground. Objectives move 
 freely between big military goals such as conquering Nazi headquarter buildings and blowing up 
 German 88s to squad-level maneuvers such as chasing down and killing a tank commander hopping from 
 one Panzer to another, stopping German engineers from wrecking Russian foundries, and even using 
 a control panel to solve a puzzle presented by moving walkways. You won't mistake this game for 
 something like Commandos or Silent Storm, but the inclusion of these hands-on sequences does give 
 Rush for Berlin a more varied personality than the usual cataclysmic, big-picture RTS.  

  Also, there are a lot of glimpses of real history to give the game historical heft. The Bastogne 
 mission, for example, takes place in the middle of a blinding snowstorm, which conveys how alone 
 the real American troops must have felt on that New Year's Eve in 1944. The Russian seizure of 
 the Brandenburg Gate is set in the cratered landscape of Berlin, emphasizing the utter ruin that 
 Hitler's war brought upon Germany. Even the German campaign, which moves the game into an alternate 
 history where Hitler died in the Stauffenberg bomb plot of 1944 and his successors fought to achieve 
 a more noble peace (with high-tech weapons such as the Me-262 jet fighter, no less) , rings true 
 because it is a credible look at what might have been.  

  Officer hero units also add historical flavor. While they unfortunately aren't given individual 
 names, they do have specialties that adeptly evoke some of their national character. The Russians, 
 for instance, feature a political officer with the special ability to dole out double rations of 
 vodka to fire up troops for limited periods of time and attack troops with explosive-placing dogs, 
 while the Allies boast the likes of an SAS officer who can call in paratroopers.  

  Artificial intelligence is generally up to the challenge of bringing WWII battlefields to life. 
 Troops in Rush for Berlin are quite smart in certain situations when it comes to attacking and 
 defending, so you don't have to do any micromanagement. Infantry troops, for instance, know enough 
 to automatically approach enemy tanks and then wipe them out with magnetic mines. Fully computer-controlled 
 allies aren't as bright, however, a fact that gets somewhat aggravating when playing missions where 
 you have to support them. One Allied mission that centered on repairing computer-controlled tanks 
 was particularly frustrating, because these tanks frequently refused to attack the enemy in a sensible 
 and prompt fashion. Pathfinding is another problem, especially when dealing with armor and mobile 
 guns on maps with a lot of city streets. These units will frequently get jumbled up, bump into 
 one another, and end up taking the long way to destinations.  

  Enemy forces are more astute than your buddies, too. This provides a fair bit of challenge in most 
 missions (meaning that you need to make frequent use of the save anywhere feature) , as the enemy 
 seems to always focus fire on your most vulnerable or most useful units. Still, there are times 
 when the computer's ability to readily target and take out your finest troops seems like a cheat. 
 One moment you're marching along nicely with a sizable army, the next you're reaching for the reload 
 button because unseen snipers in the trees have just taken out your invaluable medics with a couple 
 of shots or curiously perfectly placed guns in a bombed-out courtyard have turned your tanks into 
 scrap metal. Levels feel like deathtrap puzzles a bit too often.  

          What those Russian troops will do for an extra ration of vodka...     

  Multiplayer 
 introduces two new modes of play to the usual deathmatch and domination games. RUSH (Relentlessly 
 Utilized Score Hunt) and RISK (Race-Intensive Strategic Kombat) aren't quite as memorable as games 
 as they are for their names, though. The former is sort of neat in that players are given between 
 one and three random tasks to accomplish, although they involve nothing but old-school victory 
 conditions such as destroying all enemy units on the map, defeating an enemy team, or collecting 
 supplies. But the latter is pretty much the same style of game as that in the solo campaigns, albeit 
 with two or more players rushing to seize the same objectives. At any rate, multiplayer is a bit 
 moot at present. Few people are playing online, at least with the full retail version of the game. 
 Only demo matches seem to be up and running on a regular basis, but they aren't compatible with 
 the out-of-the-box game.  

  Basically, Rush for Berlin is a very good representation of the WWII RTS formula by pros who really 
 know their way around the Battle of the Bulge. If any game is capable of convincing genre veterans 
 of shivering their way through the Battle of the Bulge one more time, it's this one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pcman2005
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  If you like WW2 RTS, this game is definitely for you.
  
  Rush for Berlin has some great variety. Four campaigns, eh?
  
  For starters, you have the Soviet 
 campaign. This starts with the retaking of Leningrad (long after Stalingrad) and continues on to 
 the capturing of Berlin, 1945. The first thing I noticed when I played was the brilliant animations. 
 The T-34 I started with would roll and bounce over terrain, knock over trees in its way, and just 
 behave realistically in general.
  
  My favorite part, however, is the German campaign. It takes an interesting twist when you personally 
 participate in a plot to assassinate Hitler Unlike the *real* coup of 1944, this one succeeds. 
 Germany is now fighting a two front war to achieve an honorable peace over the unconditional surrender. 
 It is quite fun. On the first (or maybe it was the second) level, you must seize the Arnhem Bridge 
 from a powerful Allied force who have just paradropped in. It was quite entertaining taking out 
 garrisons and entrenchments one by one, until I finally seized the bridge. But the true shine of 
 RFB is multiplayer, well at least it would be if there was anybody online for it.
  
  But on a LAN game, it is hella fun. The tactical gameplay coupled with the strategic industry makes 
 for some very interesting matches, especially in larger games. All in All, this is worth buying, 
 and will give you 50-80 hours of enjoyment (much less if you never do Multi or Skirmishes) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixtykurrumi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is a nice game, the graphics are very good the sound is good also the enviorment is very 
 nice the gameplay but it really is like a normal RTS it has everything that the panzer series or 
 other games it has nothing new so what i think is that if you are going to buy a W W II RTS game 
 you better buy ither one of the panzer series or Company of Heroes, because it is really a good 
 game but those others are better and it has nothing exepcional it offers what like the basics.
 
  
  Really if you are gonna buy a WWII RTS i recommend you better buy the ones I already said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Rush for Berlin has a good reproduction of historical facts, with some interesting innovations 
 like time influence and special skills, the great accuracy reserved to campaigns. The game play 
 is very rigid. Not so immediate to play!!
  Graphics: Good but not enough to exalt the gamer that is in me.
  Sound: fair
  
  On my advice 
 this is not one of the best RTS games of this period!
  try to play Company of Heroes and than we could talk and choose which one is really better!
  
 
  Sorry for the score so low but the first time i played it i stopped playing it after the second 
 mission! After a week ii told my self to give him some more chance but the desire to play it slowed 
 down while playing! : (
  I wasted money : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaydee00003
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  i like this game alot but i only played the demo and i can say i liked the demo... there are few 
 things i didn't like in this game and it was there were 14 german vehicles and 10 american vehicles 
 and 10 russien vehicles we need more vehicles i mean russia and american and france had light tanks 
 than how come Germanydidn't? they could add 4 the germans the Luchs light tank... we could sure 
 use thise tanks in the game for the germans Luchs, Elefant, Sturmhaubitze 42!!!! for the brithis 
 ,A39 'Tortoise, black prince, tog 2, Bishop, Cruiser Tank Mark VIII 'Cromwell I for the americans HMC 
 M8, M8 Greyhound, M10 Wolverine, T93 8 Howitzer Motor Carriage for the russiens KV-85, Kharkov Main 
 Battle Tank!!!! it would also be cool if we could have a special campaine where germany vs poland 
 fight but germany would usa all it's secret weapons that was made by the begging of word war 2... so 
 the germans would use all it's secret weapons that it had made by 1939 and would fight the polish 
 but on some maps there would be few franch and brithis soilders helping poland out.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radu454ever
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  A VERY GOOD GAME INDEED!!!
  GOOD GRAPHICS , AMAZING MUSIC and ASTONISHING UNITS , WETHER CONDITIONS GREAT !!
  I LIKED IT 
 VERY MUCH !!!!
  I AM ADVISING EVERYONE TO PLAY IT !!
  NICE GAME !!! A MUST HAVE GAME !!
  MULTIPLAYER IS VERY INTRESTING DONE AND CONTROLLED !
  A GOOD GAME WITH THE ww2 theme i will kepp 
 it for my collection 4ever and ever. nice tremendous , amazing , and ecpeccially creative indeed
 
  GOOD GRAPHICS , AMAZING MUSIC and ASTONISHING UNITS , WETHER CONDITIONS GREAT !!
  I LIKED IT VERY MUCH !!!!
  I AM ADVISING EVERYONE TO PLAY IT !!
  NICE GAME !!! A MUST HAVE 
 GAME !!
  MULTIPLAYER IS VERY INTRESTING DONE AND CONTROLLED !
  A GOOD GAME WITH THE ww2 theme i will kepp it for my collection 4ever and ever. nice tremendous 
 , amazing , and ecpeccially creative indeed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scout10101
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 28, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  This game honstley is one of the better games out there. Don't get me wrong, this is no Half-Life 
 2 or Company of Heroes but it is a solid WW2 RTS. There is many pro's and many cons. First the 
 graphics, they are good, but not great. They do some issues, manily the darkness. During night 
 missions you can bearly see your units. Also the frame rate was a little skippy. The sound was 
 awsome! they gunshots, bombs, and anything else, the sound was clear and realistic. The gameplay 
 was well normal. It was like any other RTS. Nothing Great The Replay Value wasn't to great. They 
 Just had the campigen. They do have online multiplayer but that added almost nothing to the value 
 mainly beacuse it is hard to get on the servers and the servers always froze up. All in all it 
 is a good, solid WW2 RTS that is worth at least a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellerwe
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  In all honesty, if any RTS game lover (especially the WWII genre) has played Company of Heroes, 
 then almost everything else seems pale in comparison.
  
  Then again, in fairness to Stormregion, I decided to keep an open mind while writing this review 
 and rather compare Rush for Berlin to other contemporary games in the same genre such as Blitzkrieg 
 II and perhaps even the Sudden Strike series.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  After having spent quite a few hours with the game, I must admit that the gameplay is pretty tough, 
 focussing very much on up-front strategic planning in each mission rather than just taking the 
 guns blazing approach while constantly calling for new resources where those on the map have expired.
 
  
  In a sense, this may annoy some RTS players that enjoyed Blitzkrieg II for example, where the ability 
 to get reserves on demand makes that game a bit more arcade-like in my opinion.
  
  Instead, Rush for Berlin requires quite a bit of up-front planning and thinking before rushing 
 into (excuse the pun) any mission.
  
  The main issue here, is that resources such as ammo, etc. can only be replenished once key strategic 
 objectives and buildings have been taken and are kept, otherwise your mission is doomed to fail. 
 While other buildings can be constructed that may be used to create armoured vehicles, etc., it's 
 clear that Rush for Berlin focuses primarilly on achieving strategic objectives as quickly as possible. 
 In a sense, this is actually not that much different than Company of Heroes, come to think of it.
 
  
  This brings another key dynamic to the gameplay, since time is a very valuable resource in this 
 game, with most missions measured in available time to achieve this mission to earn any medals 
 or bonusses, etc. Games like Blitzkrieg II and Sudden Strike simply don't have this concept embedded.
 
  
  The user interface is pretty good, once you spend a while getting used to all the bubbles hanging 
 off the two main interface components at the bottom of the screen. At first they seem somewhat 
 confusing, especially in the heat of battle, but once the learning-curve is over, they do actually 
 work quite well.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Rush for Berlin actually has very good graphics and certainly better than the two other games I 
 mentioned earlier, although we don't really know what Sudden Strike III will look like yet, even 
 though a Demo has already been released.
  
  Weather effects are superb and there is a lot of attention to detail in terms of model accuracy 
 and texturing.
  
  I use a NVidia-based 7800 GTX graphics card with 512 MB RAM on board, and I suspect that some of 
 the lower-end cards will battle somewhat to keep up with this game, possibly making the entire 
 experience a lot less entertaining due to the low graphics settings needed to effectively play 
 the game. This may be somewhat of a drawback for a lot of potential players out there, since I 
 guess a 6800 or equivalent will be almost the bare minimum needed to get any respectable graphics 
 out of this game.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is actually superb and it's quite refreshing to hear soldiers speak their native tongue, 
 instead of using English accents resembling some low-budget movie cliche.
  
  Weapon and special effects sounds are also great.
  
  Value:
  
  Value depends entirely on 
 what you expected to get when buying this game.
  
  If you expected a game like Age of Empires or Rise of Nations that focuses quite a lot on random 
 skirmishes and a lot of resource gathering, researching, etc. then this is fairly low Value as 
 far as I am concerned.
  
  Then again, if you enjoy some real in-depth strategy and planing in a game, then I would give it 
 a fairly good Value rating.
  
  The only real problem I have with the game, is inherent in a lot of RTS games in WWII genre, in 
 that the game doesn't really have any form of skirmish ability if you feel like just hacking away 
 at a random scenario for example.
  
  This is where both Blitzkrieg and Sudden Strike have a bit of an edge, in the sense that they at 
 least included some form of level editor in their releases to compensate for modders like myself 
 who like to tinker with the creation of historically correct battle scenarios, etc.
  
  It would be great if Stormregion would consider some work in this area and perhaps release some 
 form of map editor for us to add some new stuff to the game.
  
  Who Should Buy It:
  
  Anyone who enjoyed similar WWII genre games like Blitzkrieg I and II and possibly Sudden Strike 
 and some others that come to mind, has a pretty up-market graphics card installed and doesn't mind 
 spending a few hours to come to grips with rather complex strategic planning as part of the gameplay.
 
  
  Who Shouldn't Bother:
  
  Obviously anyone who's more into first-person shooter games or games that have a lot more focus 
 on resource gathering, research and all that other stuff instead of just plain war logistics and 
 planning.
  
  Oh yes, any anyone who has a fairly low-end graphics card installed, since you really won't get 
 much joy out of the visual aspects of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin_Kazawa
Rating: 4.1
Date: Oct 22, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Comparing this game with others of the same type (WW 2 games) , suck's big time. I recommend (strongy) , 
 if you're still not tired of playing this type of games, go ahead and freely buy yourself CoH (Company 
 of Heroes) . You will not regret. This one here is .... I don't know... Not even close to CoH. So, 
 that's what I have to say about this one. Oh yeah, and nice graphics. So if you're fan of lot's 
 of fine drawed tenks and peple take it, otherwise ignore it totaly. Don't be fulled by pretty pictures. 
 :) Comparing this game with others of the same type (WW 2 games) , suck's big time. I recommend 
 (strongy) , if you're still not tired of playing this type of games, go ahead and freely buy yourself 
 CoH (Company of Heroes) . You will not regret. This one here is .... I don't know... Not even close 
 to CoH. So, that's what I have to say about this one. Oh yeah, and nice graphics. So if you're 
 fan of lot's of fine drawed tenks and peple take it, otherwise ignore it totaly. Don't be fulled 
 by pretty pictures. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiskio
Rating: 3.6
Date: Aug 18, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  After fiddeling around two whole evenings, more or less on my own, I finaly got the game to run. 
 And that even though my PC is up to date and I really know what I am doing.
  
  So I felt lucky that the game was running and looked forward to some enjoyable hours of gaming 
 I just had to learn that this can not be expected from this game. Content wise this game has nothing 
 to offer that hasn't already been offered better by other WWII RTS games like the Panzers series. 
 There is no innovation whatsoever in this game. I really liked the Panzers series much more.
  
  The only positive thing one can say about this game is that the graphics are really nice. But 
 this come for a high price. If your PC is not the absolute high end machine you will have to lower 
 the details a lot to get that game running smooth.
  
  Last but not least this game is protected by the Starforce sopy protection and I was forced to 
 uninstall some software, something I really dont like at all.
  
  For me this game was a waste of money and time I could have spend better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxintractorman
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 4, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Don't buy this game expecting a whole new RTS experience or gameplay and you won't be dissapointed. 
 Offers a solid and interesting campaign and good multiplayer capabilities. Everything has been 
 seen or done before but that dosen't make it a bad game at all. If you are a fan of the codename 
 panzers series and want more of the same then it is a worthy purchase. If not, then maybe rent 
 it to make up your mind.
  Good = nice campaign, multiplayer, solid gameplay
  Bad = Nothing new, needs a reasonably good pc, starforce (i\ve never had any problems with it, 
 just a warning!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathsteps
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 3, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say is one big disappoint. While the game itself may look interesting, it certainly 
 doesn't perform like it is expected. From playing the Demos I can see why. This game is prone to 
 freezing. It maybe something in the programing that causes it to freeze a lot. This game has a 
 lot to offer in terms of graphics, sound, and historical accuracy. However, this game really hurts 
 your computer and it doesn't load on to your computer for some reason. Overall, my rating demonstrates 
 that this game should only be recommended for those who have a strong computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakov_the_Great
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jul 25, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  Ok, WWII games are supposed to be FPS' not RTS'. Personally I think RTS games should be things 
 like, Rise of Nations or Warcraft, not WWII shooters. And if you notice I only played it for 10 
 hours or less, really I only played for about 2hours, said this thing has too many kinks that still 
 need to be worked out, the gameplay is horrible, I'll stick with Rise of Nations thank you very 
 much. I think we can all agree Rush for Berlin is not a good game. In conclusion, the gameplay sucked, 
 it had too many flaws in it, it was just an all around waste of time, it isn't even worth reviewing 
 its so bad! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kooliod999
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 22, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Yeah yea, it's got its share of relatively good graphics, but the big problem I'm facing is the 
 repetition in WW2 RTS games. Been there, done that - the least StormRegion could have done is add 
 some variation (i. e. something new, something we haven't experienced before.) I mean, why would 
 someone want to play something like Rush for Berlin when they could be playing something great 
 like Panzers 2? Then again, most games from Stormregion are cheap, pretty low quality (when compared 
 to other games) and so on.
  
  A waste of money, imo, because there are other games out there that are worth buying. Nevertheless, 
 if you like WW2 (like me) , this won't be too much of a disappointment.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: life4hire
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Rush for Berlin is one of the few games ranked in the category of "old school" real time strategy. 
 This game takes you through the journey of stopping German expansionism and pushing back the German 
 forces to Berlin on one of four fronts. You can play French, Russian, English and American. I have 
 finished the Russian campaign and was thoroughly pleased with the challenge of finishing this campaign. 
 
  
  The game play is superb. I mean this to be that you can control individual units from tanks, infantry 
 and artillery. The game play is so good that I used a sniper, medic and a stolen German artillery 
 tank to fight my way through a good portion of a city map. I was picking off infantry in other 
 buildings and calling in artillery from my tank on enemy vehicles while they were in view of my 
 sniper and out of their line of sight. The medic would drop field medical supplies so the sniper 
 could be healed by the medic and the med supplies at the same time while spotting for the artillery. 
 This scenario is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to how you can play this game. I absolutely 
 love the Katusha Rockets and use them all the time. 
  
  Mechanics wise, the units that are orange for health bars are the ones that will carry over to 
 further missions. Not only will they carry over but they will go up in rank and gain better skills. 
 At one time I had a Partisan Commander that would allow any vehicle he was in to reload ammo without 
 an supply truck nearby. He was great for that one beautiful piece of long range artillery that 
 you like to keep in the back to rain death on the enemies heads but can use up an entire supply 
 tractor for it. Also, I had a Commander that increased artillery range and damage by 25% for any 
 artillery unit he was in. Needless to say I put him in a Katusha Rocket Launcher and proceeded 
 to wash my hands of my enemies. 
  
  Environmental settings have numerous advantages such as completely destructible terrain and objects 
 such as buildings and leaving actual craters in the ground. By accident I noticed some of my artillery 
 overshooting a target that I had forced to be backed up to a river and when the shells accidentally 
 hit the river they produced amazing splashes. Now that is attention to detail. Most of the buildings 
 will crumble in a glory of dust and rubble. I even had a situation where I created by own shortcut 
 through a city map by destroying a row of buildings to make by own path. 
  
  Missions are long an complex. I really enjoy a game that makes you think. Although I prefer to 
 take it slow this game rewards you for rushing - hence the name "Rush" for Berlin. The missions 
 have main, optional and secret objectives and as you may have guessed the secret objectives you 
 have to figure out for yourself. The missions are fairly complex and require some finesse to solve. 
 I was really excited to get a new model tank then figure out that if I could sneak it around some 
 trees and hit the enemy from the rear it would do amazing damage.
  
  The small attentions to detail like artillery splashing in the water when overshot to using a sniper 
 to sneak through a city and call in death from above really set this game apart. 
  
  I highly recommend this game and hope for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tfwest
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 12, 2006 1:59 am PT
Review:  When I purchased this game, I was hoping for a solid strategy game, much like "Rise of Nations". 
 However, I found a game that was a waste of money and time. The ONLY good things I could find about 
 the game, were the graphics and realism, but all that was marred by horrible gameplay.
  
  The graphics were better than most games I had played in the past, same can be said about the sound. 
 I enjoyed how the German and Russian units looked realistic and how they spoke their respective 
 languages. Unlike in many other games where they speak English but with their native accents. The 
 sounds of gunfire, explosion, and units moving across the field made me feel as if I was truly 
 on the field with them. The lighting effects, terrain and such were fantastic and more realistic 
 than most of the games I have played.
  
  The gameplay however, was the ultimate downfall of this game. This was nowhere near what I had 
 expected to be. The movement of units is far too slow compared to such masterpieces as "Rise of 
 Nations" and same with the firing rate of the units. Also, you cannot build any buildings that 
 will support your advance or defense against the enemy, you must capture them and hold them for 
 the most part. The time it takes to create units is far too long for any strategy gamer along with 
 the highly limited resources.
  
  By now, I have only gotten to the last or second to last level of the Soviet Union and am entirely 
 angered by it. The level is moving extremely slowly and the fighting is impossible to get past. 
 Bottom line is, if this game were structered more like a REAL strategy game, it would be worth 
 your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indy328
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  positive
  The graphics are very nice. Bushes and trees move in the wind. Tanks destroy tree while approuching 
 an accupied town and artillery leave marks on the battlefield. Explosions look very nice too. It 
 is the only game (besides c&c generals) where I 'm not dissappointed with the explosions. They 
 leave a big bang and dirt is flying around (or parts of a building if you hit a building) . Explosions 
 destroy trees, bushes and almost everything what is on the battlefield leaving a mark of war behind 
 you. You can zoom in quite (unfortunately not as close as in warhammer 40k dawn of war) close so 
 you can see how well the animations are for the soldiers, tanks etc. When a mortar hist a couple 
 of soldiers 2-3 times you can see them flying through the air. If they get hit behind them they 
 fly to the front (and the other way around) which leads me to the ragdoll within the game. Yea 
 there is a ragdoll engine within the game. Not as detailed as you expected but quite nice. When 
 a tank explodes you can recognize, that some pieces of the tank fall of differently everytime you 
 destroy a tank which looks nice. If a mortar, artillery hit a building some pieces fly through 
 the air and bounce of the ground which looks guite nice too. The zoomfactor of the game is good. 
 Would be good to zoom in even closer but it is alright so nothing to complain about and zoomout 
 is enough to keep an eye on your army (would be good if you could zoom out a bit more but it hardly 
 gave me problems) . The water looks fantastic. There are also some minor blood effects in the game. 
 Not a big deal but better than nothing like in a lot of games nowadays. There are sequences after 
 or before every mission which have been done in ingame graphics but a bit improved and it looks 
 very nice. It gives kind of movie atmosphere.
  
  negative
  Having all this sunshine here and there I come to the negative aspects of the graphics. The water 
 looks fantastic and the rest just looks very good. There is still some potential within the graphics. 
 The game sneeds a very fast Pc to run. I have a AMD 64 3500+, 1gb of RAM, Geforce 6800gt with 256 
 mb. My resolution is 1024x768 all details on maximum except shadows I disabled them completely 
 (but they look nice too and the graphics engine offers self shadows..... guite impressive) and I 
 sometimes I got problems with the speed of the game. You think the screen has to be crowded with 
 people and tanks to slow it down. No. Let's say a quite good troup, a bit more then a screen cleared 
 from the fog of war and a hand full of enemy soldiers slow the Pc down quite a lot. It is a bit 
 annoying but it happened only a few times for me. Still. Where are we heading if games get better 
 but the necessary hardware rises way to much everytime a good game comes out. I cannot effort a 
 new graphics card every year or one and a half year.
  
  Sound: 
  positive
  The slightly better than the graphics. Everything sounds superb. The artillery hit brings a great 
 bang and some of the guns don't sound so unrealistic from their real counterparts (I play Red Orchestra 
 and this game has lot of accurate sound) . The sound is a bit more accuarte than the graphics. When 
 an artillery hits the ground, then you can also hear dirt flying around and hitting the ground 
 (what the graphics engine doesn't show) A good bang also shakes the camera if you zoom in. The 
 mix between camera shaking and the great sound give a really nice effect. (the camera only shakes 
 if you zoom in enough) . It always makes me zoom in very close to see another explision here and 
 there. Every country speaks their language so germans speak german etc. which has been made very 
 well so the voice actors are quite good too. The sound for the sequences before or after every 
 mission is even a bit better (voice actors are well chosen) . 
  
  negative
  I didn't recognize any negative aspects for the sound.
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  positive
  Gameplay 
 is great. The mission design is good enough to keep on playing the game. Sometimes you have to 
 prevent that german troops take over a few factorys, destroy german ships or take over a train. 
 There are usually more than one main mission objectives (which are important for succes of the 
 mission) , more than one optional (which are just for fun) and also special mission objectives so 
 you never get really bored during a mission. You can usually keep all the units you train during 
 a mission (except you have way too much) . Your units gain experience during fighting. There are 
 3 ranks for each unit and everytime your unit levels up it gets more effective during a fight. 
 The units are great. The russians for example have a political officer who has a double ration 
 of vodka which improves the moral of nearby soldiers. Officers are special units on the battlefield 
 which have special skills. Some of them are quite interesting. Tanks have different hitzones like 
 front, back, left, right and bottom which adds to the strategic atmosphere. The AI is good. Enemy 
 tanks always take out your supply trucks first which provide your tanks with ammunition and repairs. 
 Multiplayer offers a lot. It has normal modes (like deathmatch or team deathmatch) and it also 
 has coop and modes where you and your enemy are given tasks which every single one has to fullfill 
 but the others have no idea so try to hide your objective and try to fool your enemys. 
  
  negative
  Now I come to the negative aspects for the Gameplay. Codename Panzers 1 and 2 (the 
 prequels to Rush for Berlin) had a different unit system. Once a unit died it was dead and couldn't 
 come back which made you really care after your troops which good experience and rank. Rush for 
 Berling works different. If a unit dies (like an officer) then you will be resurrected for the 
 next mission. This time it is time which is important. The longer you take the less points you 
 get. In my oppinion this is not good because the old system made the prequels very good why didn't 
 the stick to it? The AI can be sometimes a bit buggy. The pathfinding needs some improvement because 
 units sometimes get lost or stuck. One negative aspect is also that you have to start with the 
 Russian campagne and the rest will be unlocked piece by piece while you advance in the campagnes. 
 The Multiplayer had some small bugs and slowdowns so Stormregion has to work on that. A game sequence 
 missed the plot once. A german tank drives through the streets of a russian town. A strong one 
 (Tiger i think) . Nothing can stop it. It got stuck within a broken building a a russian soldiers 
 says:" It is going to get difficult to crack the faschist nut open) but the mission wasnt really 
 about the tank. It was a main objective but I didn't have any problem destroying it so I think 
 it missed the plot a bit in that mission, because the rest of the mission were more challenging. 
 No big deal but still strange.
  
  All in one Rush for Berlin is a very nice strategy game with some minor flaws. I recommend it to 
 everyone who likes Strategy games. I think people who played panzers 1 and 2 will be pleased too. 
 
  
  I hope you liked my review. If you do then call Gamespot and tell them that I rock and I want a 
 job as an game tester at Gamespot ;=) 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
