-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: RYL: Path of the Emperor
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/riskyourlife/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Real-time, action-oriented combat system.
 Extensive PvP system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dated, low-res graphics.
 Bland player-versus-environment content.
 Frequent graphical glitches.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 12, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.6
Critic Score: 5.4, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 228 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Planetwide Games
Developer: Youxiland
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Jun 20, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
RYL: Path of the Emperor represents a throwback in the current market, offering mostly lackluster 
 visuals, a staid player-versus-environment game, and a standard sort of guild-versus-guild, player-versus-player 
 system. 

  Massively multiplayer online role-playing games seem to be having something of a renaissance of 
 late. Recent excellent games like World of Warcraft and Guild Wars have brought new levels of refinement 
 and polish, in addition to inventive systems, to the genre that both draw in new audiences and 
 keep existing addicts happy. The problem with RYL: Path of the Emperor is that it represents a 
 throwback in the current market, offering mostly lackluster visuals, a staid player-versus-environment 
 game, and a standard sort of guild-versus-guild, player-versus-player system. The Diablo-style 
 clickfest combat is a refreshing twist in what is otherwise a wholly average MMO experience.  

 
          This is an MMO. So, of course, squirrels are deadly adversaries that may be approached 
 only with great caution.     

  The world of RYL (that's "Risk Your Life") is one of violent upheaval, driven by the martial machinations 
 of the two main races, the humans of Kartehena and the alien-looking Ak'Kan people of Merkhadia. 
 A history of bloody conflict has the two groups at each other's throats, and though matters are 
 pretty bleak on the whole, a third faction has risen to the fore. Dubbed the God's Pirates, this 
 alliance of human and Ak'Kan forces seeks to spread peace and tolerance throughout the magical 
 lands, known as the Almighty Ground, and its members aren't shy about getting their blades dirty 
 in the name of reconciliation. What storyline there is in the game revolves around these three 
 powers -- Kartefants, Merkhadians, and God's Pirates -- as they jostle with one another for supremacy. 
 When you first start out, you'll be able to create either a human Kartefant or an Ak'Kan Merkhadian, 
 and your choice will lock you to that one race on that particular server. You can also choose to 
 switch your allegiance to the God's Pirates, if you so desire. The nationality you choose affects 
 which quest lines you can explore in the game, as well as who you'll be targeted by during player-versus-player 
 combat.  

  The character-creation tool lets you choose from a handful of appearance-customization options, 
 and then it lets you choose an initial class archetype that you can refine later. The usual subjects 
 are all here: fighters, rogues, mages, and acolytes (with their support magic) . These broad character 
 classes can be refined once you hit level 10 in the game, at which point you can find a class trainer 
 and start learning your trade. Humans and Ak'Kan each have different classes that serve the same 
 broad roles. For example, humans have warriors to inflict damage and defenders to soak up enemy 
 hits, while the Ak'Kan have attackers and templars, which are roughly equivalent. Humans have enchanters, 
 sorcerers, priests, and clerics, while the Ak'Kan have life, shadow, and rune "officiators." You'll 
 also start off with a small number of points that you can assign to whichever character stats you'd 
 like, a practice you'll repeat each time you gain a level in the game. Each of the various stats 
 has unique benefits for the various classes. For example, strength will increase a warrior's damage, 
 accuracy, evasion, speed, and more, while the same stat on a defender class will boost slightly 
 different abilities.  

          For a cleric, she looks pretty surly. It's probably the hat.     

  While the game boasts 
 hundreds of quests, they're split among the various factions, and, in truth, you won't encounter 
 large numbers of them. The intrigues among the nationalities are loosely sketched out by the non-player 
 characters in the game, though you won't get a really strong sense of narrative. What the player-versus-environment 
 game  does  provide are scores of critters and creatures of steadily climbing strength for you 
 to carve through as you go. You won't have any indication of how strong a monster is, relative 
 to you, until you actually go up and hit it, though the creatures move slowly enough that you can 
 usually run away from them (or right past them) fairly easily. However, most of the time you'll 
 just need to find the strongest foe you can dispatch comfortably and grind patiently away until 
 you've leveled up and can move over a little bit to attack the next-strongest foe. The game supports 
 both a mouse-based (click to move) and a keyboard-based (WASD and mouse-look) system of movement; 
 both movement systems feel sluggish and imprecise, though this weakness fortunately doesn't extend 
 to the combat.     

   

  The combat in RYL is all real time, so you press the left mouse button for melee attacks and the 
 right mouse button to trigger any special skills you have hotkeyed. The system is easy to pick 
 up and learn, so in no time you'll be queuing up specials with your keyboard while left-clicking 
 the monster in mad combo sweeps, ready to right-click the instant your chosen special skill is 
 refreshed. Another wrinkle is that no two characters have precisely the same skill set, as each 
 class has innate skills. However, there are a wide variety of books that drop off monsters, which 
 you can use to teach yourself new tricks, so long as you have skill points to learn them and the 
 correct stats to master them. You can also modify your weapons and armor using gems you can loot 
 off monsters. And in the event that you have your heart set on a certain modification, there are 
 usually plenty of other players ready and eager to sell their drops for quick cash. And then when 
 you're all outfitted as you'd like, you can head out and attempt to murder people to gain renown. 

          Bind, then stun! Bind, then stun! You can kite forever, and it's fun for the whole family! 
     

  RYL's player-versus-player system is based around earning fame, which are points you get from killing 
 other players. In fact, this is such a central focus of Risk Your Life that a PvP tournament will 
 be held to eventually award a cool million dollars to the best player-killer of them all. Of the 
 three servers currently up for the game, two are normal servers, and one is used exclusively for 
 tournament ranking, which has caused the overall population of the original two servers to take 
 something of a dive. At the very least, it's less competition for slaying the local wildlife on 
 those servers, though it can be harder to find a group to take on larger challenges. In PvP, the 
 largest fame bonuses can be earned by guilds, which can construct great fortresses and other resources 
 on the landscape, while gaining the ability to use those structures as spawn points upon death. 
 However, fortresses and such may be attacked. So not only do guilds risk losing enormous fame upon 
 losing their buildings, but also they'll lose the huge amounts of gold used to construct them. 

  Whether you're grinding out mobs or chasing down player kills, chances are you're not going to 
 look particularly great doing it. The character models themselves are blocky, low-res, and have 
 bad-looking textures and details. The animations aren't very fluid at all. However, the one true 
 high point RYL has are the animations for special skills, which are varied, bright, and impressive, 
 even from a distance. But that's only one aspect of a graphics package that includes missing textures 
 in places, frequent clipping through floors and parts of buildings, and muddy, unfortunate-looking 
 water. All the sweeping vistas and lens flare in the world won't totally distract you from the 
 fact that your character sinks to her knees through unsolid ground in a number of areas. The music 
 in the game roams from cheery fanfares (as you approach town) to low ambient tunes (so bland as 
 to be forgettable) that are both paired with a wealth of primitive-sounding animal noises from 
 creatures that you club to death. Special skills are, again, above the norm, with a nice selection 
 of thunderclaps, sparkly chimes for heals, and a number of other good, solid sound effects that 
 go well with the nice visuals. The game, at the very least, ran smoothly on the systems we tested 
 it on, barring the low resolution.  

          The skies over Almighty Ground are sweeping and majestic. And they're occasionally full 
 of weeds.     

  Risk Your Life: Path of the Emperor offers yet another MMORPG where you steadily level your way 
 through enemies, alone and in groups, and where you participate in player-versus-player battles. 
 Other than a million-dollar tournament, though, it's not really clear what RYL offers that other 
 contemporary massively multiplayer games don't already deliver, and deliver better. If you're the 
 sort of MMO ronin that can't help but wander from game to game hoping for a fresh distraction, 
 the combat system may occupy your glance for a time. But unless you want to participate in monthly 
 installments of  Who Wants to Be a Millionaire , you're better off skipping this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: HyBridFuRy
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, If you play this game... you wouldn't like the fact that the game is totally different 
 from the beta version (Which is RYL 1) . There is obviously 2 classes in which u choose from: Akkhans, 
 and Humans. 2 in which are totally different from the beta version because the Akkhans and Humans 
 in RYL 2: Are allies, compared to RYL 1 which they are rivals.
  
  The gameplay and environment in the game is great, but the overall experience in RYL: 2 is ridiculous, 
 due to the fact that you don't get as much things u expect the game to be. This game is a waiste 
 of time.. and money and I'd rather go with Private ser vers ( which is the same servers but totally 
 free) . Overall, the game is pretty good, however can be a pain in the neck if you don't know what 
 your doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittencrusher
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 8, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this review short and to the point: RYL sucks. And very badly. They advertised 
 it a long time ago on Fileplanet, so I said to myself, "What the heck" and downloaded it. 
  
  Well I was in for a shock. The graphics were absolutely TERRIBLE. DO NOT be fooled by any screenshots, 
 the visuals are horrible. It was a polygonal nightmare like LEGO's smashed with a hammer. 
  
  RYL very much had the feel of a "home-brewed" game made by an individual. Everything about 
 it was severely lacking. The chat system was archaic, the graphics archaic, EVERYTHING archaic. 
 Complete disaster.
  
  Needless to say I uninstalled this junk within a half hour, it was just that bad. I could NOT stomach 
 that game. I'd sooner play Shadowbane, and I consider Shadowbane to be one of the worst MMO's I've 
 played too.
  
  At the time, they were having some hokey contest to win $100,000 or something around that amount. 
 Well let me tell you, not even the possibility of 100 grand could make me play this game for any 
 length of time at all.
  
  I should have known the game was bogus when I found out that RYL isn't the name of the world or 
 something, it's an acronym for "Risk Your Life". A very stupid name for an MMO, IMHO.
  
  To be blunt, I hate this game. If you know what's good for you, you won't even bother giving it 
 a chance.
  
  I hear talk of a sequel, and I'm sure that'll be just as terrible. Honestly, considering what's 
 available on the market, it just makes NO sense to waste your time with this piece of trash. Ugh.
 
  
  And that, my friends, is my opinion of RYL: Path of the Emperor.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: haikiller12
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 23, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  RYL: Path of the Emperor is a beautifully rendered MMORPG, creating increasingly difficult and 
 challenging game play and will excite multiplayer online game fans. Prospective gameplayers can 
 view a trailer of the game, download the open beta for free, as well as opportunity to purchase 
 officially licensed RYL merchandise, at the game's home page.
  RYL: Path of the Emperor is a persistent universe or role-playing game (RPG) . In the game, players 
 assume the role of a Warrior, Cleric, Wizard, or Thief (over 20 classes) and explore the many beautiful 
 and exotic locations within the game where they meet other players, complete quests, fight monsters 
 and other players. Massively multiplayer online games are computer games in which thousands of 
 players can play simultaneously through the Internet. In 2003, 88 million people played online 
 games worldwide, a number that is expected to grow to at least 198 million by 2008.
  "Instead of monotonous individual games, players can now interact with hundreds or thousands of 
 other players from all over the world and undertake the adventure of a lifetime together," said 
 Kevin Donovan, President Planetwide Games. "The graphics and smoothness of gameplay is among the 
 best in the world, developed over 5 years with over $30 million invested in development costs." 
 
  RYL: Path of the Emperor also offers hundreds quests within each game, plus advanced real time 
 3D and environment effects give players the realistic feel of an amazing fantasy world. Maximum 
 game resolution has been increased from the typical 800x600 pixel resolution to 1600x1200 to enhance 
 the experience of the lushly rendered graphical landscapes.
  Players start off at Level One, with minimal skills and abilities, but over time they gain experience 
 points, which allows them to advance to Level Two, and beyond. As each level opens up, the player 
 can find new and more interesting abilities and can survive in battles against more interesting 
 monsters. This level advancement is the incentive that makes players continually play the game 
 and maintain their accounts for months or years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BD_basher_sean
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 26, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Like I said. Good game. Extremely addictive. Little boring in the begining but very fun at higher 
 levels. You cant really pvp until then. You can start partying with other people around 30. You 
 can duo with people at around 20 though. You can enter a guild at level 30. You can really pvp 
 at any level you just wont have any luck at killing anyone unless you have really good gear or 
 find someone your level that found himself at the wrong place at the wrong time. If you do join 
 the game, I would suggest not upgrading anything until your at least 70+. Reason being is that 
 you level so fast in the begining, by the time you get a good piece of armor, your due for another 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAchaos
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  For me I started playing this game and it almost reminded me of some old MMO, Oldschool Graphics, 
 and an almost comic fighting style.
  I enjoyed the combat play of the game, your damage number pop up over the enemy as your attacking 
 and critical hits burst out over them giving you a feeling of Hell yeah.
  
  I dont feel this games graphics are really all that great, the sounds are way off and repeated 
 to each of the existing monsters. Also they use a lot of the same skins to each monster; they just 
 change the color a bit, and increase their overall size to give you the feeling that it is a tougher 
 monster to face.
  
  Its free, and its not to difficult to figure out also, it only cost about $10 off the shelf 
 so your not really wasting to much money for a little bit of entertainment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wantacow
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Great RPG fun and well balanced. Leveling up is easy from lvl 1 till lvl were ever i got. Round 
 up so buddys and goooooo
  I have 3 great friends on my block this game is sweet with good friends and playing in a party. 
 Leveling up is balance you cn get to lvl 20 in like 8 hours i was messing around 2. I played 30 
 day trail but never got because of monthly fees. But it's a great game. And checking the website 
 there a free play comingsoon was eat that. So you may want to wait for that. But around this game 
 is fun and balance a must get when it be comes free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expatriate
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  RYL has the best real-time, close-range and most realistic combat of any MMORPG.
  
  NOTE: Malaysian server and private servers are now free (North American version, POTE, is closed)
 
  
  The other games like Guild Wars and WOW have lame, click-and -watch combat.
  
  In RYL, the camera view is from closely behind your character -- a must in melee combat so you can 
 see your position and swords or other weapons and the creatures or enemy around you.
  
  Swing your sword and if you're not close to the beast, you don't hit. Move up and you hit the beast, 
 move away and your swinging at air. Position even determines whether you get in a good solid hit 
 or a weak swipe.
  
  The critics of RYL either haven't played it keyboard mode (you have click-and-watch as an option) 
 or have bad graphics and sound systems.
  
  I play on a fast system with an excellent graphics card and turn graphics up full -- the grapics 
 and special effects are fantastic, but if you have a slow system, the game automatically loads 
 with graphics turned to lower settings, so maybe that's what the reviewer saw. RYL is a darker 
 and more foreboding world than some of the other games out there, so if you're looking for the 
 cutesy pastels of Guild Wars, you'll be disappointed, but serious gamers will love it.
  
  Sound is also fantastic. Again, I can only assume the reviewer had a bad sound sytem because RYL's 
 battle sounds thunder out of my subwoofer, but I can also detect the footsteps of nearby enemy.
 
  
  Everyone complains about the grind, but RYL was designed in Korea, and the eastern philosophy of 
 the greater the struggle, the more precious (and maybe prestigious) is the reward was the basis 
 for the design of RYL's leveling system. It's hard work to get to a high level in RYL, so if you 
 can only live by the American philosophy of I want it all, and I want it now, you won't like RYL. 
 Gamers with an open mind and who are up to the challenge will find that the higher levels are far 
 more rewarding BECAUSE they are more difficult to reach. The absolute best in RYL is when you reach 
 levels high enough to be effective in pvp and get into Statue Wars with your guild and everyone 
 is in voice com with Ventrilo, coordinating the combat, with each experienced player performing 
 his particular speciality to the max to win over a similarly skilled enemy.
  
  None of the professional reviews of RYL at gaming sites was written by someone who had experienced 
 that, so those reviews are all written by people who haven't even experienced the best of what 
 RYL has to offer.
  
  RYL players play for a long time. Many of us have been playing for a year or more. We're serious 
 gamers, and we try every game out there, but we always come back to RYL because no other game has 
 the adrenaline-pumping, realistic, and skill-demanding combat of RYL, and we'll keep playing RYL 
 until a better one comes along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the worst games I've ever played. On the back of the box, it has all these 
 screenshots that look like something from guild wars but in reality, the greaphics are comparable 
 to something in runescape. It lags all the time which is saying alot considering I have a 3000 
 dollar computer, the graphics are terrible, and barely anyone plays it because it stinks. I'm lucky 
 it only costed 8 dollars because I got it at a Christmas sale at London Drugs but it is generally 
 30 dollars elseware. Please, save up your money and buy guild wars or WoW because this game is 
 terrible. I would rather play runescape!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 12, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  Ryl path of the emperor doesnt offer very much, except for the extensive pvp and gvg system, but 
 thats almost the only thing thats good about this game.
  
  Sounds:
  Not very good at all, simple sound design, music is a bit average, monsters sometimes make weird 
 sounds.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphs of the game are OK but not very good, and you will need a lot of mb ram to let this 
 game work, becauese there are much too many things which dont look good at all.
  No reflections, no weather effects.
  
  Gameplay: 
  The gameplay is medium-good, i like the 
 thing that you can fight monsters and gain experience and choose your class, but thats all what 
 the gameplay is really about.
  (buying stuff for char., pvp battles, gvg battles) .
  
  Online:
  I dont like the monthly pay of this agem, that makes the game bad.
  
  Variety:
 
  Good, lots of monsters and choices of chars, lots of weapons and a huge map, which you can explore.
 
  
  Ryl path of the emperor isnt very good, but that doesnt make the game very bad! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 3:07 pm PT
Review:  i thought this would be fun. the only good thing about it is u don't pay monthly. that's about 
 it. if u want a free game that is good get Guild Wars, not this load of $h! t heres the easiest 
 way to put it its full out crap and u will be better off paying monthly fees than playing this 
 stupid crap for free. if they look at those other big MMOs out there then they will hopefully make 
 this game better otherwise u will not be swayed into buying this MMORPG 
  so stick with monthly fees on WoW, or buy Gulid Wars. and if u hate past mmos try City of Heroes/Villains 
 or Star Wars Galaxies 
  hell even The Matrix Online is better than this come on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeoh
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:11 am PT
Review:  well i tried only free trial..
  GOOD: Loved design of characters, armors and map. Keyboard mode control and and Mouse mode control 
 were good idea and very convenience. Action RPG style combat control was very fun and better than 
 "Select" and press "Attack" style. Loved login and character selection music.
  
  BAD: Quests were boring as most of MMORPG's quest does. Inconvenience menu accessing. Bad Graphic 
 (better than FF which had only 2 pixel bird, but 1280*1024 graphic was only good as other new games 
 1024*768 quality) Contorl is not very smooth. Rarely had motion sickness (Well i easily get motion 
 sickness) . Need better and bigger map.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrusherOfThings
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 24, 2005 4:22 am PT
Review:  Okay, so one day I was really bored, and came across some advertisement. Not sure where it was, 
 but it was something about trying out RYL: Path of the Emperor. I figured what the heck, it was 
 something to do so I downloaded it and installed. And oh man, was I in for a complete shock.
  
  First, I was assuming that RYL was the name of the game world or something, but its an oh so 
 clever acronym for "Risk Your Life". With a name like that, I knew I was in for trouble from the 
 get go.
  
  So I loaded it up. I was expecting at the MOST a mediocre game, but NOTHING this terrible. The 
 graphics were horrible. I mean we're talking worse than PS1 graphics. First impressions are everything, 
 and if your first impression is that your game looks like crap, that's not a good thing. In this 
 day and age, heck even five years ago, these graphics would not cut it. 
  
  The whole interface seemed clunky and arcane and like you'd have to sit down and read a dictionary-sized 
 manual just to figure out what you were doing. It was NOT user-friendly, to put it nicely. The 
 chat system, while operational, seemed dated as well. EVERYTHING about this game seemed dated. 
 In fact, I'd go so far as to say it seemed like a downright homegrown game made by one person. 
 I've seen better looking games from the Blitz Basic game dev community...
  
  The sound, I don't really recall the sound, I was just basking in the terrible chicanery that is 
 RYL: Path of the Emperor.
  
  Needless to say, it didn't take me long to get fed up with the crappy controls, graphics, and crappy 
 everything and uninstall this train wreck.
  
  The developers at the time were offering some sort of contest where you could win a jackpot of 
 money; 100 grand I believe, or something like that. You'd have to pay me 100 grand just to play 
 this game.
  
  I have NO faith in the sequel to this game. With World of Warcraft, and the upcoming D&D Online, 
 Neverwinter Nights 2, etc., I have NO idea why you'd even bother to waste your time with this or 
 its sequel.
  
  My advice, stay VERY FAR AWAY FROM THIS GAME! I am not joking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SundaySorrow
Rating: 5.1
Date: Nov 14, 2005 1:54 am PT
Review:  PWG had a good idea. And then dropped the ball. It has its time consuming qualities to it, yet 
 still has that  gamplay effect. Left out a TON of 
 things that could have been done to enhance other areas such as a better character generation system, 
 more interactions between npc and pc, more character customizatoin options, better exp for kills. 
 Any one of these singular enhancments would have made it all the better. Shame they didnt give 
 it more thought. Hopefully they will hury up with better patches. 
  Combat was the biggest letdown. The manual meantions a combo system for melee, yet its the same 
 three strokes in repepetition !
  The lvl grind is horrible. unless you have absolutely nothing to do with your time and have plenty 
 of $ to waste on a subscription. 
  yes its got a free month to play free but after that still in debate wether or not its worth getting 
 it renewed- prolly not a good idea.
  if you happen to pick it up at the local gamestore; think long and hard about getting it.
  in 
 all the online gameplay i have experienced (upwards of 5yrs) i have not seen lag such as RYL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xunzhe
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 27, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  This game is described that there are three factions; human, ak'kan and the 'peaceful' god's pirate. 
 Despite of what the manual says , the gameplay has NOTHING to do with the story. Although there 
 is long elaboration of the story, the game is actually all about grinding, you just sit in front 
 of your com and take up your hammer to wack monster from beginning to the end. Anyone with a sane 
 mind can do that. That's why i put the difficulty very easy.
  
  Besides that, the PvP system is way off course. There is a huge imbalance in the game. The Ak'kan 
 first of all is always stronger than human no matter what. An Ak'kan Warrior can easily kill a 
 human warrior. 
  
  However, the only thing that i can compliment the game is the spell effect of the game.
  
  
 If you are really in need to spend your time, go and get other MMORPG. Just ignore the existence 
 of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darcius
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 26, 2005 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Risk Your Life: Path Of The Emperor. 
  its a very good mmorpg the player vs player can get pretty intense if you get 3 or more large 20+ 
 member guilds going at it. plus the quests help break up the repetitiveness of basic leveling, 
 there is still a level grind at higher levels but thats when the real pvp starts and if you want 
 to be the best you have to work hard and earn it. 
  
  the game level cap is currently 95 with a set increase later on of 150 and new maps there are still 
 some bugs in the game but they dont really detrack from the true concept of it which is player 
 vs player. 
  
  once you hit level 30 your able to form and join guilds and start pvping but as most servers have 
 50++ leveled players it gets hard to gain fame early on its normally best to pvp when your about 
 level 50 or 60 so your skills are higher leveled and your gear is stronger. 
  
  but RYL: POTE is not for everyone as the grind can be a little much for some people and not everyone 
 enjoys the graphics that RYL has. 
  i would suggest checking out ingame screen shots of it as well as asking people who play it how 
 it is, and if possible find a friend who players it or even try it your self. there is a free 1 
 month trial with the boxed game so if you dont like it after that month you dont have to pay anymore 
 on to it. but atleast give it a try. 
  
  PlanetWideGames is patching and updating it all the time to add stuff and fix stuff so the game 
 is always changing. so who knows what tomorrow or next week will bring to RYL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabbelgak
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jul 13, 2005 1:44 am PT
Review:  This is the only game I have ever felt the desire, no the duty, to write a review for. From the 
 start this game feels like an unfinished shell of a game. The graphics are terrible, the gameplay 
 not very smooth at all, and the combat repetitive and boring.
  
  There is very little in terms of guidance for new players and unless your a rather determined individual 
 I doubt you'll last the first day (which is why the hard difficulty rating) , The graphics are something 
 to expect from games from the 90's. The trade system that is set up is like Ragnarok online, a 
 player turns themselves into a shop and simply leaves the computer, which causes tons of lag in 
 the city areas.
  
  They seriously should have thought about taking the million dollar tournament prize money and putting 
 it into the development of the game to try and make something worth playing. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
