-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Shadow of Chernobyl
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/stalker/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Atmospheric, immersive, open-ended first-person survival gameplay.
 Amazing virtual world is like being at Chernobyl.
 Excellent blend of action, horror, and exploration.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bugs both minor and major, especially when it comes to Windows Vista.
 Story is a bit incoherent.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 51 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 8,371 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: GSC Game World
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Mar 20, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's got some quirks, but S. T. A. L. K. E. R. delivers a dynamic and impressive first-person gameplay 
 experience you won't soon forget. 

  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl has always been an overly ambitious game, which is probably 
 why it has arrived several years later than originally expected. The game's goal is to create a 
 virtual world with an ecology all its own and then place you in the middle of it. That's something 
 that's rarely been attempted, particularly in a first-person game. However, to the credit of THQ 
 and Ukrainian developer GSC Game World, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is an impressive accomplishment. This first-person 
 survival game is at times amazing and engrossing and on par with such classics as Deus Ex and System 
 Shock.  

          S. T. A. L. K. E. R. has finally arrived, and it delivers an impressively immersive and open-ended 
 first-person experience.     

  This is another first-person game that features a silent and mysterious protagonist, much like 
 Half-Life's Gordon Freeman. You play as the Marked One, a heavily armed scavenger suffering from 
 amnesia and stuck inside the exclusion zone surrounding the nuclear power plant at Chernobyl, Ukraine. 
 Yes, the same nuclear plant that exploded in 1986 and, in S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s fiction, again in 1989, 
 creating a radioactive hotspot brimming with mutants, heavily armed rival factions, and all sorts 
 of weird, paranormal activity. Your task: Figure out who you are and what's going on at the core 
 of the zone.  

  At its heart, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a first-person survival game that blends action with role-playing. 
 This isn't a linear game, like Half-Life or Call of Duty, where you basically are restricted to 
 a straight path and are taken for a tightly controlled and scripted ride. S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s huge 
 environments and open-ended gameplay make it more like a role-playing game, as you can go where 
 you want and do what you want if you're willing to live with the consequences. However, you don't 
 have to worry about traditional role-playing attributes such as strength or intelligence, or accumulating 
 skills and abilities. Instead, all you have to worry about is your skill with a rifle and scavenging 
 enough weapons, ammunition, and med kits from fallen enemies to keep going.  

  Slowly but steadily, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. introduces you to the bizarre world of the zone, a place where 
 the fabric of reality is being ripped apart. Strange energy anomalies are everywhere, and wander 
 into one at your own hazard. These anomalies produce rare and valuable artifacts that can be collected 
 and traded, or even equipped, as they can confer special abilities. Perhaps the most useful ones 
 enhance your endurance, letting you run for far longer than normal, which is a particularly valuable 
 ability to have when traversing the huge area of the zone. And, of course, danger lurks everywhere 
 in the form of enemies that are both human and not-quite human, as well as from animals.  

  To battle them, you'll have a large arsenal of weapons to eventually choose from, mainly in the 
 form of assault rifles, shotguns, and pistols. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. features one of the best ballistics 
 models ever seen in a game, and as a result, firefights feel authentic as you try and hit someone 
 with what can be a wildly inaccurate rifle. The name of the game is using cover effectively and 
 firing short, accurate bursts, particularly at the targets' heads. After a battle, you can loot 
 the dead for weapons and ammunition, and one of the nice touches in the game is that you can't 
 run around with an arsenal of 9 or 10 different weapons. Instead, the inventory system restricts 
 what you can carry mainly by weight, and most weapons use a different type of ammo, which means 
 that you've got to be judicious in selecting what you take with you. There's simply no way you 
 can haul around three or four different weapons, their ammunition, and everything else that you 
 need to survive in the zone. This includes health packs, bandages, radiation medication (vodka 
 will also do in a pinch) , and even food. You've got to eat regularly in S. T. A. L. K. E. R., and if 
 you go too long without food, hunger warning signs appear.  

          The inventory system is like that in a role-playing game, and you'll spend a lot of time 
 trying to figure out what to carry with you.     

  The game's artificial intelligence is impressive, both in and out of combat. In combat, enemies 
 are cunning when given enough room to move around. Human enemies hunt you intelligently, using 
 cover and the terrain to their advantage. Meanwhile, creatures such as packs of mutant dogs behave 
 like you'd expect wild animals to. They attack when they feel they have the advantage but flee 
 if given a painful lesson. It's this kind of behavior that makes the zone feel alive, with these 
 different factions and animals all trying to go about their daily tasks. The AI does take a hit 
 when placed in tight interiors, though, as the lack of maneuvering options makes it turn a bit 
 predictable, but you'll likely appreciate this fact early in the game, as hiding inside a building 
 and picking off the grunts as they come through the doorway is the only way that you'll survive 
 some of the early battles.  

  There are all sorts of human characters in the game, from lone stalkers out on their own to various 
 factions that you can ally with or battle. Then there are the mutants, from the strange animals 
 that inhabit the zone to the more deadly kind of mutated humanoid, such as the little guy who can 
 mess with your mind to the creepy crawling dudes who lunge at you from out of nowhere. Toss in 
 S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s version of zombies and poltergeists, and you've got a more-than-interesting array 
 of potential friends and foes. There are some large-scale battles that will find you fighting alongside 
 teammates, and afterward you'll watch as AI friendlies saunter up to the wounded writhing on the 
 ground, say something nasty in Russian or Ukrainian, and then shoot them in the head.     

 
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s main storyline will take maybe 10 hours to get through if you just pursue it, 
 but there are also plenty of side quests that can consume hours, as well as sheer hours spent on 
 exploration. The side quests are very optional, though, as they usually end with a cash reward, 
 and cash is the one thing that you'll not face a shortage of. There's just nothing worth buying 
 from the vendors in the zone that you already can't get for free with a little exploration.  

 
          The PDA keeps you up to date with all of your quests, though the quest system itself is 
 a bit broken at times.     

  Much of S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s story is a bit hard to figure out, thanks to the fact that it's delivered 
 mainly through short journal entries, cryptic cinematic cutscenes, and hard-to-understand Ukrainian 
 and Russian accents. There are also multiple endings, with some that end in failure depending on 
 the choices that you make in the game, so there's plenty of replayability here. However, the quest 
 system itself is a bit broken, as some side quests can't be resolved or they reset after you've 
 accomplished them. We also encountered issues while running the game under Windows Vista, from 
 quick loads not working to the game becoming unstable and crashing. THQ and GSC Game World are 
 working to deliver a patch for some of these issues, but it's a pity that the game shipped with 
 them. Considering that S. T. A. L. K. E. R. was already years overdue, another month or two in testing 
 seems rather paltry, especially to provide support for Windows Vista.  

  As innovative and revolutionary as S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s single-player game is, its multiplayer component 
 is surprisingly old fashioned and standard. Multiplayer features the traditional modes, such as 
 deathmatch, team deathmatch, and artifact hunt (basically capture the flag) , and the goal is to 
 run around and get as many kills as possible. The action is fast, brutal, and short, and while 
 the multiplayer features the same impressive ballistics modeling of the single-player game, it 
 still feels way too easy to get picked off over and over again by a distant sniper. Multiplayer 
 does have an economy of sorts, as you gain cash for your kills, which you can use when you respawn 
 to purchase different weapons, ammunition, and equipment, but for the most part, there's nothing 
 particularly new here.  

  Though already dated by a few years, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. still looks good, and its visuals are on par 
 with Half-Life 2. What the game lacks in modern-day graphical pizzazz, it makes up for with intricate 
 detail and immersive atmosphere. There's something to be said for the game's environments, which 
 are infused with a ton of character and detail. It feels like the postapocalyptic landscape it's 
 supposed to be. The countryside of the zone feels rugged and wild, with abandoned towns and compounds 
 littering the landscape. Each locale has its own particular feel to it, so you never feel like 
 the world was made with cookie-cutter building templates. The sense of exploration is marvelous, 
 and it's the little details that make the difference. While you won't need a high-end system to 
 play the game, the sheer size and scope of the world are such that it really helps the frame rate 
 if you do.  

  The lighting and particle effects are particularly well done. For instance, battles can occur in 
 raging storms, with flashes of lightning briefly illuminating the battlefield. The game's flashlight 
 system also deserves a heaping of praise. The flashlight in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. cuts through the darkness 
 with a realism that's beautiful to behold. It's your most important friend in the dark, but at 
 the same time, it also betrays you, since enemies can see the light from your beam long before 
 you can actually see them. And the flashlight doesn't suffer from the 30-second-battery-life contrivance 
 found in most shooters. How refreshing.  

          The graphics engine lack the pizzazz of the latest games, but it still delivers a highly 
 detailed world to explore.     

  The audio in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. also does an excellent job of immersing you in this world. When you're 
 outside in the zone, the rustling of the wind in the grass, the cry of animals in the distance, 
 and the ominous tick of your Geiger counter are ever present. When you're inside, there's nothing 
 like the howl of a nearby mutant to raise your hackles. Weapon and mechanical sounds are also spot-on, 
 and the crack of assault rifles in the distance lets you know that trouble's ahead. The voice acting 
 is a bit hard to understand, but since the game is set in the Ukraine, that's to be expected. Even 
 the game's broken English (both spoken and written) is a bit charming in this regard.  

  In spite of its small quirks and bugs, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is definitely a game that deserves to be 
 played. For first-person shooter fans looking for the next big thing in the genre, it's difficult 
 not to be impressed by the game's unique and evolving world. Meanwhile, fans of role-playing games 
 will appreciate the open-ended nature of the gameplay and being able to explore different paths 
 through the zone. This is a bleak game, but in a good way, as it captures its postapocalyptic setting 
 perfectly. It's also an excellent combination of combat, horror, and exploration.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (664 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: deepseadeepsea
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 9:44 am PT
Review:  I know that a lot of people like this game and think it is a "god game"
  But with me it is a very boring game!!! i uninstalled it after 1 hour played!
  
  First the 
 game
  play is too difficult, almost games now use auto heath restore like COD, Crysis, Farcry2... but 
 this game is not, when you were shot by enemy you will bleeding, you must stop bleeding first and 
 then use first aid kid! Too complicated! You can't focus to shooting!
  
  The graphic look too old, boring color texture, and the worst problem in this game is shooting 
 mode! To hard to take down enemy with your guns! You are very near them with full ammo, but take 
 down enemy seem to be hardest work! You can not feel that you are shooting!
  
  Mission is too complicated, sometime you can't understand what things to do to complete a mission!
 
  
  Characters look very boring, no emotion on their face! Just like a doll!
  
  The story can make you fall asleep if you play this game too long!
  
  I think 5.0 is still 
 too high for this game!
  
  Sorry for my bad English!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RodinaRossija38
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:22 am PT
Review:  Best game in the world! Of course, once you mod (like Oblivion Lost or STALKER Rebalanced) and 
 patched first. This is only game where I feel that I am in the world because the landscape, settings 
 and skies make a very good feeling. If you are interested in Russian weaponary like me, this is 
 the only game where you find something more than Dragunov sniper rifle and AK-47. Game is also 
 very difficult because weapon have real behaviour like bullet drop and penetration and player must 
 find ammunition for weapon. This game is different every time and has interesting story too which 
 has many endings. Enemy intelligence is also very smart, but only when you mod. Sounds are perfect 
 too when you mod. This game will enjoy you!! But remember that if you like games like Call Of Duty 
 then I don't think this game is good because you need to think here.
  
  Sorry for my english,
  
  Ivan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codename_halo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:09 pm PT
Review:  this game is unique, at least for me it was, i've played so many First-person Shooters throughout 
 my life, but this game had it's own kind of special vibe for me, the great scenery and mood of the 
 zone and the way that environment works around you combined with the role-playing elements in this 
 solid fps plus good and very fun interaction with the inhabitants of the zone (basically stalkers 
 and drifters in search of artifacts) and your encounters with its vicious mutated creatures that 
 roam throughout it and a somewhat twisting and compelling story made this game as unique as it 
 could get for me!
  on your way to an unknown location in the zone on a supposedly corps disposal truck, your truck 
 overturns, a drifter salvaging the truck finds you alive and notices a mysterious mark on your arm 
 and takes you to a dealer in a small settlement near the zone, when you wake up you find out that 
 you don't remember anything and the only thing you have on you is a PDA with a single name on it: Strelok.
 
  who is strelok, what is this place, why are you here and what your connection to this place is, are 
 questions that you have to set course to the zone to find out and all you have is a name.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude63
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 6:48 pm PT
Review:  When going into stalker I didn't expect much.. boy was I shocked. 
  
  Story:
  The story of Stalker is kind of straight foward. 20 years after the first nuclear meltdown at the 
 Chernobyl plant another explosion happens. This gives away to the area surrounding it known as 
 "The Zone". The Zone is filled with radiation, mutants, crazy soldiers etc. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Stalker contains elements from rpgs and a fps game. Combining these gives stalker 
 a one of a kind feel. The guns in this game can wear and jam so your constantly managing these. 
 They also use a realistic ballistic system. This along with you can only carry a 60 KG load is 
 hecktic. Once you fill it up you can't move. One time during a fire fight I accidently filled it 
 up and people had me surrounded. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics of Stalker can go from bland to amazing. Theres areas that look better with a flashlight 
 off.. and theres some that look awesome without one. Since the engine the developers used was relatively 
 old it does have a old school look. However, the devlopers pushed it to its limits... for its time 
 Stalker looked great. It could also run on low spec pc's.. which is a plus
  
  Overall Stalker is a great atmospheric game that should surpass most peoples expectations. No one 
 should pass up on a chance to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plarpomagnus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I just finished playing through this for the second time. This game does a wonderful job with creating 
 a creepy, suspenseful atmosphere. I've always been obsessed with old abandoned buildings and desolate 
 wastelands, so exploring the vast environment was the highlight for me. The gameplay is very good 
 as well. There are plenty of guns, locations, upgrades, missions, artifacts, and armor to keep 
 you interested. 
  
  One thing that does get a little frustrating is that the environment is so huge that it becomes 
 a pain to have to walk the long distances over and over again. It would've been nice for some way 
 to transport yourself quickly, but in a way that wouldn't take away from the mood the game is trying 
 to create. 
  
  Overall this is a great game, and definitely worth playing if you're into first person shooters. 
 I've been recommending it to all my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ENGEEEII
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 7:09 am PT
Review:  Stalker was a long awaited game so the expectations where high. Although it's not quite all it's 
 cracked up to be it's a solid experience.
  Graphics are only a bit dated but do a good job at replicating a strange scary harsh patch of land 
 set in the Ukraine. All the buildings are true to eastern European common architecture. Weapons 
 look good as do the special effects, especially explosions. Other stalkers also look good and the 
 monsters in the game all look as if they really we're mutated people dogs and so on.
  Game-play is anther strong point for this game. The huge environment is packed full of missions, 
 hidden stashes, and other creatures and humans. Trade is essential, you can sell anything and buy 
 anything. The number of weapon customizations, suits and other items in the game is impressive. 
 It's a highly re-playable game, almost as re-playable as GTA San Andreas and as re-playable as 
 the Total War series.
  The game sounds right. The atmosphere the graphic environments create are rounded off by the creepy 
 dark sounds. The music is yet another part of the game that contributes to the atmosphere.
  
  Stalker might have failed to achieve tremendously high expectations but that aside it's a great 
 experience worth your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Def_Joe_Griffe
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 2:10 am PT
Review:  As I bought the game, I had no idea how great could it be. I thought it was just quite an ordinary 
 shooter set in the area of Chernobyl. But Lord how wrong I was. 
  
  Graphics of the game may seem disappointing because they look like they're on the level of 2005 
 year games. But get a look on a high hill over Chernobyl - you'll see a great view. But what looks 
 especially great is examining dark undergrounds with your flashlight. None other game has succeeded 
 in that as well as S. T. A. L. K. E. R. The weapon sounds could've been better, though. 
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. successfully combines RPG and FPS elements. This is one of the game's highlights. 
 Fortunately the player does not have to worry about stats like in most RPGs and although the character 
 can not gain levels, you have to keep checking the condition of your gear - armor and weapons. 
 It's good that you can't find some of the best gear and weapons from a nearby shop, because it 
 really feels like RPG when hunting for them in the Zone. 
  
  What I really like this game of is the freedom - you can do nearly whatever and almost whenever. 
 Whether you choose to do a couple of sidequests for money or stick to the main quest to take the 
 story further, you don't have to hurry. You can spend your time exploring the Zone while hunting 
 mutants or looking for artifacts. The whole world acts very realistically, bandits raid other stalkers' 
 outposts, animals hunt for each other, weather changes and day changes into night. That's what 
 makes this game one of the best in 2007. 
  
  But what is even more great in the game is the atmosphere - you are nearly alone in a radioactive 
 wonderland surrounded by mutants and other stalkers; you must survive. You can really feel the 
 atmosphere when walking through a dark forest in night when suddenly, thunder strikes and you can 
 hear a mutant growling. But the most exciting parts are yet to come; mutant-haunted, dark, abandoned 
 underground laboratories where you must venture into. The laboratories (especially the first one) 
 are one of my scariest gaming experiences ever. Not only in night or inside dark laboratories, 
 the atmosphere can be very gloomy in daylight, too. And that's one of the best things in the whole 
 game - none other game will ever succeed in capturing such an exciting atmosphere as S. T. A. L. K. E. R.
 
  
  In the game, stealth is also very important and that's another thing I like about. It's not just 
 pure "shoot 'em up, kill'em all". You have to stay in cover and the best tactic is to ambush - 
 fire when they're least expecting it. You can't rush like a maniac in S. T. A. L. K. E. R., otherwise 
 you'll quickly find yourself dead.
  
  Now let's talk about the game's flaws. What most people have complained is that it's full of bugs. 
 But I haven't found many because I downloaded the latest patch immediately after installing the 
 game. Do so - the latest patch will fix most of the bugs. Some people have also complained about 
 the shooting - aim for the freaking head, people. It doesn't take a high-tech nuclear assault rifle 
 to kill a stalker if you just aim for the head. Mutants, of course, are far more resistant than 
 stalkers. The flaws I found in the game were a couple of game crashes that kept bothering me in 
 a specific part of the game. Fortunately after getting past that part the game suddenly stopped 
 crashing. Another "flaw" is that I think you shoud've been able to repair your gear, in times it 
 can be frustrating to hunt for new gear. 
  
  Oh yes, the AI. I nearly forgot that. Well, the AI can be pretty unpredictable. Sometimes enemies 
 work very wisely in groups and sometimes lag in corners. But all in all, the AI is good enough 
 for me. 
  
  All in all, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. provides countless hours of adventuring, exploring and action. An FPS 
 combined with RPG-elements, exciting atmosphere and traditional FPS shooting is, without doubt, 
 a game every FPS player should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PteNomercy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 9:39 pm PT
Review:  When I was in Poland in not too many years ago there was art exhibition of remarkable and eerie 
 photos pertaining to man and his affect on the world.
  
  One picture was of the radiated town of Prapriyat in Chernobyl Ukraine. As a young man then, I 
 was mesmerized at the site of an entire city - become abandoned, deserted and untouched for years 
 as the radiated snow covered the sad, cold lonely empty buildings of a once thriving Soviet society.
 
  
  When I learned soon after that a game was being made that allowed the player to immerse themselves 
 and explore the contaminated zone of the Chernobyl disaster I was thrilled, like many other gamers, 
 to say the least.
  
  Gamers were promised an immersive experience by being able to explore an accurate and realistic 
 recreation of the contaminated zone as well as play with many new and exciting features in the 
 gaming world. 
  
  The hype around the game was great and there was some hope and promise for the game. Everyone waited 
 for its release in anticipation for what was to be one of the most immersive, detailed and realistic 
 games to be released. Unfortunately, STALKER did not deliver and ended up being an unpolished and 
 buggy game.
  
  When I closely read the articles regarding STALKER on Gamespot leading up to its release; gamers 
 were promised the following:
  
  - 30 square kilometers of an open world around the Chernobyl Plant that were a recreation of real 
 life locations and would be open ended, explore able and seamless
  
  - New survival features to the standard FPS genre - your player would have to eat, sleep make friends, 
 watch their behavior, find and salvage vehicles etc.
  
  - A living breathing interactive world of characters, animals and mutants all living in the Zone 
 living out their lives with amazing AI.
  
  In this review I will dismiss the hype and accurately tell fellow gamers what to expect.
  
 
  FULLY EXPLORABLE WORLD?
  
  First and foremost, to my great disappoint - STALKER does not provide the amazing detailed world 
 it promised. While the open world of STALKER is well done and at times impressive - it fails to 
 be open ended and fully explore able.
  
  Your character can not freely roam the zone - the game world is divided into sections/areas. To 
 access these areas you must enter through a specific path. To put this in perspective - to get 
 from an area called the Cordon to another area called the Garbage - the player can not explore 
 the world finding gaps and safe passage in radiation fields or climb on top of a hilly valley to 
 get the upper hand on enemies or to post themselves high up to scope out and survey the next area. 
 Instead, players are guided and forced through straight forward paths as hills and fences are used 
 to deny a true open, explore able sandbox environment - although credit to the developers - the 
 illusion is there.
  
  CITIES and PLACES:
  
  In addition to game world it seems at times quite empty. Granted the open fields and some urban 
 areas look impressive at first - but again when exploring them it becomes clear that they are quite 
 linear. This was a great disappointment for me as the developers told us that we would be able 
 to explore these areas fully - building to building if need be.
  
  Many buildings are unexplored able and simply act as large walls forcing the player to travel a 
 specific path. In open areas a few buildings dart the country side - when entered they are barren 
 basic and don't offer much for exploration.
  
  Areas such as The Wild and the City of Prapriyat were total let downs for me for the aforementioned 
 reasons. I was expecting much more then what I got. I found myself walking around the outside shells 
 of buildings in alleys more then anything. My dreams of entering a Soviet building, carefully exploring 
 it and then sniping enemies from the roof or abandoned apartments were gone.
  
  Some underground science labs were well done, they were creepy, dark, dilapidated and very immersive. 
 It is a shame that these experiences were not more consistent through out the game especially for 
 the Chernobyl Power Plant.
  
  THE POWER PLANT
  
  The developers stated that they lived close by to the Chernobyl site and would make it photo realistic 
 as much as they could. At one point it was stated that the Chernobyl Power Plant was actually recreated 
 as they studied plans of the plant and even spoke to persons who worked there. In fact - one article 
 I read on Gamespot said that the developers had an employee of the plant play the game and stated 
 they found their own office within the Chernobyl Power Plant made in the game
  
  However, when I finally reached the Chernobyl Power Plant which was supposed to be an epic and 
 ominous level in the game - I was more then disappointed. There was no attempt of a recreation 
 of the interior of the plant - it was so blatantly obvious and poorly done I just wanted to finish 
 the game and put the disappointment behind me. Considering the Chernobyl Power Plant was this icon 
 of "Man Made Hell" and the ultimate enemy of the game - the lack of detail, thought, design and 
 overall importance to this final level is INEXCUSABLE.
  
  Developers promised gamers a new experience. We were told that we would have to eat, sleep and 
 find ways to survive. This was also hype.
  
  EATING:
  
  Granted in the game, you do have to eat once every 12hrs or so, but all that is required of this 
 new premise is to remember to bring a can of tuna before a treck - this is not much different then 
 loading up on ammo when expecting enemies.
  
  SLEEP:
  
  In terms of sleep developers talked at length about how you would need to find safe places to sleep; 
 otherwise enemies - human, mutant or animal alike could kill you in your sleep. We were told to 
 we would have to find shelter in buildings or among friends to survive. There were many times I 
 stumbled upon other people sleeping - but not once did I do it or saw that this was implemented 
 in the game.
  
  ALLIES AND REPUTATION:
  
  The friendship system in the game is also flawed. You make friends simply by helping them in a 
 scripted mission or by giving some random neutral character a med kit before they die during a 
 scripted mission. When they do become your friend they do nothing to help you out, there is no 
 sense of change in their behavior.
  
  We were told that during our adventure in the zone that we would have many options of helping other 
 STALKERS who needed or rescue or help and that they would do the same for you if your reputation 
 was good enough. This did not happen either.
  
  AI:
  
  The AI in the game is hit and miss. At times it is impressive to see wild dogs and mutants fighting 
 each other and randomly attacking other people. However, the novelty wears off. Animal and mutants 
 can be avoided by running away or easily killing them. Some of the more scarier and stronger mutants 
 do not make enough appearances - and when they do they are scripted.
  
  Human enemy behavior is hit and miss. At times they convincingly, will work together, flank you, 
 reload behind cover, retreat and fight each other. Other times, human enemies will bunch up together 
 in a corner stuck and unable to move and sometimes walk around in no cover blindly looking for 
 you.
  
  BUYING, TRADING ITEMS AND OTHER FEATURES:
  
  Other disappointments were the lack of vehicles. We were told that we could find, salvage and use 
 old discarded cars and vehicles to make our commute around the zone easier - but this did not go 
 through.
  
  The Monetary system in STALKER is pointless. At not point and time did I see a need to do any side 
 quests as I was literally swimming in money.
  
  To add to it, Trading and Shopping with characters was pointless. No character had anything I really 
 wanted, needed or had something I couldn't afford anyways. All your good equipment is really found 
 on dead enemies.
  
  ARTIFACTS:
  
  The whole premise of the STALKER universe are these new unusual artifacts coated in strange energy 
 signatures that cause people to risk their lives finding them to get them to the scientific community 
 for huge cash - a great premise for the game. Unfortunately, these artifacts really do not add 
 any real noticeable or significant change to the character's abilities to justify basing a whole 
 game around the concept. I actually only used or cared about the artifacts that allowed me to sprint 
 long periods of time to travel quicker. Furthermore, these things appear comical and unrealistic 
 as they just float, glow and bounce around the drab and dreary environments.
  
  WEAPONS:
  
  Weapons are big stars in the game. They sound real, look real and shoot very realistically. 
 Practicing proper trigger control, firing positions and firing modes are a must. Shooting in the 
 game feels very realistic and is a pleasure. Fire fights can be intense.
  
  Unfortunately, for the most part of the game you will use the same type of weapons and the really 
 good weapons such as the Draganov sniper rifle and advance assault rifles come at the dead end 
 of the game. This made the game also feel linear and uninspiring. It would have been fantastic 
 to save up money early at the beginning of the game and buy long rang weapons and systematically 
 pick off enemies from afar. Or to venture into a area with well armed enemies just to try grab 
 a powerful weapon to kill off weaker enemies before moving on further into the zone.
  
  Also, the RPG weapons is useless. I found a few and never ended up using them. A complete waste.
 
  
  MISSIONS:
  
  Side Missions and Quests are broken and for the most part can't be finished. You heard me - a game 
 that took years to make could not even ensure that missions were properly done.
  
  Items or people you are sent out to retrieve or kill will sometimes not be there at all. Or in 
 other cases you will find the required items or kill the proper person and not receive any reward 
 or further instructions. Considering the rewards are money - which is useless as described above, 
 there is no point in dealing with the frustration of these broken missions.
  
  Primary Missions:
  
  Are linear and can be confusing due to poor implementation and information. 
 They are your basic "go here", "kill him/them" and "retrieve this" missions. They are nothing special 
 or exciting and move the story along.
  
  STORY:
  
  The story is strange and mysterious. That's not because of good writing, but because of poor story 
 telling and a unsuccessful science fiction theme as well. I will not spoil the ending, but I will 
 say the more I played the game, the less I liked about the story. 
  
  Atmosphere:
  
  The atmosphere is largely successful due to the amazing ambient music in the game - without it 
 many would be far more critical of this game. The themes fit the mood of the game perfectly and 
 are extremely well done adding so much life to this otherwise unpolished game.
  
  Although not perfect, there are some parts of environments and levels that are very well down and 
 contain a lot of detail. At times the levels do look very successful on being real life locations.
 
  
  The outdoor weather system and change of day and night are also very well done. I remember dreading 
 the night time and hiding in old buildings until the sun came out as not to run into enemies in 
 the dark or to be attacked by animals. Or during bad weather when I felt a need to seek out shelter 
 for my character and wait out the storm.
  
  STALKER has a great atmosphere creating a scary, creepy, sad, cold and lonely world. Due to some 
 of the strong points in atmosphere, many players looked over the faults in this game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in STALKER are well done but not extraordinary. Textures look great 
 making environments appearing dilapidated, crumbling, old and faded. The buildings and outdoor 
 environments look very convincing and accurate with a great amount of detail.
  
  Shadows and lighting are also excellent further bringing life and atmosphere to the game.
  
 
  Enemies and characters are also very well detailed - but the environment of the zone is the winner 
 by far.
  
  
  In closing, I did enjoy playing STALKER. It did offer an immersive world to explore and was an 
 enjoyable game.
  
  However, the fact that the game took so long to make and hit the store shelves with so many bugs, 
 unresolved issues and basically being broken is inexcusable. 
  
  It is my belief that the small developer of STALKER got very excited very quickly and bit off more 
 then they could chew... causing them many problems and in the end making them unable to live up 
 to the hype.
  
  As a gamer I felt betrayed. For years, myself, and fans of this game followed its creation, listening 
 to what an amazing experience this game would be - only to be handed a game filled with bugs and 
 no where near the content we were promised for our devotion and money. 
  
  STALKER has moments of pure immersion and atmosphere, making one feel they are trudging through 
 the irradiated zone of Chernobyl Ukraine trying to survive. It is these moments that capture the 
 player's imagination and make putting up with this game's many short comings.
  
  It is a great shame that such moments and their quality were not consistent for the entire game 
 - had they been so; STALKER would have been a masterpiece.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendissimo35
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 3:51 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of STALKER, it was the graphics and spooky atmosphere that impressed me. That 
 was over 5 years ago. Since then it has undergone a convoluted and long development process, which 
 left many to believe the game was dead. Well, the finished product is pretty good, despite some 
 bugs and missing features. 
  
  You play the role of marked one, in a subtle and chilling story about genetics and radiation experiments 
 in the Chernobyl disaster zone. The place is full of mutants and warring bandits, loners, and factions, 
 and is one of the most atmospheric games I've played.
  
  Graphics- The technical visuals are quite solid, as the engine was updated since they originally 
 started development. Shadows cast during storms and by lights stand out in particular. The draw 
 distance is decent enough to make you feel like you're actually in the world, and the animations 
 and effects are quite good.
  
  Sound- The sound design in this game is top notch, you can hear every clap of thunder or rustle 
 in the grass, but the gunfire is what really stands out. You can hear every distant shot fired 
 at you and the sound of bullets whizzing by inches from your head. 
  
  Gameplay- This game has some really incredible survival mechanics. You are forced to scavenge for 
 ammo, food, water, and other survival essentials, or buy them at inflated prices from the few merchants 
 in "The Zone". Your inventory allows you to carry a reasonable amount of supplies, but you will 
 get tired quickly if carrying too much. The game does not rely on any traditional RPG stats, but 
 you can improve your chances of survival by finding, stealing, or buying better armor, from simple 
 kelvar-cloth hybrids to full military exoskeletons. You can also obtain a wide breadth of real 
 world guns to fit your playstyle, and they fire a variety of ammunition types, adding another gameplay 
 dynamic. Finally you can find "artifacts" out in the zone's many radiation anomalies which can 
 reduce the damage you take from radtiation, boost your health, and increase your stamina, among 
 other things. They also sell for a pretty penny, if you prefer not to be irradiated by artifacts. 
 
  
  The zone itself is an interesting and varied wasteland, with some interesting characters and fedgling 
 game dynamics like random bandit attacks on stalker camps (which you have no obligation to assist) 
 and faction alliances. 
  However, the game world is rather linear and segmented, it is a far cry from a true open game world 
 like in the elder scrolls series. Also, the while the main quest and random encounters and factions 
 battles are compelling enough, the minor quests given to you by traders and others feel really 
 generic, like an after thought to the game. They are entirely random and never run out, unlike 
 other games, in their defense. The factions feel like a remnant from alpha- they hardly ever leave 
 their bases and go on raids (except the military) and they have very limited reactions to your 
 actions beyond friend or enemy. 
  
  The game has been patched and is no longer the buggy release I was told about a while ago. 
  
 
  Value- The game can take anywhere from 25-40 hours to complete, but I would advise you to take 
 your time, and explor to find the really rare weapons and gear, and meet all the interesting people. 
 I probably spent closer to 65 hours playing it, which is not bad for a game i got for $5 on steam. 
 It is a good deal even for the current going price of $20.
  
  Overall, I would say try this game if a spooky survival shooter with some really original ideas 
 sounds appealing to you. I am excited to see how clear sky plays in comparison, and what else GSC 
 has up their sleeves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Absinthe-abuser
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 11:17 am PT
Review:  I usually like wide open world shooters like this, but in my opinion, something went wrong in that 
 one...
  
  The Levels in Stalker are big, the graphics are good, and the Sound is maybe one of the best ive 
 heard so far. Also there is a really cute Double-barrel-Shotgun with a nice reloading Animation, 
 which truly feels great to shoot...
  
  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
  
  But theres the Point... 
 the Gunplay just feels strange... Headshots, dont get Enemys down and your Weapons seem to be 
 very inaccurate... Bullets are flying everywhere, but not to the point u aimed for... Enemys where 
 hitting me, even behind Cover and through concrete Ceilings and Walls... etc.
  
  The Story: There actually is a Story, but a really strange one... It seems like the Developers 
 spend more Time in copying the Ruins of Chernobyl than in implanting a Story... Almost the whole 
 Plot is told in PDAs which you have to read and even if you read them, it doesnt make any Sense...
 
  So im gonna spoil some Details:
  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
  WARNING, SPOILER:
   
                                  
  
  This is the Story...
  A Mercenary subconsciously controlled by a Super-A. I. was wrongly send 
 out to kill himself?
  Why the hell i was completing the whole Game (even the f**kin hard part in the Nuclear-Plant) to 
 get such a stupid excuse?
  I was wondering the whole Game why i should kill Strelok... Just cause the Main-Character (which 
 is Strelok...) has tattooed this Name on his Arm?
  
  Maybe in Russia its normal to kill people just cause of a Tattoo XD... luckily Strelok doesnt 
 has a pink Heart with "Mommy" on his Arm...
  
  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
  GO ON READING BELOW THIS 
 LINE:
                                    
  
  Cause of the strange Gunplay... and the logically broken Story, only 7,5 for me
  Still better 
 than CoD4, i think ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultramalakian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 6:46 am PT
Review:  The last game made by a Russian-or eastern developer I heard, was called Big Riggs, (or something 
 like that...) and well... go search for it.
  
  But S. T. A. L. K. E. R., is, undoubtedly, a MUST have.
  
  When I was asked to compare it with other 
 games, I could only think of Call Of Duty... and Zelda... and Grand Theft Auto... and (just a bit...) 
 any RPG. 
  It mixes elements from many genders, and, let me tell you, it feels good. Refreshing and New. 
 
  Great firefights in the open, or scary adventures underground, the game is a great piece of work.
 
  You really get into it, it has an incredible atmosphere, that only a few games have achieved. 
 (Clive Barker's Undying, I mean...)
  Yes, can't deny, there are many, SEVERAL glitches, that sometimes makes you want to throw away 
 your PC. So, I recommend to get the proper updates, so you won't have any troubles that make you 
 start all over again (Which happened to me, many times... :S)
  
  Still, it's worth your $20-30... and I was forgetting about the multiplayer. LAN or Internet, it's 
 fun and entertaining, give it a try. It may not be Team Fortress or Combat Arms, but hey, you already 
 payed for it.
  
  So, if you are a FPS lover, an Adventure player, or a (bit) RPG guy, give S. T. A. L. K. E. R. a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilidogg94
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. It's really draws you into the game world with its great atmosphere. I love 
 that its a First Person Shooter that has elements from Role Playing Games. I wasn't expecting this 
 game to scare me but there are a lot of moments that made me jump. I would suggest this game to 
 any fan of the first person shooter genre. A lot of people complain about how buggy this game is, 
 but it has been patched and is almost bug free. Now I'm using up the rest of the hundred words 
 required to submit this review 
 
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAZZER7
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the most creepiest and most atmospheric games I have ever played. Firstly 
 there is the lonely peristent world which is very immersive and almost depressingly real. 
  
  The windswept wastlands of Ukrainian countryside broken up by abandoned buildings gives a real 
 sense of what the real zone must be. The ever increasingly strange creatures and then mutants that 
 wander the lands also make the world for a place you don't really want to venture into. That is 
 the precise feeling I got early on. I was very hesitant about going into every building and exploring 
 dark rooms.
  
  Trading, buying better good and scavenging for ammo and weapons also add the survival horror aspect 
 of the game and make the sense of further exploration even more scary. The game is tough and realistic 
 (Especially with the Oblivion Lost 2.0 mod!) . 
  
  If all that wasn't enough, you'll find yourself out in the wastelands all alone and having to then 
 go underground! At this point I really did want to turn back! Down in the depths you hear strange 
 dripping noises, creeking metal doors and other not so identifiable noises. This is one area the 
 game absolutely excels at. The sound effects are haunting yet clear. They really nailed this aspect 
 of the game and the sounds in the depths make for a truly terrifying game. There are some shocking 
 parts that follow shortly after you first venture down, so without spoiling the experience, let 
 me just say, they are memorable if only for the sheer heart-pounding, gut wrenching experience 
 they invoke!
  
  There are some let downs, such as the game's story isn't the easiest to follow. You know that you're 
 trying to get to the reactor but you're never really forced to find out why. The side quests do 
 not have any real purpose and the vanilla-unpatched version of the game is awefully buggy!
  
  The graphics are stunning. The landscape, the HDR and in particular the bump/texture maps combine 
 for a very detailed landscape, long forgotten. Shadows and light are very well done as is the overall 
 art direction for creating a destroyed world! It's sad to say, the same level of detail hasn't 
 been passed on to the character models. They are flat and do not seem up to the same standard as 
 the game world, almost out of place!
  
  Overall, the game achieves something that is much more than the sum of its parts and I enjoyed 
 it more than man other games which tecnically and critically scored higher! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jericho9696
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  The game is an First Person Shooter, which to my surprise is actually very fun, but there are a 
 few problems with it like the difficulty which isn't very welcome for unexperienced players,
  
  or the large amount of bugs but they are ok and not hard to ignore which means that if you 
 really hate bugs and glitches you might not want yo buy this game because it's a bit broken.
  
  In conclusion, if you like FPS, you need to play this game.
  
  It's starts pretty bad but 
 after some time, you'll start to love it,
  It's very addictive and the graphics look pretty good too, a very gridy style.
  
  This game 
 had a lot of potential but because of the bugs and glitches and the story isn't that memorable 
 so if your a story lover you might not want to buy this game.
  
  But at the end there are FPS's that are better than this, but if you find it lying on the ground 
 for around 30$, it's a great deal!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil-locknezz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  My dad has the nack of always getting random games for me, when I first saw stalker I couldn't 
 wait to give it a try, Im a big fan of Post-Apocs and the atmosphere was the best of any game i 
 ever played, it took me a while to get used to it and at first I didnt like the fact that i couldnt 
 just Quake 3 my way through the game so i stopped played around 1 hour into the game.
  
  Then buy the next morning i couldnt stop thinking about Stalker, so i played it again and just 
 got so addicted.
  
  The graphics are no Crysis but are still good, with pleanty of mods and patches to fix them. I 
 still play mine straight out of the box and have no problem with its stock graphics. The game has 
 great Sun shadows and full dynamic lighting making shooting in the dark fun.
  
  The story was decent but no blockbuster and the ending was pretty lame, but theres a ton of different 
 endings so just keep playing till you get one you like =] . The story is held together by the games 
 atmosphere which in my opinion is the best thing about this game and enough to make my buy the 
 sequel.
  
  Gameplay took a couple hours to get used to, i just had to get the Unreal Tournament outta my system 
 and get used to going down after a few shots, I usually play on master level and it can get quite 
 frustrating having to go through a whole clip just to kill someone in no armor. I understand why 
 they decided not to use vehciles in the game but the sprint can get quite frustrating and i spend 
 most of the time walking long distances to sell collected loot, I havent seen a fast travel mod 
 yet, but someone should make one... "hint hint"
  
  
  Overall i gave it a 9.0
  
  Its a must have but the little bugs, long travel times, and the near imortal enemys bring my score 
 down, Yet the game is still good enough to get a great rating even with this issues.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drygor7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R shadow of Chernobyl is a game that takes place in a place called the zone inside 
 of Chernobyl people called s. t. a. l. k. e. r. s live here searching for artifacts left by the disasters 
 you play as man man known only as the marked one after being saved by a merchant and his friend 
 from a death truck coming from the center of the zone without any memory of your past and the only 
 link to it is a PDA with a message saying KILL THE STRELOK you become a mercenary for different 
 factions while trying to regain your memories the gameplay is through a first person perspective 
 where you can interact trade and of course fight with other people the game really pulls you in 
 with the complex AI and the life of the desolate place around you you feel the need to hide when 
 it rains or the need to help your allies when they are shot down for more than personal gain you 
 become attached to the people around you the game has a steep difficulty curve even on the earlier 
 story missions it can grow very hard for amateur players this game has thrills and scares alike 
 but at times you can feel the sadness of the area that used to be so full of life burnt ruined 
 houses show that there used to be regular people leading regular lives there which only helps with 
 the immersion but this game can probably be bought for cheap at stores and it is currently only 
 $15 on the steam store though weapons can be inaccurate and some parts frustrating the game makes 
 up for it in its scale and pure immersion the combat is at most times well balanced and you almost 
 never have money trouble and the only glitches i have come by are some visual where things disappear 
 and reappear but nothing that affects gameplay in a negative way a definite must buy for fps fans 
 or people who like a challenge or some who enjoy really getting into games i even find myself having 
 fun just sitting by the fire with other s. t. a. l. k. e. r. s at the camp around the world but i give 
 this game a 9.5/10 for great gameplay and immersion but some difficult parts and minor glitches 
 but over all this is a great game and something you should at least give one run 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobrac_Carbon
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  STALKER is all about atmosphere... from the rain to the Radiation in random places.. it makes for 
 a different gameing experience then other games.. and how even those little things can change the 
 game drastically.
  
  Graphics...
  From out of the box the game dosent look that good. but i heard with a few new patches the game 
 look much much better, i haven't gotten around to getting it yet, but it still looks good.
  
  9
  
  Gameplay..
  the game play is good but some of the thing really annoyed me, like 
 i know there shouldnt be any cars.. buy that would make traveling alot easier than walking, also 
 some times the gunplay feel awkward.. like your not even hitting your target yet you unloaded a 
 whole clip in them.. but overall the gameplay is good
  
  9
  
  Story
  just buy the game i really don't feel like going through it but still
  
  9
  
  controls
 
  Juggleing things around felt a little weird because you had to use L for flashlight... that was 
 VERY annoying esp time when i needed it in dark areas in the labs, but the controls are solid and 
 fluid there great.
  
  9
  
  overall a great game, everyone should pick it up and have fun, get the ABC inferno mod or some 
 other ones when you finish the game.. it offers more replayablitiy
  
  Presentation:10/10
  Graphic:10/10
  Gameplay:10/10
  Sounds:10/10
  Value:10/10
  
  Overall:10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NecroCroco
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Unbelievably thrilling, satisfying shooting, some really great missions, huge, unique 
 world to explore, some nice guns to shoot with, the atmosphere is awesome.
  
  The Bad: Lots of bugs even after patching, some missions are downright frustrating, the map is 
 sometimes confusing.
  
  
  
  As I started playing this game, I realized it's potential immediately. Boy, all this locations 
 to explore! And the enemies will give you quite a good fight. The AI is impressive at times. They 
 try to flank you, duck down from incoming bullets. Things like that. But this is where one of it's 
 problems start. The difficulty level truly isn't for softies. You'll realize what I mean especially 
 when things get "hectical". Sometimes you'll get a lethal blow, as you desperately try to take 
 a look on the map, or trying to pick things from your inventory during firefights. - Because everything 
 is in realtime. Means that the game won't stop as you check the map. Missions like the "Yantar 
 PSI Emitter" or the "Red Forest Brain Melter" will cause you a lot of trouble. This missions may 
 even discourage many players, as they are a little too tough. However, don't let things like that 
 drive you away from this amazing experience. Now for the bugs... Streaming bugs are the most common 
 problem. How many times did you run into an empty room, which is seconds later, filled with foes 
 that exterminate you?! This really got on my nerves.
  
  With a little more polishing, STALKER - Shadow of Chernobyl could've been called perfect. But it 
 remains a gaming gem.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strigidae
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  It was that time, that all gamers hate, for me. You finished all the ill games you have, and therefore 
 must resort to goint through garbage, with no promise of finding a paper or glass bottle that can 
 be re-cycled. And after hours of tireless sifting through the trash I found S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow 
 of Chernobyl.
  
  At first, I was like argh... not another 1st person shooter, but since I didn't have anything better 
 to do... I gave it a chance. In no time I was finished, both endings (or atleast as many I know) 
 and was left thinking... Wow.
  
  I wish there were more cutscenes though, since I'm more into cinematics and stuff, and I enjoyed 
 the eery... barren sometimes quiet wastelands I got to explore. One can actually feel the intesity... 
 kind of made me understand the saying defening silence. This comes in most handy to create a suprise 
 when one of the mutated, vermins come attacking you.
  
  I loved the weapons one gets to wield, with the option to mount scopes and grenade launchers as 
 you progress. I only wish you could repair the weapons as they deteriorated or atleast take them 
 to a specialist. I tend to get attached to items that assist me in the game... I know, I know, 
 kind of wierd but I really did enjoy this game. Even when I didn't wield a Desert Eagle, which 
 I couldn't find no matter how hard I looked.
  
  Finally I hated the fact that the best shotguns, rifles, handguns and other weapons can only be 
 wielded towards the very end of the game. I also wish the game provided one with the ability to 
 switch to 3rd person viewing. All in all... a good game that got me interested in 1st person shooters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  There's something to be said for games that decide to take that hard route when it comes to gaining 
 an audience. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl is a game that raised a lot of expectations with 
 its ambitious design but annoyed the hell out of many people with its constant delays. As if that 
 weren't enough, multiple technical issues marred the game at launch despite its long development 
 time. A steep learning curve, unintuitive interface, and occasionally unforgiving gameplay should 
 have been the last straw, yet someway S. T. A. L. K. E. R. manages to overcome all those obstacles to 
 deliver a truly unique experience that stands out from the crowded shooter genre as a modern classic.
 
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. takes place in Chernobyl, Ukraine, the site of one of the biggest nuclear tragedies 
 in history. Whereas in real life, 1986 saw a nuclear plant in Chernobyl explode and irradiate all 
 of its radius with deadly radiation, in S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s fiction a second explosion took place 
 in 2006, bringing life to "the Zone", the post-apocalyptic area that's home to lethal doses of 
 radiation as well as mutants, rare artifacts, and scavengers trying to make a living in the area.
 
  
  One thing that needs to be said about S. T. A. L. K. E. R is that this isn't your conventional run and 
 gun FPS. For starters it's more of a hybrid between FPS and RPG, seeing how you'll receive quests 
 from different people and will be free to carry them out whenever you see fit. How successful you 
 are at completing such quests as well as how you handle yourself while doing them will all affect 
 your reputation in the game. You'll also have to handle an inventory of all the items you pick 
 up throughout the game. Amongst those items will be your weapons, the ammo for those weapons (there 
 are multiple types of ammo for different weapons) , rare artifacts that grant special attributes, 
 health items, body suits and armor, and food. Each item has a specific weight and it all adds up 
 to the combined weight you're carrying. You can only carry 50 lbs before you start moving cumbersomely, 
 and if your backpack reaches 60 lbs you won't be able to move at all.
  
  Though the game is completely open ended, there is a main story to follow that starts with you 
 being rescued from a truck carrying dead bodies. The people who rescue realize you're no ordinary 
 man and label you the "Marked One". Unfortunately you're also suffering from amnesia so you have 
 no clue about who you really are, but one thing you do notice is a mysterious entry in your quest 
 lists that calls for you to "kill Strelok". Who is Strelok? Nobody seems to know for sure, but 
 a lot of people do attempt to help you find information about him, particularly three contacts 
 that also serve as dealers from whom you can buy items.
  
  As you embark on your main quest, you'll come across dozens of other scavengers who are trying 
 to make a living in the area and will likely be in need of some help. As you engage in conversation 
 with them they're likely to offer you a job, offering either a monetary reward or a special item 
 (weapons, artifacts, suits, etc.) . There are literally dozens of quests to embark on and while 
 not all of them are worth the effort, you'll definitely want to take at least a few quests here 
 and there to enrich your pockets.
  
  Speaking of money, you'll want to make good use of what you earn. Though there's always the chance 
 to take on quests to make more money, there are times when you can run out of ammo or armor at 
 critical times and some spare cash and a quick visit to the local dealers could save you from a 
 lot frustration. Said dealers will carry out most of the ammo you need as well as different types 
 of armor, as well as food and health items. You can also sell some of your spare items to try to 
 recoup some cash, but dealers will always pay a lot less than what you have to pay them.
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. goes for a very realistic approach when it comes to the combat. Though the game 
 offers four levels of difficulty, you'll find that running and gunning is never a viable strategy. 
 It only takes a few well placed enemy bullets to take you down, though it also works the other 
 way around so if you're efficient with your guns and take proper cover, you'll find that even the 
 toughest battles are perfectly doable. It should be noted that the the two higher difficulty levels 
 are particularly unforgivable when it comes to the amount of damage you can take. I consider myself 
 an FPS veteran (at least when it comes to single player) and I was forced to drop the difficulty 
 to the lowest levels in order to avoid entering reload hell.
  
  Between inventory management, realistic combat, and getting acquainted with all the nuances of 
 the game, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. can be a very daunting experience for novice players. But a bigger barrier 
 of entry can be found in the multiple technical issues that marred the game at launch. Thankfully 
 for those who haven't played the game yet, most of those issues have been solved through multiple 
 patches but be warned: do not start playing the game until you've applied all the patches. Why 
 the stern warning? Because older saved games aren't compatible with the newer patches, so if you've 
 spent hours playing the game before applying the patches you'll be faced with the nasty prospect 
 of starting the game from scratch.
  
  Depending on how many side quests you take and how much time you spend exploring the zone, you 
 could spend dozens of hours immersed in S. T. A. L. K. E. R., though even the main quest itself isn't 
 short at all clocking between 10 to 12 hours. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. also offers multiple endings to your 
 quest, several of them not particularly positive ones. This is one of the few games that isn't 
 afraid to wrap up the story with a not so happy ending, though the ending you get will depend on 
 how you conduct yourself through the game. Without spoiling anything, there are two places where 
 you can end the game, both of them offering multiple endings. I recommend you save before approaching 
 both of this ominous areas so you can try to get as many of the endings as possible.
  
  The presentation in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is obviously a bit dated, but while the engine may not be cutting 
 edge, it's still very impressive, particularly at rendering huge open areas. There's also a great 
 amount of detail in every aspect of the environments, indoors our outdoors, and the art direction 
 behind the Zone is amazing. The sound is also phenomenally handled. Guns sound eerily realistic, 
 animals and mutants sound menacing, and environment sounds are perfect. The voice acting might 
 be a bit rough, given that most of the actors bear some heavy accents, but they still do a great 
 job. There's not a lot of music played in the Zone, aside from some scavengers playing guitar or 
 the music played in the bar, but even that music has a certain charm that makes it very appealing. 
 You'll find it easy to forgive any technical limitations given how meticulously crafted the gameworld 
 is overall.
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a truly unique game that succeeds on so many levels in spite of many obstacles 
 (most of them placed by the game itself) . Quirks aside, there's just too much to like and be impressed 
 by in S. T. A. L. K. E. R., regardless of how experienced you are with action games. This truly is a 
 modern classic that shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IxEmoKidIx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Well, good hunting Stalker...
  
  The beginning of the game isn't SO good, but after like 30 minutes, it's get better, the history 
 from the beginning is a little weird, but you get used to it after a little while.
  
  When you have started the game, you see a movie, you're in a truck and a thunderbolt dives down 
 to the truck, and the truck is crashing. Then, a early morning some Stalker come's running, and 
 see one of 'em , alive.
  
  The alive one is you, The Marked One is you're name.
  You start to do some quests for the trader, and soon you will be do more and more dangerous quests 
 and get better armors and weapons and stuff.
  You have to eat sometimes, and watch out for Anomalies, I can't explain in english what it is, 
 but buy the game and you will see. 
  It's plenty of weapons, I've heard it's around 30 weapons.
  
  And here is a site you can get 
 help to do quests, what Anomalies is, all weapons, armors, mutants and so on. But me, myself have 
 just looked what type of armors it is in the game and weapons. I've not used any "quest-help" -- 
  http://stalker. heroesradio. com/Items_Armor. php.
  
  The atmosphere is amazing. Just walks in the road, and suddenly a mutant come's and you have to 
 shot it. But watch out for bloodsuckers, they're a bit dangerous.
  
  Sound : 10/10 - I love the weapon sounds, and the russian language, the music they play and so 
 on.
  Graphics: 8/10 - Good for me, but you can get a mod so it looks much better, tho I have not got 
 that one.
  Gameplay : 10/10 - I love the big world and everything you can do, and it's plenty of quests.
 
  
  I just love it. And you can get some fine mods. Like The Weather Overhaul mod, do the night much 
 more darker, in the original S. T. A. L. K. E. R it isn't so dark, but with that one, you better have 
 the flashlight on and be attentive of mutants/bandits and so on.
  
  The only thing I don't like about the game is the weight. You can only have 50.0 KG on yourself, 
 and that isn't much. But it's a mod so you can have 500 KG / 2000 KG, but I don't use it, it get's 
 to easy.
  
  It's another mod, the Trader Mod and the Repair Mod. The Trader Mod do so you can get almost all 
 the weapons/armors/ammo from some traders, I use it, because with out it, it takes a long time 
 to find a really good weapon for different levels.
  Same with the armor. Repair - Mod do so you can repair you're armor/weapon at the trader, so you 
 don't have to buy a new one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This game to me feels very broken it seemed so interesting and I love open world environments yet 
 this game feels way too incomplete and clunky to be good
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The game is basically an open world real time FPS RPG (wow that sounds complicated) it takes place 
 in Chernobyl and you are a S. T. A. L. K. E. R which is basically a scavenger and you explore all of 
 Chernobyl and do random missions and fight random soldiers, bandits and creatures the good thing 
 is that like I said before it is a HUGE open world so there is random creatures and encounters 
 that aren't scripted yet at the same time the enemies are wayy to powerful they take allot of hits 
 and can kill you in a matter of seconds also you have a very clunky interface system it's basically 
 your contents of your backpack and a PDA and when u want to change weapons quickly the scroll button 
 won't work and you need to go in ur backpack and it seems wayy to slow during a fire fight and 
 the PDA tells ur missions and gives you directions but once again if by chance u pull your PDA 
 out and a random bandit or dog or solider finds you, you will be shot to hell and the save system 
 sucks you have to always quick save because there are no checkpoints so when you die its back to 
 whatever you saved and if you didn't save you have allot of walking to do 
  
  also the FPS element of the game is very very poor the guns in the game do occasionally jam up 
 on you the problem is though at probably the most incovient times its not like maybe you are full 
 health and fighting a pack of wild dogs that u can out maneuver NO instead it will jam when you 
 have no health and fighting soldiers or bandits the jump button is useless and overall the enemies 
 have better accuracy then you do with the same damn guns!!
  
  Also since it is a RPG you interact with people and you have a certain status (like everyone) and 
 it starts with loner and you make your way up by helping people and typical RPG stuff the problem 
 is the people you interact with have very little to say or add to the story you can say whats up? 
 and they will say very little and that's it there is an option to trade stuff with them though 
 (either money or their items) 
  
  SOUND:
  
  The sound of the game is good the enemies sound cool the guns sound alright the monsters have a 
 decent sound to them the music is good but probably the best is when you are in a underground facility 
 or basement it will creep you out you will get paranoid that you heard something that's not there 
 so in the sound department I can't complain
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The graphics are decent the monsters are creative they could be a bit better but at the same time 
 the area is HUGE there is a Sh*t load of stuff to explore there is some minor load times but overall 
 great if you just want to explore 
  
  
  Now I will give the Pro's and Con's of the game
  
  
  PRO'S
  
  the freedom is great, random 
 encounters have tense or scary moments, the story is decent, A. I. isn't that bad, scary spots when 
 underground, creative weapons, 
  
  
  CON'S
  
  clunky interface, too many keyboard options, scroll button sometimes won't work, clunky FPS controls, 
 weapons don't jam randomly just when you need them the most, character after running too much actually 
 can't walk but just sit there and wait for a meter to fill, too many radiation spots that are instant 
 kill, no check points forces you to save too much and if you don't it will take u all the way back 
 at the beginning of the level (btw not mission but the last loaded section of map) the trade option 
 under characters is pretty much useless, money is pretty much useless
  
  Conclusion:
  
  overall I have to say I am disappointed the game was wayy to clunky to enjoy and felt too incomplete 
 (with the patch) and it was too tough to enjoy and it was tough because of the interface and controls 
 so I wouldn't recommend it 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorvos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  When you hear the word Chernobyl, you automatically think of the powerful nuclear disaster that 
 happened in Ukraine in 1986. Many people expected to see horrible mutants, enraged animals and 
 the beginning of the Apocalypse. Fortunately, that didn't happen. In S. T. A. L. K. E. R Shadow of Chernobyl 
 however, there's a whole different story. In the game, the original disaster is not necessarily 
 the main event that lead to the horrific mutations, but something much worse. A fatal human mistake, 
 that unleashed hell into a peaceful place, creating The Zone. A man made hell!
  
  The game begins revealing a truck making its way through the night. Apparently, the driver transports 
 dead bodies. The truck is then struck by lightning and crushes. The next day, what appears to be 
 a bounty hunter searches the place of the accident and finds out that one guy survived ( that's 
 the main character, obviously ) . He then takes him to a local "business man", who is willing to 
 pay a nice sum for the guy. But then the character awakes and reveals a tattoo on his right arm: 
 S. T. A. L. K. E. R. You are then introduced to the game. So you are now referred to as Marked One because 
 of your tattoo and you have no idea who you are. Your PDA reveals your main objective throughout 
 the whole game: find and kill Strelok. Later on, you'll receive new tasks that will answer some 
 of your questions and make you ask yourself new ones. But probably the most outstanding part of 
 the story is when you find out that you are Strelok. So you were assigned to kill yourself... It 
 can't get more mysterious than that! In the end of the game, you'll find out incredible things 
 about yourself and the mistake that lead to the birth of The Zone. The game's story is amazingly 
 good, leaving you to tie up most of its parts. Although the end will leave you even more buzzed 
 than the beginning, there is absolutely no doubt that this is one of the best stories in the history 
 of gaming.
  
  The Zone is the result of the Chernobyl disaster and the mistake made by a group of scientists 
 willing to eradicate human anger and hate. An admirable project gone terribly wrong. A natural 
 and peaceful place is now turned into an inhospitable and extremely dangerous territory, that takes 
 the lives of many. The radiation has left its mark on everything and everyone. The natural wildlife 
 has evolved into grotesque beasts, with boosted power, energy and aggression. There are also horrible 
 human like mutants, with incredible abilities and a very powerful taste for meat.
  Other bad consequences of the radiation are the so called anomalies. They are lethal energetic 
 disorders with natural origins, such as: wind, electricity, fire and so on. They appear at random 
 and always have bad effects, including death. 
  Perhaps the only good thing that resulted from radiation are the artifacts. They are a combination 
 of natural components, combining into something that is just not normal. The artifacts have different 
 effects on the human body, most of them being vital for survival in The Zone. Still, all that comes 
 with a price. While enhancing some abilities, it will lower others, many of the artifacts being 
 dangerous for long usage. Artifacts are the result of anomalies, most of the reducing the effects 
 of the anomaly that created them.
  Although The Zone was supposed to be inaccessible for people, human nature prevailed. Many came 
 to get artifacts and make money with them. The military was assigned to guard The Zone and keep 
 it sealed. However, the true guardians of The Zone are Stalkers. They are the ones who protect 
 the rest of the world from The Zone. They divide in two main factions: Duty and Freedom. There 
 are also loners, just like the protagonist, Strelok.
  As a Stalker, your job is to maintain order in The Zone, keep it clear of bandits and prevent any 
 interference with the rest of the world.
  
  The main course of the game shouldn't take more than 10 hours to complete, but this game is very 
 open to explorations and optional missions. So most likely, you'll find yourself doing optional 
 quests too, not only because they are interesting, but you will also get cool stuff as a reward.
 
  Another consequence of the open minded gameplay are the different endings you can get. There are 
 7 of them, but only two are considered to be "true" endings. The ending you get depends on your 
 reputation and some of them require specific quests to be done in order to get them. Nevertheless, 
 all of them are very interesting.
  
  
  In order to survive in this God forsaken place, a Stalker must rely on powerful weapons and excellent 
 armor. So the game has a very wide arsenal of weapons to show, such as pistols, shotguns, assault 
 rifles, snipers, grenades, RPGs and so on. The weapons are all real life models, but many of them 
 have been given different names. Anyway, they are all very well designed and have a status meter 
 for accuracy, damage, handling and rate of fire. Choose the weapons you like, but pay attention 
 to the status meter as well.
  Armor is imperative for survival in The Zone. Since there are different types of armor, you might 
 want to choose the right one for appropriate situations. For instance, you might choose a military 
 type vest for heavy encounters or a scientific suit for hazardous trips.
  Medkits and bandages are also available to heal yourself and you must also eat regularly. Stuff 
 like Vodka, energy drinks and anti radiation drugs are very useful as well.
  Like I said, artifacts are very important and many of them are a must if you want to accomplish 
 your objectives. Their effects may vary from endurance and life boost to increased protection from 
 bullets or anomaly effects. 
  All of this weapons and items are kept in your inventory and you can't carry a tonne of stuff. 
 When you are to heavily loaded, you won't be able to move. This RPG like inventory is definitely 
 a very interesting thing, considering the fact that this game is a FPS.
  
  The graphics of the game are virtually astonishing, with tonnes of real life effects. The enemies, 
 weapons and the whole world are very well designed. So you'll need a sharp system to run this game 
 at top details. But it is definitely worth it. The sound and atmosphere are also incredibly well 
 done, with appropriate music for every action you make. Also, the dark corners of the underground 
 labs and bone chilling mutant sounds, makes this game very scary on many occasions. 
  
  The AI is a very important part of the game because it is remarkably well put together. Enemies 
 will take quite intelligent decisions while in a shooting sequence. Some of them can be a real 
 challenge. Also, the animals and mutants are incredibly life-like, showing natural habits and acting 
 like a normal animal should. A very nice touch is seeing a wolf dragging its prey. It's really 
 priceless!
  
  A minor drawback may be the bugs, although they are not extremely frequent. Still, that's not enough 
 to drag this game down.
  
  So in the end, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl is an astonishing game, with amazing graphics 
 and atmosphere, very well designed world with real-life characteristics and one of the best stories 
 in the history of video games. All things considered, this game is absolutely superb and should 
 be tried by all players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyatkinson
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I would just like to point out that the reviewer of this game is being an idiot. he blames this 
 game for not working well with Windows Vista. I would welcome some feedback from him as a result 
 of my "review".
  I just want to make a point about this.
  1- This game was made before Vista was even around.
  2- blaming this game for not playing well 
 with Vista is about the most idiotic thing I have ever seen on Gamespot.
  How can you even pretend to blame THQ that this game does not play well.
  Look it is a known 
 fact that Windows Vista has horrible compatibility with all kinds of software.
  There are very few of the older games that will work on vista not to mention all kinds of regular 
 software that simply will not run in Vista. I personally feel that Vista is the new Windows Millennium. 
 Both OS's should have never have shipped until they had a lot more work done on them. I personally 
 will not stop using windows XP until MS comes out with something better. Vista is definitely not 
 it. I purchased a laptop a while back that came preloaded with Vista Home Premium.
  I could not be happier. I love my laptop.
  It is running like a champ and it is just plain awesome.
 
  Guess what. It is running Windows XP. My laptop is pretty powerful but with the PRE INSTALLED 
 VISTA MY LAPTOP WAS A FREAKING NIGHTMARE. I looked up the windows XP drivers on the web and loaded 
 up XP and now everything works great. I really hope that Microsoft learns a lesson with Vista but 
 I really doubt it.
  MS hit a sweet spot with XP. I just hope that somewhere they can repeat that awesomeness.
  Anyway 
 that is my two cents worth.
  I am going to purchase this game.
  I will come back and actually write a real review.
  Thanks for letting me rant.
  Peace...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Developed by GSC Game World and published by THQ, S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl (2007) is 
 a Sci-Fi First Person Shooter that combines elements from both the Survival Horror and RPG genres. 
 As the name suggests, you play this game as a stalker, exploring the rich and dangerous Exclusion 
 Zone, which became an important spot after the fictional second nuclear disaster, related in Shadow 
 of Chernobyl as it had happened back in 2006.
  
  First of all, this game doesn't have too much in common with Andrei Tarkovsky's Stalker (1979) , 
 a great movie that uses another Zone concept which appeared after a possible alien spaceship landing 
 or a meteor strike. It's also loosely based on a book, Roadside Picnic, published in 1972 which 
 also relates about Zones, but naturally nothing like the real Exclusion Zone that appeared after 
 the Chernobyl nuclear disaster, since it happened back in 1986.
  
  So, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. uses the real and horrible first disaster to explain how the second one happened 
 in the game: trying to repopulate the Zone mainly with soldiers and scientists, something was done 
 erroneously (as always!) and another nuclear disaster occurred. The irradiation killed most of 
 the inhabitants, while the remaining survivors (including animals) were mutated to horrendous and 
 hostile creatures. But the irradiation didn't bring only tragedy, since the Zone became potentially 
 rich with the anomalies. It's said that the artifacts present in there may be used to cure incurable 
 diseases, as well develop incredible powers and technologies for the humanity. 
  
  The Exclusion Zone turned into an important spot for everyone that want to become wealthy, but 
 it's also a great risk due its dangers, not to mention that the groups exploring it started to 
 fight one against another in order to assure their own interests. As a stalker, you're able to 
 do everything you want to become rich or discover the secrets of the Zone. You may join to one 
 of the two available major factions, or explore the Zone by yourself and retain the glory alone.
 
  
  By featuring all this autonomy with the gameplay, you may think that Shadow of Chernobyl is a very 
 open-ended and non-linear game. However, in truth, most of your actions have little impact later 
 on, but indeed you can explore the areas without a particular order. For instance, the two main 
 factions, Freedom and Duty, are in a struggle to decide the fate of the Zone, and you may choose 
 to work for one of them or simply ignore their interests. The missions you get by joining to a 
 faction are completely optional, and even if their purposes touch a relevant subject about the 
 Zone's destiny, your objectives are mainly restricted to destroy the opposite group.
  
  The story is a bit confusing, especially when it comes in the form of cinematics. The main problem 
 isn't to understand what's going on in context; it's about your controlled character. The only 
 thing you know from the beginning is that you suffered an accident with your truck, which made 
 you go amnesia, and then you woke up with a fat guy talking **** after you've been rescued by a 
 stalker. Due to the lost of your identity, the fat guy names you as the ''Marked One''. In your 
 PDA, you already have a current objective pending, which tells you to kill Strelok, and again you 
 don't have a damn clue about it either.
  
  Although S. T. A. L. K. E. R. has a deep story, commonly seen in RPG games, it doesn't use too much the 
 peculiarities from that genre. Sure you have a lot of dialogues, inventory management, trade system 
 and even food, but there is no character development like in Deus Ex or Fallout. On the other hand, 
 Shadow of Chernobyl is more action-focused, which is certainly the most rewarding aspect of this 
 game. The firefights are really impressive, and the ballistics makes the combats very close to 
 the reality. Basically your main strategy is to find cover and fire in small bursts, which is probably 
 what everyone would do in the real life while trading shots against an armed opponent.
  
  Talking about the combats, your enemies are mostly humans from the different factions present in 
 the Exclusion Zone. But certainly you'll find some mutants creeping around, from deformed animals 
 to dangerous humanoids. Different from the intelligent human opponents, most of these monsters 
 behave like wild beasts that (normally) only attacks someone if they're threatened. I don't want 
 to spoiler here, so I'll only say that there are some mutants really frightening in the Zone, and 
 this is where the Survival Horror theme takes the scene in S. T. A. L. K. E. R.
  
  If all those elements weren't enough already to build the great atmosphere in this game, GSC Game 
 World worked hard to reproduce how the real Exclusion Zone looks like. They used many licensed 
 photos and videos, made by scientists during expeditions to Chernobyl, to build this independent 
 world where the game is set. It's really an impressive work, and the environment effectively gives 
 a depressing feel, which makes sense considering the desolated area you're exploring. Everything 
 looks dead and dark, thus stormy rains and cycle between day and night also helps a lot. These 
 fantastic environment aspects are rendered with the awesome X-Ray engine, which is powerful enough 
 to make the game looks very convincing. The sound effects also do their job quite well. 
  
  To survive in this unsafe place, you must have contacts with other stalkers. The dialogues are 
 very straight and only matters when you're talking to an important NPC. If you decide to speak 
 with a guard or a common stalker, they'll probably keep telling you the same thing over and over 
 again. Is some cases, these irrelevant people may give you side quests, which are all very generic 
 and the reward doesn't help too much. On the other hand, the significant NPCs give you the main 
 objectives, as well a sequence of secondary ones that are highly rewarding, definitely worth of 
 your time.
  
  As I already said, in Shadow of Chernobyl you'll have an inventory system. From there you access 
 the slots for your kevlar, belt, backpack, pistols and main weapons. Your character can use a variety 
 of armors, which gives additional protection against the different types of damages. The belt is 
 used to hold the numerous artifacts you may find throughout the Zone; they're used to give a helpful 
 benefit, but usually in trade of a negative consequence. For example, an artifact may grant you 
 radioactive protection, but will increase the bleeding effect when you're hit. Your backpack can 
 hold a lot of different items, although it has a limit of how much weight you can carry. You'll 
 probably want to maintain it light to slow down the stamina drain, therefore grating the essential 
 mobility needed to travel between large areas and during the combats as well. You may also even 
 consume an energetic drink in order to run long distances. If those little things weren't enough, 
 the stalker also needs to eat periodically and take care to not become irradiated, since there're 
 some hazardous areas that may infect you. If that happens, you'll die slowly but surely until you 
 use an anti-rad drug or drink some vodka (which makes you go dizzy for a while) .
  
  Now to the fun part: your weapons are all very useful all over the game, depending of the occasion, 
 of course. Since the difficulty flow progresses exactly in the way you expect from any video game, 
 your enemies are very weak and light-armored at the init, but become tougher over time. This means 
 that you'll use pistols and shotguns early on, but you'll probably want to upgrade to assault rifles 
 later on. Plus, it's almost impossible to keep using the same weapon for much time, because its 
 condition goes down as time passes, and there is no way to repair them. But before you think this 
 sucks, know that eventually you'll have to change your arsenal no matter what, considering the 
 type of bullet your current weapon uses isn't the same you get after looting the corpses in a particular 
 region. Also it isn't so difficult to find the same weapon as yours in a better condition, either 
 from dead opponents or traders.
  
  Another important factor when equipping your stalker is to consider the armor he will use. The 
 rule "more expensive, the better" applies in most situations, although there're a few rare exceptions. 
 In the Zone, there're the so called anomalies, which works pretty much like traps. For instance, 
 some kevlars may give you an exceptional protection against bullets, but are deficient against 
 those anomalies. Since these things aren't easily spotted (yet your sensor warns you when you're 
 too close to one of them) , you may want to consider the defensive capabilities of your current 
 body armor. And, much more than your weapons, you'll want to preserve it in good conditions, otherwise 
 your stalker may die just with a few shots. So, the player must always avoid been hit in order 
 to delay at maximum the armor exchanges, especially because they're quite expensive at traders.
 
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. isn't that kind of game which you'll stop playing after it's finished. There're 
 seven possible finals (some say there is even more) and four difficult levels. I got four different 
 endings, yet I finished the game only two times, considering it's possible to use the same saved 
 game to get multiple finals. The first time I played was on the regular difficult setting, and 
 the second one was on the hardest level. I had a very rewarding experience by doing so, since Shadow 
 of Chernobyl is very well-balanced and easy to get into.
  
  GSC Game World was wise enough not to forget a multiplayer option, which you'll probably want to 
 try after finishing the game a few times. There're 10 maps for the three available modes, all for 
 competitive matches: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch and Artifact Hunt. The last is a variation for 
 Capture the Flag, where teams must search for the artifact throughout the map and bring it back 
 to their base. As you can see, the multiplayer support is very basic, but there are some little 
 things that add a particular charm to it: players are ranked considering their scores; day and 
 night cycle may substantially change the gameplay; irradiation does not allow camping for too long; 
 and weapons upgrades (scope for assault rifles, for example) .
  
  To finish, consider that I reviewed S. T. A. L. K. E. R. v1.0006, which is the game updated to the last 
 available version so far. This makes a big difference, since the original version is relativity 
 more buggy and unstable than this one. You still get a few minor problems even with the patched 
 game, and that's the only reason I didn't rate this one a solid 10 out of 10. Oh, let's not forget 
 the fact GSC Game World decided not to put a single woman character in the Zone (really a shame) . 
 =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cathad
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  SO WHAT CAN I SAY.... THE FIRST TIME I PLAYED THE GAME.... I DID NOT LIKE IT.... BUT AFTER A YEAR 
 I STARTED PLAYING AGAIN.... SO I GOT SO ADDICTED THAT I'VE PLAYED ALL DAY LONG UNTIL THE END... AND 
 ALSO RESTARTED THE GAME 5-10 TIMES ... SO THAT I COULD DO ALL THE QUESTS.... THE GAME RULES .... AND 
 TO BE MORE SPECIFIC .... THE FIRST THOUGHT THAT CAME INTO MIND... WAS.... FALLOUT 2 FPS... WHY... DON'T 
 KNOW BUT I GOT THE SAME IDEA FROM STALKER ... EXCEPT THAT THERE ISN'T ANY CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT 
 AND U DON'T HAVE ATTRIBUTES.... I RECOMMEND THE GAME .... CAN'T HARDLY WAIT TO FINISH STALKER CLEAR 
 SKY.... WHICH IS ANOTHER GREAT GAME...
  AND TO CONCLUDE THE REVIEW... WE ARE IN NEED OF BRAVE STALKERS TO TAKE ON WELL PAYED, HARD JOBS... MEET 
 US ON THE STALKER SHADOWS OF CHERNOBYL OF ON STALKER CLEAR SKY... IF U THINK U CAN NOT COMPLY GO 
 DIE IN THE ZONE.... MAY THE RADIATION PURIFY YOUR BRAIN AND TURN YOU INTO A ZOMBIE STALKER!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pk86
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  To be honest I don't know why people is so amazed by this game. I managed to finish it and got 
 really unsatisfied. The ambient is a great idea for a FPS but the game turns to be a little "empty". 
 Don't misunderstand me, I admit that it has a really big world to explore; but it's just that is 
 not really fun.
  The graphics are very dissapointing considering the other games of its era. There is something 
 about the aiming system that it makes you feel like you are an old man and all your articulations 
 need some oil 'cause of the rusty xD.
  The way the radiation is represented I think is a little exagerated. I mean, you are walking around 
 there and because you are expossed to a little radiation, you get shocked! It's supposed to be 
 a progressive effect :P
  The plot is really interesting and original and I think that it saves the game from being a total 
 letdown. Anyway, it's my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPLICEHOLE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  After several months of starting and stopping game play, I have finally finished S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 Shadow of Chernobyl. It had all the workings to be a great game, but bugs, unplayable quests, and 
 confusing story line made it hard to just keep playing from start to finish. Don't get me wrong, 
 the game was enjoyable, but at times you feel like you spend more time managing your inventory 
 and running back and forth to traders or to your storage bins then you do fighting.
  I especially disliked the several quests that were bugged and you would spend hours fighting your 
 way to find an object or NPC just to find that it is not there. Many times one also feels like 
 there is no clear direction as to what you're supposed to do next to progress in the game. And 
 the hunt for upgrades of weapons and armor is just plain hit and misses with little clear objective 
 many times. 
  And, there are three ends to the game. To get to the best ending (one that doesn't just end with 
 you scratching your head and saying "uh?") you must have completed a quest earlier in the game. 
 If you choose not to spend all the time running around to find a certain NPC, then you do not get 
 the extended game play and best ending.
  The best part of the entire game comes at the near end. The timed run through the city and then 
 into and out of Chernobyl was visually stunning and just plain fun and challenging.
  Overall, this game could have been so much more with a bit more polish. The graphics are great 
 in some spots, lacking in other. It's worth the play, but you will get frustrated and put it down 
 a few times before you finally finish it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is an ambitious project that aims at immersing the player into the atmosphere of 
 the Chernobyl Zone of Alienation (with some sci-fi and supernatural elements thrown in) and mostly 
 succeeds. You get to explore a vast and darkly beautiful area with the ultimate goal of learning 
 your true identity and getting to the bottom of the mystery that is the Zone. The graphics are 
 quite adequate, and the change of day and night, as well as various weather and anomaly effects, 
 add to the realism, but the game will stutter even on a fast computer. Gameplay-wise, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 is a shooter with some RPG elements. You get to interact with various characters, and your actions 
 may turn them hostile or friendly (not that those "friends" are any use in most cases) . The dialogues 
 serve little other purpose than to supply you with new quests and useful information (no roleplaying 
 there) . A few times you get to have NPCs as comrades-at-arms, but mostly they just aimlessly wander 
 about or sit around campfires telling flat jokes. On the plus side, you can kill pretty much any 
 of them. As for the quests, most of them fall into either the FedEx or assassination category, 
 which is not to say they can't be fun (I particularly enjoyed stealing documents from the military) . 
 The annoying thing is that the person who gives you the quest and the place you need to go to in 
 order to complete it are often on opposite sides of the map, and most quests have a time limit, 
 even when it makes no sense. Besides, they are the buggiest part of the game: you will often get 
 quests out of the blue (sometimes the same ones you've already completed) , "fail" quests you never 
 undertook in the first place, or certain stages of a quest won't be triggered. You shouldn't have 
 any trouble with the main quests, though. As a shooter, the game is pretty decent. There is an 
 impressive selection of guns, although, since you can't carry more than 60 kg (50 kg if you want 
 to be able to run) , you are limited to a couple at most. Enemies (human ones) are rather clever, 
 always taking cover and trying to surround you, but they still fall for the  
 trick. Some monsters, although not as clever, can be annoying, making up for their lack of intelligence 
 with speed, invisibility or psychic powers. This makes for some challenging battles even on easy 
 and moderate difficulty. Combined, S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s positive features outweigh its deficiencies 
 (if not by a wide margin) and make it worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serious_sam1122
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl is an interesting game. When it came out, it was buggy, broken 
 and uncompatible with Vista. There was a lot of controversy surrounding it, from the gameplay to 
 the state it was released. Despite the fact that it took rougly 6 patches to get the game working 
 correctly, it is a unique expierence that any self-respecting PC gamer should take up and enjoy.
 
  
  Honestly, the game starts out really rough. There is no tutorial of such, and whereas it doesn't 
 take too much time to get the basics down, it takes a while until you are fully immersed in the 
 game. STALKER takes place in the areas surrounding Chernobyl, the nuclear powerplant that blew 
 up in the '80's. You play the Marked One, someone who is being transported in a death truck that 
 gets hit by lightning. You survive, and have no memory, only a PDA that says "Kill Strelok." The 
 game starts out fare enough, but you are under armed and have to start the game with a difficult 
 fire fight. After you finish this task, the game opens up, and you are practically free to do what 
 ever you want.
  
  This game is comparable to The Elders Scrolls series. You can talk to anybody who is friendly. 
 You can loot and trade items, and you have a weight limit. This can be an annoyance, but it makes 
 sense that you can't carry everything you find. Thankfully, there is never a time when you run 
 out of ammo or heath packs because just about every corpse is raidable, and you can pick up their 
 old items. The guns are also a bit of a change in a FPS. You have your standard fare of pistols, 
 shotgums, rifles, etc, however, the marked one cannot hit a target 30 yards away with just a pistol. 
 The game makes it so you must really aim, and since every weapon can aim down the sights, you must 
 take your time and line up shots. This is not perfect, however, as there were quite a few times 
 when I could not hit a target no more than 100 feet away with a scope attached to my weapon. It 
 can get frustrating at times.
  
  Because it takes place in the areas surrounding Chernobyl, there is a lot of radiation to deal 
 with. You have radiated areas that will radiate your body until you die or take anti-radiation 
 medicine, and you have anamolous areas. The anamolies are distince areas of radiation that can 
 shock, blow up, suck you in, etc, but they are interesting because they give away artifacts. You 
 do know when there is an anamoly or radiation coming your way, as you have a Geiger counter that 
 will warn you of such areas. The artifacts are the real star here though. There are a large number 
 of artifacts. Some will raise your endurance, some will make you bleed less, some will protect 
 you from radiation, but some can even make you less resistant to some of these. Finding rare ones 
 is a real treat.
  
  Graphically, STALKER is a real treat. Running on a custom engine called the X-Ray engine, the atmosphere 
 is top notch and the graphics are absolutely beautiful. The lighting is fantastic, when everything 
 casting beautiful shadows and the rainy nights casting shadows from the lightning. Some areas are 
 dark and really creepy, with an atmosphere so thick you can almost cut it with a knife. And the 
 great thing is it is very scalable. It is completely compatible with older Direct X 8 cards, but 
 with a strong DX9 machine, you can get the most out of it. And it is very much worth it.
  
  But the graphics lead to another part of the game: the creepiness. This game is very scary at times. 
 Having to search through abandoned labs are very nerve racking. Unfortunately, there isn't a great 
 deal of monsters in this game. One truly scary creature I only ran into once. But both times it 
 scared the hell out of me. The sound also lends to the atmosphere. The guns sound incredible, and 
 the monsters roars really send chills down spines. 
  
  The solid single player is the star of the show, but there is a multiplayer. It was difficult to 
 really play multiplayer, and there is only a few game types to real in. It feels more like Counter 
 Strike with its accurate weapons, but didn't hold me over too long. However, the mod community 
 is really strong, with full conversions, to improved graphics, game tweaks and more. It is almost 
 as strong as The Elders Scrolls series. 
  
  With a bit more polish, this game really could have been GOTY in 2007. The early bugs prevented 
 me from playing until it was stabily patched. The terrible difficulty, especially in the ending 
 of the game, was very difficult to get over. Fortunately, the difficulty can be adjusted at any 
 time. But with flaws aside, there is absolutely no reason not to own this game. The second STALKER 
 is now out, and it being a prequel to the first, it will definetly be one to check out as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narxx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  I played a slightly modded version of the original and was very impressed. A really open and immersive 
 environment with some scary and atmospheric moments, make this a thoroughly enjoyable game (if 
 you like that sort of thing ;) Multiple ending do drag the game out a bit if you are like me that 
 has to explore each and everyone of them but that said the soryline is good.
  
  There are quite a few bugs and annoyances in the vanilla version but there's a mod for everything 
 if you are keen. The only thing I would say is that the sarcastic labelling of this game as "WALKER" 
 does have it's merit!
  
  I liked the game so much that when I'd finally completed it I played through again using the Oblivion 
 Lost mod. I would highly recommend first time players install this mod as it makes the game what 
 it should have been. Plus you have access to vehicles which makes getting around much quicker. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtsfreak125
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is just amazing! Now all the bugs have basically been fixed, except the arena bug, but 
 otherwise this is a great game with over 20 hours of game play! The game is a tad bit difficult, 
 but is well worth the work with different ways to play the game for different endings. The different 
 equipment and enemies in the game are pretty diverse, and the environment is beautiful. This is 
 basically an Oblivion with guns and a dreary environment. You will find yourself jumping our of 
 your seat at times, and amazed at the wildlife's AI in the game. The sounds in this game are just 
 a bonus, the sounds can either make or break a game, and the sound in this game just blows the 
 game into a new category of amazing!! So if you enjoy guns, RPGs, and beautiful environment, with 
 over 20 hours of game play and a big fun challenge, this game is for you. This is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danigozne
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  first off, I have to say that I kinda enjojed this game, but to be honest, I hate it at a higher 
 level.
  
  It's extremely buggy. Some missions are impossible to finish, because a character disappears, or 
 simply are there when you have already finished them, which is supremely frustrating.
  
  also, it's a game diablo-style, with a role style that I like, but that needs to be tested to be 
 satisfying. ?? who in earth decided that you had to walk 5 miles from the top to the botton of the 
 map 2 times to kill 1 guy with a headshot? ?they never heard about portals? and SPOILER NOW at 
 he end of the game THERE'S ONE!!!!! really disturbing... ?was this game ever tested AT ALL?
  
  Very good graphics, that doesn't help to improve the game.
  
  a really disapointing game, 
 that makes you think that one day russians will be able to do good games. But that day is not today. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  As the new installment of this game is out once again I decided to go trough it to refresh my memory 
 and prepare myself for Clear sky. 
  I have to say that although this game is for mouse and keyboard I mapped some of the controls to 
 a game-pad, and played trough it making the game that much harder but to me more fun. 
  So this is what the past few days were like...
  You start of without anything but a knife and 
 a 9mm with few rounds and by the time you get to your fist foes you know it is not going to be 
 enough. 
  With holes in your memory you are traveling the zone trying to find and kill Strelok, but till 
 you get there you have to do many things, make alliances with many people, and travel great distances 
 on foot. The game is huge and it's a good thing.
  The graphic's are good and the the game runs smoothly. Sound is also contributing to the scary 
 atmosphere in a good way. The weapons in the game look great and kill even better, and suits and 
 various upgrades are also great once you get the hang of using them. One a bit frustrating thing 
 is a carrying limit that forces you to choose wisely what you can use, and what you don't really 
 need, but could use. 
  Game ending is a bit confusing to say the least and provides you with no satisfaction as to time 
 and effort you put into the game.
  In conclusion it's a great game worth playing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  1. Graphics - Nothing spectacular. For a game released in early 2007 they are good. If you compared 
 them with Crysis they are bad.
  
  2. Technical issues - 
  
  NOTE: I have played the unpatched version of STALKER and i think that the number of patches they 
 have released fix many of the bugs. 
  
  This is the weakest point of this game. The crashes aren't often (i've got only 2 or 3 for the 
 whole game) but there is a lot of other things. First the system requirements are very high for 
 a game like that. Second - sometimes you get very annoying freezes why the game loads the next 
 district which can lead to your death if you are in a middle of a fight. A few problems with the 
 graphics engine causing artifacts (different at size, form and color geometrical figures) over 
 your screen.
  Also the ambient conversations are at Russian (luckily the main dialogs are at English so it is 
 not big deal) . The game have an incredibly good AI though. For both enemies and allies. They try 
 to surround you, cover themselves and try to lure you out and so on. 
  
  3. Story - Kinda a confusing at moments. You wake up in the Zone (the area around the Chernobyl 
 Nunclear Power Plant) and understand that you are an unknown person with an amnesia and a singe 
 task to kill a guy named Strelok. What the authors have managed to build over that cliche starting 
 is amazing. 
  
  4. Gameplay - In the moment you leave the cabin of the trader where you start you will feel pressed 
 by dark atmosphere around you. After your first encounter with a foe you will understand truly 
 why is this. Playing in STALKER is actually surviving the Zone. The death is everywhere around 
 you. And it can come from every corner. The authors have done an impressive job making this game 
 as real as possible (i've heard some of the level designers even went to Chernobyl themselves so 
 they can make the levels more realistic) . This leads to one of the problems of the game though. 
 Even at normal difficulty the game is HARD. Harder then most of the FPS i've played on their higher 
 difficulty. You will soon make a habit of pressing escape and saving your game after every 2-3 
 enemies you defeat (there is no quick save Grrrr) . The main occupation on the Stalkers in the Zone 
 is hunting for Artifacts. There are items which give you certain bonuses for certain penalties 
 and allows you to survive in the zone. Don't overdue with collecting them though as you just can't 
 spend the money you will get from them. Most of the good weapons and armors you will either find 
 or be given after missions. 
  
  5. Multiplayer - haven't tried it. 
  
  
  In conclusion i would recommend every FPS and horror fan to play this game. If you like FPS in 
 which you can go Rambo's style this game is not for you. I'm not a big fan of those type of games 
 but i had very enjoyable experience playing Stalker and I'm looking forward to Clear Sky the coming 
 expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ttoommii
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  As a have said Ive passed the game 4 times and it is worth playing. You start in Cordon, first 
 thing you should do is to find stalker suit. It is standard suit for moast of the NPC. Go to youtube 
 and find the vid in wich you will see where to find it. To pass the railroad the best thing is 
 to kill the soldiers. It isnt hard. Than go to the garbage and find some artefatcs. Go to the apogrom 
 and find Streloks stash.
  Smash the boxes in the stash and you will find another stalker suit. Get out of the underground. 
 Go to the barkeeper and he will give you another stalker suit. Finish all quests from guys in the 
 bar and you will have great artefatcs. I cant tell you everything so this is the end of my review. 
 Btw graphics are great. And the gameplay is better. Allways shot your enemyes in the head. Kills 
 them instantly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solid9216
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  Hi 
  
  Today I'm going to tell you about S. T. A. L. K. E. R: Shadow of Chernobyl, this is a Horror FPS, and 
 as you will understand I love horror FPS. S. T. A. L. K. E. R: Shadow of Chernobyl has a storyline that 
 is inside the highly radioactive and fabled Chernobyl 30km zone. This is a zone filled with zombies, 
 military, Mutants, creatures you can't even imagine, mercenaries, mad stalkers and Horror and Grudge. 
 If you haven't heard of S. T. A. L. K. E. R you don't know what a Stalker is, a stalker is a treasure 
 hunter/ artifact hunter going deep within the zone of Chernobyl. And many think before they play 
 the game that it is only shooting up mercs and military, no this game goes beyond your imagination. 
 You start up as a stalker with no memory at all. (Original?) You were found by another stalker 
 in a radioactive truck full of corpses. This unknown stalker takes you to a guy called "the trader" 
 were you begin you adventure as a rookie stalker with a sucky soviet pistol. Ok here all the fun 
 begins, after a few various missions blasting the head of bandits and obtaining a sawed-off shotgun 
 and maybe a AK-74 you get to the Barkeep, this is a bar that lies deep with in the city of a well 
 know faction in the game called "Duty". Anyways you get to the still Original named "Barman", he 
 gives you a mission: get some documents from an underground lab in the Dark Valley. So after running 
 around in the duty base trying to kill all of them without succeeding you decide to try the mission 
 in this "Dark Valley". Me and many other players run to the "Dark Valley" help the stalker at the 
 entrance of the valley and then go to the underground labs. So you run down to the lab entrance 
 were a big scary roar down from the lab is being heard, then you take the tail between your legs 
 and run back to the bar, at least I and many others did it. Ok "Dark valley" was a big mistake 
 so I can tell you a little about the factions; you have 2 major factions Duty and Freedom. Duty 
 wants to keep the zone shut for stranger so no civics can go into the zone, but Freedom wants the 
 zone to be open for everyone because of the great stuff dwelling inside the zone. Ok who shall 
 you join? Easy Freedom, because Duty are grumpy madmen using their guns blasting the head of stalkers. 
 But anyways go deeper in to the zone until you get to the horror. 
  
  Ok guys that was all hope you enjoyed my review, your zombie hunter solid9216. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sejuhasz
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  Scroll down for a summary...
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl wastes no time throwing you right into fray. You are a survivor 
 of the second Chernobyl disaster all you know is you must kill a fellow Stalker by the name of 
 Strelok, the story will trickle slowly and you'll find yourself captured. Upon embarking on your 
 mission you'll be aided by awkward and amusing fellows, expansive environments, frightening demon 
 and mutants, and absolutely brutal radioactive anomolies.
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s graphical elements surpass those of Half Life 2 but don't quite meet those of 
 Halo, and certainly won't be beating down Crysis, the environments are expansive, the sky is dynamic, 
 the lighting is vibrant, the guns flare well, everything feels solid, no area looks way better 
 than the other.
  
  The sounds in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. are also really nice, the voice acting is dead on and the gunfire 
 sounds just as you'd imagine, but the real treat is the crunching of the grass beneath your boots, 
 the yelling of a comrade as you rush an enemy faction's base, the rickety gunfire of your rifle 
 as it's about to break.
  
  The gameplay of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. however is NOT I repeat NOT for the casual gamer, it is brutal, 
 I don't mean taking it in the butt brutal, I mean taking it in the mouth, butt and eye socket brutal. 
 Single (though rare) bullets to the head and ridiculously smart AI may result in your death via 
 a single pull of a trigger, anomolies (death traps) are 70% invisible and constant, certain monsters 
 may take clips and clips of ammo to kill.
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is no longer a buggy game, I highly suggest patching to 1.0005 before you start 
 ANYTHING, before this patch I got BSODs and crashes left and right.
  
  Where and when STALKER really shines is modding, specifically the mods of Oblivion Lost 2.3, the 
 glove mod, and float32. These mods enhance EVERYTHING about S. T. A. L. K. E. R. they add so much fear, 
 darkness, and heart-pounding blood warmers you'll create chocolate bricks in your pants every 10 
 minutes. I HEAVILY HEAVILY HEAVILY suggest you mod this game.
  
  Go play it. It is good without mods, amazing with them.
  
  Summary: S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a good 
 and extremely difficult game on it's own, the sounds and graphical elements are pleasing while 
 the setting assists them, the story is interesting without forcing it's self in your face, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 is good without mods but mods are what brings the game to life! Get it, you won't be ashamed you 
 did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Lich-King
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Gameplay: 9
  Multiplayer: 8
  Storyline: 8
  Impression: 9
  
  Score: 8.5 (8.6 real)
  
  I started off disliking the game a fair bit in the 'noob' area. 
 I found it boring, confusing, and uninspiring. So after 3 episodes of shelving the game in that 
 noob zone, I decided to push through and see if it got any better in subsequent maps.
  
  And it did!
  
  The architectural design of the compounds, outposts, warehouses, train stations, 
 houses, factories, and labs - is simply amazing. The developers have rendered an extermely believable 
 and immersive environment here that makes you stare in wonder as you progress through 'the zone' 
 to the ultimate destination - Chernobyl NPP - which itself is a work of art as far as digital re-creation 
 goes.
  
  Gamespot awarding this game 'Most Atmospheric Game of 2007' is justified in my mind - I totally 
 agree.
  
  But of course the environment and graphics are not what makes a good game. What about the gameplay? 
 Well let's just say it's solid, a bit quirky, but once you get the hang of it - very enjoyable 
 and lifelike - ie your weapons break, jam, and there are no "uber" weapons around that 1-shot enemies. 
 You have to aim at your targets HEAD and conserve ammo. You have a 50kg carrying limit so you can't 
 carry around tons of weapon or ammo either. Choices like this make the game in my opinion even 
 more immersive and it's a really good thing. If you don't like the limitations, I guess just download 
 a mod that removes them instead of rating the game down due to it's core design principles.
  
  I found that through the game I would have preferred more mutant-killing than constant rival 
 NPC killing. It seemed sometimes a bit of a chore clearing out outpost after outpost of bandits 
 or freedom fighters. Also the side-quests were a bit confusing with the map marker system being 
 innacurate, and the stash system was also broken in that many stashes supposedly containing loot 
 had zero contents in them. And yes I played on patch .5. The primary quest however is done brilliantly 
 and I recommend just concentrating on this to get a good experience. The side quests will just 
 confuse and annoy you.
  
  All in all I enjoyed this game as much as Crysis.
  
  The Good:
  -atmosphere
  -based on reality (kind of)
  -the environment
  -weapons that break, 
 jam, and weight
  -it has a bit of RPG in it.
  -the mutant dogs are the smartest things in the game (they have high AI)
  -there are artefacts
 
  -I enjoyed this game as much as Crysis 
  
  The Bad:
  -it could've been a FPS and RPG
  -problems with AI
  -there are levels
  -to enjoy a the best of it, you need the latest patch 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lach0121
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  im very hardcore on my rating games... because the game has to be great to get an 8 or higher, 
 and freaking wonderful to get a 9 or higher..., but that being said i give this game a 7. it took 
 a little while getting into it. but once i did i had to see what it was like further in the game, 
 the difficulty options are not too good though, though alot of games suffer from this fault, the 
 only difference in the higher difficulties is it takes twice as many bullets to kill the enemy.. 
 which doesnt seem to realistic to me, and in this game i kinda wanted realistic ballistics here. 
 so normal or easy are more realistic in that aspect.. the graphics were ok, and the atmosphere 
 and mood were great.. after about an hours play it really drew me in to go further and further, 
 also i made sure that i got all 3 different endings. and im really looking forward to the clear 
 sky prequel coming out just i will wait till all the patches come out for it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasoncesario
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Looking back on every game that stands out to me is this special feeling that pulls one into the 
 game. It is that feeling that only comes from sitting down and jumping right in. STALKER is a open 
 roaming FPS slightly RPG. The graphics are very realistic and the atmosphere is like nothing before 
 seen. This game will scare the cr*p out of you and will also provide some very addictive challenging 
 FPS game play. If you are like me and like the freedom of non-linear and at your own pace you will 
 love Stalker. This game will be considered a cult classic because it deviates from what the traditional 
 FPS is. I have ultimate respect for the team that designed Stalker and this game easily sits high 
 on my top game lists. Rare is there a game that I play a single player missions over and over. 
 I find something new every time I sit down. Do yourself a favor and pick up this diamond. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noah-ninjaface
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  I found S. T. A. L. K. E. R to be very short and unfinished. Your fighting off a horde of bandits and 
 then before you know it your at the gates of the plant its self, left wondering what about the 
 rest of it?? If the game was filled up a bit more in the middle (more missions, more places to 
 explore) then I really would have been impressed.
  
  I loved the rpg feel. being able to find bigger and better weapons and equipping yourself with 
 different kinds of armor. That as an excellent idea and I tip my hat to THQ for that wonderful 
 concept.
  I must add one thing to that, there wasn't enough variety. There were a couple of guns to choose 
 from at the start, but then you find yourself with the best weapons all too soon. It would have 
 been nice to have had a few more guns and armor for that matter.
  
  In all I did enjoy this game and was made well.
  Can't wait to get clear sky and see how it compares!! 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillOBKilled
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  So, like I said, it's very Russian. I don't think any non Russian would disagree with me. The character 
 reactions, situations and obviously language at times is all very Russian. In a way that is what 
 makes this game what it is. 
  The main feature that separates this game from other FPS's is certainly it's inclusion of an inventory 
 and a vast array of weapons to choose from. Of course those weapons come in a hierarchy, but still, 
 I'm not using one or two guns the whole game and I like that. It does make you feel as though you've 
 progressed even though there is really no character development. At the beginning of the game I 
 was lucky to hit the broad side of a barn with a shot gun, but at the end of the game I could snipe 
 a running dog from two blocks away, and it's was much more a change of equipment rather than skills.
 
  Another departure from the norm was the multiple endings, I'm not going to say anything about 
 them, but ending the game the way I did made me want to keep playing, so I did! Now, without alerting 
 the player to this possibility in game somehow, certainly promoted the overall Russian-ness of 
 the game, along with every cut scene in the game.
  I'm now certainly looking forward to Clear Sky! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  I was intrigued when I first saw stalker way back when and decided to give it a try. Since I aready 
 loved RPG's I figured this would be a change since the game has guns instead of swords.
  The surroundings in the game are well done. From wide open spaces to small enclosed tunnels the 
 game draws you in. Also another aspect of the game that shines are the sounds. Step outside and walk 
 around you get to hear dogs barking, music playing and strange noises yet undiscovered.
  The gameplay is standard pick up and loot as i call it. But there is a catch, instead of being able 
 to pick up every gun you see and it adding to ammo, every gun has its own different cache. Which 
 also needs to be watched as they can break, yes break during the course of the game. I loved this 
 feature. So just sell them and pocket the money for other things.
  All in all this is a good game and many people dont know about it or its overshadowed by games 
 like teso and other rpgs. I recommend picking this game up and giving it a try. Not perfect by any 
 means but a good play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigmaeno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  STALKER is one of the most under-appreciated modern games, but understandably so. It's hard, frustrating, 
 dark, depressing, hard, confusing, and hard. But I am SO glad that it is hard. It brings humility 
 back to over-compensating FPS community.
  
  The military guys are usually more powerful than you, so you have to out-play them. Head shots 
 are your best friend. In fact, you cannot possibly hope to beat many parts of this game unless 
 you make a strong effort to get as many headshots as possible. This makes sense considering most 
 people are wearing thick-ass body armor. Bandits don't, but you generally have to fight several 
 at one time. 
  
  The difficulty level of this game is why it is so fulfilling to play. If you are able to take out 
 10 military dudes in a row and survive, you feel like a badass because they are often equally as 
 strong or stronger than you, and you retrospectively realize that you beat them simply because 
 you are better at playing than they are. It doesn't get much better than that. 
  
  The shooting dynamic is about as realistic as I've ever seen. Your guns sometimes jam up so you 
 have to reload, which is annoying, but so refreshing. Each gun (and there are LOTS of guns) has 
 a different set of specs, IE, for accuracy, damage, control, etc, so certain guns are far superior 
 than others in certain situations. In most games, an automatic is an automatic and there is little 
 variety between them. Not the case with STALKER.
  
  There are a few weak points of course. The arena, while awesome, isn't long enough, but there are 
 some cool fights. In one of them, you have to take on two guys that are more powerful than you, 
 but you only have a few grenades to fight them with while they have powerful automatics. 
  
  Another issue is the graphics. They seem a bit dated, but I personally don't really care considering 
 they are optimized perfectly for the atmosphere that is being attempted. There are also some glitches 
 I encountered, one of which was a quest for one of the factions: The quest giver somehow died but 
 the quest continually placed a map marker to talk to him, rather than acknowledge that he died. 
 This sucks because it was for the faction quests, which is apparently a huge part of the game that 
 I never had the opportunity to do since the guy died (Skull was his name, if I remember correctly) .
 
  
  The real flaws with the game are somewhat nitpicky though. I've noticed that most people dislike 
 STALKER because it is very hard and often frustrating. If it weren't for that, I'm sure the game 
 would generally get higher ratings. It does talk a few hours to really begin to love the game... 
 The first bit is confusing until you realize that it's supposed to be confusing. You did, after 
 all, lose your memory and wind up in an odd STALKER camp with a bunch of strangers. 
  
  This game can really be appreciated by any FPS fan, but if you aren't hardcore into games and looking 
 for new challenges, it will take awhile for you to fall in love with STALKER. Once you do, though, 
 you'll go back to other FPS games and find them easy and generic by comparison. STALKER sets a 
 high standard that too few seem to appreciate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantoclub
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  it astonishes me that it isnt rated higher but if there were problems that warranted the low b 
 score these i think would be highlighted: engine wasnt optimized enough for pc's (not all of us 
 so fortunate to have been abducted by aliens) . the ingame written dialogue was poor and seemed 
 tacky in that it had no substance. in my opinion there wasnt a strong enough sense of community 
 or interation between the npc's. and the textures occasionally seemed bland, also the lack of dynamic 
 objects was palpable and therefore made the game seem very old when in the corridors of power plants 
 and so on. the final weakness was the tight confines in which to accomplish missions which were 
 also kind of repetitive. 
  
  but the game introduced me at least to the eerie deathscape of chernobyl and did it incredibly 
 well other than the aforementioned flaws. the ai was as competant as ai needed to be in those days 
 (better than crysis prove me wrong) . the rpg elements showcasing the inventory was a nice change 
 from the ordinary fps but could have been more detailed as far as character upgrade. but all things 
 considered it was one of the more powerful releases that year and remains as one of the most atmospheric 
 rides through wonderland toxicity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilipepperman
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:00 am PT
Review:  I heard critical acclaim about stalker, so i thought, i might as well try it out right? well, i 
 didnt get what i expected and instead i got a hard, boring shooter that got good ratings, gotta 
 love those ratings...
  
  The gameplay in this one is actually pretty engaging, but is way too hard and unrealistic. you 
 can shoot a guy 3 times in the chest with the shotgun and he will shoot you and walk away. that 
 is just plain sloppy. the guns are also very underwhelming to shoot and dont do enough damage unless 
 you hit your enemy square in the face. its really annoying.
  
  The graphics are ok but not that great compared to todays standards. The lighting is fantastic, 
 but everything else looks real unrealistic and is not that fun too actuallylook at. 
  
  Overall, stalker may be a good game to some people, this does not appeal to me and i hope the expansion 
 is a lot better, this game needs an upgrade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cunhao
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Stalker begins putting you in the middle of The Zone, which was isolated from the world because 
 of the Chernobyl's nuclear disaster, making it a place very dangerous, with many mutations and 
 with many spots that have a high concentration of radiation. The only ones who live there are the 
 Stalkers, mercenaries trying to make money exploring the artifacts brought by the mutations and 
 anomalies, generated by the nuclear accident.
  
  You're Marked One, called this way because you have been found unconscious and when you awakened, 
 you just can't remember anything about yourself. The only thing you know is that was a mission 
 in your PDA: "Kill Strelok". Then the game begins and makes you feel exactly how someone feels 
 after losing the memory... lost. You don't know where to go, who is enemy or friend and you can't 
 even know who is this guy named Strelok! 
  
  In the beginning, the history seems to be something very captivating, which will make you play 
 just to know what came next. But this isn't true. The history leaves much to be desired, making 
 a poor development of it through the game, don't making any deepening, just staying in surface. 
 The history will be told through conversations, documents and through Marked One's PDA, but what 
 he'll write in his PDA isn't enough to make you understand what's happening or happened, leaving 
 many questions without answers. And the documents, which were supposed to explain many things, 
 the game just don't let you know what have inside and Marked One seems very disinterested in know 
 what's inside.
  
  Talking about the PDA, it's a good increase to Stalker, because many things happen and the PDA 
 can keep you updated about everything. Well, almost everything, because the Diary fails to tell 
 you the history satisfactorily, and has some minor bugs too. But the mission organizer is very 
 efficient, making them easy to understand and what to do next, when and where. And we have the 
 encyclopedia, which will help you many times, because it brings many information about The Zone, 
 like mutation and anomalies descriptions, guide of artifacts and more. 
  
  More than organize all these information, the PDA bring other functions that can be useful (like 
 the map) or useless (like the ranking system) . The map can be very useful, because The Zone is 
 huge and have many places to go, and bring a good amount of information. But, some times will bug 
 (in the Chernobyl area, Marked One marker don't appear in the map) . You have a mini map too, which 
 can make your life much easier. Another useful function is the Contact System, where you can see 
 in your PDA anyone who have a PDA that is close to you. This is extremely useful, because they 
 appear in your mini map, and the mini map have a little meter, which counts how much PDA's is close 
 to you. If in your mini map appears a yellow point, it's because that PDA user is neutral; if the 
 point is green, the user is your friend. But the meter counts the enemy PDA's too, but they don't 
 appear in the mini map (only if you see him, and for a very short time) . This mean: if in your 
 meter tell to you that in the area have ten PDA's users, but only seven appears in your map, probably 
 the other three are enemies and they're close! So, you have to stay alert. Or if you want, you 
 can also open your PDA and see the Contact's list, that show's to you everyone that is close to 
 you, even the enemies (show the name, reputation and faction) .
  
  Now, the useless functions. In true, they're not useless, but bad implemented. The ranking system 
 is a great idea, mainly in the beginning, when you're in a low rank. But soon you'll notice that 
 the rank don't change until the final and change only because somebody in the Top 20 was died. 
 And you don't win anything of special with the ranking system. In the rank, everybody is classified 
 with numbers, that reflects the points you have made and you make points killing another stalkers 
 and killing mutations, collecting artifacts and completing missions. This is called Statistic System 
 (that will also set your reputation) , but is also bad implemented. The system don't make the correct 
 count and can be a little confusing in the beginning and in the middle of the game don't make any 
 difference, because the game don't bring anything that make you want see your scores (like a online 
 comparison with another players or a online rank) .
  
  The actors don't have any sympathy, making them very artificial, with a low interaction. If someone 
 dies, nobody cares and it will not make difference, nobody will notice even if he was necessary 
 to complete a mission. But the voice acting is amazing great, with both English and Russian voices.
 
  
  Then we notice the AI, which lack in many aspects. Even when they talk, play guitar, laugh, eat 
 and drink around a bonfire this don't mean that the AI is smart. Like I said before, they don't 
 care if a friend die and they even don't care if he was been shot and stand lying in the ground, 
 waiting for help. Nobody will help him. Some others problems with AI can be very ridiculous too, 
 like this: if some stalker is walking in the road and in front of him have a anomaly, the AI is 
 unable to detect that anomaly and he'll just walk to the death! I don't know if this is true, but 
 I have never seen any other character in Stalker using health items. They just receive damage until 
 fall dead. Some times they can also fire behind walls, without see you, making you stay desperate, 
 because you're already hidden but the enemy stay hitting you!
  
  But almost all combats are satisfactory, making you pass through many unexpected moments, like 
 to encounter a group of bandits and some another group of mutant creatures and at night, with some 
 radioactive spots and anomalies. You probably will have a bad time trying to get out of that mess. 
 The weapons just work fine, but they can sound weird. But we can get a great variety of them. The 
 aiming is hard, making you fire many times before start hitting something, special in the beginning, 
 that the weapons have a poor accuracy and low damage. You can also use grenades that are very effective 
 against large groups of enemies. You can even use a grenade to make an enemy get out of his cover. 
 
  
  Some times, you'll see Stalkers fighting against bandits, mutants hunting something in the beginning 
 can be a surprise sees that The Zone lives its own life without us. But many moments will just 
 repeat and repeat (like the bandits trying to invade the Garbage "base") every time you pass by. 
 Other times, you'll just stay tired to have to kill the same enemies every time you try to pass 
 in the same areas. And the factions don't fight so often, only in a few moments and when you have 
 to participate. This is bad because their rivalry should give more action in the middle of The 
 Zone, and this don't happen.
  
  The damage system is very realistic. If a bullet hit you or you stand close to an explosion or 
 even a dog bite you, you will start to bleed depending of how much damage you're receiving or depending 
 of the attack you're receiving. If you don't use a bondage, you will just bleed, making you lose 
 life. Depending of the bleeding level (have many intensities) , you can even bleed to death.
  
  The inventory is very realistic, making the game more difficult. Marked One can access at any 
 time his inventory, even in middle of the combat. You can only carry 50 kg without losing to much 
 your stamina, and when you reach the 60 kg, you can't move. You can equip a pistol and a main weapon 
 that can be a shotgun or a sub-machine gun to a sniper rifle. You can equip an armored suit too, 
 that will help a lot, mainly in the middle to the end of the game.
  
  There some health items too, like first aid and food. Talking in food, if you stand a long time 
 without eat, Marked One will start to feel hunger and start to die slowly. He'll start to stay 
 with a blurry view, the stamina will finish more often and if this situation persists, the view 
 stay more dark and will be more and more dark until he die. Not only the view, but the accuracy, 
 health, resistance and stamina will decrease too.
  
  Sometimes, you'll pass through some radioactive areas that in the beginning aren't a problem. But 
 when you advancing in the game, you start to approach the center of The Zone, and the radioactive 
 spots will stay more common and then you got one more problem: the radiation. To end the effects 
 of radiation, you can use some items that can counter the radiation effects, like the vodka. If 
 you don't take care drinking, you can even stay drunk, and Marked One is very affected by the alcohol 
 effects.
  
  To complete the Marked One inventory, we have the artifacts. They can be found in some places, 
 usually near of some anomaly and with others stalkers. You can equip five of them, making many 
 combinations, because all the artifacts give many different bonus and attributes to Marked One, 
 giving more fire resistance or more health points, for example, and can also bring a penalty for 
 using them. Example: some artifact can give you 300 health points, but give -30% of electric resistance 
 too. But others can just give you 5% of explosion protection, without any penalty.
  
  When you kill another Stalker (and even an mutant) , you can come close and search in the body for 
 items, like weapons, bullets, med kits, food, drink, artifacts, grenades. Some times, when you 
 click in the body to search items, you'll have access to the PDA of who you're searching. In most 
 of times, that PDA will contain information about hidden treasures and equipments, which will be 
 marked in the map with a purple circle. Can be boxes, trees, a barrel or even a tombstone. And 
 walk in The Zone is extremely fun. So many places to explore, and every time you reach a new place, 
 you see something new, like new stalkers, new creatures, new anomalies, items, artifacts...
  
  Marked One is a little restricted when talking about movements. He can be slow, but this is 
 fine, because Stalker isn't a 'running and shot' game. It's more like a tactical shooter, where 
 you have to find cover and fire behind them, because some shots is more than enough to kill Marked 
 One, mainly in the head, and the AI have an impressive accuracy. So, you have to take care in the 
 combats, mainly when facing many enemies alone. You can also lean, but this isn't a good thing 
 to do, because you can easily take a head shot.
  
  To improve Marked One accuracy, you can crouch. Stalker have two types: the normal crouch and the 
 slow crouch, which you need to be first in the normal crouch to perform a low crouch, making you 
 press two buttons in your keyboard. In beginning is a little confusing make it, but it's easily 
 learned. Marked One can also drag the body of any killed or dead stalker, but strangely, he can't 
 drag a mutant body and can't move others objects, like chairs, crates and other little objects. 
 
  
  Stalker also brings a noise meter and a "perception" meter. The noise meter show to you how much 
 noise you're making. Almost anything you do in Stalker make a noise, like reload a weapon, walk, 
 run, open your inventory, move through some vegetation, jump and even when using the night vision 
 goggles. In another way, the "perception" meter show if someone is seeing you or not. When the 
 meter is empty, this mean that no enemy is seeing you (this don't counts when a friend or a neutral 
 being is seeing you) and when is moving to up, mean that some enemy is almost to see you, and when 
 the meter is full, means that any enemy is clearly seeing you. Even with this system, is very hard 
 to make an infiltration in a enemy base (for example) , because the AI can easily detect you, even 
 when is so dark.
  
  Now that I have talked about of almost all the elements of Stalker, I'll talk about the best: the 
 atmosphere. Like I said before, the AI don't interact very well with Marked One, giving the impression 
 that you're extremely alone most of the time, specially at night or inside a laboratory (that in 
 my opinion, are the best and the most exciting moments of Stalker) . More the abandoned appearance 
 of everything makes the atmosphere look more intense and creepy. And the rain? The rain is amazing 
 good! With great lightning and water effects more sounds that just make the best rain in all the 
 games that I had played, and just increase the Stalker's atmosphere. The vegetation can also put 
 the immersion in higher levels and make the abandoned appearance increase too, because it's in 
 everywhere. Even Stalker don't being a horror game, in many moments and aspects, you'll feel that 
 you're playing a horror game!
  
  Now I think that is enough. Later and in some aspects overtaken, Stalker can give you some amazing 
 moments with great combats and unexpected moments together with a superb adn creepy atmosphere, 
 making your adrenaline goes up easily. Unfortunately, Stalker develops badly its history, dimming 
 what could have been something much more engaging.
  
  Stalker also tries to be a very open long timed game, but fails in many aspects in bring new moments 
 in The Zone that, later in the game, will just look repetitive. Luckily, the community just loved 
 the great atmosphere of Stalker and produced an impressive number of modifications to it. And in 
 this review I don't mentioned them because Stalker deserves be finished first in its natural way 
 and in another with some of the many modifications, giving to Stalker another life. Many of the 
 problems that I mentioned above are corrected in the mods. So, if you don't like the first time, 
 try to use some of the modifications and you'll see what I'm talking about. I recommend these ones: 
 Float 32, Naturemod and StalkerSkies (mainly this last one) , also some mod to change the sounds 
 and the PDA. And if you really want a new Stalker, try this one: Oblivion Lost. I have to warning 
 you that all the modifications can make the game stay very unstable, making all types of problems 
 appear.
  
  Because of that, I have to give two scores for Stalker. 8,5 without the mods and 9,0 with the mods.
 
  
  Ps: For the mods, try this site http://stalker. filefront. com/
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: burn791
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  I have never spent as much time playing a game as S. T. A. L. K. E. R Shadow of Chernobyl, it just makes 
 you want to go back again and again even with its little problems like game-play freezing for a 
 second or two even when its doing it pretty regular you soon learn to ignore it because the game 
 is nothing short of amazing. i have finished this game so many times i've lost count, i have seen 
 all the endings but still its the game i play the most, the reason is simple.. every time you play 
 the game its different, you can choose how you want to complete an objective you can even ignore 
 them if you wish. The AI is not perfect and some of the mods make dramatic improvements but still 
 the AI works as a team the enemies use cover and if there is no cover to mask their advance they 
 will stay where they are and crouch to take potshots at you many times i have been dealing with 
 NPC's and have'nt noticed that one or two have left the main group and are attempting to flank 
 me this is something that is really noticeable in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. and is very impressive, when you 
 are doing an objective like rescue nimble (the first mission) you can go in all guns blazing or 
 wait until night time and try a stealthy approach, you might get to your objective and all the 
 enemies are dead you think for a second that's a good thing, then you realise something must have 
 killed them and you hear the roar of a bloodsucker its time to run or stand your ground. Another 
 revolutionary thing about this game is the atmosphere when you enter the catacombs or X-18 for 
 the first time i don't recommend doing it with the lights off if you're on your own, i'm not even 
 joking this game is really scary at times never before has a game made the hair on the back on 
 my neck stand like that.
  
  if any game in history is worthy or a 10/10 score its S. T. A. L. K. E. R Shadow of Chernobyl.
  
 
  
  Also i recommend trying out some of the amazing mods available on the net like Oblivion LOST , 
 or Pri boi story which add more weapons & armour new missions, new mutants better graphics more 
 realistic weather and sky's it enables the NPC's to throw grenades , you can join factions and 
 join the faction wars, thanks to GSC allowing mods the possibility's with this game are endless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scigeni
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl is one of the greatest first-person shooters of all time. When 
 I first played it, it was quite boring and wasn't fun at all. But as soon as I went through some 
 early levels, the game became extremely fun. The early levels didn't have a lot of shooting and 
 its missions were quite boring. But trust me, after you finish these levels, you will love this 
 game. What also makes this game more fun is the mysterious storyline. You have one main mission, 
 and it was to kill someone called Strelok. You have no idea why you have to kill him, but it was 
 written in your PDA. Through this game, you must find out all about Strelok. This game has a lot 
 of false endings, so it might be quite hard to find out whether the ending you got was one of the 
 false ones or the real one. I never personally finished this game, but I had a lot of fun playing 
 it. I hope the sequel is even more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickstat
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 9, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  i cant believe how many people rave on about this game, it is tottal rubbish and a wait of time. 
 its so frustrating and stupid.
  the gun fights are rediculas, the enemy shoots you a few times and your dead, you unload a magazine 
 on them and they dont drop. the graphics are discusting and a laughing stock. after loading the 
 game on my pc i said to myself WTF!! and instantly new this game is a joke!
  after 30 minutes of playing it i unloaded it and sold my copy happy never to see it again!
  AIMIN 
 OF THE WEPON IS SO STUPID, YOU HAVE TO BE 100% ACCURATE TO HIT YOUR TARGET, THAT EANS EVEN IF YOU 
 SHOOT THEIR LEGS OR ARMS YOU DONT HIT THEM FROM A DISTANCE, YOU MUST HIT THEM DEAD CENTRE IN THE 
 HEAD OR BODY.
  BUT WAIT A MOMENT, WHILE YOU FIND IT HARD TO HIT THE TARGET THE ENEMY DOES IT WITH EASE and kills 
 you from any distance they want. its just discusting, no fun and terrible frustrating.
  THIS GAME WAS A JOKE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drek4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I must say that at first I hesitated on this game. The story is pretty plain, the weapons are nothing 
 to make other games drool in envy and the action is nothing to make you stare in complete awe. 
 I guess what I enjoyed the most of this game is that if ever it happened might it be like this? 
 So maybe the charm in this game is the fact that you must constantly face enemies superior to you, 
 circumstances that can prove deadly and a bleak look at life that is on the verge of the end immersion. 
 This game is not for the I just wanna have fun shooter but is actually for the person who looks 
 for a hard look on a possible futur reality and a more dark shooter type game play.
  Besides the bugs that are present in this game (quicksave and others) it is a decent game... but 
 no extravagant hype thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdHunter1990
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  The weakest thing about the game is the graphics the engine looks lit it was build 5 years ago, but 
 the game play it self is one of the bast aspects of the game . The R P G elements bringing the 
 F P S genre to the next level ,longevity of the game is good compare to other modern day F P S 
 s ,story may be a little bit boring but will be just fine ,the bast aspect of the game is the atmosphere 
 Gary looking world with the filling of the Death around you the environment for me is so familiar 
 because i am myself from Ukraine and it looks just like home to me . So basically if you like F 
 P S you have to get this game and you will not be disappointed. So back to the story of stalker, 
 you take a role of nameless stalker who is none as The Marked One he finds himself in the zone 
 and he don't remembers anything from his life until now 
  so now he will have to search for answers and to find the truth about the monolith and whole zone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJMBLAZER
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Immersive doesn't cover it. You'll sit down to play for a half an hour before you go to work and 
 end up 15 minutes late... ask me how I know.
  
  Yeah, it's flawed. There's also a GIANT modding community and most of the bugs have been fixed 
 or worked around. The guys at GSC took a huge bite and ended up not being able to chew it all but 
 damn if what they got through wasn't great. The playing and modding community then made the rest 
 of it even better. I'm normally NOT a modding person but ended up playing modded versions of the 
 game and loving them just as much.
  
  The experience is just so immersive and entertaining I can't help but give it a ten. It's flaws 
 can be worked around and it truly is so much more than a lot of it's competing games. I've pretty 
 much given up on my previous love of military shooting games as I now always feel like I'm locked 
 on one course with them. If you want to spend a month knocking off bandits and trading in their 
 leather jackets and 30 year old handguns for a few rubles in the very first area that is totally 
 fine and the game won't try to punish you for it. You can also play the game as slow or fast as 
 you want. My first time through took over four months and was a hell of an experience. For the 
 slow goer there are all kinds of hidden treats to this game that can really make it worth while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vulkan99
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 30, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  Storyline pretty is crappy, and doesn't link well with the missions. The game's pretty buggy as 
 well even with patch 1.0006, I get some creatures floating in the sky and enemies that just disappeared 
 after i shot and killed it, without letting me get its items, these issues are not hair pulling 
 however. Its just a game you want to complete and get it over with. The only plus points is its 
 unique game-play (RPG-like) , great visuals and a huge world and doesn't require expensive hardware 
 like Crysis. Games like this without an in-depth and compelling storyline is just disappointing. 
 I will not be looking forward to its expansion clear sky. Talking about expansions and great games, 
 now wheres Crysis warhead, project origin and Half-life EP3? These are the sort of games i wouldn't 
 mind spending my cash on and keep it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoltcsas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  A very good game which has a unique setting and thrilling story. When I played STALKER I almost 
 enjoyed every moment I spent with it. The world the game creates is just fantastic and feels fresh 
 compared to the majority of games. As I live in Eastern Europe it was funny and exciting at the 
 same time to wander around the run-down blocks of flats; the whole game had a very authentic feel, 
 in the game I often came across such environment which I could also see whenever I left my home 
 in the morning :-) . 
  The characters and the interactive environment made the game feel like the real world, everything 
 seemed to be realistic, and the scary parts were scary especially because the game felt so real, 
 thus the fear seemed to be real, too.
  The fights and gameplay was as good as the game world. The AI of the enemies made the firefights 
 intense and challenging and it never got boring.
  After praising the game so much why did I write that I almost enjoyed every moment of the game? 
 There was only one shortcoming of the game; it was its several technical problems, I experienced 
 a lot of freezes, graphical problems, and frame rate droppings. The problems were too frequent 
 to ignore, this is the only reason I do not give the game a perfect rating.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadoCrytr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R., by far, has one of the best storylines to date. The Strugatsky brothers' novel 
 Roadside Picnic and the film Stalker by Andrei Tarkovsky are both superb works of art, but I honestly 
 think S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is the only game out there (besides Clear Sky, which I'm sure will be just 
 as good, if not better than S. T. A. L. K. E. R.) that really justifies what happened at Chernobyl in 
 1986, and adding an appropriate feel of sci-fi to the whole scenario, while slapping on some intense 
 action to finish it all off. 
  While it's true you'll have at least a little bit of trouble at the start of the game, once you 
 get past the starting area of Cordon and into the aptly named Garbage, you're guaranteed to be 
 thrust into a scary as hell experience full of mutants, bandits, army guys ready to blow your head 
 off, and anomalies ready to launch you sky high, rip you to shreds, or fill your veins with deadly 
 radiation. By the end (assuming you can endure through everything I just listed) you'll be hungering 
 for more, a rapacity that will be satisfied with Clear Sky, the prequel to S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadows 
 of Chernobyl, due out August 29th.
  All of that is not without a few bugs and downsides. The main being the amount of grammatical errors 
 and overall bad English that resides within the dialogue. I understand this was translated from 
 Russian, but afterall, this is what's considered an RPGFPS, and with any RPG you need good language 
 skills. It's not a huge predicament though, you still get the general idea of what the NPCs are 
 saying, and if you're not a big stickler on that type of thing, there shouldn't be a problem. The 
 only other complaint I have is the amount of quest stopping bugs that comes along with this game. 
 More than once I've failed or had to totally abandon a mission because the NPC died, there was 
 no option to turn in, or there was a vital part in completing the objective missing. 
  The good side to that coin is that the various updates have virtually demolished every single quest 
 bug, or any other bug that you may happen to come across. After updating, I have yet to come across 
 a bug, which is very good since I gave up on the game the first time I attempted to play through. 
 So obviously, if you plan on playing the game, it is essential to update. I recommend getting patch 
 version 1.0005, since 1.0006 solely fixes multiplayer bugs. But if you're into multiplayer, or 
 both single player and multiplayer, I would suggest getting 1.0006. 
  Another way to enhance gameplay is to install some mods. There are various types, such as shaders, 
 textures and gameplay modifications that can seriously make your experience much more enjoyable. 
 If your computer can handle it, I would suggest Float32 to increase the eye candy, and Oblivion 
 Lost if you're up to a very difficult play through. Oblivion Lost adds many things to the game 
 that was originally meant to be implemented, but was decided against. This includes drivable cars, 
 nuclear blowouts (which will quickly kill you if you're not underground or in some sort of sheltered 
 area) , more mutants and anomalies, more weapons accompanied with better stability, and other things 
 that just make you want to go back for more and more. Speaking of which, no two play throughs will 
 be the same. Anything can happen, so expect the unexpected.
  
  So, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is definitely a game worth playing, and for a simple $20 and a good computer, 
 you'll enjoy the full experience and won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DF2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  This game has influences from games like Half Life and Call of Duty with a modified questing system 
 from the likes of Oblivion. Even though it does not compare to favorites such as Half Life it holds 
 its own with its brand of FPS and RP elements that are not too difficult to grasp. It does have 
 some minor bugs but I would highly recommend this title as it has some good content and offers 
 a unique style of game play that I find a refreshing change. The questing system can be improved 
 since I did find some instances where the NPC was killed by enemy fire and I could not turn in. 
 The game does not catch on to the fact that the NPC is dead and does not update the quest log. 
 Lots of weapon combination's that allow for experimentation with various weapons/ammo. The content 
 is above average and the graphics are decent in my opinion. Most of all since its not a console 
 port I find the game play smooth and more personal as with many past games released for the PC 
 platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djedi_master
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  Yes, of course i like the game because I'm a patriot. But ,what I want to tell you - game on russian 
 is very great playing, but one minus in game is snarks. I destroyed all "duty" organisation but 
 every time i return to bar always the same people trying to kill me again and again. But this is 
 not the end one time I just lost (!!!) 600 ammo. One tIme I just killed Lukash (freedom's boss) 
 and it was nothing!!! His bodyguards looked at me and... Just nothing! It was funny. Yes I just 
 lost them when I was going from bar to garbage. Yes graphics is Great from big letter and sound 
 too. Storyline is going for 9 - 8.5 (my score) , game play is good too. But a lot of snarks... These 
 what I described were the most offensively.... My score is not 10 only because of this snarks. 
 But I like that game because it is first Russian-Ukrainian game which was played by all world!!! 
 GSC's games like "Cossacks" or "Alexander" weren't this kind of success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatal_Byte
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Bottom Line: Buy it. Its a pretty fun game overall and has a huge map rampage across doing whatever 
 you please. It looks like what Fallout 3 is going to be similair to. Theres some things that could 
 have used some tweaking though...1. Some silly things like eating and drinking don't seem nessecary. 
 2. Non-stop reappearing enimies (stay in one general are and bad guys will just keep coming forever.) 
 3. Your "backpack" can't carry a whole lot. 4. Graphics could have been enhanced (I thought Half-Life 
 2 was much better looking) 5. Kinda glitchy at times. All that aside I really do like the game 
 a lot, theres a ton of possibilities to do things, basically you can screw over whoever you want 
 and so on. Weapons are pretty awesome and you find mods everywhere and all kinds of different weapons 
 throughout the game. If you like FPS with some thinking invovled you will probably really like 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  It's really hard to tell what it is like in this game.. you will have 
  too many new impression there, it is actually a first-person RPG shooter...
  
  It get generally 
 great gameplay, immersive open world , the large world of mutated zone huant to the depth of your 
 heart, the best about this game is it atmospheric, the sound act is good too, especially playing 
 the haunting and mutants parts. Firefight are realistic and intense. It have interesting storyline, 
 but when near the end it end too.. fast and, a bit confusing.
  
  It get 8 story ending but I get fourth.. and those bad endings are hard to collect all..
  
  
 The second thing is that I havn't even finish exploring entire map before it end.. about only 1/2.. since 
 the storyline is pushing you all the time to the end.
  
  It get out dated graphic like in 2003-2004, and it's very buggy... it lag all the time.. about every 
 100m for several seconds. It also crash for tripple in my 30 hours of gameplay. Also when the NPC 
 give you missions, they get repeating again and again the same kind of missions.. they speak the 
 same phrase every 10 seconds which is very annoying.. I remember one doctor keep yelling "hello, 
 hello." to me and that definitly kill my mood to continue. Missions overlaps and crash from time 
 to time.
  
  Oh and, the control are VERY clumsy and annoying, I spent almost half of my gameplay time figuring 
 out what is what and why the hell the run part is buttom "X"? While the crouch part is Ctrl and 
 shift? I think everyone would perfer to crouch lower for just ctrl than press one more bottom in 
 order to do that. I guarrantee every single shooter fan would wanna die in annoyance after you 
 play this, the weapons are VERY inaccurate and I fire 2 clips of Akm74 in order to take down one 
 guy in the range of 100m while he's no covered?! That's almost impossible in reality. You will 
 beg for a sniper rifle after a while.. Oh and, it's really very painful in firefights and medic 
 part, why don't they just recovered? Instead you need to press { and } or open up backpack to heal 
 yourself.. you don't have that time.. You get killed very soon.. especially closer to end, easier 
 you are killed, by radiation and anomnilies and mutated thing and most importantly, the armoured 
 NPC enemies.
  
  I am also unable to play the multiplayer part for some reasons.
  
  Pros: Great gameplay and RPG elements, a list of ranges of weapons to use from, open world and 
 atmospheric, addicted to it very soon. Great sound for the zone.
  Cons: BUGGY, crashes, lags, outdated graphic, ending too fast-paced, controls are clumsy, unable 
 to play multiplayers, missions errors, NPC repeating conservation, missions overlaps and repeat 
 itself.
  
  It definitly not an stunning game, but it is worth a try. Looking forward to Clearsky to remake 
 the zone.
  
  Presentation:7/10
  Graphic:6/10
  Gameplay:8/10
  Sounds:8/10
  Value:9/10
  
  Overall:8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghaz013
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  -Pros-
  *Excellent Ballistics and Gunfights
  *Very Detailed Environment given its Enormous Size
  *AI stays Active and Mobile
  *7 different 
 endings
  *Wonderful Cutscenes
  *Lots of Weapons to Experiment with
  *Freedom/Open ended Environments
  *100's of NPC's
  *Scary Monsters
  *Side effects of Poison/Radiation/Vodka
 
  *RPG/FPS Elements
  *Trading 
  *Funny Dialogue/Random Events
  
  -Cons-
  *Side Quests System is a bit Broken 
  *Some Missions cant be Completed (Bugs)
  *Buggy- Update 
 your Drivers
  *Money System is a tad Skewed
  *AI will piss you off at times, I promise!!!
  *Went through lots of Diapers
  *Multiplayer should 
 have been dropped for more SP development
  
  STALKER is a hard game to describe. It just has to be played. Yes it was a frustrating @ times, 
 but the experience and immersion were absoutely out of this world. The harsh climates and bleak 
 overtone really help draw you into the world.
  
  This is one of my favorite games!
  
  Hardware/Software- Game needs a bit of horsepower to enjoy properly. Update your drivers and get 
 STALKING!!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkyimp
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  STALKER is all about atmosphere... from the rain to the Radiation in random places.. it makes for 
 a different gameing experience then other games.. and how even those little things can change the 
 game drastically.
  
  Graphics...
  From out of the box the game dosent look that good. but i heard with a few new patches the game 
 look much much better, i haven't gotten around to getting it yet, but it still looks good.
  
  9
  
  Gameplay..
  the game play is good but some of the thing really annoyed me, like 
 i know there shouldnt be any cars.. buy that would make traveling alot easier than walking, also 
 some times the gunplay feel awkward.. like your not even hitting your target yet you unloaded a 
 whole clip in them.. but overall the gameplay is good
  
  9
  
  Story
  just buy the game i really don't feel like going through it but still
  
  9
  
  controls
 
  Juggleing things around felt a little weird because you had to use L for flashlight... that was 
 VERY annoying esp time when i needed it in dark areas in the labs, but the controls are solid and 
 fluid there great.
  
  9
  
  overall a great game, everyone should pick it up and have fun, get the ABC inferno mod or some 
 other ones when you finish the game.. it offers more replayablitiy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limowrecked
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Lots of waiting, and lots of promises associate with this title (well it usually is like this isn't 
 it?) but did guys from GSC make it after all? Well i guess it depends on what you expected, because 
 the main problem with games that are created to show something new or to expand borders of their 
 genre is probably the fact that it takes some time to really enjoy the game or it's concept, and 
 of course sometimes it never happens. Performance problems (and i mean awful hog ones) and bugs 
 also come along into the play, but what you get in exchange?
  
  Stalker takes place in the area called Zone which is generally a sphere formed due to the Chernobyl 
 accident. The first thing worth noticing is that its not just a name for another stack of levels 
 prepared to finish them one by one, it's a whole area which you can freely explore just divided 
 on sectors which you can and probably will visit couple of times because of the quest style of 
 this game. 
  
  Typically FPS games are mostly about shooting knowing that I can say without doubt that "yup Stalker 
 is a FPS allright" but for a title that delivers some bloodsucking monster fights along with commando 
 type skirmishes it's suprisingly fun in both cases. Enemy soldiers always try to flank you they 
 use covering fire and hide behind cover themselves, and well they can really easily kick your butt 
 expecially at the start of the game (excluding indoor fights where AI don't do well) . Monsters act 
 like monsters they jump at you from shadows in the undergrounds or abandoned villages which maybe 
 isn't something outstanding by itself but it's mechanics of the game that enable some unscripted 
 or otherwise prepared moments that really can freak you out. 
  
  Other great thing about stalker is realism which is far from getting u killed in annoying or absurd 
 manner but works good enough to let player get involved and i dont mean just the fights. The way 
 u'll travel through the Zone will also be affected because u have to pay attention on your surroundings, 
 walking around military bases during the day isn't the best idea as well as admiring the views 
 on the fields patroled by packs of mutant dogs which seem harmless until they gather around and 
 attack together. When shot your character starts to bleed which isn't as annoying as it sounds 
 and can be easily treated in the middle of the fight so it's a nice touch without spoiling the 
 gameplay. u have to eat from time to time but it doesn't really affect the game because food is 
 abundant and u have to try hard to feel the consequences of hunger. Inventory is another nicely 
 done feature which lets player carry more than needed but only if he/she can easily decide what 
 that is and there are plenty situations when u'll be wondering what's better some additional grenade, 
 med packs, or maybe a spare gun. But most of the time there isn't much problem walking around carrying 
 about 3 guns (which is 2 rifles or such + handgun) .
  
  Plot is based around the main character his past and purpose in the Zone which u try to discover, 
 thing done in many games before and probably in many of those yet to come but creators of the game 
 decided to give it a quest like structure + openending story. Quest system is strongly flawed and 
 doesn't work as u would like it to but still gives some additional deep and enjoyment to the gameplay.
 
  
  Stalker is surely a fresh approach to the FPS game subject and considering how much it tries to 
 achieve at once I must say its a success.
  It's a rarity for game that delivers so much more than others from it's genre to be still great 
 in its kind. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elitegeek13
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  I had some very high expectations upon my purchase of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl. I had 
 not yet read any reviews of this game, but the previews i had read enticed me with amazing features; 
 Open ended gameplay, weapon modification, an incredibly realistic ballistics model, GSC's innovative 
 A-life system... things I had always dreamed of being in a shooter but had never quite found something 
 that fit the bill, until S. T. A. L. K. E. R. was released. Upon firing up the game and completing a 
 few low end missions, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. exceeded my expectations entirely. 
  
  The entire story (which lasts about 25 hours) takes place in 2012 in the Zone, an area consisting 
 of the blast radius of the Chernobyl incident in 1986. You are a Stalker, a bounty hunter of sorts, 
 who scours the zone for precious artifacts created by concentrated packets of radiation called 
 anomalies. Several factions have developed as the Stalkers chose sides, however, for some reason 
 the only two you can join are the Duty and Freedom. (I wont give away too much story here) . During 
 your travels through the Zone you will not only meet fellow stalkers, but also mutants who have 
 been twisted by the radiation of the zone. These range from contorted rats to grotesque beings 
 such as snorks. There are seven different story endings to the game, depending on how you played.
 
  
  
  The gameplay is fun and intriguing, however not very scalable unless you patch the game at least 
 up to 1.005. I found the pure vanilla S. T. A. L. K. E. R. to actually be much harder (and a bit buggy) 
 with no patches applied to the game. The mechanics of the game are what you'd expect: you begin 
 the game, gain a few small weapons (usually a low end pistol and shotgun) and eventually start 
 on bigger missions that lead to better weapons, and so on and so forth. Similar to Bethesda's Elder 
 Scrolls 4: Oblivion, you can find several NPCs in distress who will start you on side quests. As 
 you gain better, more powerful weapons, upgrades become available. Grenade launchers, scopes, and 
 silencers for you sneaky types are all available and several mods are out that make weapon modification 
 even more diversified. The real beauty of this game is in the AI; NPCs react extremely realistically 
 to your actions. For example, I remember at one point walking through a more urban area in which 
 several burnt-out buildings were to be found, full of enemy stalkers. As I sniped one of them on 
 the top of one building, several ducked down from the top of the building and began firing from 
 the windows of the building, while others sneaked out of the building to try and flank me from 
 my right. Keep in mind, none of the AI in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is scripted into the game except for situations 
 in which scripting is needed for storytelling purposes. Another gem found in the game is its weapon 
 ballistics. All of the weapons have incredibly realistic capabilities. Using different ammunition 
 types will increase or decrease range based on the weight and type of the bullet. Bullets drop 
 realistically, and when sniping at long range a coriolis effect can be noticed. Silencers increase 
 recoil and your weapons jam and break with use.
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is very impressive graphically. It takes full advantage of HDR lighting and uses 
 this very well to convey the atmosphere of the game. GSC designed S. T. A. L. K. E. R. so everything 
 would look beat up and forgotten, and they did this very well. Nothing in the game is shiny, most 
 objects are covered in decay or rust, even the sun has a "cold" feel to it. Unfortunately, all 
 this taxes very heavily on your system. To run S. T. A. L. K. E. R. well, one must have at least an upper 
 8 series card and a Core 2 processor. Unfortunately, GSC didn't optimize this game very well.
 
  
  The sound in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is good, however i find it to be its most lacking point. The only music 
 in this game is an eerie ambient soundtrack playing during your exploration of the Zone. It really 
 doesn't provide much atmosphere, but gives you a moody, dark song to listen to while you pick off 
 barbarians with your Vintorez. The gunshot noises are alright, they sound great but several guns 
 use the same noise when they fire. The voice acting is good and conveys emotion and atmosphere, 
 but again, several actors in the game use the same voice. I feel like GSC should take a leaf out 
 of Valve's book for sound design. Sound can also be a bit buggy at times, as you'll notice the 
 recoil in some weapons before the gunshot actually plays.
  
  All in all, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl is a ridiculously immersive and highly atmospheric 
 game. It does contain several bugs that will trump you in areas of gameplay, but many of these 
 can be patched. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. will appeal to fans of both FPS and roleplaying genres, as parts 
 of it cater to both sides. I'd highly recommend you play this as soon as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JwresB
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. takes place in the future in the Zone, an area surrounding the melted down nuclear 
 reactor at the Chernobyl power plant in Russia. You play a character who showed up with no memory 
 and only a single clue: the words "Kill Strelok" on his PDA. You'll get a little bit of help getting 
 started again but soon will be on your own and solving the mystery - and trying to reach that goal 
 of killing some guy named Strelok, too.
  The combat in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. comes often and it is brutal - if you usually play FPS games on Normal 
 difficulty, put it on Novice here. It's a tough game and combat moves quickly. You can easily get 
 surrounded and taken out if you're not careful, and your aim is going to have to be impeccable 
 - you will require an order of magnitude more ammo if you're not getting headshots more than half 
 the time. This is because most of your enemies are wearing very protective body armor.
  The mostly-open, Fallout-style post-apocalyptic world is really engaging and its basis in a real-life 
 event makes it that much more interesting, but the frustrating gunplay, high difficulty, and lack 
 of transportation can get on your nerves pretty often.
  If you love shooters and post-apocalyptic looking game's then you should pick this game up for 
 sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: audiophyle
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl is a game unlike any other. The game takes place in an alternate-reality, 
 centered around the events following the Chernobyl disaster in 1986. 
  
  At the core, the game is an exciting shooter, but there are lots of RPG-style elements that the 
 player needs to consider when playing through the game. You have equipment that you must manage 
 since the more each piece is used, the more it degrades, and you can't simply whip out a repair 
 kit and mend your suit or fix your rifle. You also have an endurance bar like many games, so if 
 you're overloaded with equipment, you'll have to stop and catch your breath once in a while. This 
 can be balanced by finding artifacts that give you bonuses to different stats in addition to endurance. 
 You must also eat routinely, or your endurance will eventually wither away until you cannot move. 
 Weapons span the usual fare for shooters. Counter-strike fans will feel right at home with the 
 detail of the weapon models. You have your combat knife and various pistols, lots of rifles, like 
 the GP 37, RPGs, and a few different types of sniper rifles. Many share the same ammo and attachments 
 (like scopes and grenade launchers) , but many don't. There are many types of dangers in the game 
 that will take your life if you aren't careful, but suits help mitigate these issues. Suits provide 
 differing types of protection with increased stats for things like radiation, bullets, explosion, 
 impact, rupture, electric shock, and so on. Since the game centers around Chernobyl, there are 
 areas littered with pockets of radiation, and later on in the game if you aren't wearing the proper 
 suit, you won't be able to continue in the game until you in fact have the proper suit. That's 
 not to say you'll ever be stuck in the game with the wrong equipment. 
  
  The game is played in a completely open environment, so you can always go back and fetch equipment 
 you may need to accomplish the current task at hand. When I say open, I mean it. The game world 
 is huge, and it would take you many hours of exploration to see all of what the developer, GSC, 
 created for us. Unfortunately, however, much of the world will likely go unnoticed to all but the 
 most hardcore of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. players. This is simply because most of the side quests beyond 
 the main missions are not really worth doing, which you will realize fairly early on in the game. 
 There are several that will be easy to complete, whether it's destroying a camp of boars or dogs, 
 or finding a family heir loom, but once you realize the distance you have to travel (through hell, 
 mind you) to return the item or receive you reward, you'll probably end up deciding that your time 
 is better spent elsewhere. You can buy and sell equipment for different types of guns, ammo, medicine, 
 food, but I ended up only buying a few things since you end up finding nearly everything off of 
 corpses or in storage containers (other than what I consider one of the best suits in the game) . 
 You can trade with any friendly NPC, but since they won't buy guns or ammo, and they have very 
 limited funds, so you won't use this option often. There are a few merchants in the game, however, 
 and their funds are seemingly unlimited, and they'll buy generally whatever you have on you. There 
 are "anomalies" sprinkled throughout the game, which will seriously hurt or kill you if you aren't 
 careful around them. For instance, one called a vortex will drag in any living thing, like a mini 
 black hole, and there is almost no way of surviving it. Most of these are easy enough to see in 
 the game world to avoid. The enemy AI is decent, although they will always yell at you, which gives 
 away their position most of the time. Otherwise, they will find cover and move in groups to try 
 and to flank you, but I rarely found it challenging unless there were dozens out to get me. The 
 combination of the enemy AI and the anomalies to trip you up on occasion will make you tread lightly 
 throughout the game.
  
  Quests, conversations, enemy descriptions, and your diary are all recorded on your PDA. I found 
 it to be useful when completing my main missions, since it guides you to exactly where you need 
 to go. I did find, however, that there were a couple of instances where my side quests seemed to 
 be broken. because I couldn't complete it some quests according to the PDA even though I had talked 
 to the appropriate people, or the object I was looking for simply was not there.
  
  I found the graphics and sound to be very good, despite a slightly dated graphics engine that will 
 remind you of Half-Life 2 (which in my opinion, isn't necessarily a bad thing) . The game I played 
 before this one was Crysis, and I thought S. T. A. L. K. E. R. still held up pretty well. The environments 
 are top-notch and the atmosphere is unparalleled. When you first step out of the cellar, you'll 
 notice a vast countryside with broken-down rusted-out buses and cars, dogs with no fur running 
 around in packs dragging around and snacking on the nearest corpse. You'll hear echoes of screams 
 and gunshots in the far distance, and in the safer areas, the NPCs will talk amongst themselves 
 in Ukrainian, and play the guitar on occasion. The NPCs will stop playing and defend their camp 
 sites if they are fending off dogs, mutated boars, bandits, or military factions. As you adventure, 
 the day becomes night and your best friend becomes your flashlight. The flashlights in this game 
 are mounted on your head, and they never run out of juice, so when you're being attacked in the 
 pitch-black of night, you'll never be without some form of vision. Suits you obtain later on have 
 night-vision, and although some are better than others.
  
  The whole experience of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a unique one, and one I won't soon forget. It's one of 
 the scariest games I have ever played in terms of the fright factor. Nothing makes me jump like 
 walking through an abandoned nuclear lab in the pitch-black darkness with only my flashlight for 
 seeing, hearing the dripping of the moisture on the walls, with a breeze echoing through the halls, 
 only to be ambushed by a mutant who can cloak himself. If you've played the game, you know what 
 I mean. That said, the story-telling wasn't the best I've seen in a game. The cutscenes are few, 
 but they are animated and acted well enough. The problem is that the scenes don't typically reveal 
 much. There are several endings one can obtain, depending on your choices through the game, and 
 some are more rewarding than others in that you may not get the answers you want if you choose 
 the "wrong" path. There is an "evil" route/ending, which is judged by the reputation you have with 
 NPCs, which may be fun to try during my second time around for an extra challenge. The game is 
 rewarding in any case, even if you'll be left with some unanswered questions. Beyond a few bugs 
 here and there, I found the game to be an amazing experience. If you're looking for something unique 
 and immersive, and if you're chomping at the bit in anticipation of Fallout 3, give this one a 
 look.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PipeBigboss
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Summary
  
  This game was interesting, the story is developed in Chernobyl the place of the nuclear disaster 
 in the year 1986. The game takes place in the year 2010-11 and is interesting the story. There 
 were a group called STALKERS that protect, live, died in a place called the "Zone". The Zone is 
 a strange place where are some factions or groups that defend it or that is searching to destroy 
 it. That place is full of strange monsters or creatures that at the beginning you think must be 
 the radiation but the story showed more aspects. One of that STALKERS starts the road without memory 
 to the center of the zone. In the main center of the zone is a popular myth called the Monolith 
 that can give a wish to the person that touch it and arrive there is complicate.
  
  The game:
  
  I played several times and there are some "False Finals" and two Real finals so 
 if you finished it remember there are more finals, so if you don't saw more keep playing. 
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are great but this game is amazing with the structures and the places. 
 The relation between the real places are amazing, the park wheel, the Ghost city Prypiat, the Chernobyl 
 plant, the THQ and GSC team worked hard in that places and they do it.
  
  Sound: Good but not enough could be better.
  
  My Recommendation:
  
  If you don't play 
 it you are missing a great story, in some aspects could be real thanks for the locations and places, 
 also the story takes you into some places and then takes you into a changes, so play it is my recommendation 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Origin-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  I've Beaten stalker about 4 times now, each time with a different ending and I think It's time 
 I wrote my review on it. 
  
  Stalker: Shadows of Chernobyl is a first person/role playing game based in the Zone, an area surrounding 
 the Chernobyl PP. It's combat system, atmospheric ambiance and story are what really make this 
 game one to remember.
  
  I'll start off with the story aspect of the game. Without giving anything away, I can say that 
 Stalker has a very unique plot and twists throughout the game that bring you closer to understanding 
 what your purpose is. It starts off leaving the player with questions that want to be answered. 
 All of them are answered as the game progresses and you start to understand why everything. I really 
 appreciated and respected the way they decided to unfold the story to the player, instead of just 
 slapping you with everything at the beginning. It takes smarts and a good sense of understanding 
 to absorb the story as you go along as things start to connect and make sense. But even if you 
 don't get it as it happens, you still have a chance at the end, and that's if you choose the correct 
 path in your game, for everything to be explained to you point blank.
  
  The atmosphere is something that has grabbed every players attention. The game is contained in 
 a post nuclear Zone filled with mutants, mercs and radiation. The landscape is dead and abandoned 
 while factions take up camp in these deserted locations and call them their own. Where ever you 
 look you can think of a story behind it of why it's there, it's this that leaves the player wondering 
 with a sense of imagination. 
  
  The zone is an open world that leaves the player able to create their own ambushes and strategies 
 giving to play out fire fights any way they choose with their own sense of cover and combat. This 
 is what makes stalker's combat system great. You never feel like the game is on rails because every 
 battle is different. Enemies will flank, rush, take cover, ambush and even throw grenades at you. 
 The enemies have just as much life as you do which evens the playing field out. With this, Stalker's 
 combat has got to be one of the most innovative first person shooters. 
  
  In conclusion Stalker is a fantastic game with much re playability and contains many great game 
 mechanics that make it one of the best games of 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  STALKER was meant to see the sun several years ago. Waiting for this game was hard at the beginning, 
 and then we forgot about it. 
  This game gave us the tour to Chernobyl. It showed us with it's own story that mankind can go on 
 a very wrong path.
  Enough of my philosophies.
  
  The game was great in few things. The effects when you cruise on the surface, the anomalies, the 
 underground caves, the mutants, the other stalkers... amazing! But when I got a quest to go on foot 
 10+ kilometers, then I got a little disappointed. I liked the ore that you can find and other radiated 
 stuff witch grants you bonuses, and in the other way - it takes some stats/resistances away.
  The inventory didn't finish it's job enough. 99/100 of the game I was with 59.9 KG, I barely stayed 
 alive :D. Could've made it better.
  
  I played it 5 hours! Too much for me to play a FPS! I got great equipment, guns, armor, granades, 
 THE GAUSS RIFLE ROCKS!!!!
  I got reputation 1600+ and 170 000 RU, I thought I was on the right track to finish this epic quest, 
 and I forgot to check onto the "kill Sterlok" quest. Got to the final place - and I got very edgy 
 when I saw my end...
  
  Worth the time, worth the money, but there are many bugs... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  STALKER: SHADOW OF CHERNOBYL
  
  The year is 2012, six years after a second meltdown occurred within a Chernobyl nuclear reactor. 
 The land of has been deformed and left with many abnormalities, deformed wildlife and men known 
 as STALKERS who scavenge the area of Chernobyl, looking for valuable artifacts. Awaking from a 
 road accident, you are left with amnesia, a tattoo on your arm that says STALKER and a PDA with 
 an instruction to kill a man named Strelok. With little choice you must complete jobs for the men 
 who saved your life, find out who Strelok is and discover your true identity. 
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R: Shadow of Chernobyl was in development by GSC Game World since 2001 and the game 
 was met with many delays and setbacks over the course of its production. The final result is certainly 
 ambitious, with a mix of First Person Shooting and horror elements. Yet it is quite clear from 
 the opening stages of the game that this was an overly ambitious project, lacking the definitive 
 polish of so many other shooters. 
  
  The world of Chernobyl is a rich setting and one that we have not seen too often in other shooters 
 before. Certainly from a Ukrainian developer there is a quite a personal story to be told here 
 and you can really appreciate the efforts that GSC have gone into trying to model the environments 
 on its real life counterpart. They have stated in their development diaries that their "newly-created 
 X-ray engine allowed near-photo realism." Yet sadly the game suffers from some poor visuals, with 
 a horribly drab and grey colour palette and some very flat textures, lacking in normal mapping. 
 Character models too, while often well detailed, seem slightly blocky and stiff, particularly in 
 the animation and physics. The latter is particularly noticeable as bodies lay on the ground with 
 limbs in various comical yoga positions. 
  
  Yet given the quality of the smaller indoor areas, with strong lighting and shadow effects, one 
 could attribute the poor outdoor visuals to the size of the game world. While the developers originally 
 wanted a world without load screens the higher graphical quality of the planes of Chernobyl had 
 to be cut down in size. Thus there are 18 different zones to travel through around the Zone, broken 
 up between load screens. You will visit many of these as you take on various tasks from your saviors 
 at the beginning of the game and also when you meet others along the way who will offer optional 
 missions too. While some have tagged STALKER as an RPG, these do not feel as though they contain 
 any moral choices but whether you would just want a job or not. If you do you will have to endure 
 much backtracking and travel. 
  
  Some of these missions range from killing a rookie S. T. A. L. K. E. R, to collecting data files, or 
 defending a base from opposing factions. In what is supposed to be such an advanced open world 
 these missions feel quite simple, with basic fetch tasks. The finale in particular feels overly 
 drawn out and feels as though it belongs in another game, away from the scavenging missions of 
 the beginning of the game. 
  
  It can also be confusing as to what the missions have to do with the main plot, which leads to 
 STALKER's more significant issues. There is a such a fascinating world in Chernobyl and yet the 
 plot of the game is surprisingly poor. Much of the story is conveyed through text and allows many 
 details to feel unengaging and uninteresting. It is a strange design decision given that some characters 
 have verbal dialogue but many others do not and also because of the amount of the time the game 
 was in production. Surely they could recorded some more lines of dialogue. For a story so personal 
 to the developers it feels as though they have missed a opportunity to tell something moving and 
 poignant. We never see the real victims of Chernobyl, the humans that survived and had to live 
 on, only monsters and killers, searching for riches. The factions you encounter along the way also 
 feel undetailed and lacking in any memorable characters. You may never remember what their motives 
 or ideologies are, as you may have in other games like Deus Ex. 
  
  Where STALKER does excel however is in its chilling atmosphere and fierce gunplay. This is a relentless 
 and dangerous world, and the gushing winds that soar around you and the barks of the mutated wildlife 
 you encounter, accentuate this. The underground areas are even more frightening with some terrific 
 ambient noises. You will find yourself turning around, checking to make sure that there is nothing 
 behind you. This is easily one of the scariest games on the PC. Perhaps the developers could have 
 pushed this even further by not showing you anything at all, leaving the monsters to your imagination. 
 More scripted moments would have added some spontaneity rather than just relying on the erratic 
 nature of the AI patterns. 
  
  There are a variety of different foes you will encounter such as mutated boars, savaged dogs and 
 various other bloodsuckers. These are more gross than scary, perhaps resembling something from 
 a low budget Peter Jackson horror movie. There are human opponents too as you would expect and 
 these come in the form of other S. T. A. L. K. E. R's and heavily armored soldiers. The AI is very uneven 
 and quite bizarre at times. Soldiers will quite often take cover in gunfights and try to flank 
 you by circling around your position. At other times though they will seem oblivious to the fact 
 that you are shooting them in the back or that you have gunned down their friends. On one humorous 
 occasion there were half a dozen soldiers trying to all get through the one door at the same time: 
 they failed. When you see NPC's spawning right in front of your eyes you just know that the game 
 sadly does not have the polish and slickness of other FPS like FEAR and Half-Life 2.
  
  Luckily the gunplay is kept quite tense due to the assortment of weapons you will have at your 
 disposal. By completing missions you will receive money that will allow you to buy or trade weapons 
 off other STALKER's. Eventually you will have access to many highly powered assault rifles throughout 
 the game and All of the guns sound terrific, loud and efficient. The way in which you can hear 
 bullets ricochet off cover, and the very unpredictable AI, keeps the gunplay fun and exciting. 
 The only downside is that the hit detection on some weapons feels quite off at times. You will 
 often empty a clip into an enemy and it will look as though they have been left unscathed. It is 
 meant to depend on the range of the weapon and its condition too (they will weaken and jam overtime) 
 but it sometimes seems as though there either aren't enough hit animations for enemies when you 
 strike them or the weapons are just a bit underpowered. 
  
  Much of the tension is also derived from how vulnerable you are in the game. Only on the second 
 difficulty, of which there are four, I found this to be a very, very tough game. It only takes 
 a few shots for you to meet your end. You have a health bar that will regenerate slowly over time 
 but this isn't Call of Duty 4. If your health gets too low you could die of blood loss, with little 
 indicators appearing on screen to warn you of your fate. You have an RPG-like inventory so that 
 you can carry an assortment of goods like artifacts, guns and bandages to help you. 
  
  Sometimes though it would seem as if the game is stuck between realism and its game mechanics. 
 While you can die of blood loss you can also carry health packs that will instantly revitalise 
 your health, or you can eat tins of pudding to do the same. One of the more annoying things to 
 accommodate for is radiation. If you step into a radiated area, of which there are many, you will 
 have to use an antidote and race away from the area. You also have a stamina meter and if you carry 
 too much junk in your inventory this will run out very quickly. This can be extremely annoying 
 when you are running away from gunfire only to see the words appear on the screen "you're too exhausted 
 to walk" and be stopped dead in your tracks. 
  
  It can also be a chore to have to balance out your inventory and stamina realistic or not. The 
 stamina is perhaps at its worst when you must travel great distances of Chernobyl on foot. You 
 have a limited ability to sprint and there is no fast travel in this game as say in Oblivion. The 
 developers were originally hoping to implement vehicles into the game and this would have greatly 
 changed the nature of the gameplay and obviously cut down on some very boring and tedious travel 
 time. For those eager enough there are many modifications out there can add vehicles and other 
 goodies to the game. 
  
  There are some interesting twists to the FPS genre in STALKER: Shadow of Chernobyl, but perhaps 
 not all of these are particularly welcome. The game is too difficult to be enjoyed as a pure shooter 
 and the story is too convoluted to become memorable. The atmosphere and setting however are still 
 worthy of mention and the soon to be released prequel should address many of the issues here. This 
 is an ambitious title but it's initial concept is more successful than the long awaited outcome. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is great but a bit dull with out modes, I hate the way they messed up the gun names and 
 on the M4 the ejection port is on the wrong side. But this game is great it has so many enemies 
 to kill from bandits and mercs to cloaked blood suckers and rabid dogs. The game play is new and 
 fun it sucks that you cant join any factions and they never fixed the kill counter so it says you 
 killed 3000 people when ya only killed 17 but thats OK the game play is great creativity never 
 stops in this game, the scavenging is hard and fun, the killing is satisfying and the game takes 
 a while to beat, the guns are great and the grenades are better but you use pieces of crap literaly 
 until the ending of the game which is probley the last 30 minutes of game play. Ive played this 
 game time and time again it never stops to impress me, its fun but the only flaw id say is ya have 
 to have a super computer to run it on full blown graphic settings but its worth it the graphics 
 are have the game play and the sound is one third. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenewau25
Rating: 7
Date: May 30, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  stalker is a game that took 5 years in long develompment! it supose to have huge areas and rpg 
 elements the ability to upgrade buy and sell, NO
  
  stalker is a survival fps that starts without much of story and it ends the same way there are 
 no skills you have to scavange weapons and armor to survive in harder situations and collect artifacts 
 lying around to sell them and MAYBE you find something to buy cuz mostly you get nothing the areas 
 are linear first map then keep moving till you reach the checkpoint and load the next map, but 
 theyll be times that you got to go back , also if you want extra money (what for there is nothing 
 to buy or to choose what to buy since there isnt any ) and you can do sidequets like find that 
 item or kill thsoe guys compared with deus ex or postal 2 the game is a dissapoitment and the story 
 too also the word map is linear and doesnt give you freedom ot much stuff , for example there are 
 no towns just a base that youll fin some stalker and another base later on, 
  
  I TOLD YA THIS IS NOT RPG A GOO STORY ACTION GAME AND IT DOESNT HAVE BIG AREAS OR TOWNS OVERALY 
 EMPTY GAME!
  
  Sound and graphs are ok you may encounter some bugs, you can carry few stuff about 50 kg you get 
 real hard time to get ammo, weapons are average and nothing special, lack abit mobility and damage 
 the ai ducks all the time to be more accurate never misses and looks like bots just get a good 
 armor and you wont take much damage if you dont ahve one you gotta keep pressing a key to use banadages 
 insgtantly, 
  
  well plenty of killing compared wiith the crap we get nowadays its an ok game!
  
  BUT for its 
 release date its short buggy and dissapointing, if you are one of the new gamer you propably dont 
 mind, but if you want soem fun and violence and wanna see bigger areas and freedom and you dont 
 care about realism go for postal 2 trust me if you gave this 8.5 you give postal 2 10!! its like 
 playing GTA in FPS, and thats how this game should be too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leorules666
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  You are walking down a road, the sky is gloomy and dark and there is a melancholic feel to everything 
 as you hear the wolves howl and gun shots fired off in the background, however at that point you 
 grab out your gun, load onto it a silencer and scope and aim into the surroundings. From the looks 
 of it you can barely make out a form of shimmering light before it leaps towards you screaming 
 hisses of fury and terror whilst you blast it with all of your ammunition however; your gun jams 
 just as you're about to pump the last few rounds into it's sickly flesh and you're forced to equipt 
 your side-arm and fire into it finally killing the creature. However, in this time you realised 
 you didn't equipt a silencer onto the pistol or forgot to when you bought it from the dodgy Russian 
 trader and a nearby patrol of heavily armoured nomads hears your fire and begins to duck behind 
 trees and fire at you, but this time luck is on your side and as you see them about to unload all 
 hell upon you they are savaged by a large pack of hungry vicious wolves and half of the squad go 
 down. At this point you happen to notice on your radar several friendly troops *a sigh of relief* 
 as you run towards them and gather your friends for a counter-attack. They tell you of radiation 
 near the armoured troops and that if we are to scavenge what little they might be carrying we should 
 carry anti-radiation measures. They pass a bottle of Vodka followed by medikits created specially 
 by scientists for extra protection. By now the sky is dark and many of the troops who are not carring 
 new suits of armour are lacking nightvision and are scared as they must rely on their puny flashlights... Luckily 
 after doing several trade and assassination missions for a group of Ecologists you have a suit 
 of body-protection with night-vision mode. All appears to be going well before one of the enemies 
 fires a high calibre sniper into your leg, and you are immediately slowed down by the bleeding. 
 You use a bandage being careful of time as even opening the inventory screen does not pause the 
 game. You decide then to go it alone perhaps, and crawl slowly like a serpent towards the enemy, 
 making sure the noise bar does not elevate too high or you will be detected. You raise your knife 
 and right click to slam the blade directly in a stabbing motion, the trooper cries out in agony 
 and the others turn and begin to open fire but not quick enough for you have already gathered a 
 rare shotgun and begin pumping ball bearings into them, before changing ammo to a dart in order 
 to shoot those further away. The battle is won and the team and yourself check the bodies for ammunition 
 and supplies.
  
  Hopefully that describes well enough what it will be like for anyone to play this game. It starts 
 off with you as a an amnesiac S. T. A. L. K. E. R. called 'The Marked One' and you must essentially be 
 the **** of the group you have found yourself in and rise through the ranks, fulfilling tasks including 
 assassination, trades and gathering intel in order to pay for new armour and weapons, whilst staying 
 friendly with the bosses and new-found friends.
  
  It works at a really quite well pace too, once you have felt like the soldiers/renegades/dogs/hogs 
 are starting to get tedious and repetative, you move onto a different even harder group of marines/mercenaries. 
 At one point I found myself crawling through a darkly lit tunnel, my shotgun low on ammunition 
 and zombies all around me. In the darkness I could hear what is known as a Snork. Snorks are the 
 most horrible creatures I have seen in a game, and remind me slightly of lickers from Res Evil 
 2 but much more pissing annoying. It leaps at me and just in time I pump a shell into it's face, 
 however this has only slowed it. It prepares itself and I time it right and get it again just as 
 it comes towards me, blasting Snork brains allover the ceiling. My ammo was running low and i was 
 scrambling for anything that the zombies might be carrying. I think i'm deviating a bit from the 
 point here. The point is this game could essentially be the first person successor to Resident 
 Evil 1-3 before it completely lost the point of being a SURVIVAL game, caring for ammo and whatnot. 
 Which this game definately is.
  
  The main hub is pretty well done, you have a health and armour-status in the bottom right hand 
 corner, with sound and bodily position in bottom left. You also get a very nifty ability to attach 
 5 'artifacts' onto your body. This gives the game a certain RPG element to it (which many definately 
 approve of) as you can modify certain elements of gameplay, such as being immune to radiation or 
 being able to run endlessly.
  
  Some people do complain however (and this is the games one fault) as it does have several bugs 
 within it... However, these have been pretty much completely irradicated by patches which are easy 
 enough to install and fix the game. The game also carries a hefty amount of mods on the internet 
 which are really quite fun, such as being able to drive broken down cars, new weapons, new armour, 
 constant night etc. It even features a family guy mod where on one of the T. V's it has an episode 
 playing.
  
  The inventory in the game plays very well as it adds on to the whole realism factor of not pausing 
 whilst going through items, and each item having a certain weight to it and that sort of stuff. 
 You can only carry about 50kg worth but between 50-60kg you are semi-encumbered, and so lose stamina 
 rapidly. 60+ and you cannot move.
  
  Weapons are a very good part of the game, with roughly 10+different machine guns/ rifles. 4 different 
 Shotguns (+ variations using ammo, rare shotguns etc) and 10+ pistols (+ Extra ammo variations, 
 addons such as silencers) . Many of the machine guns are also customizable with addons such as underslung 
 grenade launchers, a few different scopes, silencers and the like. Armour comes in many variations 
 for example the Ecologist body armour is a prevalent protector of natural hazards like fire, radiation 
 etc but lacks damage reduction from physical attacks (i. e. gun shots, wolves/dogs) whilst there 
 is an exoskeleton which features absolute protection against most variable damage "Should protect 
 against anything less than a 1Kilotonne Nuke" is what I believe it says in the description, which 
 also adds a minor sense of dark humour.
  
  All in all, this is possibly one of the most unique games i've played recently and deserves all 
 credit possible. I mean, the developers even lived around the Chernobyl incident so all of the 
 areas are to detail and realistic.
  
  I managed to get this for 9.95 off Amazon. Even if you don't like the game as much as I do, 9.95 
 is definately worth every penny. Thanks, enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  =Preview=
  
  STALKER Shadows of chernobyl is a one of game with strange theme. Complicated story (u will confuse 
 when u first play this game) , but with best environment and best graphics as you can see. Make 
 it the best horror-action-thriller gem in the year (i recommended to have and play this game) .
 
  
  =Game play=
  
  The game play combine FPS and role-play game, you can shoot change weapon find the enemy and kill 
 him, and also you can save a medicine, artifak, or other useful tools to your inventory. This game 
 have widely map you can explore. You'll find bandits, strange animals or creatures who fill find 
 to kill u. in single player you starring as a soldier who take on insomnia and front on chernobyl 
 environment with nuclear installation tion, bandits, and strange infected creatures. in multiplayer 
 mode you'll find ancient gameplay with deathmates, find the artifact, but with impressive action.
 
  
  Graphics=
  
  STALKER Shadows of Cernobyl maked with special graphics engine with environment will bling2 ur 
 eyes. characters have a good detail, almost never lower frame rate or blindspot i has seen. but 
 if u wont to play with the best performance and quality. you must upgrade ur computer with mainstream 
 specification at least. but i sure you will spent ur time to play it.
  
  =All performance=
  
  STALKER is a one of the game who u must play, with the best AI who will 
 take ur enemy's s hide and shoot u from the back. Best action with awful environment to explore. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chakkerz
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  The worst civilian atomic accident that is.
  
  Stalker is ... nothing short of amazing. The only game i can think to compare it to is GTA IV (i 
 never really got into any of the other GTAs so others might also match) and Oblivion. These comparisons 
 are often made, and since my review is not near when this game was released it is fair to say especially 
 Oblivion comparisons are extremely common. But there is a difference, at least for myself:
  
  Chernobyl is real, the world is real, the map layout is not, but that does not affect that 
 the game world is (dare i say it again?) real. You walk across the landscape and despite it being 
 a Sci-Fi game with Sci-Fi creatures and Sci-Fi setting even 14 month after its initial release 
 the game world still strikes me as living, breathing and disturbing. Not the same way that Oblivion 
 is, with its innocent bystanders, and not like GTA IV with it's far more bystanders. Everyone is 
 in the Zone for a reason, and so it isn't the sandbox that GTA or Oblivion offers, but just because 
 everyone is there for a reason does not detract from the world being alive. Animals run around 
 and mind their own business until you get too close and then they may attack. They may be discurraged 
 by gunfire or they may become enraged. Other stalkers (NPCs) are affected by you in ways that neither 
 of my comparison games displays. Last time i played i met an NPC after just having fought some 
 Bandits. He had shot some himself, but completely unrelated to my own actions. Another bandit came 
 out of the woodwork and said NPC got shot in the head. To say it looked realistic is a lie, i've 
 never stood beside anyone who just got killed, but damn did it have an impact. Another Bandit also 
 approaching stepped in an anomially and was killed by it in the background. While i shot the other 
 bandit that had just killed my NPC brother in arms. Name one other game that modells this level 
 of interaction ...
  
  GTA IV (which i am very impressed with after having failed to get into San Andreas) has similar 
 things, but unlike stalker where for the most part the world is your enemy, GTA's Liberty city 
 will essentially ignore you, if you ignore it. Stalker's Zone will not. I guess what does it for 
 me is the world being so alive, the AL (Artificial Life) simulation (a cousin of Artificial Intelligence) 
 is impressive, things happen without you. I played through this game when it first came out, and 
 last weekend i got the urge to look at it again (Clear Skies approaching certainly fuels this interest) . 
 I'm about 3 hours into the game again and everything is ... completely different. The fight at 
 the Garbage played out differently, Rescuing Nimble was completely different, the fight on the 
 way to the Trainyard was different, everything is still in the same place, but ... everything also 
 was ... different. This comparison is unfair i know, but bear with me: Take Doom. I've played the 
 first level or first episode of Doom a fair few times. Not enought to be one of the nuts (and i 
 mean that in an impressed way, not at all a negative thing, i envy people that can so get into 
 a game they know ever nuance) who is inclined to do something like Quake done Quick (er) but often 
 enough to not be scared by it. Point is, you can learn Doom ... it always goes the same way. Half 
 Life 2 ... significantly different, and as a more mature person i did not cheat playing through 
 it (unlike Doom) but the same is still true. I'm playing through HL2 again and it strikes me as 
 amazing that even though the AI is different, the location of the enemy is still the same. The 
 logic is of course obvious, HL2 and Doom are scripted, but Stalker is not, and that is what makes 
 Stalker so amazing. GTA IV which (no offence, but this is true) is aimed at a simpler audience 
 (casual gamers) than Stalker (which in itself makes Stalker a snobish game) drags you along. GTA's 
 major failing (which also is its major strength) is that it takes you along for a ride. It may 
 feel like you are in control, but you are not. Enemies are in the same place and as alive as the 
 world may seem (and is) this does not carry forward into the missions (the fire fights that is) . 
 Enemies are in the same location and this is a good thing because the control scheme is terrible 
 (sorry, but it is a console and it lacks the finess of a PC game / Mouse) . But GTA is not about 
 amazing firefights, it is about developing a story. Its strong selling point is that main story 
 line mission and side show missions are seamlessly integrated, and that is true (I have to say 
 i love GTA IV, the reason i seem negative is because this is a comparison of something i feel many 
 may not consider) : but Stalker's side missions are even more integrated and seamless. You are living 
 your life and these things happen. GTA forces things on you. I don't go out all the time with my 
 friends (granted i'm no thug in real life, and thugs have more spare time from what i can tell) , 
 but Stalker does not. Seamless integration, Stalker is thy name.
  
  Ok, enough praise about the world and life in it. the game is more than a year old, so why would 
 you want this over say Crysis? Crysis again drags you along for the ride. You are free, but only 
 in confines. Same with Bioshock (which i have played through, unlike Crysis) . The engine and graphics 
 are a little dated, which works for you, because if you have a 9XXX series GeForce you're set. 
 I have a budget one and even though i'm not running at native res of my 24 inch monitor, with everything 
 on full and 1440x900 (i think that's the setting) i'm running between 70-100 fps. That's everything 
 on highest setting. There is no other argument that needs to be made here. The game is amazing, 
 it sucks you in, it scares you stupid, you can play it twice and still be amazed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyrone77
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 16, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  For many this review will be like preaching to the converted. But if like me, you've held back 
 from buying this game because, while the reviews have been good by any standards they haven't been 
 enough to take your attention away from games like Crysis or more importantly your hard earned 
 cash. 
  
  So, while I will try to follow the normal format of a review I would like to make one thing clear 
 now. This is the best game I have played in a very long time. The reason I mention this so early 
 on is because at times this review is going to sound like a rant about how remarkable the game 
 is. 
  
  Well it is. So if you want to learn why, please read on... 
  
  Any fan of Science Fiction will feel right at home with the (pseudo) post-apocalyptic setting that 
 the game places you in. But don't let that put you off if you're not aux fait with this style or 
 setting. The story is suitably paced and dialogue refreshingly spoken without the need of too much 
 techno babble. It's a story of discovery, factions, revenge and nature, that will grip you all 
 the way through each of its many different endings. You play a guy called the 'Marked One', a Stalker, 
 who wakes up with Amnesia and just one goal: 'Kill Strelok'. It's immediately apparent you are 
 smack bang in the middle of warring factions within a gritty, lawless and strange zone and you 
 are being used to do errands in return for information about this mysterious Stalker. Obtaining 
 missions is simple and they are well documented within your P. D. A, which can track where you are 
 and where you need to go. Missions are rarely a chore and most optional missions are gladly accepted 
 due to you desire to discover more. 
  
  Customisation plays an interesting part to the game but never gets too complicated; you can wear 
 different types of armour, use different bullets and scopes for your weapons and attach five statistic 
 enhancing artefacts to your belt. Artefacts are the reason why people are in this hostile Zone. 
 They are worth lots of money in the outside world for their scientific properties and as a result 
 the Zone has tempted many fortune seekers in the form of Stalkers. Artefacts are formed from anomalies 
 which are often seen and heard all around the game world. At first a nuisance you begin to recognize 
 these anomalies as very much part of the harsh world you have found yourself in. 
  
  For me, a game's graphics are about capturing the feeling of a game. CryTek built their graphics 
 engine for Tropical settings and as a result we were treated to beautiful vista, life like vegetation 
 and water that cooled you down just by looking at it. For seven years GSC built their engine for 
 a gritty, post-industrial setting and it truly shows. When set on maximum, the graphics are simply 
 stunning and capture the mood superbly. Walking through the wide open spaces or derelict industrial 
 zones gives me that same eerie empty feeling in the bottom of stomach I used to get exploring as 
 a kid within derelict work sites or abandoned quarries. That feeling is both excitement and dread 
 all wrapped up in one and never leaves you while playing the game.
  
  These moments of loneliness are gladly broken up by the meeting of both friendly and unfriendly 
 N. P. Cs, each with their own routine. Veterans of RPGs will no doubt say "nothing new there", but 
 never have I seen such organic A. I at work. Testimony to the great A. I is reflected in how you 
 decide to tackle certain missions. Again gamers will be saying "nothing new here, we've always 
 had choice". But developers often fail while trying to fabricate certain scenarios and situations. 
 In Stalker it's feels completely organic. If you choose to do a mission stealthy you choose this 
 because you want to, because that's what you would do in the same situation. You wait for darkness 
 and when you enter a building you really have no idea where a person may go or be. It's not about 
 watching for patterns it's about listening for sounds, watching for flashlights and taking your 
 chances, just like you would in real life. It's the greatest form of role-play when you really 
 feel part of the world.
  
  More often than not you will find yourself gunning down a lot of bad guys. You may at first be 
 let down by what appears to be terrible registration on bullets and completely inaccurate guns. 
 As time goes by you begin to accept that mainstream guns aren't always going to be the most accurate 
 and sniping with a pistol is never going to yield great results. However, you can rest assured 
 that you will come across all manner of weapons, yet ammo is scarce, forcing you to make each shot 
 count. It's about realism and again Stalker rewards you when you let it take you into its world. 
 
  
  As with every game, the sound plays an important part in capturing the mood and Stalker doesn't 
 fall short. If it's the distant sound of howling dogs or a claustrophobic hum of a revolving bunker 
 light, never has sound made you so aware of your surroundings. This is a game that yearns to be 
 played with all the trimming so I urge everyone to go out and buy some 5.1 Headphones or Speakers.
 
  
  To conclude S. T. A. L. K. E. R is a game that thoroughly deserves a 10 out of 10 rating, however I have 
 to put things into perspective. There are some short falls: still the game is ridden with (almost) 
 unforgiveable bugs and you are sometimes left wondering if some elements could have been done better. 
 However, this is a game that about capturing atmosphere, it's about making you feel part of its 
 world and it's a game that is strongest through the sum of all its parts. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syst3mW4rr10r
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl is a game that I so wanted to love, but it feels a bit broken 
 and rushed, particularly towards the end. At a basic level, I think it can be best described as 
 a mix of RPG and FPS, and has all the elements of a great game, but little things let it down and 
 the rushed feeling of it is hugely disappointing.
  
  Diving right in at the story, the Zone around the Chernobyl nuclear power plant that exploded in 
 1986 has recently undergone strange changes following a second "incident" in 2006. This Zone, despite 
 the Ukrainian military's best efforts, is now filled with men known as S. T. A. L. K. E. R. s who are 
 all trying to make it rich by selling the supernatural "artefacts" that appear in the area, whilst 
 dodging the dangerous "anomalies" and mutants. As well as this, there is a local tale that at the 
 centre of the Zone, in the heart of the old power plant, there is a stone that is rumoured to grant 
 the wish of the first man to reach there, though no one has yet managed to make to the power plant 
 and survive because of a field called the Brain Scorcher. You play as a S. T. A. L. K. E. R. who is discovered 
 in the ruins of a truck with no memory known only as the Marked One. The only hint to your identity 
 is your PDA which has a single note on it: "Kill Strelok". Your goal in the game is to hunt down 
 Strelok and to make your way to the centre of the Zone along the way.
  
  Moving onto gameplay, the S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a good blend of RPG and FPS, though the RPG side feels 
 a bit lacking. Firstly, the shooting. Though this doesn't sound particularly exciting, the ballistics 
 modelling is superb. Nowhere else have I found such a realistic and fun shooting model. Gravity 
 actually pulls bullets down (though only snipers have to worry about it, really) , recoil and random 
 chance scatter bullets a reasonable amount. Though it takes a while to get used to (and you really 
 need to find a gun with a proper scope to be accurate) , an hour or so into the game you'll be popping 
 headshots with every alternate bullet. However, it still demands care and reasonably realistic 
 tactics, using cover and firing at medium range. On top of this, the AI is pretty damned good, 
 especially in a game that feels rushed in so many other ways. NPCs use cover intelligently, have 
 decent accuracy and even fight well with their allies. On the other hand, they seem to have been 
 programmed with rifles in mind, so they sometimes pop at guys miles away with pistols or sawn-offs.
 
  
  The RPG side of things is sadly lacking, however. You have an inventory screen which is useful, 
 though you'll only ever really carry guns, ammo, health kits and food. Artefacts are the other 
 part of your inventory, and they should have been interesting and provide tactical choices, but 
 most of them are pretty useless. Some of them don't even do what they say, like the one that was 
 supposed to reduce bleeding that caused my character to lose pints of blood at the slightest provocation. 
 The only really useful artefacts are ones that improve your stamina, because then you can sprint 
 pretty much indefinitely (at insanely high speeds, it should be noted) . Another problem with the 
 inventory is that weapons and armour degrade over time, but unless you mod the game there is no 
 way to repair any of it, which is insanely annoying.
  
  Moving on to quests, most of the optional quests are pretty boring to be honest, most of which 
 involve "go here, shoot some guys or mutants, perhaps collect an item then come back again". As 
 such I just ignored them and instead tried to join factions and do the plot quests. Firstly, factions. 
 This was a truly annoying section of the game that has clearly been left unfinished. There are 
 two factions that seem to be joinable, Duty and Freedom, who have opposite ideological ideas towards 
 the Zone and how to handle it. You spend most of the plot quests hanging out at the bar next to 
 the Duty base, so I diverted significant energy into joining them. However, unbeknownst to me, 
 I had already missed out on my chance to join Duty because I'd done some things in the wrong order. 
 So when I got a mission from a Duty squad to shoot up the Freedom base, I jumped at the opportunity, 
 but once it was finished then all that happened was the Freedom guys hated me. And even if you 
 manage to join a faction, it doesn't actually do anything apart from make the other one hate you. 
 All in all, it's a hideous and clearly rushed section of the game that could've been so sweet.
 
  
  On to the plot quests. Most of these are pretty good, but the problems I have is with the story-telling 
 and the ending. The story is mostly told through huge blocks of text that appear on your PDA, and 
 I could never really be bothered reading it. Even if you could, using your PDA doesn't pause the 
 game, so you need to find a safe location to view it. Most of the time it is possible to get a 
 decent idea of the plot, but the details remain beyond me. At the end of the game, there are five 
 "false" endings and two "true" endings depending on what you do, and if you just follow the plot 
 quests as it directs then you end up at the false ones (which don't provide any of the cool explanation 
 that the true ones do) . To reach the true endings you have to do some (what appear to be) minor 
 plot quests which always seem to end up at the bottom of the list on your PDA, and if I hadn't 
 been told before playing by a friend that that happened I would've ploughed straight through and 
 been disappointed by the ending. That said the plot isn't particularly well-explained at the end. 
 It is a good tale, but isn't delivered all that well (rather like the whole game) . As well as this, 
 the false endings are much better in terms of gameplay, but don't really tell you the end of the 
 story. In fact, the "best" plot ending is utterly useless in terms of gameplay. Instead of a cool 
 final battle, you run around the power plant jumping through various portal-like anomalies and 
 shoot a series of guys in twos and threes which is completely underwhelming, until you finally 
 go through one portal which randomly leads to the end cutscene. It is totally underwhelming, obviously 
 rushed and horribly easy compared to the half hour previous to it.
  
  Moving to aesthetics, the graphic engine isn't particularly great. Because of the continued delays 
 in release, it is now quite badly outdated. Models are a bit chunky and some of the textures are 
 pretty ugly. On the other hand, the lighting effects are pretty good, with dynamic shadows and 
 all other such fun trickery, though the flashlight only penetrates a few metres into the darkness. 
 The graphics themselves (ie. the landscape and people) really do fit the devastated Chernobyl landscape. 
 Everything is gritty and dark green or grey, with rolling hills and forests which seem almost beautiful 
 in a disturbing sort of way. It always seems to be raining for some reason and thunderstorms are 
 frequent. The dark and dank environment is perfect. I do question, however, why all the mutants 
 seem to be the same shade of brown, but it hardly matters. The sound is good too, with the guns 
 sounding loud and satisfying, though the Eastern European accents can get a bit grating after a 
 while (especially if your other game of choice at the moment is GTA IV) . On top of this, everyone 
 else seems to make the same grunting sound when they run, which gets annoying after about five 
 seconds.
  
  There are a few other minor nits I feel I should pick. The graphics engine is a bit glitchy, with 
 little jerks common and occasional outright crashes, especially with Windows Vista. Sometimes when 
 moving from area to area you can spawn in the middle of a group of enemies, which can be fatal, 
 especially early in the game. Load times are far too long, particularly when moving from area to 
 area. There are lots of minor little glitches with quests that won't end because a dialogue option 
 is missing or an event didn't trigger correctly. Some bits of text haven't been translated from 
 Ukrainian correctly, so they refer to sawn-off shotguns as rifles for some reason and there a few 
 bits of bad grammar. I could go on, but it seems fruitless.
  
  Overall, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a game that I wish I could love and cherish, but it always seems to 
 come back and beat me because I didn't make the dinner right. The great story is told badly, the 
 great shooting sections are let down by the lacklustre RPG elements, and the whole thing is let 
 down by a poor final half hour. Minor bugs and glitches hamper what should've been a great experience. 
 Publishers, stop rushing your devs. Let them be like Valve and produce masterpieces that take them 
 years longer than they say it will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 12, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  - Graphically, out of the gate Stalker isn't going to win too many awards. The environment can 
 come off being static, and some of the character models, and faces could have used improvement. 
 I should note this has been an issue with me since the initial release of this title.
  - Even though the environment can come of bland, and drab in the color department, and some of 
 the environmental fixtures are somewhat static, hey what do you expect when most of the areas are 
 wastelands? What sets it apart is most of the areas feel lived in, or occupied. The world around 
 Chernobyl feels lived in, almost vibrant in an eerie sort of way. 
  - Environmental lighting, weather, and smoke add to the features of doom and gloom. This experience 
 even though nice does let off feels that you don't want to be here.
  - Frame rates off both of the rigs I have showed very little frame rate hiccups even when using 
 the ATI X1950XTX @ 1400 x 900 on a dual core AMD. Now on the ATI HD3870, with an Intel Q6600 I 
 can run this title on highest available settings, at 1680 x 1050 with zero frame rate issues.
 
  
  
  Audio / Sound:
  
  - The audio in this game is nicely accomplished, nice directional audio, and additional environmental 
 audio to accentuate to the doom, and gloom as well as give life to the area.
  - The voices, speech, and weapons sound nice, and I didn't feel as if they were tacked on. I could 
 actually tell what type of weapon was being fired by sound in some cases.
  
  
  Game Play:
  
  *Single Player:
  - The single player is huge, and robust. The campaign almost 
 comes off like a current to a future Elder Scrolls: Oblivion type of play style. You have what 
 you can carry, your body armor which can protect you from different things, your ammo, food, and 
 bandages. All of this is based off of a weight limit. Start exceeding the limit, and you slow down. 
 Go over it by too much, and you are immobilized. 
  - The story in some points can be slow, and confusing. You will find yourself running all over 
 the place, and trying to avoid radioactive zones. Some missions can be marked on your in game PDA, 
 but there was some issues going through that certain missions could not continue on if one of your 
 main allies would die.
  - The weapons and game play in game could turn some players away, because this title is unforgiving 
 on the run, gun, and spray mentality. In game you must you cover, you must watch your flanks and 
 you must use fire discipline. Not following this mentality you will not hit your opponents when 
 needed, and you will just go through the limited amount of ammo you have, and further risk increasing 
 damage to your weapon. All this goes into the worst case scenario, which is your avatar's untimely 
 death. 
  
  
  *Multi Player:
  - Multi player can be extremely fun; I have played Stalker at numerous LAN parties with friends, 
 and have had a blast. The major issues I have are in team death match you have neon armbands. So 
 it kind of helps you stand out like a sore thumb.
  - The net code for me had a tendency to head south sometimes especially on quite a few public servers, 
 in a LAN format I was more appeased with the performance of the game. 
  - The game modes offered are standard; the title offers the standard death match, Team Death match, 
 and Artifact Hunt. All good, and the maps are in my opinion are well designed. The maps can host 
 from large groups 32 players to as small as a two-player duel.
  
  
  Additional Thoughts:
  
  - This title really done well in my eyes, it's not an overly simplistic 
 game; the weapons actually require a hunter-killer mentality. The storyline in my opinion pretty 
 much forces you into making valuable choices which impact the overall survivability of your avatar.
 
  - I can only really have two complaints with this game, and other users have voiced this same 
 issue. First, in this game where are the females? I cannot recall seeing any. Last umm, where are 
 the vehicles?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_post_office
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Let me start this review off by saying that i can't believe that gamespot didn't rate this game 
 over a 9.0. I bought this game knowing that the premise was cool and i thought it would be something 
 different to play. I was right, but still way underestimating this game. STALKER is a chilling 
 first person shooter that also has something very innovative going for it: an RPG element. As i 
 said before this is the best single player game i have ever played on the PC, and it at least tied 
 with the MGS games' single player campaigns. There are so many things to do in this game that i 
 was blown away by it. There are only two things wrong with this game. 1: The multiplayer feels 
 incomplete, but still offers up some competitive STALKER gameplay that, within a week, you will 
 be addicted to, i guarantee. 2: Lag issues may pop up sometimes but are easily fixed. These two 
 minor setbacks do not, in any way, make the experience of this game anything less than unbelievable. 
 I can go on and on about the great aspects of the game, but i will just have three here. 1: Giant 
 environments, loads of weapons, upgrades, suits, and factions make for a massively customizable 
 experience for any FPS or RPG gamer out there. 2: The premise, creatures, and story of the game 
 are incredibly unique, which is very refreshing considering most games are bland shoot-em-up action. 
 3: It is very creepy, and will have you on the edge of your seat at all times, especially in sequences 
 when you are underground or in some kind of structure at night, knowing there are mutants waiting 
 around every corner who wish to feast on your flesh. Over all, this game is an amazing experience 
 that should be missed by no one, and at only 20 bucks, who can argue? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nothingsaid
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  This is truely a fascinating game. The play reminds me a lot of several games combined. I'd say... 
 think Half Life meets FallOut, meets Morrowind. It has a Russian post-apocalyptic feel to it, great 
 graphics, and an innovative combination of gaming genres. It is a quest-based game, minus the grinding. 
 It is an RPG, minus the knights and dragons. It is a sci-fi mystery, minus the space ships and 
 lazers. It is a thriller, minus the ghosts and undead. It's really kind of unique, and fun to play. 
 You really feel like you're walking through forign territory with dangers around every corner. 
 The AI seems to lack a bit in that they get lost and distracted easily, even when you're not being 
 that sneaky, and there is a bit of buggy clipping at times, but for the most part a very solid 
 game that is fun to play. You can really sink a lot of hours into it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  After years of PC gamers waiting for STALKER, was it worth it? Thankfully, it was. It's original, 
 unique, challenging and ambitious. It's a must have for all PC gamers.
  
  The game takes place in post-nuclear Chernobyl where stalkers, soldiers, bandits, faction members 
 and mutants roam the land. The map size is 30km squared which isnt as huge as other games, like 
 Oblivion but it doesnt need to be any bigger really. The outside world is full of derelict houses, 
 factories and is full of radiation anomalies so you have to be careful. Everything looks very realistic 
 in the game. It's not what you would call a 'beautiful landscape' unlike Oblivion but it looks 
 really damn good in the gloomy sense.
  
  Underground environments look even better- as soon as you turn on your flashlight everything casts 
 a dynamic shadow that moves when you move. Definitely the best lighting in a game ever- fact. The 
 underground areas are more eerie- you often hear crashes in the distance and wierd noises from 
 mutants. There's this super-cool invisible mutant that uses its mind to lift up objects and launch 
 them at you. It just looks so cool when you are underground and crates and pots etc are mysteriously 
 being lifted up and hurled at you when you cant see anything!
  
  There's a dynamic weather system in STALKER too- wind picks up that effects you and like GTA, days 
 pass and so does night: but each second does not count as a minute. Days take way longer to pass 
 in STALKER. In the day the Zone looks like a gloomy wasteland and at night it looks much more scary. 
 
  
  There's tons of weapons in the game too- there's lots of assault rifles, pistols, shotguns and 
 sniper rifles. The combat in the game will be frustrating at first- you'll be dying often most 
 likely but you soon get good at it. You cant go in all guns blazing. Well, it's very rare for you 
 to do this unless your fighting basic enemies. Your guns are way more realistic than most games: 
 You have to fire your guns in short bursts and crouch more for better accuracy. They jam occasionly 
 and you need to reload when this happens. There are many types of different ammo too. 
  
  The enemy AI in the game is really good too- enemies will take cover behind things and they also 
 shout things at you too which is cool (though I cant understand it because im not Russian) . Each 
 type of enemy fight differently too. However, enemies such as military, Freedom faction etc take 
 in an alarming amount of shots before dying: even if you shoot them in the head they wont die in 
 even 2 hits. The weapons are realistic but why enemies have so much health I dont know, most of 
 them will take more bullets than you.
  
  You can trade with people in STALKER which is nice because it's easy to get more essential items 
 that your running short of. You can also buy items or sell your own. Items inlcude weapons, food, 
 medpacks, radiation medicine, ammo, grenades, artifacts, maps etc.
  
  The missions in the game are varied and non-linear. You will work for more people as you progress. 
 As well as the main missions, there are tons of side-missions to do for extra money or to gain 
 weapons. There is also an arena where you fight other stalkers for rewards. You can do missions 
 at your own pace- you are free to explore the Zone as much as you like. This is fun just to explore 
 or to go and look for items, kill enemies to get your rank up etc. There is a multiplayer here 
 which is OK but I cant be bothered to describe it to eb honest with you.
  
  The graphics in STALKER are really great too, especially the lighting as ive said before. The textures 
 are all gritty and realistic and the rust effects look superb. I love the way the grass and trees 
 blow around according to how powerful the wind is. Outdoor doesnt look quite as impressive as indoors 
 but still looks damn good with a large draw distance and tons of long grass and rusty wrecked cars. 
 Chracter models look good. You'll need a fairly powerful PC to see it at its best but it will run 
 quite well on DirectX 8 static lighting on a low end PC. Overall STALKER runs pretty well on most 
 PCs in general. 
  
  However, the load times are really bad. Each area has a seperate load time which doesnt sound like 
 any big deal really but it takes a lot longer most games and you'll soon get annoyed with it. I 
 suppose it takes longer to load because the world in the game is constantly changing but im not 
 totally sure since other open world games like Oblivion load way faster.
  
  Overall, if you are a serious PC gamer then you NEED this game. It's huge, has lots of replay-value, 
 is totally unique and provides an unforgetable experience.
  
  RECAP
  Pros:
  + Large, realistic gameworld with lots to do
  + Realistic weapon handling and satisfying combat
 
  + Excellent graphics and lighting
  + Tons of weapons and items to use
  + Good multiplayer
  
  Cons:
  - Long load times
  - Unrealistic weapon damge
  - You should 
 be able to carry more weight without being tired out so fast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  The problem with the many games from major brands in the PC industry, is that many games are devoid 
 of any personality. 
  Many games lose their special 'touch' in the long development, gametesting and market analysis. 
 STALKER, fortunately, isn't one of those games.. which gives some other problems I'll talk about 
 later.
  
  First and foremost STALKER is a FPS title with some light RPG elements. And as such you'll probably 
 feel a bit lost in the beginning, because the game has a very loose mission structure. It's up 
 to you to find the missions that'll progress the story - which in turn requires that you talk to 
 a lot of people. 
  
  Beginning in the area around Chernobyl, you'll soon find out that the (alternative) future is a 
 bleak one. The area is swarming with animal mutants, and even human ones. What exactly made all 
 these creatures doesn't require much thinking, but in the vague storyline you'll get hints to some 
 other source of importance. 
  
  Whether or not you'll get to that point is up to you, as you'll have to find out for yourself what 
 is going on - and here some of the problems with this game rears their ugly face.
  Some NPCs, especially the mission critical ones, will suddenly stop in the middle of a mission 
 and look blankly into the sky... (If you save the game and load it again, they'll usually continue) 
 .. but you'll encounter many bugs in the game. Fortunately, not many showstoppers, but many confusing 
 ones. Like the mission map represented by an in-game PDA. 
  Tasks are plotted on the map, but sometimes they lead you in the wrong direction, or sometimes 
 they show the wrong objective in a mission. 
  
  Fortunately you'll be able to progress anyway, but you'll have to search a lot longer to find the 
 actual objective. 
  This is a just an example of the less refined qualities of the game. Some extended testing might've 
 removed the more frustrating aspects.
  
  But the firefights in STALKER are some of the best in any game. Not only does the weapons feel 
 right, and have the right sound, but firing them reveals the quality of a given weapon. Some of 
 the weapons you have earlier on, as the shotgun and Viper 5 submachinegun or the Fort 12 handgun, 
 requires a lot of bullets to get a few shots in. Still, firing them doesn't feel futile, as you 
 still be able to hit opponents with some skill - and as the earlier enemies have the same weapons, 
 you'll be able to win over them by finding cover, and aiming for the head. 
  
  Later on you'll find assault and sniper guns, then 'one shot - one kill' is possible, but at the 
 same time finding bullets gets more complicated, usually you'll have to buy expensive ammo at the 
 traders scattered over the area. Basically the firefights are as intense as they can be, and as 
 they are frequent (though not too frequent, theres a nice balance between the areas being dangerous 
 - not flooded with enemies) it makes this aspect of the game particularly impressive.
  
  Talking about the visual design of the game, its nearly flawless. 
  The developers has modelled 
 the actual area around Chernobyl in painstaking detail. Walking in a building with only the skeleton 
 of the roof left, roots cracking the tiled floor and shadows cast realistically on the stained 
 walls, makes for an unforgettable experience. The X-ray engine developed in-house may not be the 
 most complex graphics engine out there (that title goes to Crysis) , but just like the Source engine 
 from Valve, it gets the job done in an impressive way, and its possible to run this game on lesser 
 machines as well (meaning not the top of the high-end) . Better yet, the visual design of the game, 
 with its bleak rusty-brown tones, helps you get immersed in a believable atmosphere.
  
  The sound and music of the game is worth mentioning. The sound effects are absolutely incredible 
 - from the sound of the rifles to the growl of the mutants - even the sound of enemies panting, 
 are very detailed and life-like. Some of the people in the game speaks russian, which helps to 
 the immersion factor (only very slightly ruined by the critical NPCs who speak english with a russian 
 accent)
  
  All in all, STALKER: Shadows of Chernobyl is an impressive effort, and if it weren't for the many 
 small bugs, this game would've been a classic. As it is, it is a recommended experience for the 
 discerning player. Especially the gamers out there who likes an unique game with a great atmosphere.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Read Full review and score breakdown here: 
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2223,0. html
  
  Shooters have long experienced a certain lack of open-world gameplay and choice. Since Doom, 
 FPS games have essentially been long walks down corridors with people trying to blast you away. 
 Only several gems such as the Far Cry and Crysis series have really tried to mix up the genre with 
 greater choice and larger environments, but even those games eventually boil down to outshooting 
 a group of foes. Finally, GSC Game World decided to release STALKER, which promised FPS like gameplay 
 mixed with RPG elements in a wide-open game world with brilliant AI. Announced in 2001, the game 
 was delayed several years and finally released in 2007. Surprisingly, the game is among the best 
 of the year and brings a lot of innovation to the genre...
  
  Just as in most RPGs, you play as a Stalker with amnesia named the Marked One. You are found in 
 the wreckage of a truck and discover that your mission PDA contains the mission to kill a stalker 
 named Strelok deep in the Zone. The game takes place in massive levels representing the area in 
 and around Chernobyl, in the year 2010.
  
  At its heart, STALKER is primarily a shooter. It has some RPG elements in that you can go and do 
 what you want in the context of the game world, but there are no things such as stats or power-ups. 
 The game relies on your skill and picking up ammunition and supplies. Your character needs to constantly 
 make sure that he has undamaged armor, good-condition weapons, and is even kept fed.
  
  The game immediately throws you into large vistas and outdoor environments each of which could 
 take a player several hours to traverse and explore. You'll soon start to notice how the radiation 
 has affected the area, with different mutants running about and various anomalies subverting the 
 environment. Some of these anomalies provide artifacts which confer different abilities. Some enhance 
 your endurance and running speed, while others protect you from radiation, but also confer some 
 problems, such as increasing your bleed-out rate.
  
  The weapons in the game are fantastically rendered and varied. The weapons fire extremely realistically, 
 lacking the arcade feel of most recent shooters. Bullets actually drop as distance increases, meaning 
 you have to adjust your shots for this. Also, your weapons actually wear down as you use them, 
 meaning you can't keep the same gun for the length of the game as they eventually start to jam 
 more frequently. The fighting demands the use of cover and adaptive fighting. Combat AI is extremely 
 impressive, with humans hunting you down and flanking around and into buildings. Animals attack 
 you aggressively and are extremely frightening, especially during the night. When you pick up enemy's 
 weapons and inventories, you discover that your character has a weight limit of how much he can 
 carry. Surprisingly, this carries over into the game in that the more you carry, the more your 
 movement speed is slown down. It really adds to the game's sense of depth.
  
  Getting back to the AI, it is simply impressive. The zone actually feels alive, with different 
 factions and animals all trying to go about their daily tasks. Characters range from lone stalkers 
 out on their own to various factions that you can ally with or battle. There are also a wide variety 
 of mutants, from the mutated animals to mutated humanoids to zombies and poltergeists, making an 
 above-average variety of enemies, both for FPSs and RPGs. 
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s main story is the length of an average shooter at 10 hours, but this does not 
 include the plethora of side quests or simply exploring. The story itself might be simply hard 
 to figure out because of the delivering of the game's story and dialogue through text. There are 
 also multiple endings, but some are surely more satisfying than others.
  
  The multiplayer component doesn't really measure up to the campaign. All you basically get is deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, and a capture the flag-like mode. While fast-paced, there isn't nothing cool here 
 besides the Counter-Strike-like economy system. There are definitely much better multiplayer options 
 out there.
  
  For an engine that was conceived more than half a decade ago, the X-Ray engine in STALKER is instantly 
 impressive. While not sporting the best textures, the combination of lighting and draw distance 
 simply create an immersive atmosphere. The environments are mostly bleak, but everything is rugged 
 and wild, with a sure sense of variety permeating the zones. Entire apartment blocks are rendered 
 and even the interiors are enterable and detailed. The sense of exploration is marvelous, and it's 
 the little details that make the difference. 
  
  Even more impressive is the audio in STALKER, which is simply phenomenal. The outdoor sounds are 
 simply marvelous, with grass rustling and birds squawking overhead. When you enter a dark environment, 
 the sheer eeriness of the planks creaking and mutants simply plodding around the corner really 
 get the heart beating. Weapons sounds are incredible, and the crack of assault rifles in the distance 
 lets you know that trouble's ahead. While the voice acting is a bit hard to understand, the game 
 is set in a foreign country, and this gives another layer of authenticity to the game.
  
  STALKER is a surprise hit, especially because of the game's unique and evolving world. Both RPG 
 players and FPS players will appreciate the game, with the wide open environments and items, and 
 extremely intense pulse-pounding combat. The atmosphere is perfectly expressed through the graphics 
 and sound. This is the pinnacle of FPS/RPG hybrids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sevrinus
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  The last time that I remember enjoying a game, like I do this one, was way back then I first played 
 through Deus Ex. (Which has prompted many more replays over the years) . I have enjoyed many great 
 games over the years, but there was always something special and different about Deus Ex that set 
 it apart from all games since.
  This game gave me some of those old feeling again. 
  You'll want to search the land scape, bodies, hidden caches for the chance to find that artifact 
 that will give a bit better protection.
  Checking each body or dropped weapon for a new or special weapon.
  A story that leaves you actually 
 wanting to find out the back story. To follow that side branch to see if it explains things a little 
 better.
  Ok, reminiscing aside, this is a good shooter. It has solid shooter mechanics. You'll want to be 
 more tactical, since you'll need to use the right gun for the right distance. With each gun having 
 many different stats, like damage, accuracy, handling, rate of fire. Then take into consideration 
 it's condition, and you have more to think about then just aim and shoot.
  Once you find your weapon finding your missions are pretty easy. Getting there might be a cake 
 walk, or you might run into packs of mutants, military, bandits, etc. The world moves around all 
 the time, so getting through the zone will keep you on your toes. Sure you might have to run through 
 the same areas a few times, but since others are traveling through also, may they be friend or 
 foe, makes each trip feel organic.
  Also they used bandages, radiation, med kits with a much more realistic feeling. You get shot, 
 or scratched by a beast you'll need to stop the bleeding with a bandage. If you are low on health 
 you'll need to eat, or use a medikit to speed up healing. Unlike most every other game, where a 
 medikit is instant healing, you'll have to take 5, or hide for a little bit to recover your health.
 
  The story is good, and offers different endings based on either your choices through the game, 
 or if you follow a side story, you'll have a choice at the end of what to do.
  With lots of side quests to do as you wander through the zone, as you complete main story quests, 
 and throw in that each time you search a dead body you might find the location to a secret loot 
 that might have that next great weapon, artifact, armor. All that makes for an experience that 
 feels like there is more then one reason to move around, more organic, then just travel from point 
 A to B to move the story forward.
  Graphics are good, and with all the community out there for this game there is a wealth of changes 
 and upgrades to the graphics and game play now. I'd recommend adding at least the weather 2.1 mod 
 as the day/night sun or rain really looks great with it.
  
  Multiple endings, Many quests, Artifacts, Organic Moving World, Solid FPS, and A Great Story. What's 
 not to love? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magusat999
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Stalker is one of those openworld, do-as-you-please games that you can just sit down and mess around 
 with, without pressure to "finish" the game. Heck - I've played it at least 400 hours, about 4 
 times, with and without mods and have yet to finish it. When you play it, you really don't feel 
 like you HAVE TO finish it .
  
  That doesn't mean there isn't a story to play through. There certainly is - but you have to discipline 
 yourself to try and stick to it. There are a plethora of distractions along the way to attempting 
 to finish the story - you just want to go further and investigate any little oddity you see. In 
 the same vein as Morrowind, Oblivion, Gothic, GTA - the story takes a backseat to the "extracurricular 
 activities" and ou can easily clock in a lot of hours without even touching the storyline. But 
 unlike the others, STALKER has a clear, defined story to follow, and you won't get lost when it's 
 time to come back to it. (I don't know how many times I returned from screwing around in Morrowind 
 and then thought - "What the hell was I supposed to be doing next? I forgot?) . There a great balance 
 between open-worldness and tight integration with the storyline.
  
  The graphics are mostly okay, but I found them to improve with the updates and mods. Be careful 
 with some of the mods out there - I had one game that I applied a "balance mod" to - and it balanced 
 it alright, balanced it so that everyone was wiped out except for me - which doesn't help for your 
 faction membership or missions...
  
  Because the free-roaming nature of the game is integrated with the story (it doesn't restrict you 
 when you are on a mission) , Stalker offers many ways to complete your goals. Are you supposed to 
 kill someone? Well, you can walk up on them and befriend them first; you can talk to them and turn 
 around and kill them; you can trade with them - and then kill them; you cancause them to be killed 
 by monsters (get some monsters angry at you and then lure them to your marks position; you can 
 even snipe them from a safe distance if you prefer. There are as many ways to complete a mission 
 as there are directions to walk. Tres Cool...
  
  There are areas that you have to figure out before you can enter, secret spots, and unlockable 
 missions. Lots of things to do in Stalker.
  
  The controls are precise, movement is spot-on - the only thing I wish they would have added is 
 the ability to use vehicles, because it can be slow going from one place to another on foot.
  
  All in all, STALKER makes for a great game experience and a good time-waster, lol. I recommend 
 it for anyone who like openworld action games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: themanofsteel18
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Stalker is a first person shooter set in the radioactive wastelands of Chernobyl.
  You play as a character known as "marked-one" who is currently suffering from amnesia, your main 
 goal is to eliminate a stalker known as "Strelok"
  Stalker has a open ended environment with a day/night cycle and a weather cycle which gives the 
 atmostphere a realistic tone. The gun fights in stalker are realistic, meaning your weapons arn't 
 very accurate and you cant take much damage either. The A. I is fairly smart, the human opponents 
 will try and flank you along with covering fire ect, although these features sound great its extreamly 
 annoying because they sometimes shoot through cover which you cant.
  
  The mutant A. I is poor, all they do is jump out at you and just try to overwhelm you which is very 
 fraustrating but very scary. There are loads of weapons at your disposal, and little attachments 
 you find throught the game e. g. silencers, grenade launchers, scopes. There are also diffrent types 
 of ammo which you can load your weapon with e. g. standard and armour penetrating.
  
  Sometimes in stalker the questes will reset when you attempt to activate them which is very annoying, 
 some questes take you so far away you cant even be bothered to go back and gain the reward.
  
  Overall i think stalker is a great game, so if you like adventure or fps's, Play this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwastie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  First this could have been one of the best games ever, it had a great plot, great layouts, and 
 game play but it really is let down buy poor game design and forward thinking.
  
  The plot and atmosphere of the game is great,
  
  The graphics for the time the game was made 
 were well put together, lots of detail places to hide, spy and kill your foe, but you soon start 
 to see cracks in the game play, here are just a few:
  
  
  shooting is just luck, these guys have the best armour of any game, only head shots count - very 
 poor 
  
  zombies are half dead but in this game they can still shoot you in the head like a marksman at 
 200 yards - poor
  
  everyone but you walks around with slippers on, but they can here you from a mile away, come on 
 if you could sneak around the game would be so much more fun.
  
  multi player- every one moves so quick its like looking at a Benny hill show.
  
  I do recommend 
 this game but you will be reloading over 1000 time in the game ... no joke... DEAD RELOAD GAME.... DEAD 
 AGAIN RELOAD GAME.....
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: archerus
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it, sometimes games just get stuck in development hell, and from a gamers point of view, 
 nothing can be worse than seeing a game that looks amazing one year, fall off the radar the next. 
 For many, this was certainly the case concerning S. T. A. L. K. E. R., a game that seemed like it would 
 never come out. Fortunately for us though, it did.
  
  And I couldn't mean that more, because the experience that someone is going to take from this game 
 is certainly worth the time it took to put it together. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is the perfect example of 
 a game the benefits not from having one excellent gimmick, but several well done aspects that come 
 together to make an unparallelled gaming experience.
  
  Take for example the following situation. When returning to your home of sorts after completing 
 a certain task, you come across the bodies of some militia who tried to hold you up at a checkpoint. 
 At the same time, other S. T. A. L. K. E. R. s are also moving through the area, and a certain confrontation 
 catches your eye. it seems one of the grunts you shot on your first time through, didn't quite 
 die, and lays injured on the ground. In a purely unscripted moment, a S. T. A. L. K. E. R. removes himself 
 from the group of friends, silently walks over to the moaning body, and assassinates him, with 
 one merciful shot to the head. 
  
  The scene leaves you feeling like the world really is alive, and is just one of many examples.
 
  
  With an atmosphere and game world that is top notch, the gameplay better match, and it does. The 
 firefights add a sense of urgency, making you feel like you actually NEED to take cover, or else 
 you wil die. And yet its not done as a flashy game mechanic like Gears of War, but just a necessity 
 of the combat. Combine a satisfying combat system with great A. I., interesting and varied level 
 design, and some light RPG elements, and it quickly becomes apparent why you waited so long for 
 this game. The single player experience is one that just shouldn't be missed.
  
  In terms of multiplayer, while the game modes are nothing new, the combat remains interesting and 
 should satisfy most gamers. One nice addition is GSC gameworld's take on capture the flag, which 
 in the case has both teams racing to grab the same artifact and return it to their base. The twist 
 is that the artifact can be turned into a hazardous anomaly at any time, permanently added to the 
 map for the end of the round. There is a slight experience structure to multiplay, but your ranking 
 resets after each round, which is disappointing, as it would have been nice to see a Battlefield-esque 
 structure to the rank system. Also, the omission of a Co-op mode, or an arena duel mode (which 
 oddly appears in the single player) is troubling, as the game certainly seems like the perfect 
 candidate for both.
  
  Overall, its an experience that shouldn't be missed. It looks great, it plays great, and with the 
 mods that have been coming out recently, its only getting better. The Zone is one world you won't 
 want to leave. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marco1402
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  The gamespot review actually says it all. It's a logical next step in the genre. Combining the 
 role-playing (some adventure) and the shooter genre. 
  
  I liked the start of the game, the 'mission out hander' at the beginning is very recognizable for 
 role-playing game enthusiasts. The map of the game is what you expect a next generation shooter 
 to have. Half-life doesn't have this kind of 'reality on it's own' game environment; a game like 
 GTA does. And its exciting at first. 
  
  But when you progress into the game, you can get a bit frustrated with the long walks back to get 
 the rewards for the missions. And speaking about the missions; some of the side-missions are broken, 
 which is very frustrating if you like the role-playing part of the game. A 1-st person shooter 
 enthusiast won't be bothered to much by a bug like this. 
  
  There is one mission for instance where you have to take over the freedom fighters stronghold with 
 the help of some soldiers. One of them gave you the mission and will give you the reward afterwards... but 
 what if he gets killed during the mission?! 
  The mission is a success and on your map the place is marked where the leader of the soldiers is 
 supposed to be to hand out your reward. But then you find out that the leader is not there (he 
 got killed) and all the others have no clue about any reward. You cannot end the mission. Hm, that's 
 just weird. 
  
  Besides these minor bugs, it's a fun game and a blast to be walking around in this world. You get 
 to go to Chernobyl and have some good old fashioned Rambo shoot-outs. And although the game as 
 it is, is exciting for what it is, I couldn't help having a feeling of even a more ambitious experience 
 still would have been possible within this world (like more in-debt character building, more meaningful 
 affiliation with organizations etc.) But that feeling can only arise within a game that gives a 
 lot of gameplay already. 
  
  All in all this is the direction I always wanted the shooter genre to go in. 
  thumbs up for 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aslag94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  The game take place in the near future where a second explosion has occured at Chernobyl. People 
 known as Stalkers enter the zone to get rich by selling artifacts created from anomolies, strange 
 disturbances that do anything from generate electricity to lifting people in the air and crushing 
 them till they explode. You play as The Marked One who just woke up with amnesia and the only clue 
 to your past is a mission on your PDA to kill Strelok. And from there the long adventure begins 
 to recover your memory and to find out who this Strelok guy is. The gameplay in this game is unique 
 and definitely fun. Similar to an RPG you find different sets of armor and TONS of different guns 
 along your way. Your inventory is managed through a grid screen like RPG's and you are restricted 
 by a wieght limit. Weapons and armor will degrade and eventually break with use, and there is no 
 way to repair your gear. This adds a sense of survival in that in order for you to survive you 
 MUST go out a search for weapons and armor on a regular basis. You could also buy it, but money 
 can be hard to come by in the first few areas, namely because the first trader is a cheat who buys 
 your stuff for little and sells stuff for almost twice its real value. Just looking through the 
 number of weapons and armor is cool. Not only is there the regular types of equipment but there 
 are unique, one of a kind items with special properties. Your character doesn't level up or anything 
 but his resistances can be improved by equiping artifacts. However there are very few that dont 
 have a negative effect, most early artifacts give you constant radiation and cant be used that 
 effectively. Gunfights in the game are really quite realistic and getting perfect head shots is 
 difficult.
  
  You can take on side quests or just explore, there is a bunch of other things to do besides the 
 main story. And you'll want to explore, GSC must have some of the best level designers because 
 you can see that the areas get more and more depressing as you get closer to the NPP. The areas 
 include the Cordon, the area where the game starts is home to rookie stalkers, and Yantar, which 
 is home to alot of zombies. Yes, zombies, but its not the resident evil kind, no, these ones have 
 guns and they know how to use them. The wide range of mutants you encounter make great adversaries 
 but you mostly fight other stalkers, and thats not a bad thing because the AI is really smart. 
 They take cover and will slowly advance upon your posistion. The A-life system just makes things 
 more realistic. Once I came upon a trio of stalkers under a bridge. One sat by the fire, playing 
 a guitar while the other two were guarding the bridge. All of the sudden they became alert. A group 
 of seven bandits had gotten up on the top of a nearby hill and began shooting down at the stalkers 
 with pistols. But the stalkers responded with a hail of gunfire from their AK-74u rifles and shreded 
 the bandits. This all happened at random while I stood off to the side and watched. You really 
 feel like your in a living world.
  
  Once you beat the game, there is a sea of mods out there. STALKER is a very modifiable game. Some 
 mods just change the stats of things while others completely change the gameplay, such as ABC, 
 Faiakes Mod, and Priboi Story. This is a really great game that anyone who likes shooters should 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fewes17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  When I first played S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl, the whole experience felt a little dreamish, 
 since it was something so far away from any other game I had ever played before. Being a Fps/Rpg 
 the map is pretty huge, and it's always fun with a change of pace instead of run n' gun gameplay, 
 but the game has a few flaws I'd like to point out.
  
  1. Bugs - The game is very glitchy. When I first played it I had some wierd graphical bugs, this 
 later turned out to be my graphics card, which I had to download some old drivers to for it to 
 work properly. Some game flaws like unloading the Rpg-7 (Which makes the rocket loaded disappear) 
 or firing the grenade launcher (I have to fire it first, no round comes, then I fire it again, 
 and then it works fine.) kind of destroys the flow of gameplay for me, but never the less, none 
 of these flaws are big enough to avoid the game.
  
  2. Side-quests - Every single side-quest in the game (Except a few "special missions") is either 
 "Kill the soldier/stalker/bandit", "Destroy the group/lair of  
 at  locationnameMutant limb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JazzVoid
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  At the first look - the game is based on book, "Picnic on the sidelines", by brothers Strugatsky. 
 But as far as you start playing, you see less than average shooter.
  
  No game realism, bad shooting system - you get just a shooting range. But instead of stuffed toys 
 for prize you get medicine. The atmosphere is awful. You can see a lot of animals and people, that 
 looks like you are in destroyed park or something like. No feeling of danger. Zone is too friendly. 
 In the book, Zone was deadly. Anyone can surive, just you must hold a gun.
  
  Yes, the good side of game - graphics and no "preload" waiting, like in TES. Can't say anything 
 good about the AI - people keep trying to hide behind barrels, etc. Animals and monsters are too 
 stupid. Can't interact with boxes, benches, like you could in Half-lfie. Aiming doesn't work as 
 normal aim, such you can see in Infiltration or any COD. Bad gameplay at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HooahDOc
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who has read any of my other reviews from any other sites realize that I am not the conventional 
 reviewer. My background is different. Several years ago, I evolved into what others would describe 
 as a "jaded" gamer. Having grown up in the golden-era of PC Gaming, I find most of today's offerings 
 to be over-hyped garbage. 
  
  There occasionally does arrive an exception, however, and STALKER is that exception. The story 
 is fantastic, the setting is great, the graphics are wonderful, and the gameplay is top-notch. 
 Whether you're a storyline fanatic (in which case I ask, "Why not just read a book?") , an item 
 whore, or, in my case, a heartless random murderer, STALKER has something for you. 
  
  My main complains about this game regard its initial release -- it was as unstable as Britney Spears. 
 After several rounds of game therapy and rehab, however, version 1.0005 is completely stable and 
 without any of the previous setbacks of the release version. Throw on top of that its current retail 
 price of $19.99, only morons would not quickly pick this one up. 
  
  9/10. Go buy it. If I like it, anyone will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblyth
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  buy this game so great make u die with its greatness bad things ar that it may lag i dont know 
 if thats just the windows vista dont know but first your a dude who just emm i forgot anyway the 
 best place is the train bit i hope it doesnt lag on this laptop let all hope plz lol lot of space 
 for it but good game have lot of space like black & white 2 i got this game in asda lol dont know 
 why im putting that in but the guns are good but there is no M4 thats a bad thing i got a mod for 
 that. the time see this it mite be on the game or not dont know buy it plz buy it lol ok good game 
 5/5 9/9 10/10 20/20 100/100 right buy it bye bye buy it dude ok this is needed more words great 
 game ill buy it if i were u ok hmm need more words ok bye bye bye and thank yu for reading this 
 review buy the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfsebastianII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  OK, so i feel as though after many weeks i've kind of 'finished' playing Stalker, enough to write 
 a review. This immediately brings me to one of the best things about the game, which is that because 
 of it's relatively free-form nature, even when you've finished the key storyline you can call up 
 earlier saves and go off doing extra mission, s cleaning up loose ends and basically just hanging 
 around the Zone.
  
  The game has a satisfying blend of FPS/RPG, which is what i find myself increasingly looking for 
 these days.
  
  you feel really involved and, although without the initially-planned vehicles there's a bit of 
 walking around to be done, even that adds to the feel and atmosphere of the game. The 'real time' 
 aspect, with constantly changing weather and daylight/nighttime, is another atmospheric feature.
 
  
  my only criticism is that it takes a while to get your hands on a really decent gun, unless you 
 work at getting a lot of money quite quickly, and the shotguns are really disappointing.
  
  the bugs are well-documented, but version v1.005 is pretty solid, with the AI only flipping out 
 occasionally - also if you try and take an unusual route to somewhere you can find yourself trying 
 to navigate a half-realised map.
  
  There's some false endings, one of which i got and which made me feel a little disappointed before 
 i realised where i'd gone wrong.
  
  The final battle around Chernobyl itself is great though.
  
  It's a fantastic game, really 
 absorbing and well worth getting. i'd also strongly recommend trying to get hold of the metal tin 
 version if you can, for its Zone map and Survival guide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ekstrakt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow over Chernobil is a fine game that is a bit surprisingly buggy, or better 
 said a bit premature released. It suffers from some minor bugs, and they ruin the overall impression 
 of the game.
  The game follows the period after the Chernobil disaster, putting the player in the role of a Stalker, 
 making it's way into the Zone, looking for artifacts and lost and forgotten "treasure packs". It 
 connects with the real life through the happenings about the city of Pripyat, a ghost town deserted 
 12 hours after the disaster.
  The graphics is as to be expected, good looking, good use of the light in the game, very interesting 
 presentation of the anomalies, good weapon models, and the NPC models are also fine made.
  The game annoying elements are those of a unfinished programmers work, as of some quests, although 
 finished, you get warnings as unfinished or failed. Another annoying element are the long walks 
 from one point to another just to finish a quest; you have to travel long vast distances that take 
 two or more major block locations, without option for quick travel.
  The atmosphere in the game is great. You encounter all kind of creatures, from mutant dogs to army 
 forces. In the enclosed spaces (sewers, dark building) you almost feel your heartbeat.
  This game has tried to implement some kind of RPG element, in the way of classic RPG, like the 
 existence of inventory, different slots for armor, the quest method
  The good side of the game is it's open-ended gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 8
Date: May 25, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.
  
  What's to like:
  - Immersive (Breathing world)
  - Long campaign
  - Good movie CGs
  - Good shooting physics
  - Intense and spooky
  - Rich graphics with moody 
 weather effects
  - Superb combat AI
  
  What you may not like:
  - Numerous minor bugs
  - Bad quest design
  - Extensive walking (no vehicles)
  - High inventory management
  - Badly 
 designed endings
  - Poor written English
  - 600 men and 0 women!
  
  
  Story
  
  You play as the Marked One, an unknown soldier who suffers from amnesia after being recovered from 
 a truck accident. You have the inscription S. T. A. L. K. E. R. tattooed on your forearm and a PDA that 
 reads "Kill Strelok".
  
  From that point on, your goal will be to find out who this Strelok guy is in hopes that it may 
 help you remember who you are.
  
  
  Game Setting
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. takes place a few years after the Chernobyl Disaster in the northern part of Ukraine. 
 The army controls the area but people are still living inside the "Zone". Those people are, for 
 the most part, not to be messed with. There are few factions, some which will welcome your help 
 and some others that will shoot you on sight. They are composed of criminals, normal Joes and others 
 that all are interested in the riches the Zone has to offer.
  
  Yes, the Zone has what they call Artifacts which are pieces of different kind of objects that, 
 after exposure to radioactivity, grant the wearer special powers. They are very valuable and the 
 centre of everyone's interest.
  
  It will take you around 20 hours or so to go through the main story, but if you do every side quests 
 at least once, it can easily go up to 100 hours -- mostly from all the walking that will be required.
 
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  Half-Life 2 meets Oblivion.
  
  Like Oblivion, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is very open. You get to go anywhere you want to and you really feel 
 part of a living and breathing world. Day and night transitions are present. Other NPCs have unique 
 names and usually mind their own business. You can go talk to any of them and trade items. Some 
 can even give you side quests if you are willing to do them. 
  
  So you have an inventory, quests and npcs... then is this an RPG? Well, not really. Just like Oblivion, 
 there is no real leveling system (i. e. the level doesn't make you any stronger than others) . In 
 S. T. A. L. K. E. R., like most shooters, In order to be stronger, you need to get better equipment. 
 Also, the conversations are limited to accepting a mission or not, so don't expect to make any 
 tough decisions. Your actions is what matters in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. (like attacking or not a specific 
 faction for instance) . 
  
  All in all, this is much more an "immersive shooter" than anything. Don't mistake it for anything 
 else.
  
  
  Graphics
  
  In terms of graphics, story telling and atmosphere, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is quite similar to Half-Life 
 2. The graphics are a bit blocky but incredibly rich and detailed. The level design is also very 
 well done. Unfortunately, the story is also riddled with holes, and just like HL2, you will feel 
 at times that you are just doing everybody's work and not really advancing in your main quest. 
 Still, the atmosphere is for the most part incredibly intense, nerve racking and will keep you 
 glued to your chair.
  
  
  Enemy AI
  
  What makes combat so exciting and challenging is the well-thought enemy AI. They will charge you 
 when you have your back turned, take cover and run back when you do charge them, and try to sneak 
 up on you when you are standing still. They will occasionally do something crazy, like all stand 
 in a group in an open area, but those cases are isolated. Still, they will manage to outsmart you 
 a few times.
  
  
  Weapons
  
  In addition to the amazing AI, the weapons' behaviors are quite unique. Unlike most games, the 
 bullet may not end up where you shoot it. This is because every weapon has unique ballistics. The 
 accuracy and power being probably the most important ones. They actually give you a hint of the 
 randomness of your bullet's trajectory and how much damage it should do on impact -- depending 
 on the distance (gravity is considered) . This forces you to pick a weapon that fits your current 
 situation, which is neat.
  
  
  Equipment
  
  You will find different types of equipment. Food, as you do get hungry as time goes by. Healing 
 supplies, to restore some of your health or lower your radiation level. Weapons, from the basic 
 starting pistol that feels like a water-gun to a very accurate long-range automatic rifle. Armors, 
 from your basic leather suit to a Hazmat bulletproof suit.
  
  
  Inventory
  
  All this equipment has a weight associated with each of them. Your character can only take up to 
 50 Kg, after that, he can be encumbered up to 10 more Kg before being completely incapable of movement. 
 This was added so that no one could carry unrealistically high amount of "stuff" on them. 
  
  Unfortunately, this is quite a limitation. Know that 1 pistol, 1 shotgun and 1 rifle and the 
 mandatory accessories will usually fill all the 50Kg available to you. Making anything you find 
 go over the 50Kg. The impact of being encumbered is that you can't run as long as normal (lower 
 endurance, see next section) .
  
  
  No vehicles
  
  Because of the inventory limitations, you will find yourself more often than not encumbered. Not 
 being able to run is understandable to a point, but know that when encumbered, your endurance will 
 go down. Endurance is your amount of energy. If it reaches 0, you can't move at all until it goes 
 back up to a certain point.
  
  Why this is so such an issue is because even walking uses energy and with the considerable amount 
 of walking necessary to reach your destination, it gets downright aggravating to be stopped every 
 few meters. You will most likely fail some side quests because of that.
  
  
  Endings
  
  First and foremost, there are multiple, yet very short, endings (~7) . Whether they are good 
 or bad will be left to you to decide but there are a few things you should know about them. Considering 
 this is not an RPG, one can only wonder how can there be so many endings. 
  
  Well, the developers decided to make wild assumptions on your character and apply a moral to you 
 depending on certain factors and actions. Yes, the ending is a reflection of what your character 
 supposedly wants in "L"ife. Other than leaving you confused at first and probably a bit betrayed 
 by the assumptions made, they will leave you dumbfounded.
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  Although HL2 was easily forgiven for its shortcomings considering all the technical innovations 
 it brought to the gaming world, this one, unfortunately, can't get the same leniency. Like Indigo 
 Prophecy, the impact of badly designed endings hurt this game more than it should have and it gives 
 a-hard-to-describe lasting appeal.
  
  Still, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a very unique FPS inside of an incredibly immersive environment. It's 
 superb AI and game mechanics makes it a one-of-a-kind shooter that truly deserves to be experienced 
 for most of what it has to offer.
  
  
  
  - 8.4/10 for most of the game, 7.8/10 after experiencing the ending (s) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuItArLeGeNd44
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a game that has been in development for years now, so you would expect them to 
 have got it spot on. Well. Because they spent so long developing the AI (4 years or so) the graphics 
 have suffered massively. 3 years ago this game would have been revolutionary, but coming out in 
 2007 it suffered because of the graphics. Bad points over. Now, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a very good game 
 because of its amazing AI and open world which you 'live off'. You must inject yourself with anti 
 radiation jabs and fight off mutant creatures. It's all good fun. However the quest system is a 
 bit flawed. Because you live in such a large map it takes forever to get anywhere. Maybe an Oblivion 
 style 'fast travel' could be brought in to Clear Sky. The multiplayer aspect of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 is great fun. This Counter Strike/Unreal Tournament style deathmatch certainly makes for good games 
 online. Overall, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a good game but if you don't mind having below par graphics, 
 then anyone can enjoy this atmospheric shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Doom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R could have been better if it had been given some more time in developement. That 
 is not to say that its an amazing game but it has lots of problems. As a start some of these problems 
 would be a Plethora of Bugs and Crashes ( One such crash was when I walked into a camp a certain 
 way and it crashed. ) , a lack of Scary Enemies, and Repetitive Speech on the NPC's Part. But there 
 are alot of Redeeming parts such as, A huge amount of Quests.. Errr...'Missions', colorful Characters, 
 Huge amounts of Weapons, and afew extremely Surprising plot twists. Now if you like shooters that 
 are 'relatively' realistic ( you die quite easily. ) go out and buy this game, or if you like Horror/Adventure 
 game go out and buy this game!
  
  This is Half-Doom signing off.
  
  P. S
  I'm not quite sure if the latest patch cover some of the crashes, sorry 'bout that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrones
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  First few things:
  The game IS excellent
  The game IS buggy
  
  Now on with the review. While this is a bit late after the actual game release, I just replayed 
 this so I simply had to review it. It's an extremely unique game that I think shares more in common 
 with Oblivion than Halo 3. It's atmosphere is it's strongest point, it has an extremely bleak feel 
 to it, but this is a good thing. It makes you feel in touch with the horror of the real life accident 
 all those years ago. The gunplay is excellent with a wide variety of guns and weapons you can use. 
 The interface can be clunky at times, so can the 'Collect X in Y time' missions and any of those 
 randomly generated missions. There are some bugs present, which made me have to reload the game 
 a few times. However, despite this, this is an excellent first person shooter which I guarantee, 
 you will love for ages to come.
  
  Unless you hate anything slightly scary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holdenmcclure
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Now that introduction may seem pretty damning, and in its own way it is, because STALKER could 
 have, and should have been much more than it is today. Due to cut development and terrible planning, 
 STALKER's vision was severely truncated. However, STALKER still manages to deliver an intense and 
 enveloping atmosphere both aesthetically and emotionally. STALKER has a massive amount of depth 
 by retaining various RPG elements that don't cripple the realism and atmosphere of the game. Although 
 one of the most appealing features is the open-ended AI and game-play allowing almost infinite 
 re-playability. Although 9.5 in my opinion is excessive in light of STALKER's capabilities and 
 issues, but I feel I must compensate for the gross rating system Gamespot utilizes for rating games. 
 I would give this game an 11 if I were comparing this to Gears of War's 9.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl is really one of the best first person shooters ever made. 
 It makes me once again to have hope on FPS's. Sure, it has it's flaws, but it is clear that the 
 developers wanted to make great game. And in my opinion, they really succeeded.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  - Sure, it's an FPS. The genre has not really changed since Half-Life was released. 
 But I wouldn't call this a pure FPS, it's more like a FPS/RPG hybrid. The RPG elements make this 
 game rise above your average shooter. There isn't a skill system, but it's kinda more realistic 
 this way. In all things, this game aims to be as realistic as possible. Most shooters don't succeed 
 with this, but STALKER really does. It is much harder than your average FPS, if you are going against 
 two guys with shotguns at the same time you are pretty much doomed. It's also wonderful that you 
 can play the game with crosshair disabled, it makes the game more realistic, challenging and more 
 enjoyable. You have your personal inventory, and you can't carry that much stuff. Ammo also goes 
 to the inventory, so if you want to carry lots of ammo, you can't carry that much anything else. 
 The inventory system works really well. Your weapons and armor break over time so you'll have to 
 search for new stuff constantly. Though I think that your armor breaks WAY too fast, especially 
 when you can' t repair anything in the game. Gun damage aims to be realistic too, and for certain 
 armored enemies, you pretty much have to score a headshot if you don't wanna empty your clip on 
 a single enemy. I like it, it's a challenging game. AND fun. AND realistic. Now those kinds of 
 games are really rare.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 10/10
  - No doubt about that. The atmosphere in "The Zone" is absolutely wonderful, and the game is really 
 immersive too. I love to just hang around with other Stalkers (Stalker is a name for the independent 
 fame & rich seekers in the zone, you are one yourself) Most battles are really intense, since you 
 know most of the time your enemy is equally or even more deadly than you. The developers captured 
 the feeling of being around Chernobyl really well, I doubt that anyone/anything could have made 
 the game more atmospheric.
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  - Wow. This game at full settings and with several graphics mods just blows my mind. Sure, it's 
 no Crysis but daaaamn, it looks absolutely wonderful. It's rare to find a game that has both innovative 
 gameplay AND good graphics. The day & night cycle is possible the best thing about the graphics, 
 it makes the game so atmospheric and luckily it's not too fast like in Oblivion for example. I 
 have experienced a few graphics glitches but I am not going to whine about them since generally 
 the game just looks so damn good.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  - Big respect to the people who have done the ambient sounds & music for this game, just like in 
 Penumbra, they are absolutely amazing. The sound effects and voice acting is great too, it's wonderful 
 that the people actually speak Russian most of the time, it adds a lot to the atmosphere. You have 
 to have a good sound system to really experience the game.
  
  Physics: 7/10
  - Sure, the game has ragdoll but that's really basic stuff nowadays. Some objects are interactable 
 and have physics, but I would've like that all objects would have had physics. Oh well, it doesn't 
 make the game any less better than it is.
  
  Replay value: 7/10
  - There isn't that much replay value, but it's really fun to just *live* in The Zone, going around 
 gathering artifacts, getting better weapons etc.
  
  Value for money: 10/10
  - This game is not probably sold at full price anymore, but I'd still gladly pay the whole 50 
 for this game. Do yourself a favor, buy this game if you haven't already!
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 8/10
  - There are a few minor bugs, but nothing gamebreaking. 
 The game needs a quite powerful rig to run at the full graphical settings, but it's worth it.
 
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - I really hope so. I also hope that other FPS developers would take example of this game and make 
 more open-ended, less linear games.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Anyone who likes a good atmospheric game, and doesn't mind if he doesn't get to be Rambo.
  
 
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YukoAsho
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  One of the bugbears that normally prevents me from beating a PC game in atimely and efficient manner 
 is when they're buggy. Whether it be anunreasonable amount of glitches, or just a few broken side 
 questshere and there, bugs can make a game, even one as enjoyable as S. T. A. L. K. E. R, a bit of an 
 exercise in tedium. It's a shame too, because S. T. A. L. K. E. R: Shadow of Chernobyl is one of the 
 moreenjoyable games to hit the PC platform in a good long time.
  
  The game stars an amnesiac Stalker who is coined "The Marked One"soon after he is rescued. With 
 nothing to his name and not even abasic memory of who he is, he sets off into the recesses of The 
 Zone: the radioactive hell that surrounds the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. The story goes along 
 a measured pace, with few scripted cutscenes. For the most part, it'll reveal itself slowly through 
 dialog with NPCs and journals you find on the main quest arc. Despite the sparse narrative, the 
 story is compelling, with just the right mix of history, fiction, politics and X-Files-style conspiracy.
 
  
  Enemies, weapons, and allies come in a variety of shapes and sizes, ensuring that there isn't much 
 in the way of boredom. From picking off rival Stalkers with a high-powered sniper rifle, to clearing 
 out a field of mutated hunch-back creatures with a booming combat shotgun. Of course, the weapons 
 get better the deeper the Marked One goes into the Zone, including a very powerful - and relatively 
 quick-firing for asniper weapon - gauss gun. In order to deal with the enemies, it's necessary 
 to collect armor, which is relatively easy to buy or find. However, continued abuse will degrade 
 armor, making it less effective against attacks until it eventually breaks. This makes it absolutely 
 essential to earn cash, either by completing side quests or by selling items scavenged from dead 
 stalkers and various stashes found throughout the Zone. It's not going to be easy to make a fortune, though, 
 since a strict weight limit will leave players going back andforth between their objective and 
 the traders found in select areasof the Zone.
  
  Of course, enemies aren't the only danger in the Zone. In addition to patches of radiation that 
 would obviously be in the area around the nuclear power plant, oddities in nature, known as anomalies, 
 litter the landscape. Most common are three types: anomalies that will wrap their victim in a powerful 
 tornado, patches of land that will electrocute the player, and spots where the player will be burned 
 by spontaneous geysers of fire. Armor can protect from these anomalies, as can special items called 
 "artifacts" that are found in various spots along the Zone. Finding the right combination of artifacts 
 will boost the Marked One's stats, enabling him to resist impact, burning, or any number of hazards 
 that populate the Zone.
  
  While the game isn't entirely open-ended, but the spots between level loads are large enough to 
 provide plenty to explore in each area, including several large indoor complexes which prove especially 
 dangerous, including the sarcophagus that encases the ruined Reactor 4. While the graphics are 
 somewhat old by today's standards - the game was delayed several years - the tangible atmosphere 
 and the wealth of little details that await those who explore off the beaten path, especially in 
 the ruined city of Pripyat.
  
  Not everything is wonderful in the Zone, however. Despite the exceptionally long development time, 
 and even after several patches, there are many bugs in the game, some that even crash the game, 
 as well as several side quests that are broken, which can leave players confused as to what to 
 do next. Also, while the large Zone is fun to explore, it's not all that fun to walk back and forth, 
 especially as being over the weight limit will make the Marked One's stamina drain far faster when 
 he sprints. Vehicles, which were scrapped late in development, would have been very nice here. 
 Lastly, while this isn't a problem per se, especially anal individuals will notice some inaccuracies 
 in the depiction of the Zone, including the placement of Pripyat just south of the Chernobyl power 
 plant - the real Pripyat is northeast of the plant, and is somewhat larger than the game's depiction.
 
  
  However, those willing to endure the bugs and open-minded enough to ignore the small inaccuracies, 
 S. T. A. L. K. E. R: Shadow of Chernobyl provides a fascinating post-apocalyptic romp of the quality 
 not seen since the Fallout series. This is an amazing game, a treat for any gamer, even if there 
 are a few rough spots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  Stalker is an ambitious game. A very ambitious game. The hopes and ideals that GSC mauled over 
 for 6 years has led to this game, Stalker: Shadow Of Chernobyl. During the 6 years it received 
 an unprecedented amount of hype, speculation and doubts. Now it's been release for over a year, 
 does it live up to the hype and ambition. It's a both yes and no. You see, the unique aspect of 
 the game is the A-Life, a phrase coined by the developers. It's the artificial intelligence of 
 this game that governs what happens within the game world. People go about like people and the 
 wildlife act like genuine animals. Albeit mutated and fierce of course. It works really well and 
 sets the right kind of believable atmosphere.
  
  For the sum of its parts, it's a FPS RPG. Much in the same mold as Deus Ex. You don't technically 
 gain experience points nor do you summon fantastical creatures, but you can converse, trade etc 
 with people. It's also big. Very big. The land of Chernobyl is quite open, although the story progression 
 isn't. And the weakness of the side quests don't really exploit the open ended environment to its 
 true potential. Technically, each player will see the same outcome overall with the story. However, 
 like all big games like this, there's various ways of getting to the end such as joining factions 
 and what not.
  
  It's quite easy to get going with Stalker. The controls are what you tend to expect from this sort 
 of game and the weapon ballistics are quite realistic, however the game does have a tendency to 
 be quite challenging. The amount of times I got frustrated when I think I landed a headshot only 
 to find I haven't is really annoying. You can be point blank range and still miss the headshot. 
 Aside from those first few annoyances, the game plays reasonably well.
  
  Once again, the sounds and graphics go hand in hand in making an depressing yet equally fascinating 
 atmosphere that is missing in most games. Though the graphics aren't exactly mind blowing, the 
 sheer attention to detail on Chernobyl is quite staggering. It's certainly passable to say the 
 least, with lots going on and a very impressive draw distance with little to no pop up.
  
  Stalker is a big game, I reckon around 100 hours easily. The story itself is tiresomely predictable 
 in certain places, nevertheless enjoyable and the side quests are there if you want to do them. 
 Yet the rewards for taking your time away from the story is questionable.
  
  Stalker is a great game and although it doesn't really blow away the solid conventions made in 
 other games i. e. Deus Ex, it does however hold its own candle out in the midst of the gulttony 
 of FPS on the PC. You can do FAR worse than this game. I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greyzhaze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  Stalker: Shadow of Chernobyl is a game of substance. The game is entirely emmersive from storyline 
 to the large landscapes that you venture through. The A-Life is the best seen in any game, the 
 creatures that inhabit behave with such realism, you could take up Animal Planet and just observe 
 the nature of the blind dogs or infamous bloodsuckers. You might even catch a deranged body being 
 dragged between the grass by a creature that cannot be seen.
  
  A picture paints a thousand words sits true with this game. No review can ever do this legend justice.
 
  
  You play the role of S. T. A. L. K. E. R who lost his memory in a accident while escaping something from 
 the centre of the ZONE. You must fight, ally, sneak and barge your way through this epic adventure 
 to uncover your identity and the secrets of the Zone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: userlala
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  Writing this review now on my third replay of the game. ( Yes , 3rd ) . This indicates the fascination 
 a player can have, while digging into this atmospheric shooter. If you are not afraid of dangling 
 arround with some role-playing attitudes S. T. A. L. K. E. R. provides a wonderful setting in an absolutely 
 grabbing scenario, which should really pull you into the game. There are still some awful flaws 
 regarding the game-engine ( loading times in specific areas, technical quirks with graphical glitches 
 like rainshowers, repetitive dialogs and auto-quests ) but the game definetely improved from 1.0 
 to 1.0004.
  The A-Life system CAN be quite generic, but with 1.0004 it actually has come to life and keeps 
 you on your toes most of the time.
  
  Finally, if you are looking for a good looking and intriguing gameplay S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a really 
 good one.
  No game since the old days of System Shock kept me thinking about what to do next and how like 
 S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  A year, an upgrade and a few patches later was all it took for me to dive into STALKER: Shadow 
 of Chernobyl and work my way through this excellent game that suffers from being rushed out of 
 the door too soon.
  
  When I first gave the game a spin on my old computer, I had to turn of the lighting and turn down 
 some of the quality of the graphics and let me tell you, this is a game you don't want to experience 
 like this. Doing this to STALKER is like watching The Godfather on a 15" black and white TV. 
 
  
  After the upgrade I was able to Max out all the settings and enjoy Shadow of Chernobyl in all its 
 glorious waste and gloominess. The game environment is a beauty to behold and truly gives one the 
 feelings of loneliness and despair. As for the character models, well they could have used a little 
 more work for the humans, the creatures however, are just as frightening and eerie in scope as 
 the landscape. 
  
  While the landscapes are great all by themselves, you throw in some of the best atmospheric weather 
 and lighting conditions and it improves the experience a hundred fold. STALKER is simply an immersive 
 game with a wonderfully depressing world.
  
  STALKER was billed by some as an FPS with RPG elements but the only things RPGish about this game 
 seem to be the inventory, the vulnerability stats and the way NPC's can give you missions to do 
 for them. 
  
  The inventory has a harsh limit put upon of only 50 kg's which has to hold armor, artifacts, ammo, 
 guns, food, medicine and things of that nature. You can go over this limit by a little bit but 
 the downside to this is that your stamina quickly decreases and you could find yourself immobilized 
 and in a bad position during a fire fight.
  
  Artifacts that you find or acquire through the course of the game, effect the stats that dictate 
 how much damage you take from hazards such as bullets, claws, radiation and explosions. Unfortunately 
 the majority of the artifacts found in the early part of the game are only good for making a little 
 bit of money, as their disadvantages far outweigh their advantages. There are some quality artifacts 
 that can be found but most of those are awards from quests.
  
  The general quests themselves are pretty repetitive and usually require that you assassinate someone, 
 you find a certain artifact or item from a creature or you rid a small area of enemies. The rewards 
 are usually money, ammo and artifacts and these rewards are sometimes not worth the trouble. So 
 if you do happen upon a mission and you're sent out to find a weapon of artifact that you really 
 like, you can always welsh on the deal and keep the item at no disadvantage to yourself. 
  
  The gunplay takes some getting used to seeing as this game is far from a run and gun game; 
 something that took me a few reloads to figure out. When starting off, it's possible that the very 
 first gunfight is the hardest because I was inexperienced, had a puny pistol and wasn't expecting 
 a realistic shooter. Simply put, a single gunshot to the head or a shotgun blast at close range 
 is a quick way to be introduced to the reload screen early on. As the game progressed, I got a 
 bit more accustomed to the weapon limitations, the computer AI and the physics in the game which 
 enabled me to pull off those lovely headshots and collect the loot on the corpses of my foes.
 
  
  The AI is another delight of this game that is only hindered by bad path-finding. Enemies will 
 seek cover, flank and surround you and when you toss in some mutated creatures that don't care 
 if you're friend or foe in the mix, combat gets a little scary at times. There's numerous times 
 where I'd try to retreat from a firefight only to run into a pack of mutant dogs which made survival 
 a little bit difficult. Good thing is that the AI sometimes runs amok in the same situation and 
 finds themselves absorbing claws and gunfire. Oh and I almost forgot about the anomalies. These 
 little destructive, semi-invisible traps can also make a big difference in the game.
  
  This review has been gushing so far so I'll have to start hitting on some of the things I felt 
 were lacking. The anomalies themselves are too frequent to actually stick to the definition of 
 the word. You can literally see dozens of them littered across the landscape.
  
  Artifacts aren't very beneficial until much later in the game when certain quests start dishing 
 out effective little items. In all I'd say that about 95% of the artifacts are totally useless 
 or make little difference in the grand scheme of things. There only benefit comes in the form of 
 money that you get when you sell them.
  
  Not until the game was about 75% done was I actually allowed to join a faction and get into the 
 politics in STALKER. With gangs of loners, stalkers, mercs, military, Freedom and Duty factions 
 and lastly, bandits; time spent working the field between these factions is really under represented. 
 
  
  Okay, enough of the bad parts and back to the good stuff. The music in STALKER is great especially 
 the tunes played on the guitar by stalkers around the campfire or the music on the radio. Voice 
 acting was generally good and the sound effects from weather, guns and creatures were terrific. 
 My only complaint in this category is that the NPC's in the game spoke a different dialect until 
 you talked to them and then all of a sudden they either spoke English or the dialogue was English 
 when you click on them. Some subtitles would have been nice so I wasn't made to feel like a foreigner 
 in the game.
  
  STALKER was a delight to play through and was a breath of fresh air amidst all of the "me too" 
 FPS's out there. There are some bugs to the game and some ideas aren't fleshed out all the way 
 but it's easy to see this game does far more right than wrong. The best part is the prequel, Clear 
 Skies, is right around the corner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkish
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that require some effort to get into. I'm coming late to the game, so 
 have the benefit of the latest 1.0005 patch and the Float32_2.0 and raws_revamp mods. Even then, 
 there's a lot to get your brain around to start with. The text interaction feels like a backward 
 step compared to Oblivion, more like Morrowind. The keyboard controls are little too extensive 
 for my liking. Luckily I've got a keyboard that permits SHIFT & CTRL key modifiers so I can set 
 up, say, the Space key for jump, SHIFT+Space for the PDA and CTRL+Space for dragging bodies. Even 
 then, there are controls (drag is one of them) that aren't even mentioned until they're encountered 
 in the game. There are other small omissions from the manual as well. For example, the number displayed 
 in the mini map is the number of NPC in your vicinity. The manual states that it is important to 
 lower your weapon while in conversation, but it doesn't actually tell you how to do this until 
 your playing and then you could easily miss the instruction. You effectively have to press the 
 same button used to select the weapon, which isn't particularly helpful when you've selected the 
 weapon via the scroll wheel. A dedicated holster function would have been nice. I set up a key 
 to bring up the Binoculars, which effectively holsters your weapon, but you then have to reselect 
 that particular weapon to use it again. Also the on-screen mini map is virtually transparent, which 
 makes it almost impossible to make out any terrain detail, especially at night. So the mini-map 
 is mostly there to show the relative position of other characters. Coupled with an initial feeble 
 handgun that makes you feel out of your depth in the very first gunfight, you could be left wondering 
 if the learning curve for this game was really worth the trouble. I'm here to tell you that it 
 is!!
  
  Once I'd bought myself a shotgun and taken down a couple of bad guys and looted their bodies for 
 even better weapons, I was off and running. From that point on the game was a hoot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindboy19
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Imagine running around Chernobyl dressed in a gas mask and Kevlar suit, gunning down soviet soldiers, 
 mutants, and renegades with old soviet weaponry and magical artifacts. Sounds awesome, no? It is.
 
  
  The game is S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl, a game originally developed in Russia. If this 
 game were to have any glaring problems, this would be one of them- The translation to English is 
 sketchy at best, and some parts aren't even translated. My friend who speaks Russian fluently loved 
 this game, but to us ignorant masses who don't, it can be a bit frustrating. However, it also creates 
 a sense of authenticity to the experience as well. What is translated ranges from decent to downright 
 terrible, with spoken dialog often not matching the subtitles at all. The game is also plagued 
 by a massive amount of glitches that were apparently fixed in a patch later released, but I haven't 
 updated- said patch also deletes all saved games, which I've put entirely too much time into to 
 so easily delete.
  
  However, once you get past the bugs and glitches, the game itself is a lot of fun. The plot, while 
 linear, allows for a lot of free exploration, and the plot events don't feel entirely linear- you 
 have the option not to pursue plot essential quests, nothing locks you into the plot. The sidequest 
 HUD is a bit confusing at times, almost arbitrarily adding missions when you talk to a certain 
 NPC or pick up an item, but these have little consequence to the gameplay, save for some confusion.
 
  
  Where the game shines is the fun factor. The combat is intense, the AI is quite good, and the difficulty 
 is set at a pace where it's rarely frustrating, but never gets boring. Plus, the inclusion of mutants 
 and the like is a welcome touch, giving the game a touch of survival horror. For a game that marketed 
 itself more as a survival horror than a FPS, it isn't *that* scary, but what was creepy was presented 
 in such an original way that it still succeeded in freaking me out. Still, most of the game is 
 spent in human vs human combat, but the variety kept it fun. Also, the ability to use magical artifacts 
 you find around the zone to buff various attributes is a cool feature, despite overuse of said 
 artifacts eventually giving you radiation poisoning. 
  
  The atmosphere set by this game is another high point- the desolation, loneliness, and general 
 eeriness of it all is almost tangible, and the game usually leaves me feeling a bit unnerved. Many 
 of the buildings seem like they were modeled after old Soviet facilities in Chernobyl, and many 
 of them probably were. You get the sense that this place is truly a nuclear wasteland, run by crazed 
 anarchist groups and criminal gangs all fighting over the artifacts, and there you are, a loner 
 caught up in the mix.
  
  The story starts with you being picked up after a car carrying corpses crashes, and returned to 
 a merchant, who decides to help you search for your assassination target, a man named Strelok. 
 You don't remember anything, but continue to fight your way through this nuclear wasteland, searching 
 for tidbits of information on this man until you finally make your way to ground zero of the Chernobyl 
 blast.
  
  The plot breaks down in multiple areas, as there are a lot of contradictory messages going on at 
 any given time. One of the weaknesses that I hope can be attributed to the translation is the fact 
 that very little seems relevant to the central plot, and as you follow the linear plot, it all 
 seems very chaotic at times- with a single text dialog with a NPC changing everything. However, 
 I feel the real storyline is what you witness in the gameplay. While there are few in game cutscenes, 
 the events you witness portray a world falling apart, becoming more and more unstable, and eventually 
 beginning to break reality. There is something more going on in Chernobyl, and most people won't 
 find it out on their first try. This game isn't necessarily the story of one person, it's the story 
 of the zone, its people, its history, its story. The developers created a compelling world, it's 
 just applying it to the main character where things get sketchy.
  
  My first playthrough left me deeply confused, but then I looked online and realized there were 
 numerous endings. That had me playing it again, and to this date I've gotten about 4 endings. The 
 choices you make in the game direct the ending, a neat touch that I thought only Silent Hill could 
 master. Turns out, Silent Hill still takes the throne- this game doesn't quite get it perfectly, 
 but does it well.
  
  But again, the storytelling breaks down at points. The actual cutscenes seem like they are from 
 some different game at times. The in game cutscenes are nonexistant. Dialogs with merchants control 
 nearly everything, and it's very easy to get important plot points lost in the sea of text you 
 can get from random NPCs. However, the implementation of the endings was superb, and I feel that 
 alone is worth mention.
  
  The graphics are quite good, and some of the effects with the strange natural phenomena are very 
 nice. The guns are all based on real weapons, and the look and feel of everything feels very gritty 
 and real. The sounds is decent- nothing to write home about, and the music isn't particularly memorable.
 
  
  Despite this game having many sub par aspects, I cannot downplay how much fun it is to play. The 
 negative aspects are overshadowed by the general sense of awe one gets playing though it. And really, 
 if a game is fun to play, draws you in, and gives you an awesome time, is there really that much 
 to complain about?
  
  Ultimately, this game fails on a lot of levels. The storytelling is superb on a world level, but 
 the continuity is utter crap. The translations are horrific. There are countless glitches and bugs. 
 However, it is a solid shooter with great gameplay and good replay value. And you get to run around 
 with old soviet weapons killing zombies, mutants, and thieves. When you get down to it, I really 
 honestly enjoyed the game, and despite it being more buggy than the national ant convention, it's 
 a lot of fun. So try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  After seeing the earlier screen shots and earlier videos from the game I knew that S. T. A. L. K. E. R 
 was going to be something special. The game suffered numerous delays and I had this game on pre-order 
 for well over two years but it was worth the wait!
  
  Good points:
  Immersive environments.
  Very creepy, with some truly heart pounding moments.
  Decent graphics 
 with amazing lighting effects and awesome shadows.
  Great weapons mechanics.
  Lots of different weapons, armours, items, unique items.
  Decent sound effects and very atmospheric 
 music.
  Good story that keeps you playing until the end (although I did figure out most of it before I 
 got half way through the game) .
  Different endings depending on how you played the game.
  Some variety in enemies.
  AI can show some real cleverness.
  
  Bad Points:
  Bugs (some 
 minor and some major) . For example side missions resetting, inability to complete certain side 
 missions etc etc.
  Would have liked to have seen fast travel.
  A few in game freezes while data is loading.
  At times the AI can be stupid, for example walking 
 straight into an anomaly.
  I would have liked to have been able to assign keys to different inventory items such as anti rad 
 kit. 
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R is a very atmospheric and immersive game that is truly creepy in places and just 
 down right heart pounding in others.
  
  The graphics in S. T. A. L. K. E. R are quite dated now and that's down to the length of the development. 
 Even though the graphics are outdated by 2007 standards they are still really good and fit well 
 with the post apocalyptic setting. When running through the game world you might find yourself 
 stopping to admire the view. The graphics really start to shine when the weather effects kick in 
 and you see the amazing shadows that are cast.
  
  Weapon mechanics in games is usually ignored by the developers or completely fail because all the 
 weapons feel the same but S. T. A. L. K. E. R is different. The weapon mechanics are truly impressive, 
 each weapon handles differently, be it speed, damage or accuracy. Running or walking will make 
 your accuracy go to hell, distance effects your shot, wind effects it etc etc.
  
  How many weapons do you want in a game? S. T. A. L. K. E. R has loads of different weapons, armours, 
 items and those all important unique items that everybody loves. Everything that you can pick up 
 can be equipped or sold even the artefacts that you find around the zone. These artefacts that 
 are created by the anomalies in the zone can be equipped with various effects positive and negative 
 side effects. For example one might boost your health but at the same time emit radiation, others 
 might boost your endurance.
  
  The games sound effects a really good but not just the weapon sounds. The environmental sounds, 
 the gunfire in the distant all sound equally brilliant.
  
  All FPS games have stories some good, some bad and Stalker's is a good one. You start with no information 
 at all and this forces you to get involved in the story it also makes you think about the story 
 for yourself. Who are you? what is the zone? if a story can do that then in my opinion it's a good 
 one. Add to that multiple endings depending on how you play for some real replay value.
  
  Like most FPS games there are different enemies. There are two different groups of enemies, the 
 stalkers (humans) and the mutants. The Stalker group is split into normal Stalkers (like you) , 
 Duty, Freedom, Bandits, Mercs, Military and Monolith. Each group can and do react differently to 
 you as you progress through the game, some factions such as the military are hostile to you from 
 the very beginning. There are lots of different mutants from dogs to blood suckers to mutant rats 
 etc. All of the enemies are well detailed, each mutant type feels distinctly different, seem to 
 react differently and attack differently.
  
  The much hyped A life system is a good piece of coding. NPCs will wander around, sit around the 
 fire etc.
  The AI can show some cleverness by flanking and ducking back into cover when you fire back. The 
 AI can also be stupid at times by walking into anomalies, it seems they don't have much awareness 
 when it comes to the anomalies.
  
  Stalkers curse is the amount of bugs the initial retail release had in it, there were quite frankly 
 quite a lot and there still are some minor bugs in there. Most of the bugs are with the side missions, 
 they have a habit of resetting themselves or you can't complete certain side missions. There are 
 also some random stability problems, i've been dumped back out to the desktop on three or more 
 occasions at different parts in the game. Let's hope the new 1.1 patch fixes these problems.
  
  Certain things such as fast travel and the ability to assign keys to inventory items would 
 have been a nice addition to the game but you can work around those problems if you bother to take 
 the time.
  
  Overall S. T. A. L. K. E. R has blown me away with it's superb environments, it's amazing shadows, it's 
 creepiness and it's engaging story. If you don't have this game go buy it and play it because it's 
 a must!
  
  Review game version: 1.0005
  
  Review system: QX6580 Extreme, 4GB RAM, 768MB Geforce 8800GTX, SB Audigy 2 ZS and XP SP2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AffeTron
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  The sounds of mutants and wind.... The sounds of people getting killed, you feel suddenly uncomfortable 
 when the dark comes. You can hear the mutants coming near..... And as you run, you run into a lair 
 with people. You feel happiness, but it will not last long, because the lair have a bunch of thieves 
 that will do anything to get your stuff... Even kill you!
  
  STALKER has a atmosphere like you never have felt, the sounds in the background, people sitting 
 at the campfire and talking Russian.
  And the roads are dangerous with both chemical traps and mutants, + the thieves and military that 
 will kill you.
  You are a STALKER, your mission is to find...... hehe, will not go too deep there :P
  
  You 
 can find information in dead bodies, like hidden treasures and stuff. + things like ammo, weapons, 
 food, artifacts and medic kits.
  The information comes from their PDA``s, some sort of notebook/mobile.
  You can also get parts 
 from mutants and trade with others who is interested in mutant parts, or you can accept a mission 
 there you have to find a mutants part and bring it back. The reward is often money + some stuff 
 like a artifact or medic kit.
  
  The graphics are good, nothing new but ok.
  But to be honest.... Is graphic or gameplay the most important part of games.... Gameplay, and 
 this game scores high on it :)
  There are bugs, if you have the newest patch to this game so will you see difference.
  
  The 
 weapons are cool, my favorite is Big Ben (Desert Eagle) , powerful and useful at close range. I 
 prefer sniper rifles at long ranges :P
  Machine guns are useful too, you can put on scopes and grenade launcher. But each models needs 
 different scopes, so one scope doesn't fit all machine guns.
  
  You can also put on different armor suits on you, some have high radiation protection some have 
 high armor protection and some have both.
  You can also put artifacts on your belt, these can also protect you from bleeding and increasing 
 your health. But watch out, there are some negative reactions in some artifacts too! 
  
  Can`t wait for Clear Sky, if you like a game with good atmosphere and gameplay. Then check this 
 game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poltraite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 2:16 am PT
Review:  I recently found out that this game is actually based on an old Russian film of the same name. 
 I was well impressed. I've has to restart playing this game for several reasons and haven't finished 
 it yet. Sometimes, having to redo missions and so on is a tedious and boring task which puts alot 
 of people off a game, but I enjoyed this one. I don't speak russian, so all the shouting in the 
 background means nothing to me. I'd like to know what's being said sometimes, but it's not really 
 a problem for me as the main missions and everything else is done in English. I got stuck a couple 
 of times in areas where I wasn't sure what I was to do to procede. At one point I was stuck for 
 a week while I kept exploring the same region over and over again, running away from some powerful 
 creature, only to discover that the only way to procede was to kill the creature. I'd spent the 
 week running from it.
  
  Graphically, I think it's brilliant. You'll need a pretty flashy card to get the most out of it 
 but even then it'll still be a bit choppy with everything set to max.
  
  And where are all the women?
  
  I love this game. A bit frustrating in some parts, and not 
 so easy. I'd happily play it over and over though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooyas
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  When I played this game in the first hours it reminded me of Elder Scroll 4: Oblivion and Grand 
 Theft Auto games. But after moving on you experience a great gameplay; something you never experienced 
 before. You play as Marked One. Some guy find you in a death truck when it encounters a lightning 
 bolt. Your career begins by taking missions from people and continuing to your main task which 
 is finding what happened in Chernobyl. In your play you encounter several factions including Bandits, 
 Duties, ... . You can become friendly or enemy to them depending what's your target in the game. 
 As you move on you also encounter different types of species; a new one which is mutated from the 
 original animals forming a horrible new forms of an aggressive wild animal. 
  
  The scene where you play puts you in center of what happens around the nuclear power plants in 
 Chernobyl like abandoned buildings, emissions, etc. The horror sounds are also makes your heart 
 stop at some points in the game while you play in silence, suddenly some items be thrown to you 
 by some unknown forces, a mutant jumps on you or you trigger a fire trap. All of these horror moments 
 add to the value of the game makes it valuable for playing. 
  
  Another fascinating part of the game is the opponents AI. The AI is very good in the open area. 
 If an enemy thinks you have a sight to shoot him he may choose an alternative path to come to you. 
 However they do not use grenades to blow you which makes it easier for you to stay in your hideout. 
 Despite this, they act awful in closed areas. you can point your guns to a doorway and kill all 
 of the enemies want to pass there which is negligible. 
  
  Besides the good things, I expected a very good graphic for the game which is launched in 2007. 
 The graphics are like the games in 2003. If you forgive the low graphic quality of the game, this 
 is the best first person shooter game with modern weapons you can experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gzader
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Reviewed version: PC 1.005.
  
  Stalker was great fun. It's what you get if you roll up FEAR and Oblivion and then back date the 
 graphics a year or three. It's not the perfect game but it was fun and the more I played it the 
 more fun it was.
  
  Sound is good and at times great. Graphics are good enough. Not world changing, but they'll do. 
 They are the drawback to the game though, this game deserved better.
  
  The program was stable, never crashing on me (by the 5th patch, it ought to be right?) but it could 
 have used some optimizations. It at times dragged down to brief pauses. I'm guessing more was going 
 on than I had memory for, but it was still unexpected when heavy character scenes seemed to have 
 no issues, but walking alone in a small corridor would pause for up to several seconds.
  
  The mood is great, and the first time you feel that F. E. A. R. influcene you'll be hooked. It was 
 good enough for me to think about playing again to find all the secrets and to try out other endings.
 
  
  The gameplay has a lot of options to it, you can run through the main quest and be done in a few 
 days or you can run all the side quests and spend much longer in the game. But this is where some 
 of the stability issues come in. I could not complete one main quest because of a game play bug. 
 This forced me to miss a good chunk of the game. 
  
  Stalker's designers assumed the player is smart enough to figure out most of the puzzles with much 
 explanation, but just how many tails do you have to collect before you can cash in? I never had 
 enough. Maybe a bug, maybe not. A frustration just the same.
  
  The weapons and armor suffer some bad descriptions. Is "insuitable" really "suitable" or is it 
 "unsuitable," you'll never know for sure.
  
  All in all though, bugs aside, this game was very good and I look forward to the prequel coming 
 out soon. It's looking like a must get title.
  
  The only real gameplay gripe I have that isn't a cultural issue is looting. Most of the enemies 
 are wearing armor, you'd think you could strip that off. Or at the very least patch your own. It's 
 not an option. Repairs would have added a nice dynamic and would give you a lot more reason to 
 return to town.
  
  Special notes:
  No DVD in the drive requirement. This is excellent!
  Save whenever you want. (This should always be the case, but it seems these days it needs to be 
 pointed out.)
  Freak &* (^ (&^ makes for great fun
  A little more hand holding would help, but at the same time, it's nice to play something that's 
 not dumbed down to the point of being on auto pilot (Gears of Snore I'm looking at you, but you're 
 too dumb to realize it.)
  
  The score:
  NO DVD DONGLE requirement. You can play this game without hunting down the DVD. Way to go guys!!! 
 +1
  
  Gameplay / Quest bugs: -1
  
  Translation issues: -.5
  
  Graphics -.5
  
  Final tally 9 out of 10. A great game that's worth the effort. Especially now that you can find 
 it for $30 and less.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  When I started this game.... well ... WOW, what graphics what idea, absolutely brilliant and you 
 are eased into the game. 
  
  However, after a while you start spotting bugs and problems with the game. There are so many small 
 issues that simply spoiled the game for me. I read one professional review saying that when you 
 die you quickly go to the main menu screen, not giving you a chance to quickload, and this is mostly 
 true. By going back to the menu you are taken away from the game and so the immresiveness effect 
 is largely lost. 
  
  First of all, I remember it being very hard to sneak upon enemies. This is an absolute must and 
 you pretty much cannot possibly knife an enemy from behind without them noticing you. Some element 
 of sneaking around is retained but this is quite disappointing because even if you go with a silencer 
 and shoot straight for the head the enemy can sruvive thereby giving your position away. If you 
 don't go for a headshot but a body shot, well the entire charger of the silencer won't do. This 
 is a bit imrpved later on towards the end of the game when you get a silencer for your gun (not 
 pistol) and you can fire more shots, thereby killing the enemy. 
  
  This was a huge disappointment for me, especially since the enemies just notice you too easily 
 without you even noticing them.
  
  Enemies can shoot through the walls, which I even tried sometimes and gave them a taste of their 
 own medicine and it worked, but it's not supposed to be like that obviously. 
  
  The map is awkward to use and I mean very awkward and it is very hard managing between your main 
 mission and your side missions and finding your way around. Your missions have a time to complete 
 them in and you get loaded up with too many missions and then even if you finish them but don't 
 collect your reward in time, the mission is deemed as failed which is ridicilous. 
  
  There is too much money around and not enough improvements to be bought. I also hated the running 
 issue - you actually get tired when runnung and the more items you carry the faster you tire meaning 
 you are resorted to walking through huge maps which is just boring. 
  
  I can go on and on about small problems, but let's get to the main stuff.
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10 
 - the graphics are absolutely superb. There is some amount of repetitivness and funny designs but 
 in general the graphics are brilliant and they give you a false idea that the game will be brilliant 
 too. Don't get me wrong, I like the game but I think it could have been so much more, it could 
 have been revolutionary and I could have easily given it 10/10 for everything had they only put 
 more effort.
  
  Controls: 7/10 - generally speaking the controls are ok but there are a few problems such as having 
 to reconfigure keys each time you restart the game. Also the quick save was pre-set to F6 and quickload 
 to F7 which is just retarded, you don't put these two buttons one next to each other and I tried 
 re-configuring them but failed to do so.
  
  Immersiveness: The game fails here as well for me. Quicksaves are quick and quick loads are quick 
 which is comendable (although my pc is quite a good machine) . However, the lack of voices, explanations 
 and the fact that the actual game can be completed in a day, the rest are just side missions all 
 mean that this is just a very good shooter but it pretty much fails as a role-play which is a shame. 
 Mixtures of FPS and RPG should provide a lot more and should take you away from reality and into 
 the game. 
  
  
  Bugs: 5/10 - as said previously, plenty of small issues, not so much as programming bugs but just 
 bits that attention was not paid to. The game crashed a couple of times but it is generally speaking 
 a stable game. 
  
  Voices: 3 / 10 - this is a complete failure. When talking to someone you get a screen in front 
 of them with words, they don't actually talk to you which is absolute rubbish. Sometimes a barkeep 
 or someone will talk to you and the text in front of you may differ from what they are actually 
 saying which shows how little attention to detail the developers paid. Having voices that talk 
 to you is essential to having an immersive game.
  
  Sounds: 9/10 - other sounds apart from the voices that talk to you, including the voices of characters 
 when they talk to each other and you are eavesdropping are all pretty good. They could have been 
 done slightly better and perhaps all of them in english, not just some of them but overall this 
 part is more than satisfactory. 
  
  Storyline: a fair bit of this is a failure. You don't actually find out much about yourself. I'm 
 sure most players have found a lot more details than me because they read and played a lot more 
 than I did. I got bored with the side missions and went and did a couple of the main ones and before 
 I knew the end of the game was there. WHen making the game you have to make it linear enough to 
 get a sense of the storyline and the player must be immersed with this storyline but making him 
 come accross essential bits. The fact that I could go through the game without even knowing who 
 the hell Sterlok was and the fact that I don't know who I was and the fact that because I didn't 
 play most of the side missions, meant that I could only have one ending and that is to wish to 
 be rich and die, it really ruined it for me. I would not have even known that there are several 
 endings possible had I not read the end of someone's walkthrough. This is not my failure, this 
 is the developer's failure for failing to force information, at least essential information. 
 
  
  It would have been really nice if you could have your own gang in the game form your own camp, 
 then play with money and get camp upgrades, progress in the sense as a leader and as a person and 
 also carry more artifacts and so make yourself hard to kill. I also think there are too many things 
 you need to carry - bandages, medkit, pills, guns, bullets and then there isn't much space for 
 guns to carry so you can sell them and no space for spare suits for different occasions. See, even 
 this small idea could have made the game a lot a lot a lot a lot better.
  
  Length: 5/10 - you can finish the game in a day or two. This means that the game is short and if 
 you look at it a only a FPS then fine, that length is fine but this is a mixture with RPG and you 
 have to play the game more and not just by adding stupid sidemissions which only give you money 
 and are too confusing and hard to follow and accomplish effectively. There was a family rifle mission 
 that I could not even accomplish - the rifle was simply not there.
  
  It must be said that from a FPS point of view, this game deserves 8.5 and it would be stuck with 
 that, it would be really hard to push it to 9 or 9.5 / 10.
  
  However, from the RPG point of view this game is an absolute 7, perhaps even slightly lower, because 
 there are too many RPG aspects that failed, from slightly failed to completely failed. However, 
 it must be said that a lot could have been improved and had it been done the RPG aspect of the 
 game could have easily pushed the game from 7 overall to 9 or 9.5 / 10 overall
  
  Music: won't really mark this because I didn't pay too much attention to it. There is only one 
 guitar style that loners in the game play and that's all I can remember about the music. 
  
  Difficulty: 7/10 - there are four options for difficulty and you always have to have an odd 
 number of these so that someone can simply choose the middle one. I chose stalker which is second 
 easiest and still the game proved quite a challenge. There are also individual side-mission difficulties 
 but I won't go into it. 
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay overall which combines all these aspects means that the game deserves 7/10 
 because even though it plays well, the storyline, voices and loads of bugs and the fact that the 
 game DID NOT REACH ITS POTENTIAL all mean that this is yet another underachiever that could have 
 been one of the great ones and I am truly sad about it, I expected more and it could have easily 
 delivered more.
  
  Overall: 7 / 10 - a pretty good game that should be played, but it failed to reach its huge potential.
 
  
  There are many innovative ideas, such as the story itself, based in chernobyl which is very interesting. 
 Weapons are quite interesting and artifacts are also interesting to explore. Too many let downs 
 though.
  
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing 
 else good to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 since if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life. This applies unless I really am impressed 
 with a game and this game is impressive but I wish it reached more and I am sad at a missed opportunity 
 - still a good game though. 
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
  
  PS: This game can be easily marked as 7.5 or 8 but the fact that I could finish the game so quickly 
 disappointed me and so I am giving it a 7 from a personal experience in the game, although I am 
 sure that had I played a bit more I would have given it 7.5, but I doubt I would give it 8 though.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZedFragg
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to start by saying this review is about a year late, reason for this is because I decided 
 to await the patch before giving my full opinion.
  
  So lets dive in, first thing I had noticed when I dived into the game was how dated the game looked.
 
  But don't let this put you off; this game is immersive, interesting, addictive and wholly satisfying-if 
 sometimes a little frustrating.
  
  When you first step into the game you're greeted with a little FMV movie which fills you in on 
 all the information you need to know to start playing, which is nothing at all.
  There is a nasty accident involving a truck and a very bad driver, and you survive.
  However 
 your memory doesn't and that's where the game begins.
  
  Thereafter your charged with finding out who a guy named "Strelok" is and what your connection 
 to him is and of course this is made harder than it sounds by an increased military presence, mutated 
 animals, weird anomalies, radiation and the odd shortage of bandages when you need them the most.
 
  
  And where does all this happen? , The Zone.
  After the tragic incident at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in 1986 there was a huge exclusion 
 zone AKA The Zone. This "Zone" when represented in game is a radiation filled junkyard full of 
 strange yet wonderfully amusing anomalies. These "anomalies" vary from windy vortexes that'll throw 
 you about to electrically charged lighteningthings that'll just plain zap you and if not kill 
 you leave you in a bleeding mess on the floor, and also Gravity anomalies that'll just rip you 
 limb from limb.
  
  Now these anomalies are both great and intuitive when mixed with A. I, such when watching a pack 
 of dogs one might wonder into a gravity anomaly and you'll see it get ripped to pieces which can 
 be very amusing to watch.
  
  Also this game has the most impressive ballistics system in any game I've played, with bullets 
 that react realistically. When firing at enemies you have to put various factors into consideration 
 such as range, gravity, wind and enemy movement.
  
  Now for the AI.
  
  The A. I inside The Zone are very believable, you can actually see the effort the developers have 
 put into them.
  Whether it be a pack of dogs to military spooks the A. I adapts to your movement and behavior quite 
 well.
  
  For instants when I first got into The Zone I shot a lonesome dog and it ran away, I found this 
 quite amusing so I gave chase as it ran over a hill.
  As I got over the hill I was greeted by several other dogs and then I became the mouse in our little 
 game of bullet kiss-chase.
  
  After nursing the chunk missing from my butt I came across some military guys guarding a bridge 
 that led deeper into the zone.
  I decided it wouldn't be a good idea to attack with my 9mm pistol, but just as I started to walk 
 away I heard gun fire.
  Bandits had opened fire on the military on the other side of the bridge allowing me to attack the 
 military from behind. After all the army guys had been "Whacked" the bandits decided to shoot me 
 whilst I stole their loot. When I reloaded my game save it didn't happen again.
  
  This game is full of little random events that happen purely by chance and by A. I making decisions 
 over situations.
  
  Of course the A. I does have some problems such as the Human A. I move like you'd expect 7 year old 
 game models to move, it can be unbelievable. In fact it's rather jagged sometimes. But overall 
 the A. I has bested games such as Far Cry and the voice acting is fairly nice at keeping the atmosphere.
 
  
  There are a fair few bugs in the game though even with the latest patch such as graphical glitches 
 are very, very common. If you have HDR lighting enabled chances are you are going to have a fair 
 few bugs even with the latest NVIDIA drivers. It happened for me mainly when clear sky turned to 
 rain.
  
  Other than that I noticed the Quick Save shortcut doesn't actually work for me. Also there are 
 numerous graphical bugs in the game that people all over the world have complained about mainly 
 with NVIDIA graphics cards, which is ridiculous as S. T. A. L. K. E. R holds the NVIDIA logo in your 
 face as you start up the game.
  
  Although in all respect when CSG Game World got the NVIDIA license the GeForce 4 was probably new. 
 Other than that the system requirements on this game are astonishing, considering this game is 
 so old in looks and feel their recommended system requirements leave a lot to be desired.
  
  As for the story, it's a good story for the most part however even with the multiple endings 
 all of them are rather lackluster compared to what we'd all expect. It seems that CSG Game World 
 decided to go for quantity over quality when it came to the ending of the story.
  It honestly made me feel that the ending of Halo 2 was good in comparisent and I hated the ending 
 to Halo 2.
  
  But overall, you can pick this game up now for 15 from most Game shops and it's worth the money.
 
  For the money you are getting a living world, decent-yet-dated graphics, the most realistic ballistics 
 system ever to grace a game and it's based in Chernobyl and it is a game that'll last a fair while..
 
  What more could you want.
  
  Just before you spend your hard earned I'd suggest making sure your hardware meets at least the 
 minimum requirements and that you aren't going to encounter any problems with your particular hardware, 
 also avoid if you have Vista.
  
  
  Reviewers System:
  AMD Athlon 64 3800+ (2.41ghz) , 1.5GB DDR 3200 ram, Realtek 7.1 Surround sound card, 160GB Maxtor 
 7200RPM, NVIDIA GeForce 8600GT 512MB
  
  Running on Windows XP Professional SP2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I am an FPS fan and I nevered played a game like this at all. At first when you play STALKER it 
 starts off confusing, and once you play through the beginning you would think this game is like 
 horrible because its something different and the gameplay isnt as great of the other FPS games 
 you play now a days. BUT once you get through about 10 hours in this game, you will start getting 
 addicted by it. STALKER has an immersive storyline if you listen to it. And the best thing about 
 STALKER is the whole atomsphere of course, the atmosphere is so depressing looking, feels almost 
 real and that its kind of creepy at times because Chernobyl is an actual real place in our world. 
 It has one of the biggest nuclear accidents in history, it happened in 1986. The people that made 
 this game sure show a great imaginary of what Chernobyl looks like, it is almost believeable in 
 some ways. 
  
  Anyway STALKER has a somewhat RPG element gameplay though.... kind of like Deus Ex, at least the 
 loot system and the inventory are kind of similar to me perhaps. You start off as a rookie STALKER 
 but by the time you play through the game your one of top master stalkers ever! Also STALKER has 
 a lot of different endings in the game, not sure how many... but there is a lot of different endings 
 you can choose from and Stalker is one long shooter, probably the longest shooter game I ever played. 
 I think I played this game for like 50 hours or so. Anyway for those people who are looking for 
 a game with extreme atmosphere and adventure and has great ambition, you will definitley enjoy 
 this game.
  
  P. S. : Sorry for some grammer or spelling mistakes, I suck at english: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladez89
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  STALKER isn't a game that you will used to play coz this game have something different or maybe 
 something extra. The gameplay of this game is not like other FPS, that only follow the storyline 
 from point A to point B, shoot all enemy, and go to the checkpoint. No, this isn't game like that. 
 STALKER have so much more interesting gameplay to be enjoyed, than the ordinary FPS game. Your character 
 not only can go to play the story mission, but can also play other mission. You can get side mission 
 like this from ohter character. In this game, you can also trade with other characters. For example: 
 you can trade with scientist. The items they sell will not the same with other characters. Scientist 
 won't have the weapons/armors the trader sell, but will have another type of weapons/armors. Beside 
 the cool gameplay, STALKER offer another big thing. You will feel that the environment in STALKER 
 is like the real world environment. Yeah, living world is what STALKER brought to us. You will see 
 all creature in this game react just like what in the real life. You can see the sky changing like 
 real life. The colour of the sky will slowly turn into other colour. Not only that, you can see 
 other character interact with others. For example, you can see a mutant (or a group of mutants) 
 attack a stalker or a group of bandits trying to rob a stalker. Well, there is still a lot of things 
 to say about this great game. But, if you want to know more, there is no other better way than play 
 STALKER!!! So, what are you waiting for? Play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killa_Commando
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This game made me feel like the old skool Deus Ex 1 in wich you could also kill evry1 and loot 
 there bodies. Find multiple way's into a building and use the envirement to it's fullest. I'll just 
 make a list of The Good & The Bad just for those who are doubting wheter or not they should buy 
 the game =) . But Before that let me say what is probably the best of all. This Game is Moddable 
 and there are already lot's of nice mods that can make this game more challaging , easier , prettier 
 or just funnier.
  
  
  The Good Points :: 
  
  + Rewarding Headshots - enough said good shooting rewards in easy kills wich in turn resurves ammo. 
 
  
  + Growing through skill - you become tougher/higher ranked by killing mutants or other enemies, 
 wich also makes you stronger cause u can loot the dead completely butt naked exept for there armor.
 
  
  + Athmosphere - The level designs are sweet, alot of high ground ( half destroyed buildings with 
 ladders, and little passages to the next building ) variation in levels you feel no copy paste 
 trauma's ( see the game     F. E. A. R. ) Mutants make good scary sounds. Russian blabbering sounds 
 cool.
  
  + restriction free area's - what a nice building you think , hell yeah climb it !!
  You can jump 
 on the smallest ledge over evry pipe, air conduct , you name it and that is alot of fun if you 
 are exlporing a new area trying not to get eaten by mutants' constantly checking new high ground 
 with yer binoculars for safe ground. ( since mutants cannot climb ladders only jump up, being high 
 above the ground gives you a good edge in exploring and killing sneaky.)
  
  + No walking tank - yes for those who like to walk around blazing with a m60 guess again, you are 
 more like a lone sniper who lost his equipment in a crazy world of mutants. A big plus cause the 
 fact you know you can die fast keeps you on your toe's and like a sniper u must check your surroundings 
 alot with binoculars or scoped weapons to see if it's safe to move from cover to cover. ( not for 
 starter area's but definitly later on )
  
  + Pack Rat - Alla Deus Ex You can strip the dead completely naked except for there armor, always 
 check the dead as they often have better killing gear then you start with.
  
  The Bad ::
  
  Buggy: sometime's screen changes will jump back to default andi have to reset my gamma again. 
 nothing big does not happen often.
  
  Side quests: most side quest feel to random, get this artifect , get that animal , piece or get 
 kill that stalker. They could have been a bit more deep like the main storyline.
  
  Starter guns: Do not make these fool you in stoppping playing, in my first hour i was aiming like 
 mad at enemies could not understand why i missed so much. Only to slap myself in the face to see 
 in inventory the gun i used or the automatic rifle had both 2 or 3 stripes of accuracy. Get yourself 
 decen't weapons and the fun will start.
  
  It's not perfect no game i played is but it's defintly worth having played and with the mods there 
 will be lots of replay value oh and offcourse there are 7 endings haha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karjah
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long long wait for STALKER. The game has been in development for over four years now. 
 The end result is something of a hit and a miss at the same time. There's some fantastic content 
 here on par with games like Far Cry and Crysis but in some areas in particular the sidequests and 
 interface STALKER falls short and sometimes very fusterating.
  
  The game for the most part looks fantastic. It's more then a little gritty at times and there are 
 some great enviroments to be found in the game at times. Some of the encounters and levels come 
 out very polished in concept and are a pleasure to play as they give you plenty of cover but just 
 enough challenge to have you reloading a few times realzing that you should have kept an eye out 
 for some better cover or thrown that granade before moving. All the guns look and shoot with crisp 
 and clean animations and the radioactive eddies and effects you run across all look great blowing 
 back grass and generally putting out a ton of smaller details into the enviroment.
  
  The one thing you will wish though is that characters and enemies were more effectvily rendered. 
 It was more then a few times where I would have a character talking to me with less then effective 
 mouth to word matchup. It felt at times like I was watching an imported translation of a movie. 
 Some of the enemies as well are a little hard on the eyes and are not very well detailed such as 
 the dogs and pigs. They work well enough for giving you a rough idea of what to shoot and what 
 you are shooting but they seem to look like one big mess of brown flat texture up close. However 
 since most of the missions and content that you want to play uses the better enviroments and enemies 
 of the game that are well textured this isn't a large issue until you get into the side quests.
 
  
  The main quests however are not only graphically great but exceptionally fun to play. Each one 
 will have you running through some interesting and fun locations and the challenge for them feels 
 just right. The designs on these levels is well polished and makes the firefights with the surprisingly 
 great AI all the better. 
  
  The sound is alright but besides the Russian mutterings of those around you the music doesn't seem 
 to come on all that often. when it does it's average and forgettable. All the guns sound fantasic 
 however and the ballastics match with being a good mix of useable and realistically fun. I was 
 disapointed however that as smart as the AI was it didn't really ever say anything. No enemies 
 really ever try and talk to each other or taunt you. 
  
  The inventory screen is alos a bit messy at times but it does it's job well enough. You have all 
 the basic first person shooter survival here such as bandaids and anti radiation drugs (it is a 
 nuclear zone after all) as well as your weapons and armor. However you have a 3 seconds to name 
 a game in which digging around in your inventory every time you pick up a weapon or item and having 
 to rearrange it all has ever been a good idea.... times up. Frankly it's not 2000 anymore and this 
 isn't Diablo 2. It's both fusterating and time consuming to constantly have to manage your inventory 
 and really pulls you out of the FPS experience. I can really honestly say I would have much prefered 
 a system of simple weight allowance. Basically put assign a weight value to each item and simply 
 make it so I can't pick up anymore items if I get too heavy. It's exactally a new concept and it's 
 a little bad THQ didn't pick up on it.
  
  What is nice about the whole inventory system however is these little gems you pick up that you 
 can equip to raise various stats or lower your radiation level. These crystals can do everything 
 from make you run longer or faster to having more bullet resistence or being able to carry heavier 
 gear. They are a nice little RPG sytle touch and it's very satisfying to find a new usefull crystal. 
 It's just too bad there wasn't a bit more variety to them as you often end up finding 20 or 30 
 of the same type of cyrstal over the game rather then having some variety to chose from. Still 
 they are a welcome touch that adds some variety to your equipment. 
  
  This all being said the one big huge element that brings a lot of the game to it's knees are the 
 side quests. Plainly put most of these suffer from one of two things. They either have you end 
 up killing someone that is often standing right next to a questgiver who in turn will shoot you 
 when you try and kill his buddy and often to even get to that point you have to spend 10 minutes 
 running through vastly bare fields to get there. Don't get me wrong there are a few sidequests 
 that are great moments on par with the best parts of the game such as one quest that had me storming 
 a factions base with 10 other npcs that ended up in an all out firefight with tons of raido chatter 
 where the AI accually talked for once with me diving from cover to cover feeling like I was part 
 of a team in a larger plot. Most side quests however and sadly the vast majority are going to have 
 you running from point A to point B halfway around the world to do something as simple as take 
 out one small group of poorly armed bandits or pick up one item out of a cave or silo guarded mostly 
 by wild animals or one larger enemy. 
  
  Don't get me wrong STALKER has it's highlights. Most especially in the storyline missions which 
 are exceptionally well done and fun but most of the game when you are forced to go off exploring 
 or doing side quests on your own are boring and time consuming. STALKER is well worth a play but 
 for the most part stick to the main story and some of the better faction quests. You'll thank yourself 
 in the end and come away with only the better part of this game in your mind.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  We've been hearing about STALKER for so long, it was hard not to expect the worst when this title 
 finally made it out of development and onto store shelves. Lukewarm reviews on release didn't help 
 matters, and I never actually planned to ever buy or play this game.
  
  But I started hearing from people I respect just how good this game was. How underappreciated and 
 underrated it was. And how it was one of 2007's best first-person shooters, right behind Bioshock. 
 I couldn't believe my ears. Bioshock was one of the best FPSes I've played since the original Half-Life.
 
  
  But it's true -- aside from its wonky interface and intial lack of polish, STALKER is every bit 
 as engaging and satisfying as Bioshock was.
  
  So I finally gave it whirl. First things first -- STALKER makes a bad first impression. The UI 
 isn't explained very well. Overall game concepts aren't explained at all. You'll probably want 
 to browse a FAQ early on to get a clearer overview of all the game mechanics. It takes a good hour 
 to get settled in -- but everything that comes after is absolutely worthwhile and satisfying.
 
  
  STALKER gives you an intriguing, thought-provoking main storyline that I found myself playing late 
 into the night just to find out what was going on and what would happen next (just like Bioshock) . 
 However, STALKER actually one-ups Bioshock in how satisfying and challenging the actual gunplay 
 is. AI is generally pretty darned good, and you'll have plenty of satisfying shoot-outs throughout 
 the game.
  
  STALKER also gives you an incredibly immersive, unique world to explore, not unlike those typically 
 found in open-ended RPGs like Morrowind or Oblivion. The rudimentary sidequest system isn't nearly 
 as fleshed out as what you see in RPGs, but it's enough to give you some additional context in 
 the world besides the main story.
  
  If you're someone who loved the deep storylines of Bioshock or the unique atmosphere of classics 
 like Fallout or open-ended exploration like Oblivion, absolutely check out STALKER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanheim777
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Awful!
  
  I am surprised a game can be published this bad in 2007! The gun sounds are horrible. The gun play 
 is awful! There isn't enough ammo. The world is too huge for the content. I couldn't make myself 
 play after I finally got a machine gun and it to was awful!
  
  Don't buy this. Buy F. E. A. R or DOOM3 or QUAKE 4 or some other more polished game. I shot one guy 
 about 10 times before he would die! And a few bullets that I take end up killing me. There are 
 too many enemies in the gunfights and you have too little ammo.
  
  When you die you need to go through too many key strokes to load a saved game. And you die often! 
 Load times are too long as well. When you need a health pack it takes too long to use it. The in 
 game menu system is confusing and difficult to use. Not intuitive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonoGonzo13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Stalker is a game that I keep going back to when there are just months of terrible game releases. 
 It has a great darkly storyline to it, being set in Chernobyl, and having the mass population living 
 there fighting to stay alive best they can. Most of the characters you engage with are mostly trying 
 to find rations, weapons, Intel, or artifacts from various sites. The game play is questionable; 
 there are quite a few bugs and glitches here, even when you download the patches. Also, if you 
 are a player that uses (Trainers, codes, etc.) then you don't want to install most patches. The 
 patches prevent you from using trainers (most of them anyway) , so if you do use them you kind of 
 have to suffer through some rough buggy game play from time to time. It's just a pretty solid game 
 that I find myself going back to time and time again. A pain at times throughout, yet a title I 
 go back to time and time again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I started off disliking the game a fair bit in the 'noob' area. I found it boring, confusing, and 
 uninspiring. So after 3 episodes of shelving the game in that noob zone, I decided to push through 
 and see if it got any better in subsequent maps.
  
  And it did!
  
  The architectural design of the compounds, outposts, warehouses, train stations, houses, factories, 
 and labs - is simply amazing. The developers have rendered an extermely believable and immersive 
 environment here that makes you stare in wonder as you progress through 'the zone' to the ultimate 
 destination - Chernobyl NPP - which itself is a work of art as far as digital re-creation goes.
 
  
  Gamespot awarding this game 'Most Atmospheric Game of 2007' is justified in my mind - I totally 
 agree.
  
  But of course the environment and graphics are not what makes a good game. What about the gameplay? 
 Well let's just say it's solid, a bit quirky, but once you get the hang of it - very enjoyable 
 and lifelike - ie your weapons break, jam, and there are no "uber" weapons around that 1-shot enemies. 
 You have to aim at your targets HEAD and conserve ammo. You have a 50kg carrying limit so you can't 
 carry around tons of weapon or ammo either. Choices like this make the game in my opinion even 
 more immersive and it's a really good thing. If you don't like the limitations, I guess just download 
 a mod that removes them instead of rating the game down due to it's core design principles.
  
  I found that through the game I would have preferred more mutant-killing than constant rival 
 NPC killing. It seemed sometimes a bit of a chore clearing out outpost after outpost of bandits 
 or freedom fighters. Also the side-quests were a bit confusing with the map marker system being 
 innacurate, and the stash system was also broken in that many stashes supposedly containing loot 
 had zero contents in them. And yes I played on patch .5. The primary quest however is done brilliantly 
 and I recommend just concentrating on this to get a good experience. The side quests will just 
 confuse and annoy you.
  
  All in all I enjoyed this game as much as Crysis.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  STALKER is a great effort from an unknown developer. It took it share of long time to get finished, 
 but hey, when is a game or a piece of really finished, never, is the correct answer to that question.
 
  
  Here is a game that tries to be something of its own using familiar FPS dogmas. You have a gun, 
 you point it and you shoot when something gets in your way. All FPS-games are built around that 
 principle, if you don't shoot, then you break or you hit or you blow up.
  
  You get the same thing here in STALKER, although it is a "fresh" environment, which is very atmospheric, 
 huge time has gone in the details which gives you a sense of being there.
  
  This is the second time around that I have installed and played this game.
  
  +++++ for the 
 graphics
  ++++ for the sound
  ++++ for playability
  +++ for the story (which can be confusing)
  +++++ for the craftsmanship
  
  I have not experienced 
 any bugs, it is a stable release, works great on XP, I highly recommend it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chazwozzer54
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R is a kind of first person shooter/RPG hybrid based around the events of the Chernobyl 
 power station catastrophy 2 decades ago. Basically the premise is that the area surrounding the 
 power station has been severely affected by radiation, leaving only a few hardened survivors and 
 the mutated remains of creatures that used to live there.
  
  The game area is called the 'Zone', and is certainly believable as the remnant of the Chernobyl 
 disaster. 'Anomalies' are everywhere; hotspots of radiation that affect your character in different 
 ways, such as electrical storms or swirling winds. Mutated creatures roam the countryside, attacking 
 any humans that get too close to them. The humans themselves are fairly nomadic, living in small 
 groups in the ruins of houses or factories. 
  
  While this is a good depiction of what the Chernobyl area is like, the environment can get slightly 
 repetitive after a while. In the first few hours of the game you spend most of your time in fields 
 or woods, occasionally entering ruined buildings to interact with NPCs. The constant grey sky also 
 gives a dreary feel to the game, although this is bearable. What is not so bearable is the massive 
 amount of ground you have to cover just to reach your next objective. Originally Stalker was supposed 
 to have vehicles, but these were removed mid-production, and it shows. Many missions have you travelling 
 to a distant location, only to have to return once more to gain the (usually meagre) reward. The 
 requirement of having to pass through many loading points is also an annoyance; I was under the 
 impression the Stalker game world was similar to GTA, but in fact the different areas of the game 
 play out as different missions, and you have to load each area before you can proceed.
  
  The graphics are good, but not the best. The weapon models are nicely done, but the environments 
 can look a bit blocky at times, and the human characters have nowhere near the realism of some 
 of the more recent games. The game looks better in the more urban environments, and there are some 
 occasions when it can look very nice, such as the fire effects when it is starting to get to dark.
 
  
  The sounds were well done overall, with powerful sounding gun effects, and decent character voice 
 acting. The grunt of a mutant as it attacks you is quite chilling, especially as you frantically 
 search around for its location. One improvement I feel could have been made is that the characters 
 could have spoken when you interact with them rather than their dialogue appearing just as text 
 on the screen.
  
  The gameplay is a mixed bag. Gunfights can range from being thrilling to just plain annoying. Most 
 of this is centered around the poor hit detection. Much of the time a bullet that appears to hit 
 an enemy has no effect on it whatsoever, which is especially annoying considering the initial lack 
 of ammunition. The enemies also seem to be much more accurate with their weapons than you are with 
 yours, and can hit you through walls/dense shrubbery; attempting to sneak in this game is a lost 
 cause - once they've found you there's no way you can get away as the enemies seem automatically 
 drawn to your location. Additionally, human enemies seem to have animations that cannot be interrupted 
 - by this I mean you can be shooting an enemy multiple times, but if he's going through his reloading 
 animation he will stay on his feet, reload his gun, and then instantly flop down dead. I'm not 
 sure, but it also seems if you hit an enemy with multiple quick shots, only the first one has any 
 effect. These sort of bugs are simply not acceptable any more.
  
  The amount of weapons in Stalker is impressive, but many will not see much use once the better 
 guns come along, especially with an inventory system present that prevents you from hoarding too 
 many weapons. The pistols are generally (unrealistically ) terrible; the starting gun you get has 
 a hard time hitting anything past about 1 yard, and the early assault rifles are not exactly accurate 
 either. While I did find this annoying, it means you have to be more careful in combat and can 
 appreciate it more when the better NATO assault rifles make an appearance, allowing you to hit 
 people from further away.
  
  While this review has mainly highlighted the negative points of the game, there are many positives. 
 It is genuinely scary at times; not lame Doom 3 scary, but actually creepy, such as in the instances 
 when you are hunting powerful mutants in the dark. The combat can be very good when the hit detection 
 system decides to work properly, and the enemies are also quite intelligent. The amount of scope 
 for exploration is also impressive, and you could probably fill quite a number of hours of gameplay 
 time if you did all the side quests and searched for all the loots. 
  The bugs in this game are a shame, as it could definitely been up there with the best without them. 
 As it is, Stalker is definitely worth a play, but cannot quite be placed alongside the more polished 
 shooters out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxfire45
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  The gameplay and atmosphere are awesome and even though the main point seems to be the mutants, 
 the actual gameplay is more rooted in the human NPCs interacting with each other. also, I bought 
 it at target on clearance for like 12 bucks in November. I couldn't beleive that, but I still think 
 its awesome. 
  my hardware makes it hard to say how good the graphics are, but Im playing on mimimum so i get 
 the best performance. I do not like the fact you cant carry very much with a maximum weight and 
 the more you have the faster you get tired. I know it is realistic and I get the reason why its 
 so realistic, but it does make the game more challenging. 
  I do love the fact that the NPCs just do their thing. They have their veiws of you, mutants, and 
 other factions and behave accordingly. They said it was supposed to be revolutionary and it is 
 to a point, but it makes for an awesome FPS which rarely has that sort of setup. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ijn321
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say that you should play this game. The story is deep and not nearly as confusing 
 as some reviews would have you believe. If you don't beat that game PROPERLY then it will be VERY 
 confusing, but a smart talented person like yourself should have n problems. 
  
  The game play is fun is a little hard to get used to at first. The shooting feels both realistic 
 and entertaining. The enemies are pretty intelligent but sometimes can become repetitive. The main 
 interferences with the gameplay are the limits on weight, and your very limited endurance which 
 makes it hard to cover land quickly. That and on my comp. the flashlight didn't work ...
  
  All said it's a great game, try it out. It's probably dropped in price by now ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Stalker's best strength is it's atmosphere and setting of the game and thats because of the detailed 
 graphics and sound effects but also because it's set in Chernobyl. It's also very very scary and 
 probably gave me more frights that anyother game ever. However the gameplay just isn't very fun 
 and the game quickly becomes very very annoying to play and you just don't want to go on. I also 
 don't see the point of having severale endings because your never going to bother seeing them all 
 so it seems like quite a waste.
  
  Stalker has this weird map which is sooo hard to use and not because it's complex but just because 
 it wasn't very well made and when you zoom right out to see the full map the icons vanish, so then 
 you have to zoom in and scroll about. Also theres like several icons on there to different missions 
 and it's quite hard to see whats the main mission and you'll often get lost in a sea of missions. 
 You'll often get dragged into side missions without even knowing it and you'll find yourself coming 
 off the main story and doing some side mission. Brings me to the other problem which is side missions 
 arn't fun and have no real story to them or a reward that matters. It's funny because theres all 
 this money and mission rewards and yet it's all completly useless cause everything you need can 
 be looted off of corpses, so theres a giant problem right there.
  
  The shooting in the game is just sooo bad because you can stand right infront of someone and unload 
 whole mags on them and they just don't go down. I reckon theres some problem with the hit detection 
 which makes sense as the character models act very weird. Yet the enemy seem to be able to hit 
 you spot on everytime and makes no sense to me what so ever. 
  
  The movement in Stalker is very weird aswel because it just doesn't feel right most of the time. 
 The running in the game is way too fast and urnealistic and it's like they made it super human 
 fast as a excuse of not bothering to put vehicles in. Alot of the time you'll be running and you 
 come upto a stair or something and it's like you trip and just doesn't act right. Also when you 
 kill a enemy there seems to be no rag doll physics and no good animated deaths, everyone seems 
 to just suddely drop to the ground like they forgot to add the animations in...... one second they 
 are standing up the next they are laying down sorta thing. The AI might be good i'm not sure because 
 it's held back with all these tech issues and they often get stuck onto things and i dunno just 
 the tech issues that hold it back.
  
  I hate the level design aswel, i thought it was going to be a big open world with no restrictions 
 and yet theres restrictions everywhere like barriers and stuff. Also they've used radiation as 
 a excuse of places you can't go to where they havn't made part of the map which feels weird. I 
 also don't like all the loading times between zones... in this day and age it shouldn't be used 
 and really hurts the game for me. So you have to run round in what feels like a maze because theres 
 certain places you can go and can't go and it only loads into different zones at certain areas 
 which is annoying. Also no vehicles in the game which sucks so makes everything sooo much more 
 boring and less realistic.
  
  The graphics are fantastic however and they do look dated but all the lighting effects and details 
 are sooo amazing. The character models are the worst thing though they have detail on them but 
 sooo low in polygons they look like 2002 graphics or something. Stalker just gives a great atmosphere 
 and a very scary one and that's the best thing about the game. The Chernobyl they've created and 
 the areas around and the attension to detail of the old plant is just sooo lifelife and amazing 
 it'll take your breath away.
  
  The sound effects and music are all great too and help improve the atmosphere and stalker does 
 this better than anyother game. Soo many times i was scared by them and they just sound sooo lifelike 
 it's really amazing. The company needs to give however done them a big raise because it's the best 
 thing about the game other than the Chernobyl setting.
  
  
  I'm not going to talk about the multiplayer because it's not worth it lol.
  
  
  
  Anyways 
 Stalker has a great setting and atmosphere and if it wasn't set in Chernobyl then i wouldn't like 
 it at all. It's such a shame the gameplay is that bad and you often get lost in the mess it is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cornbredx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  When I buy games these days, because it's so hard to find a good paying job, I have to be certain 
 I want a game before I get it. Some I already know it sucks but I either really like the concept 
 or I really just like the characters its based on.
  
  In the case of this I had not heard of the people that actually made this game, nor the game itself 
 until one day I was just looking for something new to play. 
  
  I will start off by saying I appreciate the reviews made about this by the players, both good and 
 bad, as most I have read (havent read any here yet, but I will after I write this) are very informed 
 opinoins and not immature for the most part on stating why they do or do not like this game.
  
  Anyway, as it goes, I looked through many many player reviews (the only ones you can really 
 trust since all magazine and website reviews are paid to say something about most if not all games) 
 and all I really got out of it that meant anything to what I was looking for was that this is a 
 creative concept for a FPS.
  
  Graphics: Alot of people have said that the graphics in this are par but nothing special. I have 
 to say, I find them quite tactful for the game story (what little there is) and really helps to 
 set the tone of this game. It's grainy, dank, kinda depressing, and alot of times extremely creepy. 
 I thought it suited the game quite nicely and while it wasnt graphically innovative it totally 
 works for this game and I cant see how they could have done better with it.
  
  Sound: Good and Bad to this one. I actually love FPS's that know how awesome it is to get into 
 a battle and have intense combat music alongside you to make you feel like an action hero. The 
 original Painkiller did this quite well, as well as more notable games like Half-Life but to a 
 smaller extent. This game didnt do that and actually I dont really think of music when I think 
 of this game so to me that was downplayed to much for an FPS. However, the Characters (as irritating 
 as it is that all NPCs except ones that have something to say to you) all speak Ukranian or Russian 
 or whatever that is. Sadly, as much as I'd like to I dont speak Russian so I have no clue what 
 kind of dirty threats and filthy things these guys are saying about me when they're trying to pump 
 me full of lead. Honestly it really is immersive that they did that, though, because that's the 
 part of the world your in if you play this and I cant say I'd want it any other way. I just wish 
 I spoke the language! The weapons sounds were quite good as well, as they tend to sound like they 
 should and while I havent fired every gun in existance they tended to sound on the money.
  
  Famous Inventory System: Alot of people that hate this game because of the inventory system. 
 I totally respect that. Not all of us grew up on Deus Ex let alone played it until some old gamer 
 told em about it. The fact of the matter is, the inventory system encourages smart play which is 
 not always common place for an inventory system in a FPS. I found it intuitive, and while only 
 annoying because being encumbered means moving extremely slow for sometimes MILES of game area, 
 it really does make you think about what you wanna carry on a constant basis.
  
  Arena: There is some sort of arena in this game that made me more mad then Im allowed to say in 
 a forum such as this. If you decide to go into this arena you lose all your stuff. Or did I miss 
 something? Enough said, dont go in the arena unless someone tells you how to get your stuff back. 
 It was the coolest Idea I'd ever seen for a FPS to make money but sadly if I do it I dont get to 
 keep my stuff. Not very cool.
  
  Enemy AI: I have to say I was blown away by the enemy AI in this game and how damn smart it is. 
 Unfortunately it seems that other STALKERS are either not as smart or just ill equipped cus the 
 bandits tend to kick STALKER ass to often. It's kinda sad because of some other bugs I'll mention 
 later, eventually someone you made friends with IS going to die, theres nothing you can do about 
 that.
  
  Mission/"Quest" system: Very fun, I love the fact that you can get side quest off dead NPCs and 
 Enemies. While the main quest is straight forward theres TONS of side quests to do. Sadly, they 
 seem to keep repeating thereby becoming undoable, some even being undoable to begin with, due to 
 some bug last I played this. This also comes into play with the last thing I talked about with 
 Friends dying. Some side quests start from you entering an area and bandits are attacking a friendly 
 position and they want help so they send out an SOS broadcast. Well, you can help them so many 
 times but if your on a urgent mission eventually they'll probably get killed. The bandits seem 
 to outnumber the STALKERS. Anyway, the quest system is bugged to hell which is a shame cus it's 
 the major flaw in this game. Pretty unacceptable (i have to agree) considering the development 
 time on it.
  
  Overall FunFactor/Gameplay: Very fun game to get into if your not into MMOs. It's extremely immersive 
 and you can just sit in the world and feel it live as you sit. It's quite an extraordinatry thing. 
 I've never seen such a thing done in a FPS before, and in that this game deserves high high praise. 
 Thats an extremely innovative idea and it was quite refreshing to see. Much of playing this game 
 feels like playing Morrowind without the stats or XP though, so be prepared for long walks, which 
 only sucks if your encumbered other wise its not to bad and there are ways to boost yer energy 
 so it's not a comeplete loss. My biggest problem was how far all the vendors were from each other 
 to sell stuff. Some of the best places to hunt for treasure were far from any vendor in any direction 
 and selling to just any STALKER is generally not good cus they wont have much money on them. 
 
  
  One very important thing to note when you play this... There is NO learning period in this game. 
 As soon as it starts your on your own to figure out how the world works and how to do stuff in 
 it. I personally didnt find it hard to figure any of this out, but I have read some complaints 
 about it so if your looking for a game and happen to be researching it and come across this know 
 that this game expects you to think your way through EVERYTHING including how to play it.
  
  That's all I can think to mention and note for anyone who would care. I think this game is 
 fun and only wish there was some kind of MMO like this. I might actually play that. This was a 
 fun Experience and I cant wait til I forget it so I can play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandao25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is clearly the best game in Ukrainian industry (trust me, I know) . Well, THQ has 
 it's part, but mostly it is GSC Game World.
  What I liked in this game is that the atmosphere is just like you ARE in Chernobyl. Also I liked 
 the realistic buildings and abondoned cars etc.
  For the first time in FPS I have met something like "your gun is jammed, need to reload", which 
 is very interesting. Talking about the story - for me it is perfect. 10/10. I don't know why some 
 people don't like it.
  I also enjoyed the graphics. Saying that they were perfect - I wouldn't, but for such big world 
 they are incredible.
  Finally, what I didn't like, are the bugs. But they are being fixed in new patches.
  If you are 
 not going to play this Stalker, there is no point for you to play Clear Sky right away, because 
 you won't understand a thing.
  A mst-have for FPS lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minglis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  Stalker is a fantastic experience, its has the mechanics of a fantastic first person shooter and 
 placed perfectly into the gritty setting that is Chernobyle and mixed very well with a great story, 
 open ended gameplay and role playing elements that while in the end are most certainly not perfect, 
 combine to make one of the most memorable first person shooters in a long time.
  
  Still it can be very very hard at times not to be critical of the fact of the many bugs and annoying 
 little flaws that can pop up, your favourite weapon suddenly changing into a crappy little ak, 
 the crashes that occasionally occur, the side quests which keep on restarting, little annoying 
 things like this stop the game from reaching perfection. But dont get me wrong Stalker is still 
 a very good game technically, the graphics and sound have alot of polish and are a major part of 
 what make Stalker great also.
  
  Howver many of the rpg elements that although do make the game great and alot different to your 
 average first person shooter feel like they should have been pushed further. For instance alot 
 of the map is unreachable despite being in plane sight at times, side quests dont offer much reward 
 or huge amount of variety, you cant join any factions despite being able to gain favour with them, 
 things like this. It doesnt make them bad, just not as great as they could have been.
  
  That said if you take everything into account in Stalker and what they have tried to acheive, what 
 you get is an incredibly atmospheric, quality first person shooter mixed with alot of rpg elements 
 that overall set this game apart and make an incredibly enjoyable experience that will make you 
 want to come back for more. If you take away its bugs and minor flaws, Stalker is up there with 
 the best the FPS genre has to offer and is a must have for any serious FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warspain
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  S. t. a. l. k. e. r. is the hidden jewel of the year. If you have somehow overlooked this game, may I 
 suggest that you go and purchase it right now. Download the patches and install before playing. 
 Then prepare to leave the real world for a few weeks while you figure out how to get yourself through 
 the depths of S. t. a. l. k. e. r. After about an hours worth of learning curve at the beginning, it 
 will begin to draw you into this land of nuclear disaster and all the high weirdness that comes 
 with it. You will hunt for food, weapons and a seemingly endless assortment of items as you wind 
 your way through this ghostly world. Don't expect to just rush through this game with guns ablaze-ing, 
 as you won't last long. You have to think and fight your way through the madness. The game does 
 have a few bugs from time to time as you progress, but this is easily forgiven as you discover 
 the large wide openness and depth of the story. In my humble opinion, S. t. a. l. k. e. r. will grab 
 and twist your imagination with it's unique storyline in a way that Bioshock or Crysis just can't 
 touch. Don't let this jewel of a game pass you by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arch-Vil
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  ok , if you love FPS games , you will love STALKER , because it has all the elements of a good 
 FPS . the good story , the cool weapons , the open and well-designed levels , and much more .
 
  -but that's not all , STALKER is one of the most atmospheric games I've ever played , specially 
 when it's night time (in the game) , or in an underground facility . like LabX16 or X18......
 
  your enemies will be humans , and mutants (monsters) , and zombies .
  sometimes you will wish if your enemy was a human , specially if you are fighting a strong mutant 
 like the "Controller or the "Bloodsucker"-which is by the way very scary-.
  But some times the NPCs in the game will look stupid , because of the AI problems ,but the patches 
 fix this problem , so as soon as you get the game, download the patches rightaway.
  
  THIS GAME IS A MUST BUY ! SO GET IT ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shrodinger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  This review is a rare deviation of the cut and dry form that just about every reviewer adheres 
 to. Indeed, I review this game fully six months after I originally played it and after a second 
 play through as I have recently upgraded my system. 
  
  Now, this second play through did not change the already high regard I previously held STALKER, 
 rather, it allowed me to play through it on full settings with very little computer error, fully 
 appreciating every nuance, homage, reference, and creeping shadow in the blighted landscape of 
 Chernobyl. This time, I was able to fully appreciate the story as a whole, not as the episodic 
 mish mash I had been privy to earlier this year as my computer randomly choked and froze. Not the 
 way to experience the brilliance that is STALKER. 
  
  Put simply, STALKER is the adventure game/first person shooter/role playing game that wasn't. Played 
 from the first person perspective, you level up, collect artifacts and loot, and solve puzzles 
 and mysteries while pondering cryptic messages in PDAs, all while gunning your way through hordes 
 of radioactive atrocities scavenging The Zone. The Zone is, as in real life, the radioactive radius 
 of Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant. It is also your unlikely home in STALKER. STALKER is an acronym 
 for Scavenger, Thief, Adventurer, Loner, Killer, Explorer, Rebel (reminiscent of "SPECIAL" in Fallout) , 
 but also a "class" ingame. 
  
  In keeping with the real life definition, a "stalker"is a person who loots radioactive materials 
 in the Zone. This is how you get started in game, too. In the so called "rookie" camp, where the 
 Zone's low level stalkers congregate, you are contracted by the omnipotent "Trader." You begin 
 with small missions: save this guy, kill this guy, get this artifact, all while slowly unraveling 
 the mystery of your existence, because, you guessed, your character has amnesia. Your only clue 
 to your past is an entry in your PDA: Kill Strelok. Just who is this "Strelok?" Well, you spend 
 most of the game trying to figure that out. In myth-like fashion, you complete quests and missions 
 and slowly gain information about Strelok, even as you grow increasingly ensnared in a storyline 
 that takes you through forgotten laboratories, ghost towns, underground passages, Prypiat, and 
 the CPP itself. 
  
  (I am doing my best to get you interested in this game without telling you too much. The story 
 and its many subplots are too closely related to major spoilers and would easily ruin your experience. 
 Suffice to say that the interlocking and intricately woven plot points rival those in the best 
 of literature.) 
  
  The gameplay itself is common fair for a shooter... and a role playing game... and an adventure game. 
 The shooter mechanics are functional, although many people disliked the realism, bemoaning the 
 inaccuracy of the weapons and the bullet drop over distances. I liked it; it added to my experience. 
 Guns in STALKER are prone to jamming, and will often need to be replaced due to wear. I can't tell 
 you how many times I was in a firefight when my gun essentially disintegrated in my hands due to 
 the lack of care and its age. Don't worry, though, it's not the gun you'll have trouble finding, 
 it's the ammo. 
  
  The roleplaying aspect kicks in shortly after you start out of the rookie camp. In addition to 
 saving every last bullet you find, you need to keep a tab of the total weight of your loot. Anything 
 over 50kg and your endurance plummets. Keeping the weight under 50 is stressful, often aggravating, 
 and further adds to the realism. How many games can you think of where your character can hold 
 ten different guns, all the ammo in the world, and health pack galore? At least ten come to mind 
 now. In STALKER, you'll need to pick and choose. Let me assure you, these choices are not easy. 
 As you approach a new, unexplored area do you stock up on ammo and extra guns? Or do you ditch 
 the replacement munitions, going with your pistol, your rifle, and enough med-packs to see you 
 through at least a handful enemy encounters? But what if your gun breaks? Then what? You can't 
 beat the radioactive dogs over the head with a med-pack. It's enough to make you cry; incidently, 
 this is a feeling that will haunt you the entire game and not just because of the loot restrictions.
 
  
  At more than one locale in STALKER, I was ready to turn in my man card and play Peggle for the 
 rest of my life. This is one of the most haunting games in existence. This accreditation is amplified 
 by the superb lighting. At the highest setting, every in game object casts a shadow --- that is, 
 when you can see a light. Thanks to the aforementioned lighting effects, every darkened room is 
 genuinely dark, not that weird "not quite dark" that you see in most games. This requires ample 
 use of the flashlight, but in all seriousness, at times, I really did not want to see what was 
 at the edge of the beam.
  
  The sound also plays a large part in the "time for a new pair of undergarments" effect in STALKER. 
 The moan and groan of the abandoned steel mills, junk yards, and the power plant itself was hair 
 rasing. On top of that, there is the constant, guttural roar of unseen monstrosities which you 
 can only hope are not headed your way, because, after much pondering, you chose the med-packs over 
 spare ammo.
  
  The dynamic effect of the lighting doesn't stop with the shadows. In the vast outdoor environments, 
 you are treated to pitch black nights (which beg the question, "Should I wait till morning?") , 
 specular gleam on metals, HDR, and the best lightening effects ever seen in a game. Every ark of 
 energy that blazes across the sky lights up the world, casting shadows every which way.
  
  Other awe-inspiring effects are the frequent gusts of wind that tear through the radioactive plains 
 and blow leaves into a frenzy; muzzle flashes that give away an enemy's position; and the bubbles 
 of energy that dot the landscape. These bubbles are called anomalies, and with each pulse, they 
 ripple the air around them and create an effect to rival the slomo grenades seen in FEAR (which, 
 in my opinion is like watching an episode of My Little Pony versus watching Hellraiser, to get 
 back to the scare factor.)
  
  Another rpg aspect is the artifact system. Throughout the game, you can pick up odd looking... things 
 that amplify your attributes. For example, one, Flash, allows you to run without losing endurance. 
 Another, Meat Chunk, bolsters your defenses. You can attach up to five artifacts to your belt (similar 
 to rings in Diablo) , in different combinations. So cool!
  
  STALKER is, unfortunately, not without the occasional misstep. For example, why is everything in 
 this game so meticulously detailed, while the character models look like renders from the original 
 Half Life? (Speaking of Half Life, why do so many of the sound effects (like the explosions) sound 
 exactly like those in Half Life 1?) I understand, too, the importance of the 50kg weight limit, 
 but it strikes me as a bit odd that you can have 49.9kg in your pack, but the second you have 50.1kg 
 (equal to two more bandages) in your pack, all bets are off. There are so many elements in the 
 game that would take at least a thousand more words to talk about --- the plot twists, and the secrets, 
 and the many uses of the different artifacts. Ah, well.
  
  I will end with two fairly controversial musings. The first: I would much rather play Crysis at 
 medium settings with STALKER lighting effects, than Crysis at very high settings. Second: STALKER 
 is far more deserving of the title Game of the Year 2007 than anything else. That's right, it trumps 
 Bioshock, and Crysis (despite how much I love that game) , and anything else you can think of.
 
  
  Marked One. That's you. Chernobyl. That's your stomping ground. Stomp lightly.
  
  Also note: Patch 1.005 is available. And I highly recommend Cameron Sneed's Float32 mod. It amplifies 
 the lighting effects, makes the bump mapping more pronounced, and increases fps by about 20-30 
 fps. Get it at: www. thefloatingpoint. org/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terrorsound
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I have to review this game honestly.. I bought it, loaded and patched it.. I did not have any issues 
 at all, maby because my station is always maintained..
  
  The game played pretty smooth, the AI was not a cake walk and the graphics were great in my opinion, 
 not dated, I still don't get how graphics were dated.. The scenery was taken from actual sites 
 in Russia which was pretty cool, I doubt if I'll ever see any of thoes sites for my own eyes.. 
 The free roam over the levels was just awsome! I really liked the setting of the game, some of 
 it reminded me of the urban decay in Chicago, which is kind of depressing but that is the mood 
 the game portrayed.. The cool aspects were the enemy soldiers, protection gear, artifacts, Fallout, 
 warp zones, radiation spots, strange creatures, etc.... It was a great effort from left field that 
 worked really well.. I really like sci fi type games that are different and have some element of 
 realism to keep my feet on the ground.. The end of the game really drove the vibe of this disaster 
 home. The character made his secret wish to the wishmaster, he wanted the disaster to go away.. 
 That was a great message. The developers and story writers definately should get some kind of award 
 for the storyline of this game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodLovesDead
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  - The game is epic. You explore vast landscapes with many different moods. Often it'll be a typical 
 sunny day, with the radiation ticking off in the distance. Some times you'll be braving a lightning 
 storm, fending off bandits looking for shelter. And there are other situations where you'll be 
 scared ****less in underground tunnels with only the mutants for company.
  
  - There's a lot to do. With virtually no introduction, you'll be shoved into this breathing world 
 with your main quest and several side-quests. You can choose to stick to them (which I'd recommend) , 
 or you can simply try to climb the rank of Stalkers to be #1.
  
  - The game is very ambitious. There's a lot it has set out to do and it's achieved most of its 
 goals. Simply open up your PDA after playing for hours and you'll notice there's a lot to look 
 at. You have specific statistics, a diary, a quest log, the Stalker ranks, and encyclopedia, a 
 map, and more.
  
  - Top notch gun-play. This game focuses on quality and not quantity. Every fight is going to be 
 a fight for your life (assuming you choose the Master difficulty, which I recommend) . Every other 
 Stalker you face has a rank, faction, name, and inventory (for you to loot after you kill them) . 
 
  
  - The game looks and runs great. The maps are huge. With the right mods (such as Float32) the game 
 will run great and look great. The character models, the environment, the buildings, the weather, 
 is all top notch. You'll be amazed at how much depth some of these textures have. 
  
  Cons - 
  
  - Some quests may be bugged.
  
  - Iffy saving system. If you have more than 
 one person playing, there's a huge chance that you'll overwrite eachother's saves. The game doesn't 
 autosave often (maybe one for every few hours of play) and you'll want to save as often as possible. 
 
  
  - The difficulty is kind of a "off". You'll want to bump the difficulty up to the highest possible 
 or else things get easy too quickly. The game feels difficulty on any difficulty at first but just 
 like Oblivion, once you get started there's no stopping you. If you max the difficulty right off 
 the bat the game it's perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GautamIyer
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  What can I say about stalker that hasn't already been said before? Nothing, really. The game itself 
 has clearly set its sights at the greater glory, but has failed miserably along the way. There 
 seem to be many who enjoy the "realism" factor, and quite clearly, the dreary setting doesn't deter 
 most of the gamers. I, however, disagree with all of you.
  
  I started off the game on the hardest setting, which essentially turned me into swiss-cheese. Clearly, 
 it's not meant to be played at this setting, since it's nearly god damned impossible to do so. 
 In fact, I don't think there's a single gamer on the planet that could've beaten this fucking game 
 on the hardest setting, let alone the god forsaken creators. So I venture off on the 2nd hardest 
 setting, and still get owned. I have never, in my entire life, played an fps game, where it takes 
 me two full shotgun shells into an enemy's face at point blank to kill him, yet it only takes him 
 a couple of shots with a pistol from a mile away. Also, it takes 5 pistol shots from point blank 
 to the head to finish him off. This is downright ridiculous. This is neither realistic nor fun. 
 Sure Chernobyl was pretty, and the atmosphere, although dreary, was very realistic. I give them 
 props for that.
  
  In fact, the overall intentions of the game were solid, but the execution was so piss-poor that 
 anyone willing to finish this agonizing game must've been either desperate or foolish. Either ways, 
 the game just did not even get close to its potential. I hate it when that happens. 
  
  Another mention is the game's performance on normal rigs at the time. Even on the absolute lowest 
 settings, my decent rig could not function at even the bare minimum capacity. I set every possible 
 setting to the lowest level, and even then I was getting about 15 fps. This should NOT be the case. 
 The game was not scaled down to accommodate lower end systems and/or even medium end systems. An 
 absolute let down. 
  
  Thus, Stalker gets a resounding thumbs down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMala
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game a lot. With a medium-grade video card it ran OK on my PC (Vista OS) , and the 
 few problem I had were never serious.
  
  What I think is the best in the game is the very involving atmosphere and environment, as well 
 as the very realisting shooting. The weapons are well designed, including some flaws as for real 
 ones. The aiming can be done very accurately, which helps you to design and change your tactics 
 as needed. The effects of your shooting are accurate, predictable and reproducible, accounting 
 of course for the operator errors as it should be.
  
  The "best ending" of the game is enjoyable and it does bring the game to proper closure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rondinix
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  As I said the game is quite long.
  There is an immersive atmosphere, so, it will be hard to don't play at this game.
  Graphic is 
 very good, as sound... but there are many died times (very long walks) . Maybe.... a teletransport 
 system between game's areas (that are really big) was needed.
  This makes the game sometimes really boring.
  
  System requirements are really low.... for the 
 first time I played this game with an Athlon XP 2600+... with no issues.
  
  All the real life places are well rebuilt in the game. I'm satisfacted expecially for the Nuclear 
 power plant of Chernobyl.
  
  I suggest everybody to play for the secondary and aux. quests wich can make the game longer.
 
  Some physics error stills, I hope for a patch that willo solve these problems.
  
  Well Done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kristjanp07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  the game is awesome exept 4 the endings. and the are some difficulties in playing if u dont have 
 a rig with an 8 series nvidia card. The engine this game is built on is just awful. the graphics 
 arent the best although the bump mapping of everything makes it pretty ok. u need at least a nvidia 
 7600 and 1 gig of ram to run the game or you will encounter major lagg and so on. i acctualy expected 
 something else when i heard of the game the first time, i was hoping of some big city urban combat, 
 but the game is more like running around in the wilderness killing mutants and other creatures. 
 ok im gonna go play nfs pro street now seeya. (sorry for my bad english, im from Estonia) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CattiJack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R : Shadows of Chernobyl is a first person shooter mixed with some RPG elements.
  
  Its a great experience you will always remember, especially with seven endings.
  Its a struggle 
 for survival in the zone.
  
  The weapon have stats, you have a RPG like inventory, and a big world and story to immerse yourself 
 in.
  
  
  Gameplay-
  
  
  
  The gameplay is your average FPS style, you get your average firearms that range from pistols, 
 rifles, SMGs, and sniper rifles.
  
  The weapons can be customized, say you find a AK-47 with a fast fire upgrade.
  Then you stumble 
 about a scope.
  You latch that scope on your AK-47 and you got a very trusty weapon for the game.
  
  Theres 
 also a few different ammo types.
  But there are many weapons to find.
  
  Your character is in Chernobyl after a second explosion, you are a S. T. A. L. K. E. R you hunt for treasures 
 and artifacts in the zone.
  
  Artifacts are items you hold in your belt that give you supernatural passive abilities, like being 
 able to resist the zones Radio-Activeness better.
  
  Suits are crucial, as they are needed when you go to heavier Radio-Active zones.
  
  
  
 
  Graphics and Sound -
  
  
  
  
  The graphics are "Solid" they arnt horrible, and they arnt great.
  But there are solid looking 
 and totally acceptable.
  
  The LIGHTING.
  Is AMAZING, this engine's lighting is unreal.
  Say your in a underground lab that's been sealed 
 off (which there is in the game) its pitch black, and you just flip on your flashlight.
  
  It looks amazing.
  
  The sound is alright, the monsters you find will scream.
  The soldiers 
 you meet up in town will speak with heavy russian accents.
  The explosions and weapons sound top notch.
  
  
  
  Story (best part)
  
  The story in 
 S. T. A. L. K. E. R is great.
  It draws you in ,and you feel like your in a real world while playing.
  And it makes you keep 
 playing to find out whats happening while your having heaps of fun.
  
  I won't spoil anything.
  
  
  BOTTOM LINE!
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R is just a great experience.
 
  It would take 20-40 hours to beat, and its pretty long for a FPS.
  You won't forget playing it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneBasura
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  There are plenty of other reviews describing the mechanics of the game, so instead I'm just gonna 
 describe an experience I had with the game when I unleashed the AI by editing a file somewhere.
 
  
  I was strolling around checking out how the AI reacted to their new found freedom. After being 
 chased by a very large pack of dogs, I ventured into Dark Valley where this friendly guy with a 
 kickass scoped assault rifle had slaughtered a camp of bandits and sat near a bush scanning the 
 horizon. So naturally I shot him in the head till he died and stole the aforementioned assault 
 rifle.
  
  Proceeded down the road down to this large industrial warehouse type building. Crazy people were 
 running around shooting at each other in its vicinity. I didn't feel like getting caught in the 
 crossfire so I chose to ignore it. Noticed there were a couple of blips on my radar emitting from 
 a multistoried building on the other side of the road. One being a neutral stalker. So I went to 
 check out what that dude was up to. Up the stairs, into room.
  
  Death. Three corpses lied dead on the floor with one injured stalker writhing in pain. Wondered 
 what the hell had happened here. I was about to find out as I gave the wounded stalker a medpack. 
 Suddenly I heard an eerie howl. "What the hell was that?" I turned on the flashlight and turned 
 it towards the doorway where I was greeted by two glowing eyes. For a while it just stood there, 
 giving me time to act like a deer caught in the headlights before it lept forward. It mauled the 
 other stalker to death in an instant before attacking me while I pumped bullets into its chest 
 and screamed like a little girl in my head.
  
  I think I hurt it cause eventually it ran out of the room. But I could hear it breathing somewhere 
 out there. Having no idea where it went I thought it'd be safer to just wait and see if it would 
 come back. There was only one point of entry, so at least I knew where it'd come from. For a while 
 I just stood there in this room filled with corpses, hearing it breath, not knowing when or if 
 it'd return. After a minute or two of psychologically unsound terror I decided to just gun for 
 it and hope to make it past the damn thing.
  
  Off I went, out of the room, to the right, down the first set of stairs, second, third, woohoo, 
 I can see the exit I made IAAAAHHH!! On the last set of stairs I ran straight into it, scared the 
 shit out of me. It lunged at me and started clawing at my belly and also my face. But at least 
 now I wasn't cornered and had more room to maneuver. So I stepped backwards while unloading the 
 magazine into it and thinkscreaming "DIEEEEE!" all manly like. This was my last stand. Either him 
 or me. Finally, after two magazines, it went down. To make sure it was dead I emptied another magazine 
 into its head.
  
  I was just playing around, taking a leisurely stroll, exploring, and all of a sudden I walk into 
 this house of terror playing out like some scene out of a horror movie. If you think about it it 
 sounds like the bloodsucker was setting a trap for me. It most likely didn't, cause that'd be some 
 immensely ridiculous AI, but it sure seems plausible.
  
  In summary: Unscripted **** am awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  Well if that's not a game than what is... The game is just CRUSHING... I've never saw anything like 
 it (that's perhaps I'm a big fan of the history around Chernobyl) ... The world in the game is just 
 real, and makes a killing gameplay. I love the weapons, they are so real, I really felt them in my 
 hands during my play... Of course the last two levels were the best, I bet everyone wanted to see 
 Chernobyl from near, well I don't know about you, but I did it... in that game and when I went inside... was 
 something AMAZING... I was in a coma. The game was just like a dream... The quests are somethimes 
 boring but the enviroment is crushing... During the play, there were a lot of times when I said "Holy 
 shit"... I was shocked from the beauty of the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorCream
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Stalker is everything most FPS lovers want and more...
  
  great graphics, an immersive story, non-linear path ways, a thick and rewarding underlying plot, 
 multiple ways to complete the game, and even an astonishing multiplayer - although underappreciated 
 and certainly under utilized.
  
  Stalker itself is a kind of hybrid FPS shooter that combines the best elements of games such as 
 Oblivion, Fear, Far Cry and others into a delightful twist of unpredictable gameplay.
  
  Whether you are enjoying the seemingly open ended world, or crawling through psychologically disturbing 
 Fear-like tunnels and caverns underground - Stalker does not disappoint. It can take a bit to get 
 into, but once you get locked into the main plot after an interesting and unique way to start the 
 game, prepare to be completely engrossed and wanting more.
  
  Stalker offers great value for money as well, with gameplay that can typically last anywhere fromk 
 30 to 60 hours depending on your choices, style of play, and how far you get into personal reputation 
 building.
  
  Numerous endings, an extensive array of weapons and other ingame items, and a progressive approach 
 towards improving AI difficulty as the game continues make this a winner. Not to mention exceptional 
 graphics that are as well generally underrated and overlooked in the discussion of solid engines 
 that deliver.
  
  Get it today - you won't be sorry!
  
  - DoctorCream
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: count_hamstein
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This is probably THE BEST game ever made for pc. Though it sounds bad with it's share of glitches, 
 you can easily forget about them when you get sucked into the gameplay. There are alot of quests 
 to keep you busy and some exciting story missions, such as disabling a machine that turns people 
 retarded. If your not happy with a feature in the game though, you can always download one of the 
 many mods, one that allows cars, or the one that allows weapon reapairs. The developers are even 
 going to release their own mod, without a story, just freeroaming fun. There are gonna be warring 
 factions in the game, you can even join some of them. There is also an arena that you can fight 
 in and thousands of other features, kinda like an mmorpg without the mmo and less rpg.
  
  
  Basically what im saying is buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriel73
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  Very solid shooter with some good scares and decent graphics, theres not much else to it. 
  I suck at reviewing games so heres a list to look over when decideding on buying this game or not. 
 
  Pros: 
  Open landscape levels to explore. 
  Some basic RPG elements, such as an inventory and attributes using artifacts. 
  Graphics are 
 decent and really shine on the indoor levels. 
  General creepiness throughout the world. 
  Cons: 
  Shooting system sucks, guns feel very inacriate and it often takes more the 4 pistol 
 shots to the head to kill. 
  Story is somewhat confusing, but what you do pick up from it is borring. 
  Constant micro managing 
 of your inventory; so that you dont go over 60kilos. 
  Promised enemies and features not in the game 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameTimppa
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It's very realistic and its has got lots of weapons and a very big map with 
 lot of details and huge buildings. 
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R is first person shooter, put there lot of things that remains of role games. Example 
 you have a backbag where you can store stuff and if you put too much stuff in it, it gets heavy, 
 then you must sell the items or drop them. Put S. T. A. L. K. E. R don't have any level upgrades like 
 on role-games.
  
  Put the game needs a good computer. Still if you have very good computer and a good driver on your 
 computer, you still must get a lower graphics that the game works fast. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandomonk
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I have a giant monster angry PC system. It eats frame rates for lunch and spits out bloom and volumetric 
 smoke for dinner, but I digress, I have installed and re-installed this game hoping for different 
 results, but the outcome is always the same: frustration and wondering why I just wasted time installing 
 this game... AGAIN. The last two times had to do with the patches. I installed then installed all 
 the patches because I heard that the game was uber-buggy, after installing the patches the game 
 totally crashed on boot. 
  
  Whatever.
  
  Instead of being able to just reinstall, you have to uninstall then reinstall. What is this? The 
 Twilight Zone for gaming? I thought these types of problems and obsolescence were supposed to be 
 pass by now. Nope. So I figure I'll install one patch at a time, and the game crashed on the first 
 released patch. Maybe there is an NVidia, SLi, Quad Core problem. Maybe the game just hates my 
 twin 8800 GTX Ultra's, whatever the issue is, this was a waste of time... until I decide to reinstall 
 the game... sans patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Swifty-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure what to make of this game, upon first reactions I was really impressed, but I feel 
 like there is one main gameplay choice that really doesn't make sense to me.
  
  It seems like the developers have put all emphasis on creating a game where survival and gritty 
 realism feels like a big issue. You have to eat, your weapons degrade, ammo is usually an issue, 
 you have to use bandages, low accuracy weapons, you can die fairly quickly if you aren't careful 
 etc. Now I really enjoyed all these things, it made me think about what I was doing, I felt like 
 I didn't really want to enter a firefight with 100s of enemies but this is the really weird thing. 
 Almost all of the main missions involve you sneaking into a base filled with 100s of enemies. It 
 just doesn't add up. They put all this emphasis on realism and surival but then make you go on 
 suicide missions. I probably wouldn't complain if it was actually a feasible option to sneak through 
 these missions but it literally never is. The weapons are incredibly inaccurate. At first I actually 
 liked this, it added to the realism of a post-apocalyptic place, and added an extra dimension of 
 luck and craziness to the firefights, but when you get slung into a firefight with 100s of enemies, 
 particularly with the weapons from the beginning of the game which are really inaccurate it just 
 seems ridiculous. I've actually had firefights which have lasted hours, because I've run out of 
 ammo with good weapons and had to resort to pistols which have no range at all. This brings me 
 onto my next point: bugs. A lot of things I'm not sure if are delibarate or just bugs, which is 
 an incredible immersion breaker. Sneaking being one of these things. If you try and sneak your 
 way through a main quest, which you won't be able to do because of the placement of enemies anyway, 
 you may encounter situations where you actually can't continue without alerting someone. I've been 
 in corridors leading to areas I need to go, where I can't sneak up and stab the guy in the back 
 (in full sneak mode, with no one else there to see) , and I can't sneak past. Either sneaking is 
 impossibly hard, or there is a weird bug here.
  
  The worst bugs I've encountered have been to do with respawning enemies. I've completed 'defend 
 an area' missions, been congratulated by someone, only to have it get attacked again a second later, 
 until all my defender buddies are dead. It just seems like either a bug or a really weird gameplay 
 choice. Other times I will be infiltrating a place with an endless supply of enemies, coming from 
 places I just cleared out. It is just weird and immersion breaking.
  
  The whole game just feels really strange, I'm sure by now most of the bugs have been stamped out, 
 but the core quest choices can't be. It feels like they have come up with original gameplay mechanics 
 and then giving you levels that don't suit it at all. Imagine they came up with the gameplay mechanics 
 for Splinter Cell, based completely around sneaking and instead of making levels that would suit 
 sneaking they put you in levels like those out Battlefield 2. It just doesn't really work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingig520
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  Stalker shadow of Chernobyl is a very nice game, not just because it has alot of weapons, cool 
 locations and dangerous enemies.
  But orignally the game was meant to be a rpg, and sure there are some of these elements but there 
 is also alot of action and if you like sneaking to.
  Not only is the game this, cause later on it can become really scary actually (if you have the system 
 to meet) But in the end it keeps almost every promise, and it is a really AWESOME game so the ones 
 of you that have the system to max stalker go out and get it, otherwise you that dont can still 
 enjoy it.
  
  Ty for me :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfutoma
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game! Very difficult. We want the graphics to simulate reality. Why should other 
 aspects of games (like difficulty) remain unreal? I play it on medium level, and the chances of 
 me killing someone or being killed are almost 1:1. My advantages are Quick Save, sometimes a better 
 weapon, and enough intelligence to outsmart AI. It may be just my experience, but there is not 
 much ammunition available. On one hand, it is another problem for the player. On the other hand, 
 it is another parameter to consider in your tactical plan. One thing that somehow bother me is 
 that there are many automatic guns that look similar. In the heat of the battle it is hard to switch 
 between guns. Non-linear game. Immersing world. Vast outdoors. Great graphics and sound. Recommend 
 to anybody who likes challenging games, not a brainless run-and-gun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-Beer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Is one of the best games I have ever played, it was kinda hard and dull until I 
 got my first rifle, after that it just kept getting better.
  Despite my short playing time (since Friday) I have enjoyed the game like hell and discovered some 
 cool things.
  
  This game does lag some if you don't fix some small problems, but it is very doable and easy to. 
 The world that you play in is dynamic and just right for the game. And all the characters and animals 
 you encounter is mind-blowing. The developers of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. have used nice, realistic model 
 for the physical parts in the game (gravity shifting, wounding, fatigue, starvation etc.) and this 
 delivers an even more fantastic game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tony_vl06
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a fine game, but it also shows us a lot of potential that never got realized. 
 The mostly-open, Fallout-style post-apocalyptic world is really engaging and its basis in a real-life 
 event makes it that much more interesting, but the frustrating gunplay, high difficulty, and lack 
 of transportation can get on your nerves pretty often. It's worth going all the way through to 
 unravel the story and find the secret endings, but read up on the game's remaining bugs and try 
 to avoid them if you can. Multiplayer is there and is fun, but the single player is really the 
 innovative part of this game. If you love shooters and nuclear wastelands, this one is definitely 
 an easy choice to make, but be ready for a tough time: the Zone is unforgiving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xuerebx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly one of the best games I ever played. It's an FPS with some RPG elements. The 
 story is about the Chernobyl accident, you'll be a STALKER (a guy who searches the tainted land, 
 better known as THE ZONE, for artifacts and to uncover secrets etc) and after some sort of accident, 
 you don't know who you are or what you're supposed to do. You'll be doing lots of side quests and 
 little by little you'll also be doing the main quest. This game has surprisingly 7 DIFFERENT ENDINGS!! 
 The replayability is very high. There are LOTS of guns and artifacts, and I mean *lots* There are 
 about 22 different weapons with different ammo types, and over 35 different artifacts (Artifacts 
 are radiated objects found in the zone which offer the user increased or decreased skills, and 
 all can be used or sold for a high price) There are also lots of different amour suits, both for 
 combat and exploration.
  
  There are a couple of factions, and you can join two of them (Duty or Freedom) . I recommend the 
 1.0003 patch, as it is known to be the best available patch. But the latest patch is 1.0004. I 
 found the 1.0003 to be better.
  
  The only CONS this game has, are minor/major bugs. Especially Vista users. Most minor bugs have 
 been repaired by patches. And I never suffered from a major bug. But Vista users suffer from some 
 major bugs. Well, use XP I suppose. I don't think I'll ever get Vista unless it becomes a-must 
 for games.
  
  The game is quite hard, but that's why it makes it beautiful. You're always feel you're being hunted, 
 and your skill will help you survive.
  
  So, what are you waiting for, BUY this game! Truly amazing.
  
  PS: The landscape is about 30Km 
 square. Huge! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smiley451
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Here is a game that deserves a lot more than is given credit for. It has a very open, dynamic world, 
 excellent combat, environments, enemies, story, everything. The graphics could be made a bit better, 
 first off, but that doesn't keep the game from being amazing. Packs of wild dogs and other creatures 
 will attack other Stalkers and bring their corpses to their den for dinner. Yes, they actually 
 eat them! There are military checkpoints which are a blast to fight your way through. Generally, 
 the military soldiers have better weapons than you, so it's a battle of tactics. Most of the firefights 
 take place outside, which hasn't been done much in the past. STALKER pulls it off surprisingly 
 well. Trees or ruined cars provide cover, while you can crawl around in the bushes and hide. Oh 
 yes, there is sneaking around and hiding in the game. The weapons are also a lot of fun. You mainly 
 shoot with iron sights, but you can use cross hairs in a close-quarters fight. All the weapons 
 are quite unique and fun. It's good to have a varied arsenal, but you can only carry 50 kilograms 
 of gear, including armor, ammo, grenades, guns, food, and other things. Eventually, you'll find 
 a good stash area and place all your weapons in there. Did I mention how fun grenades are in this 
 game? I cannot tell you the feeling you get when you charge forward, bullets whizzing by your head, 
 the ground getting ripped up, and throw a grenade into the air and down at your enemies. A few 
 seconds later you see their bodies blow into the air amid a spray of dirt. It's amazing.
  Yes, this game is totally worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julzeverne
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 30, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I was having so much fun with this game at first, but the lack of polish. and the frustrations 
 with aiming made me give up on the game around the X16 lab level. First off the voice acting in 
 the game was pretty good, but I got sick of hearing the same NPC's say the same thing over and 
 over and over. If I heard that guy in the mobile lab say Hello, hello one more time i was gonna 
 have to break something. You could even hear him saying it if you went outside the lab! Almost 
 all of the NPC's had one line to say, and they said it as many times as you were close enough to 
 hear. Another thing that bothered me was that some of the voicing was in english and some wasn't. 
 The important stuff was all in english, but it was annoying to have some guys speaking english 
 and others not. Too many signs were also not in english. I found out that there was a mine field 
 in front of a military station because one of the guards I was shadowing walked into it and got 
 all blowed up! I guess he was one of the NPC's that only spoke English.
  
  The quest system still needs work. Sometimes I would walk into a zone and get a quest without talking 
 to anyone. Then if by magic I would complete it without doing anything. Some quests were broken 
 too. Also the same quests would be available over and over. I'm not sure if that was planned or 
 a bug. If it was planned it was not a good plan. Redoing old quests is lazy game writing.
  
  One quest that was annoying was when I had to infiltrate a small base to get some documents 
 (which is all you do in the main quests - I felt like a Delta Force secretary too much of the time) . 
 The guy told me to sneak in at night because there were only supposed to be 2 guards after hours. 
 I could get in and out without calling down the military's wrath on him and his camp. I got up 
 to the base and started a huge fight with everyone aware of my presence and gunning for me and 
 the loud speaker yelling about me being there. After I killed off the whole base I got the docs 
 and went back to the guy, and he said thanks here's your reward. He never mentioned that I made 
 all hell brake loose. Another thing that was odd is after I killed everyone there the loud speaker 
 kept screaming. I'm not sure where that guy was who was on the mic. Which is probably good for 
 him cuz I would have killed him too.
  
  The escort quests need help too. When you have to protect the scientist while he tries to get back 
 to the mobile lab after the helicopter crashes, he says that he isn't a good fighter so you had 
 better go first and he will follow. Then the butt-munch takes off running as fast as he can. WTF?!? 
 He does the same thing when you have to follow him while he gets readings later on. All of that 
 was more annoying than anything else. What ruined the game for me was the aiming. At the beginning 
 of the game it isn't that bad because the enemy's armor isn't that strong, but when you get to 
 the more difficult baddies, where you have to head-shot them, it is downright frustrating. I got 
 sick of having my scope dead in the middle of a bad guy's face from only 20 yards away while I 
 am squatted as low as I can get, and I still can't one-shot him. I could not tell if I was just 
 hitting armor or missing him altogether. It would have been much better if the game made the barrel 
 sway instead of just randomly deciding whether you hit the target or not. Play Farcry if you don't 
 know what I am referring to. As a matter of fact just play Farcry. I feel much better that I have 
 gotten all that off my chest. The game had some strong points, but it felt like a beta to me. Maybe 
 they will figure it all out in the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikkelmmm
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this title. It promised a lot of things that sounded really appealing 
 to me, but brought very few of them to the finished game.
  
  The storyline feels scattered and incoherent. The main points are forced on you in the form of 
 involuntary cutscenes, but the complete absence of filler material makes you feel like you've missed 
 a lot of content that just isn't in the game.
  
  The game is plagued by bugs, most of them related to missions, some of which can never be completed, 
 others of which can be done in advance of other missions that include them, often breaking the 
 continuity of the storyline.
  
  The missions themselves also range widely in difficulty, to the point of them not seeming very 
 believable at times. I know that the character you play is supposed to be an excellent S. T. A. L. K. E. R., 
 but killing a group of 25 stalkers in power armour on your own as part of a mission just seems 
 a little off.
  
  I find the free roaming abilities to be more of an annoyance than a blessing, as you're free to 
 do anything you want, including breaking the storyline. You very quickly end up with 200k+ rubles, 
 making you set for the remainder of the game.
  
  The game does have its merits. I like the combat system, although the weapon modification options 
 could have been more impressive, and the game itself looks great.
  
  Overall very unpolished, and lacking elements that were promised for the 2004 release, making you 
 wonder exactly what it was that caused them to delay the game for three years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvearl
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Atmosphere, role playing, decent enough story and freedom of movement. Just some of the strengths 
 of this game.
  
  This is a game that takes an hour or so to grab you and when it does you are hooked. I know a few 
 people that do not like it but they are the types that favor run-and-gun type games like Farcry 
 or Serious Sam II or expected a hard core RPG. This is NOT that kind of game so much as it is a 
 well done blend of the 2 genres.
  
  That said, many people have written some great stuff and I will not bore you with details. Just 
 simply have to say that this game patched to 1.004 is fantastic and I will play it a second time 
 after a short break. It offers alot of value considering the length of time you can play it and 
 the replayability.
  
  There are minor issues with translation in a few spots when talking to NPC's in the game to English 
 but nothing that makes it confusing or ruined.
  
  Performance wise though. If you have anything other than an 8800 series nVidia card or ATI 2900XT/Pro, 
 you will have a hard time playing in the Full Dynamic Lighting mode. But heck. Static mode looks 
 pretty great anyway. That's what I am playing it on with my X1900XT. I will go to FDL mode when 
 I have a new card in a month or so. *Dont tell my wife* LOL.
  
  C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roblox84
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I would first like to say that the game requires on hell of a good pc. You will also need a very 
 powerful graphics card to get the most out of this game. The game didn't really have much of that 
 open world feel too it, but more of a feel of a regular level game. At times the game was a bit 
 buggy, for instance i took a different route to the next level that the computer didn't recognize. 
 I had to shoot through a lot of people and i think i wasn't supposed to make it through there, 
 but anyway after i made it through my life was just constantly depleting and the new assignments 
 wouldn't show up even though i have passed all the previous ones. So i had to find the path that 
 the computer recognized to get to the next level. Either then that the graphics were pretty good 
 and they really recreated the post-war, nuclear meltdown, european town feel very nicely. I thought 
 i had been there after i played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vagabondhorizon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  Great shooter with a fairly intelligent AI for a change. Enimies act like they are in a gunfight!!!
 
  Some missions and features are buggy but it does not take away from the great experience. I would 
 have liked to see a bit more polish on some of the missions and dialouge translations. And a few 
 of the bugs such as the artifacts and reputation system are quite annoying to say the least. However 
 the combat is second to none with a smart A. I. and good shooting physics make the game a hella 
 fun shooter. That being said, I have nothing but good things to say about S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  I didn't start tracking this game, or even hear about it, until about a month before it's release, 
 when a friend of mine goes hey, have you heard about that game stalker, it's gonna be a sweet shooter!! 
 and boy was he right. I rushed out and bought it on the first day, and have been playing ever since. 
 I'll start with the negative things. The character models are the worst i've ever seen, the game 
 is riddled with bugs and flaws, and it's not exactly wonderfully optimized. with that out of the 
 way, let me tell you that the gameplay of this game is extrordinairy. It's extremely atmoshpheric, 
 has amazing lighting and shadow effects, and has some of the best ballistics i've ever seen in 
 a game. although it is mainly a shooter, it is very non linear, and if you don't rush through the 
 game and do side quests, you'll find you spend as much time playing this game as any other rpg 
 (oblivion comes to mind) . the story is a bit confusing, but if you piece it together, it's not 
 half bad. also, the replay value is great. there are 7 different endings, and so many side quests 
 to do. lots of different guns and armor. the guns are upgradable, and there are even different 
 ammo types for different situations, and certain guns with upgrades to allow different ammo types. 
 Overall, this has been my favorite game of 07 so far, and i urge anyone who can see past a few 
 bugs and flaws to get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_QWER
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  The game has amazing graphics, very good storyline with 8 different endings available. It was worth 
 waiting those years for this game to release, although the game kinda sucked in the old trailers. 
 It's very good that player has ability to choose what missions he wants to do. You can do only 
 main missions or do all of them if you want to. The game has very good online ability. There's 
 plenty of types and maps which can be played. Starting with the traditional ones and ending with 
 Artifact Hunt.
  As I said before this is the best game I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siavash_ps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Same as oblivion but with smaller environment and less weapons and NPCs . Play as an unidentified 
 character. When you start playing you may disappointed very soon because it is very hard in the 
 first look but try to gain more experience and become the number 1 stalker. When you gain the expert 
 rank no one will stop you. The game has 7 endings but only 2 of them are related to the story of 
 the game. Most of the side missions of the game are not hard and they usually don't worth to play. 
 Most of the weapons of the games are lovely to use but make sure to pick up enough ammo. you also 
 may face different enemies like bandits, militaries , stalkers, mutant and zombies, that some of 
 them are a real things .After all stalker is a valuable game to play and it will remain in your 
 mind for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobman_420
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  I think the theam and idea is great. Reminds me of what fallout 3 should be kinda like. but if 
 fallout 3 is like this then ill be disapointed. id say the begining was the best. you got the feel 
 for being just a little speck on the map. but what sucked is the weapon accuracy is so crapy that 
 you might as well throw rocks at them. and they can use the same weapon and graze you from way 
 off. so that sucked. Another thing i hated about the game is the AI. friendly foes suck and just 
 get in the way. and many times your way out numbered. some places they just keep comming. if they 
 improved the IA part and made the game a little easyer it would be a solid game. A prehistoric 
 version of what fallout 3 is going to be like. cant wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyHR
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.  had some fun playing it i have to say. But it didn't turn out to be as good as 
 i expected. Probably due to the fact it was released several years after it should... That just 
 brought up the hype.
  You'll get to know the game in about half an hour or a bit more, so it's pretty easy to learn what 
 to do and where to go... Main thing i like about this game is the idea. Not much of a survival 
 game fan, but this one had just the right mixture of various genres. This Chernobyl thing was never 
 seen before and i like it... I was actually surprised to see the AI in this game... It was very 
 good, enemies hide, go around, ambush. They make this game more than just a run and gun game.
 
  The game is somewhat short, but if you play side quests you'll get quite a few hours playing it. 
 Exploration is a good part of the game, and fun too. Especially cause of the in game atmosphere. 
 It keeps you on the edge of your seat just waiting for something to happen.
  The sound in the game is awesome, when you're playing with quality headphones the atmosphere is 
 great, sound effects, surrounding environment sounds, everything... Graphics are not quite best 
 that i've seen but are not bad. I have to say i don't like the look of the weapons, they could 
 definitely look better, but hey... They're not that bad.
  Another good thing is the multiple endings which depend on your in game decisions. That gives the 
 game a replay option and is a good thing in any game. Cause you don't get bored of it that quick.
 
  
  My pros for this game are good sound in the first place, very good idea and atmosphere.
  My cons, well there are none in particular. Just that feeling that it could be done better.
  
 
  All in all this game is definitely worth playing, some will enjoy it very much, some will think 
 it's just ok... But very few will think it's bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Streetrider9873
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. perfectly captures the atmosphere and the emotion radiating from Chernobyl. The 
 game is realistic and very murky, making the player feel that they are really wandering around 
 the exclusion zone of the desiccated power plant. Shadow of Chernobyl features broad and varied 
 game play, from RPG-like quests, to Tom Clancy-like sneaking, to Doom-like horror, to full on team 
 and solo assaults.
  
  There are a few glitches in the game that can occasionally be frustrating, and the fact that there 
 is no map-travel has you sometimes wearily running across the giant map from destination to destination. 
 Yet if you look past all that and consider what the game truly offers, you will see a unique and 
 engaging experience that makes any cons quite trivial and inconsequential.
  
  Everyone should play this game. If you can relate to Russia and Ukraine and can understand the 
 Russian language, those factors will make the game an even a deeper experience that you will appreciate 
 on many levels. Plus there are no subtitles, and while everyone important speaks English, some 
 NPCs while talking to each other speak only in Russian.
  
  In short, the game is great so get it and play it. Also keep an eye out for S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Clear 
 Sky, which is a prequel to Shadow of Chernobyl due to be released in 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pako_adrian
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  I really looked forward to playing this game and I must say that i was impressed when I started 
 it. Unfortunately as I started to get closer to it end I was a bit disappointed due to certain aspects 
 of the game, on in particular being that after you reach a certain level you stop having problems 
 with all other enemies, being able to chew through them with great ease; kinda took the fun away. Another 
 thing that i did not like like is who the story end... I mean come on! You go through all that trouble 
 just to get squashed?! Can`t say that it was the best end to the story. Don`t get me wrong from 
 a general point of view the story is good though some times not coherent but never the less good 
 it just that the end really bugs you. Oh and bug related, you`ll get quite a few of those. Now that 
 I`ve said a lot of bad things about the game it time to point out the good stuff to. Things such 
 as a very creepy atmosphere (really ads flavor to the game) , interestingly organized inventory 
 (can`t use more than 2 guns at once, you have to open inventory and switch weapons) , the need for 
 food (nice touch) , the ability to modify (upgrade) your weapons and the availability of quest in 
 almost every encampment. Love the game play. Has a big replay value. Adequate sound track. Quite 
 good graphics. I`ve just told the ups and downs of the games you decide if it`s indeed worth playing. I 
 say it definitely worth a play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davemonkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I've enjoyed S. T. A. L. K. E. R. to date. As far as FPSes go it's not Half-Life 2 or Bioshock but it 
 does have such a unique setting that I'm willing to persist with it, despite being distracted by 
 something as awesome as BioShock. FPS gameplay isn't very different from anything else I've played. 
 The big differenece that keeps me coming back to the Zone is the mission driven and open environment. 
 It's a huge sandbox and feels very much like Oblivion with guns. One of the big problems I have 
 with open worlds like Oblivion or GTA is that they are either very empty (Oblivion) or everyone 
 is generic (GTA) . S. T. A. L. K. E. R. neatly sidesteps this issue by putting it slap in the middle of 
 a part of the world where nobody wants to be. There are plenty of opponents to fight and other 
 stalkers to interact with as the game has a sometimes too healthy refresh and respawn rate in its 
 zones. Its one of my biggest beefs actually because there is a lot of backtracking in the game 
 and there is nothing more frustrating than clearing out a group of bandits near a zone exit, completing 
 your mission in the adjacent zone and having to backtrack throught the respawned goons in the adjacent 
 zone.
  
  Resource management is a little like System Shock 2 because almost all of the ammo and weaponry 
 you need to use you have to loot. Equipment degrades over time and you cannot repair it (although 
 a mod exists that does change this) so you need ti look after it. Its rarely a problem but you 
 can only carry so much so unlike a lot of RPGs you don't lug unlimited ammo for every weapon around 
 like a little musclebound pony. Overall this is a greta game and if you see it a budget price definitly 
 pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gwarpup
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I love games with atmosphere. This element is one of the main elements to make great games like 
 System Shock 2, Shadowman, Silent Hill, Bioshock, Half Life, etc. The atmosphere here is better 
 than them all IMO. When you enter the level of Parypat City, the shear devestation is jaw dropping. 
 The dark windy weather, excellent Lightning Storms, and the textures of everything is so realistic, 
 it all comes together to make you feel THERE. And its such a unique World to explore, and you really 
 can EXPLORE it fully, you can enter most any building, nothing is there just for picture purposes. 
 You can go ANYWHERE, although somethings limit you only at first. You can go back to any previous 
 map though which adds up to a great deal of land. The FPS qualities are great, runs smooth, the 
 AI of enemies is excellent and great fun to see interact with each other. The RPG elements are 
 just enough to interesting without weakening the FPS elements. The graphics, lighting, sound are 
 all superb. This is now the #1 game I cant wait to see a sequel for. I would incredibly love to 
 see a MMO based on the fascinating world of STALKER too. Even if they had to dumb down the FPS 
 mechanics like Tabula Rasa, this would make an outstanding MMO gameworld and it makes an Outstanding 
 single player experience as well! And I havent even tried the multiplayer fighting yet, but there 
 are many of the maps I would to play against other on. They are a beauty to behold. Especially 
 the run down cities, wearhouses, and labs. It would be especially nice to include monster AIs into 
 multiplayer maps, which may be possible, Im not sure about that yet. Probably for sure with mods 
 though.
  
  The details all add up after you've been playing for just a short time to suprise and impress. 
 In some ways you might not thing its as good as you were expecting, but much more things you will 
 find are even BETTER than you expected that are hard to describe until you experience the game 
 yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luna7fox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  I've been wading through radioactive pools of sickening, lurid-green water, while being followed 
 by horrible, howling, scrabbling mutants who scamper around on all fours. I've been inside an abandoned 
 warehouse complex where decaying human remains are left to rot in piles and dead-eyed people wander 
 aimlessly around. Right now, there are crows cirling overhead waiting for me to collapse so that 
 they can pick the meat from my bones eliminating any record that I ever existed. In the distance 
 I hear shrieks and wailing and gunshots. I eat my dinner from a tin like a dog. I climb a ladder 
 to the roof of a building and wait for the sun as the rain pours down and lightning lights up the 
 night sky.
  
  I used to be a scared weasel of a man with nothing but a thin leather jacket and a worn out old 
 pistol for company. I'd run away from everything and anything out of self preservation and plain 
 simple fear. Since then I've grown, experienced and learnt how to negotiate this landscape through 
 exploration and experimentation. I've found better weapons and an advanced suit to shield me from 
 the terrors of this place. I've been chased by ravenous boars, blind dogs and blood thirsty bandits. 
 I have anomalies tacked to my belt that allow me to run for longer, bleed less and dispense with 
 radiation more effectively. Now, I am a veteran, a loner.
  
  Sometimes, late at night when the mutants are closing in and I can count how much ammo I have left 
 with one hand; my night vision has just switched itself off and I'm looking for somewhere to hide 
 while searching frantically for a grenade or some bandages. Then, I press F6 and take a drink from 
 my cup and look around the room. Only then do I realise I'm not in the rotting remains of Chernobyl 
 but in my room at home, and I can relax and breathe again because this is all a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alien_zzz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  this game is very good and deep that almost none of today's games can even dream to touch ! so 
 if you can't afford to having the time or brain to appreciate this game, go hug your HALO 3 ! but 
 a true gamer will stay where the true game stands ! my NO.1 game till now (1997-2007) , totally
 
  
  replace my previously NO.1 game : fallout series ! by the way, to fully enjoy
  
  this masterpiece you need a moderately good PC, 2G memory is a must !
  
  looking forward to 
 more of it ! this is how THE NINTH ART should be !
  
  A GAMER WHO ONLY PLAYS IN MASTER DIFFICULTY ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korin1976
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2007 3:03 am PT
Review:  The AI is gorgeous. Its actually the first FPS I played where I noticed some kind of AI. Graphics 
 may be better in parts, but mostly, its effects, like weather and the use of lighting are still 
 unmatched after half a year since release.
  
  The game is not as appealing as my favorite Max Payne, but that was actually my first video game 
 after a decade. That explains. But its the best FPS since and stands out among all genres.
  
  I am getting old and tired of games but this one made me rethink.
  Anyways, video games need 
 be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreadfall
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 30, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  Oh goody a game called Stalker, all about the Chernobyl incident, I figured this would be the game 
 to get. Not only is it not the game to get but I now don't think I'd watch a movie about it, if 
 one was ever done. Loading up the game was one of the first things that made me wonder just what 
 I'd gotten myself into. After the initial starting of the game and finally the load screen, I'd 
 say 4 minutes has passed. The interface will give you an even better idea of how sloppily this 
 game was designed. Now finally getting into the game, the graphics are really pretty well done, 
 and then you start to realize how small the text is for the in-game characters chat. Completing 
 missions is very odd for a FPS to me. Especially when you haven't quite finished completing the 
 mission and the person you're speaking to, to complete the mission is talking, you can't heer them 
 because of gunfire, and the scrolling text for you to read in case you didn't hear him goes by 
 so fast you miss what he's saying there as well. Earning Rubels, the Russian currency for solving 
 missions is completely pointless. You can loot the characters you kill, their bullets, bandages, 
 food, weapons ETC. Novice difficulty is even almost beyond hard, and even then, the enemies seem 
 to never miss you no matter where you run. Apparently their bullets can go right through walls 
 and still hit you, but you aren't as fortunate to land your shots the same way. The weapons look 
 like nothing really, they could have given you a twig and it'd probably look the same. The textures 
 are bland and don't really give the game world much of a feel of environment. The world in some 
 areas looks good for the area you're in, in other areas it could use some work. Almost all the 
 enemies in the game look exactly the same, and when they die they all look like their weaing a 
 joggers suit, the detail on the enemies is next to nothing. As soon as you kill 1 enemy, you had 
 better save the game, cause usually you're bombarded by about 5 guys and you will not survive. 
 1 guy can kill you in about 3 hits, you try using your shotgun even and you're looking at 5 shots 
 before he falls down. I'm not totally sure if this game was fully tested before it was released, 
 it looks like a rush job, even with all the patches. I followed the progress of this game for years 
 and thought it was going to be so much better than it was, what a dissappointment. THQ should stick 
 to RPG'S like how they did Titan Quest, and mayvbe get some advice on how to properly make a FPS, 
 this game is unplayable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaeryn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm pretty sure most people have heard of this game before. I recently bought it off steam, and 
 I'm having an interesting experience. The mix of First-Person Shooter and RPG makes it an interesting 
 combo. Overall it's quite a lengthy game. There's a few annoying RPG parts in this game like degrading 
 armor and weapons, but luckily mods are available to remove these things, and of course add a whole 
 lot of things to the game to make it even better. Mods are a must, so if you plan on getting this 
 game, you owe it to yourself to get some mods downloaded for it. The map at first seems quite big, 
 but you'll soon realize that it's not as big as it seems, as only half of it is really explorable. 
 Overall the shooting is quite good, but it lacks a few of those epic moments you'd expect in most 
 FPS games. The graphics are alright, a few years old but it's not too bad. A bit better than Half 
 Life 2. The optimization is quite bad in this game, though, so it requires a better computer than 
 you should really need. The crashes with vista, are of course, incredibly annoying, so if that 
 might turn you off (of course some vista users won't experience this) , then it's best to avoid 
 this one. Overall, there's a lot to say about it, but in general it's a good game with entertaining 
 moments, but it feels unfinished and buggy, and could use some improvements, which is sad since 
 it was delayed so much anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tripwolf
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Looking forward to this game may be one of the largest reasons for such a poor score but trust 
 me when I say to pass this one over. I love the concept for this game and all the ambitious ideas 
 used in it but they are all poorly pulled off. The combat is like rolling dice in a lot of instances, 
 even if you are one of the most skilled FPS players available. The weapons you pick up determine 
 how accurate you can be which is a real bummer. The graphics are decent enough but even on the 
 highest of settings are very gritty which may possibly be the goal of the designers but it offsets 
 the atmosphere in my opinion. Another one of my gripes is the fact that most of the unimportant 
 enemies you kill will respawn later on which sort of makes everything you do feel worthless. You 
 can wipe out a gang of bandits and a few minutes later they're back and waiting to be wiped out 
 again. Overall this is an ambitious title that left me feeling empty about the whole experience. 
 A definite pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePanda27
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Even for the graphics not being on par with newer next gen games the environment really was quite 
 beautiful at moments and felt alive. The AI was quite good, but at times it felt a little uneven 
 in bigger gun fights as sometimes it would take 3 to 4 head shots to kill off even lesser enemies 
 on the NORMAL difficulty setting. I loved watching the mutated wildlife running through the fields 
 and hearing their calls in the distance. I really enjoyed the user interface and at times found 
 it to be more interesting the the game play. This game really could of been a great hit with a 
 great story but to many of the game mechanics kept me from wanting to move forward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i2eaper0f5ouls
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 21, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  the game was awesome in theory but as soon as youstart playing you notice something is wrong. for 
 starters as soon as you play for about 30 seconds you can tell how old the game is by the graphics. 
 second, the translations are pretty bad, i speak russian, played it in russian then in english, 
 and it loses alot of its flavor. third, you gotta shoot someone in the head like 50 times before 
 he dies (and thats NOT if hes wearing armor) . the trojectory system is messed up, you can be 3 
 feet away and aim at the head and it will hit his chest, i dont care what your shooting (unless 
 its maybe a water pistol) if you aim for the head at 3 feet and it still misses thats bad programming. 
 not to mention but the graphics are only good if its in the dark, the program they use for lighting 
 in darkness is hyperrealistic and better by far then alot of programs used in today's next gen 
 games. personally i cant wait till clear sky to come out so i can play that too but at least i 
 played this one so i dont get dissappointed again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masanhueza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R takes place in the zone an area devastated by the explosion in chernobyl nuclear 
 plant, so you can imagine a scenario that remains you to sci-fi movies. The gameplay is basically 
 a classical FPS but you have an inventory to carry items, guns etc. this is RPG part of the game 
 is very simple so don`y worry if you hate RPG. The game has a good number of main mission but there 
 also a lot of side quest so there is plenty of thing to do in the zone one cool thing about the 
 game is that you actually can skip parts of the game so the history is not linear as you can see 
 in games like half-life 2. The action in the game is realistic, enemies die by headshots, the stop 
 shooting when you hurt them badly. The graphics are very good, they are not smashing but still 
 make you feel like you are in the zone , sound effects are pretty good, you hear hound of mutant 
 dogs, and firefights in the distance wich is a nice touch considering you are in the wildness. 
 One low aspect of the game is the system requirements are really high if you want to turn all effect 
 o, n and yet graphics are not so great as you may see in games like bioshock, there is a particularly 
 trouble with the dynamic lights which bring the harware to it`s knees but it doesn`t bother that 
 much playing with the static lights cause the diference is not great. Other thing to keep in mind 
 is that the version 1.0000 really sucks because there is a lot of troubles like enemies seeing 
 you from ridiculous distance and thy hear you even when you kill with silencer, so if you want 
 to give a try to s. t. a. l. k. e. r start playing with the 1.0004 version. S. T. A. L. K. E. R is a great 
 game is fun and there is a lot of exploration cause the map is really huge so you won`t finish 
 this game fast without leaving something behind, I recommended to all FPS player but also for RPG 
 player cause the games is very balanced between the two genres. One more thing, at the beginning 
 the games is no so interesting cause your weapons are not very precise but one hour or two of gameplay 
 you can take enemies from larger distance and use more strategy to kill enemy groups 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tabarnak!
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  I really like the game, honestly. Reminds me a bit of Deus Ex but with a much bigger world and 
 less straighforward. But sometimes I wished for a fast travel mean in the game as objective were 
 often really far from your location and then you have to come back for reward. Difficulty will 
 be different from a person to another. It is true that aiming a weapon and killing a character 
 may seem like a chore sometimes but you get the hang of it after a couple hours spent spraying 
 bullets here and there. Graphically speaking, not really up to date but looks good anyway. Sound 
 is good but I wish the NPC would stop saying the same thing all over every time they see you...''get 
 out of here stalker.... get out of here stalker... get out of....'' anyways... you get the point. 
 The thing that made me hate the game though are the endless bugs even when patched. Frame rate 
 issues, desktop crashes, retarded AI in some instances. name it. oh... and the fact that patches 
 invalidate all savegames just put the last nail in the coffin. Publishers are morons IMO. Bottom 
 line: though it's a unique setting, there's better FPS/RPG hybrid out there with much less bugs. 
 Just think of Bioshock, Oblivion and even System Shock 2 was better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfile
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R is the game that all FPS players must have. Nonlinear gameplay, exelent graphic, 
 dark world to explore, horror atmosphere, weapons, upgrades, rpg elements, clans to join. Waited 
 for a long time, maybe too long for me. On the other side, story is great but something is missing... too 
 short... essence of the story... strelok i couldn find him and i think noone did. Enemy AI is perfectly 
 balanced, brainscorcer was the enemy who is very hard to kill, rather run and hide. Radioactive 
 suits are great additions of the game. RPG elements are welcome in those games. The game you could 
 player on lower end computers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kunnown
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is... well... just right.
  
  About the gameplay, this games features an odd by amazing blend of both First Person Shooters and 
 Role Playing Games, making an apparently simple task like carrying more than 3 machine guns seemly 
 impossible. Don&acute; t get me wrong, this isn&acute; t bad, on the contrary: it gives the game 
 a sense of realism unseen in other FPS. It will force you to sell, buy, exchange and (and this 
 is my favorite one) harvest dead bodies in order to get what you want: more weapons, more ammo, 
 more artifacts, and in the end, more money.
  
  But here is the catch (and the answer to why I think this game isn&acute; t perfect) : sometimes, 
 ESPECIALLY at the beginning, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. becomes very tedious, making a simple task like killing 
 a bunch of bandits an impossible one. This game isn&acute; t for, say, DOOM fans: you actually have 
 to make an assault strategy in order to win.
  
  The game features, in my opinion, amazing graphics, that are side by side by overclocking titan 
 BioShock. Obviously, this will cause some older machines to lag, but a simple adjustment in the 
 setups will fix this.
  
  Bottom Line: awesome game, with a few aspects that can be improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcrunfast
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  STALKER is an FPS thats been a long time coming. It's often been tossed into the same vaporware 
 category as the legendary Duke Nukem forever. Of course, Stalker has actually come out, and the 
 wait was worth it.
  
  STALKER has a pretty unique setting. It's based on an alternate history of events surrounding the 
 nuclear meltdown of Chernobyl. The game world assumes there was a second disaster, and ever since 
 there's been an abundance of strange anomalies and artifacts present around the disaster zone. 
 Stalkers are roaming bandits of sorts, looking to cash in on some of these artifacts. There's plenty 
 of other people present as well, from Russian and NATO forces, to scientific organizations. These 
 artifacts and anomalies will be found all throughout the game.
  
  The start of the game is one we've all seen before. You wake up, and you don't know who you are. 
 The amnesia plot is a little overdone, but at least it's done well in this game. You're given a 
 task to find a certain man, and there your quest starts to probe deeper into the disaster area. 
 Needless to say the plot takes several turns, and sends you to a variety of interesting locales 
 within the disaster zone. The plot ends up really being quite interesting, however I won't say 
 anything more to spoil it.
  
  Where the game truly shines is in the overall atmosphere. The dev team went to great lengths to 
 carefully model the area around the real Chernobyl disaster area. I went and did some research 
 on this and confirmed. There's a lot of places in the game that are dead on with what the real 
 area is like. A good portion of the game takes place outdoors, or in the various abandoned and 
 run down towns, industrial complexes and farms. Something about how the game protrays the anomalies, 
 the mutated animals, and just the general isolation manages to create the rather green landscape, 
 into something very, very eerie and creepy. I felt far more creeped out playing this than I ever 
 have playing a dark corridor crawl like Doom. The click of the geiger counter as you enter irradiated 
 areas, as well as how the screen fades out to white noise. The various anomalies also help add 
 to the eerie and alien feel. They manage to create a perfect eerie sense of isolation in a strange 
 land.
  
  The weather effects also really manage to help as well. The sound of the wind, the crack of thunder, 
 and even how you can see a storm roll in from the distance really drive home where you are. The 
 graphics are very crisp, even if they're not running on a top of the line engine. You'll see some 
 muddy textures is you get up close to objects, and some of the models are a little low on the poly 
 count. It doesn't really detract from the visual style of the game though. The ambient dialog is 
 all in Russian as well. For important plot dialog however, everyone will suddenly speak English. 
 It feels a little strange, but it still feels authentic in the end, and doesn't hurt the atmosphere. 
 The rest of the audio in the game is well done as well. There's very little if any music in the 
 game. This helps with the whole feel of isolation. The weapon sounds are crisp, but nothing spectacular. 
 The best audio aspects are the geiger counter, and the effects that play around anomalies. One 
 of the big features STALKER touted was it's ambient AI. Every single creature and person would 
 have an agenda, as well as behaviors. This aspect also serves to draw the player into the atmosphere. 
 Dogs will run about in packs, and attack random passerbys, and weaker animals. They'll circle corpses, 
 and drag them about hungrily. They'll also scatter at times at the sound of gunshots, or when some 
 of their packmates get killed. NPCs also behave like this. They'll huddle around campfires, play 
 songs, or go out hunting for artifacts themselves. The guns in the game are all mostly modeled 
 after real world weapons. You'll have your usual array of pistols, shotguns, sub machine guns and 
 assault rifles. There's also some attachments you can fit onto some weapons to increase their use, 
 like a scope or a silencer. Each gun is also rated with a number of statistics like accuracy and 
 damage. You'll find better guns as you progress, but they'll usually be in one of those basic classes. 
 Early on your guns feel exceptionally weak, but once you start finding some better stuff the balancing 
 feels more accurate. You'll aquire guns either from fallen foes, or by purchasing them from traders 
 or other stalkers. All equipment in the game gradually wears down. There's no way to repair gear 
 either, so if something breaks down, it's pretty much gone for good. This isn't a big issue with 
 guns, since you'll usually be using a gun that your opponents drop a lot, so finding a replacement 
 is painless. Armor is another story however. There's often a limited supply of the better armors 
 in the game, so once your armor is gone, it's gone for good. The game starts out fairly difficult. 
 You're gun isn't very powerful, and ammo is a bit slim. Things get easier once better guns are 
 available, and ammo is more plentiful. The game on the whole manages to stay fairly difficult throughout, 
 but never becomes oppressively challenging. The hardest part easily is the very beginning, oddly 
 enough. Unfortunately that might turn quite a few people away from the game at first, which is 
 a shame.
  
  The game already has been patched several times. Out of the box however, the game is quite buggy. 
 Some of the bugs are severe enough to prevent any progress in the main quest, or even some all 
 out freezes and crash bugs. This is a little disappointing given how long the team has had to work 
 on the game. However there were a number of complex systems in the game, so some of that is to 
 be expected. Most of the most severe issues are also addressed by the patches.
  
  The game includes a multiplayer mode. I question why they did this. The meat of the game is the 
 atmospheric environment, and the single player campaign. The multiplayer mode just feels like it's 
 been tacked on. There's nothing really special there at all, just modes that have been done better 
 in other games. In closing, Stalker is a wonderfully immersive game that offers an incredible single 
 player experience. Out of the box, the game can be quite buggy, which is a strike against it. There 
 are patches that resolve many of the issues however. If you're looking for a good multiplayer FPS, 
 look somewhere else, there's not much here in that arena. Single player is this games strength, 
 and where it should have left it's focus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefreqfreak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  
 
  
  Not Usually a PC Gamer, another FPS did not appeal to me but STALKER shines through the huge 
 pile of mediocre shooters available today and would have be a pity for anyone to miss completely. 
 However this is not exactly giving the game much credit. S. T. A. L. K. E. R Shadow of Chernobyl is a 
 fusion of RPG and FPS and gameplay. Something rarely atempted in the industry since something like 
 Deus Ex. The game is in a way ,Oblivion but with guns instead of swords . Which may be enough to 
 make it better alone, for some of you..
  
  The game however does not even come close to the content, polish and shine of Oblivion or most 
 RPGs even the older ones and for many reasons. Stalker places you into an open ended landscape 
 of Chernobyl, beautifully pertraid in the game alongside its own imagination. If youre not familiar 
 with the 1986 Chernobyl Disaster, the game will not fill you in on any details, which is odd as 
 the game seems to be dependent on you knowing this in order to truly set its atmosphere.
  In fact this its where one of Stalkers biggest downfalls lies, the games story/plot is painfully 
 and extremely incoherent and although many fans of the game may argue that the plot is available 
 if you have the patience to read the 99% of unspoken dialogue in the game the fact still remains 
 that the game lacks enough story telling or plot to accompany its setting and depends almost too 
 much its recreation of Chernobyl to set the mood. Although many RPGS dont feautre full spoken dialouge, 
 the story elements which are there are not exactly interesting anyway . This lack of backdrop leaves 
 you very confused and your first encounter with a mutant dog for example will not just be, theres 
 just mutant dogs and thats it. Of course knowing about the Chernobyl disaster explains this in 
 your imagination however its up to the game developers to depict this not the player. Its fair 
 to say though that the ere atmosphere and its unusual population is enough to keep you interested 
 and you will find yourself filling in these gaps yourself and talking these things as they come, 
 making your own view of the world as the game doesnt put too many words or infact any into your 
 mouth. The fact that your character has memory loss aids this and when was the last time you played 
 a game set in World War 2 that didnt heavily rely on mostly World War 2 itself to create an engrossing 
 atmosphere???.
  
  
 
  
  The Combat is quite solid and enjoyable and the game certainly doesnt lack substance in this division 
 (unlike oblivion.) Many weapons and weapon enhancements are included. The shooting is well balanced 
 and varied but you might find yourself getting frustrated when shooting a guy twice in the head 
 with a shotgun only for him to survive, the collision engine is sometimes a little frustrating 
 and taking out enemies from a long distance can take time. The AI is well done but wont show you 
 any mercy, shooting you from behind and loading up in different areas when you reload even your 
 game. You will also die alot even on easy and also whilst checking your PDA, grabbing ammo from 
 a dead body or running out of ammo etc, frustrating yet I guess realistic.. Alot of the time the 
 game lets you decide how you approach your missions, whether it be penetrating the enemy quietly 
 from the behind..... with a knife that is ; ) , getting a better shot on a rooftop or going in all 
 guns blazing however it almost always ends up all guns blazing. Though the Shooting can be very 
 timesplitters at times you will find yourself having to take it slow and taking out your enemys 
 in the style of a more strategic shooter as the sensitive AI will find you quick, take cover, run 
 up you with a shotgun, duck or even wait for you to come to them!
  
  
 
  
  In the game there is a few main characters which give you your main story missions. There are 
 also a few characters here and there that give you the option of side missions. These side missions 
 help you gain more weapons, ammo and cash so that you are better encumbered for the main missions 
 but are boring and usually not worth the hike. You will find yourself getting fustrated with the 
 mission system as characters dissapear, missons reset and the pda resets to other mission objectives 
 everytime you leave a area. The Proggression structure and Mission elements of Stalker are completely 
 broken/&gt;
  
  Stalkers Landscape is amazingly diverse and interesting and you will find yourself exploring every 
 dead body, and radioactive danger zone for items and artifacts. Even without finding anything you 
 will feel rewarded by a beautifull yet ugly view of Chernobyl. You get the feeling that you are 
 actually there and you may miss things you may not have had you arrived earlier. On my first game 
 my Camp got attacked and killed, meaning I missed out on a few side missions. Another time I came 
 across a guy in battle where as previously on another game I found this guy dead after his battle. 
 
 
  
  To some it all up, S. T. A. L. K. E. R Shadow of Chernobyl could have been one of a kind and a highly 
 original game deserving of cult classic status. With Its unique world, its huge landscape, its 
 blend of horror, role playing and action.... however Stalker seems to only ever 'touch' upon things, 
 like it just wants some rpg elements because it seems good on paper. Theres a huge lack of depth 
 and soul. The fact it gives you options in what you say for instance seems pointless as coversations 
 are linear and simply just boring. After a good couple of hours you will start loosing interest 
 as you stumble across hours of similar dialouge and textures.
  Is Stalker a RPG/FPS fusion? no.... its just a great FPS with big ideas.
  Stalker does however 
 offer great gunplay, hours of gameplay and some truley shocking scripted moments, both in horror 
 and action, something that keeps on going througout the whole game. Infact the game offers more 
 'Dog jumping out the window in Resident Evil' moments than you can shake a stick at and your second, 
 third and fourth encounters with creatures you have already met still get you just as much as the 
 first, something unusually managed to upkeep in most horror games
  If you can ignore the games cracks, broken desgin and its shallow attempt of RPG elelments you 
 will really enjoy the things it does right and does right well
  Overall Stalker feels like an amazing and over ambitious dream of how games 'could' be which is 
 makes it a must own. Personaly Im hoping the developers do a Systemshock 2 to Bioshock, or Far 
 Cry to Crysis progression as the world of S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl is welcome to make 
 its return. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giro786
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  it is a very good game ; but it was very hard for me the aiming was very hard ; missions wasn't 
 easy ; it took me a lot of time to complete the game
  
  and you can be killed by a single shot if they got you in the head
  
  but , i cannot lie that 
 the game was entertaining enough for me the idea of importing the inventory ( which is only available 
 in role playing games ) into an action game was a fantastic move
  
  that makes you always think before purchasing an item if it will be helpful or not for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rexavian
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  This game rocks so much! A long game, with lots of cool weapons and cool enemies. With a real story 
 twisted in a unreal way. It's on of the best games ever made. Definitively worth buying. It's hard 
 in the beginning, but you get better, then you get better weapons and better armors. The many different 
 places, anomalies, people and monsters are unique and cool. The shooting isn't the only thing cool 
 in this game. Just walking around and watching the people sitting and talking and playing guitar 
 is plain fun. If you don't have the game, get it! It rocks! If i must use 1 word to describe this 
 game, it would be: WOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taig
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Looking back over the past 20 years I've been playing PC games, I think it's safe to say that there's 
 never been a shortage of truly stellar games. For me, the greatest of the great -- Richard Garriott's 
 Ultima series, System Shock and SS 2, Thief, Far Cry, HL and HL2, (and, from all accounts, Bioshock) 
 were such impressive experiences that they still feel like real memories in my life.
  
  Well, I just finished S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl about two minutes ago and I can say without 
 equivocation that it ranks as one of the best 10 games I've ever played. Satisfying to the very 
 last cutscene, after 100 hours of play and no less than seven different endings, I feel that I 
 rung every last drop out of it.
  
  So without going into a long spiel, I'll suffice it to say that S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl 
 has been for me one of the most enthralling and memorable experiences of my life (real or artificial) . 
 You owe it to yourself to get lost in frighteningly real world of The Zone. If, after playing it 
 through, you don't agree, I'll eat my Exoskeleton Suit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFireCrossX
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Stalker is a good game period even though there are flaws and bugs it is definitely worth every 
 penny of it the open is amazing how you can just shoot at anyone you feel like but it can't be 
 compared to GTA in that sense. Stalker is more on the FPS side and i think this is one of the first 
 games i have played that actually incorperates FPS and role-playing together and it was quite successful 
 in doing so, i mean there is a significants on the role-playing side but no as significant as you 
 would think if you compare real RPG games like Oblivion etc etc. on the FPS side its just rock 
 solid. Overall i think its THE BEST game i have played so far if you were to look at my collection 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shingler10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Ok, lets get this straight, the game is a awsome game, teriffic gameplay, graphics and varied enemys. 
 The weapons do get a bit same same, but you have the option to custimize, (add scopes and silencers 
 etc) so this helps. The general feel of the game i think is good, it is set in a well displayed 
 area, not to small, but then agen not to large, it is broken up by little villages/hovels (which 
 are guranteed to be hiding some interesting relics) and is spotted with various harmfull creatures 
 and 'gauls.' The missions are good, are varied, but after a while, do get a little boring. And 
 this is definatley the games downfall, it sends you scurrying from one side of the map to the other, 
 to meet special people, who will give you a key, which will unlock a safe at the other side of 
 the map, which will give you a map, that leads you back to the place you came from, and suprise 
 suprise there will be a little passageway into a cave or power plant or the like. Most of the missions 
 are set out like this, but it is kept varied because the map is ever expanding, so the missions 
 lead you into new areas of the radioactive zone. So it is not to bad. Well, the multiplyer, one 
 word, awsome. Loads of maps, loads of playing options, loads of weapons, and a excellent idea of 
 unlocking weapons as you play. Overall i think the game is a worthy 9/10, Will get boring after 
 a while, but multiplayer dusnt. Campain is completable, but as i say, will get dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raysta01
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  Its a brilliant 1st person shooter at first, but you gotta be really patient with the game to really 
 get its full potential. Minor glitches: You'll experience random objects such as boxes to appear 
 out of no where during play. Bodies also disappear as well, which is highly frustrating when your 
 low on ammo and need to get some off the body.
  
  Excellent graphics, visuals are amazing, I run it on a NVIDIA GeForce 7600GT and it runs smoothly. 
 But it does lag sometimes as well, especially when sprinting long distances. Another great feature 
 is the ability to ricochet bullets off the walls. Also how when bullets are shot in into the wall, 
 how its blows concrete off it is spectacular.
  
  Over all, its a great game to play, just get through and progress a bit, then you'll see its full 
 potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paraZITE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game would go in my top 5, its a great game with great graphics and combat that keeps you 
 coming back. I first played the game a couple times, only getting to about 1/2 hour into it before 
 dieing and feeling frustrated, but after finding the secret Stalker armor in the starting town, 
 my armor was greatly improved and I really started getting into the game. The ending was a bit 
 disapointing, there are many different ending all of which I looked up online and wasen't very 
 impressed with any, but the game play is great and very fun to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humorguy_basic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  I bought this after reading the reviews, and even though all open-world games like this seem to 
 arrive with bugs, GSC World seemed to still have a game good enough to buy. So I took a chance. 
 Was I disappointed? Hell no!
  
  This is one of the best RPG/FPS hybrids to arrive since Half Life 2, over three years ago! As an 
 FPS I feel it compares with Far Cry and as an RPG it compares with Oblivion. In many cases it beats 
 both, in my view!
  
  Let me start with the graphics. Half Life 2 style graphics are now called 'dated' by the media. 
 But the media think we all have $1600 graphics cards in our PC's let alone $1600 PC's! So they 
 may say dated. I say beautiful and immersive and better in the details. For example. Notice in 
 Oblivion, and in most games, if it; s raining, you still get rained on when under many types of 
 roofs, or under a tree? Well, in STALKER, walk through some trees when it's raining and notice 
 how the rain dies away a little bit when under a tree, like it does in real life! What about in 
 a building with holes in the roof. In Oblivion the rain would come down as though you were outside. 
 Not STALKER. The rain comes through the holes and drips through the rest of the roof! Alos when 
 the wind is blowing in gusts, you seen the rain fall in gusts, you see the leaves get blown in 
 gusts, it just all works so beautifully and in STALKER it is the best I have ever seen! This detail 
 is important, because when a developer looks after the details, the gameplay tends to look after 
 itself!
  
  On the gameplay side we have more detail and more immersion that has not been done in hardly any 
 game of any genre! First we have the guitar and harmonica playing and the sitting round the fire 
 chatting. So real, but not done before. Then we have the oh so simple animation of the NPC's cocking 
 their weapons and bringing them up until they see it's you, then putting it away. When it comes 
 to the fighting, the AI is as good as Far Cry and F. E. A. R! These guys will flank you, pin you down 
 and work as a team to get you! If anything they are a bit to sharp eyed and eared, but there is 
 a mod available I use that make them more human without affecting gameplay! The use of cover both 
 inside and out is incredible to see, and because of A-Life, you can quite often hear gunshot in 
 the distance, pull out your binoculars and watch two factions go at, dodging and weaving and playing 
 all the same tricks on each other when your not around as when they are fighting against you!
 
  
  Then there's the AI - A-Life. To me it beats Oblivions AI hands down. There NPC actions and conversations 
 seemed contrived and the AI didn't work as advertised, in my opinion, but in STALKER, well, what 
 can I say! Let's start with the creatures. Never before in a game have I ever seen animals react 
 in exact accordance with what your screen is telling you with regard being seen and heard! In Oblivion, 
 however well hidden you were, as soon as you fired your bow all the NPC's miraculously knew where 
 you were! In STALKER if a creature doesn't see o hear you he will walk right by you! Equally, on 
 more than one occasion, a mutant dog or boar has run into me while running from something. They 
 literally bump into you give out a yelp and then continue running, with no interest in you at all! 
 Other times, when the dogs attack you, once you kill one otr two the rest get very wary, move toward 
 them and they back away, like they know you are more powerful. But hide a little way away from 
 the bodies of the dogs you just killed and watch as the dogs come back sniffing to take chunks 
 out of the dead animals! I have seen a boar chase a dog right into one of the anomalies and watched 
 the dog explode, with the boar full in chase just veering off at the last minute to avoid what 
 took the dog! I could say so much more about other creatures you come across, but i'll leave that 
 for you to find out and wet your pants about!
  
  Onto the sound. Well, I feel the voice-work is some of the best that's been done in many years. 
 Why? Well, firstly there's the brilliant use of voice inflection so that although the guy is speaking 
 in Russian, you know he's telling you to put your gun down or he's not going to be responsible 
 for his actions! Then there's the fact the language was left in Russian at all! Maybe it was done 
 to save money, but whatever the reason an EA or Microsoft would have put in American voiceovers 
 and it would have completely spoiled the game! This Russian voices both the accent when speaking 
 Russian and English is immaculate! They talk and have the tone and inflection of hardened and somewhat 
 embittered men They carry just the right tone to immerse you even more into the Zone! The music 
 is also very laid back and definitely not in your face like in some games, and again, the game 
 is better for it, given just the right atmosphere to the lonely dark corridors! Let's not forget 
 the creatures noises, dogs and all sorts of beasts have just the right voices to make them be liveable, 
 and the less normal creatures have voices to scare even Vincent Price! At night to hear the 'calls' 
 of the various night creatures scares the pants off you before you even see them! From the leaves 
 blowing around you and seeing the actual movement of a wind gust, to the believable AI of the creatures 
 and NPC's to the use of the artefact and weapons/armour system instead of standard stats to the 
 fantastic world full of exploring possibilities (there are places in the world that I doubt more 
 than 20% of gamers will go to, and yet they are fully realised with all the detail of the main 
 parts of the world!) and gameplay possibilities! The movement of NPC's and creatures in this world 
 truly seems organic and I believe GSC's use of the phrase A-Life is more than suitable!
  
  Once you get the hang of this game, which can take a couple hours or more, a whole world opens 
 up for you! It is proof yet again of the inversion of length of time to learn versus hours of gameplay. 
 Most games that give you a 100 hours of gameplay are always going to take a little longer to get 
 your head around! STALKER treats you as an adult. It says that if you are found unconcious in a 
 truck and with Amnesia you would walk out of that first bunker saying where the hell am I and what 
 do I do next. Well, that's what this game makes you feel too - it does not babysit you at all, 
 and says 'your a grown up - find out!'!! This is the opposite of the boring, totally scripted on 
 the rails, 15 hour gameplay shooters we get so often!
  
  IN fact these type of open world, free flowing, do anything any time type games are the Rolls Royce's 
 of games as far as I am concerned! They are harder to program and design (makes you wonder why 
 development teams do them!) . They offer 5 times the value of a 12 hour shooter by having worlds 
 5 times bigger with 10 times the content and gameplay! They are therefore excellent value for money 
 for gamers as well!
  
  I cannot recommend this game highly enough to either roleplayers or FPS fans! It is the epitamy 
 of excellence in world creation, immersion, and creature/NPC AI And can produce exhilarating fights 
 between 8 to 12 men, half your half the enemies, and fearful empty building exploration with just 
 your flashlight showing the way and what seem like an empty building, which is probably not! STALKER 
 doesn't through creatures at you Resident Evil style. In fact it throws a nasty thing at you so 
 rarely that the fear is in the waiting, it is all those corridors and building where you meet none 
 that make you wonder so much about the next corridor or building! This is the genius of GSC Gameworld, 
 they make the whole world laid back and let you be the sharp end of it all!
  
  STALKER, like all open world games arrived with some bugs, but they have pretty much be zapped 
 by the patches, so I say with toal certainty, that if you like either Oblivion (or Fallout!) OR 
 Far Cry, you will love this game! And if you like both of the mentioned games, you are going to 
 have a total ball! Seriously, I haven' had this much fun and less boredom playing a game for 70+ 
 hours in years and years! So go out and but this game. The developer/publisher deserves your money 
 for working in a genre that is harder and more expensive for them because it's cheaper and better 
 gameplay for us! We need to send out a message to the media and industry too that these are the 
 type of games that we need to see more of. They are the Rolls Royce's of gaming and every single 
 one of them needs a special place in the history of PC gaming. STALKER would be close, if not at 
 the top of my list for being one of the best open-world free-form games to be released in many 
 a year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarLock_pt_
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  the game it's impressive, i understand why it took six years to make.
  it's a great game, you can do almost everything, explore the map, find artifacts to win money, 
 find secret stashes. you can personalize your weapons with granede launchers, scopes, and silencer, 
 you have a huge mount of suits to try, lots of artifacts....
  the history it's a bit confusing, but with at the second time you pass the game, everything starts 
 to make some sense...
  the mutants are awesome, and the factions are also very cool..
  to mi these is one of the best game ever made....
  
  sorry the bad English.... . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billop
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  What I Have To say about S. T. A. L. K. E. R : Shadows Of Chernobyl? Well if You buy this game, And install 
 ALL Of the patches, And install Some Top MODs. then You Will never Look to ANY Game Ever Again. 
 Everything About this gAme Is Brilliant. the Graphics, i will admit are not that much, but when 
 you go in a tunnel and turn on your flashlight, the Per-Pixel Dynamic lights Are better Than CRYSIS!! 
 If You buy this Game You Will Never look Back! It's an open-ended first-person shooter. Initially 
 this appears to be something like 'Half-Life with added wideness' - a series of objectives, linear 
 enough, lots of violence, some nice physics, and with plenty of retracing your steps. But the further 
 you play, the more the game opens up. Instead of being an on-rails FPS where everything takes place 
 in one carefully scripted corridor, Stalker allows plenty of scope for exploration. Occasional 
 scripted events are dropped into your path, keeping the tension high and the narrative blooming. 
 The wide levels soon expand into huge interconnected spaces, each one randomly populated by interacting 
 and competing factions. Could this, you wonder, be some kind of Oblivion With Kalashnikovs? Or 
 are we just talking Boiling Point with no vehicles? All the baggage that games like Oblivion bring 
 with them simply doesn't appear here, and it's far leaner, and more Spartan than Boiling Point. 
 The Stalker lives a simpler existence: you fight the locals, and the local fauna, completing missions 
 given to you by the various characters you encounter along the journey. Occasionally you'll hallucinate. 
 You gain the trust of some folks, and the ire of others. It's all very shooty: killing comes first, 
 other stuff second. It's not a bad FPS, despite the wobbly Counter-Strike-variant feel to the combat. 
 And it's not really an RPG, despite the amount of time spent poking about on your inventory screen, 
 map, and mission log, and the amount of time dealing with different factions. There's something 
 different about Stalker. It's almost as if the most important aspect of it is not combat, or interaction, 
 or story-telling, but survival. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rex97213
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  i realy enjoyd playing this game and i recomend it to anyone with a good computer. you are in chernobile 
 and you do misions for traders and other people the radiation is cool but sometimes it can be anoying 
 cause theres to much anomalies are cool to ai is very intelegent sometimes you get killed by dogs 
 and watch them drag your body away weapons are good there is also good verioty of weapons misions 
 are fun and so is hunting animals like wild dogs wild boars and other animals messed up by radiation 
 sometimes watching animals fight from a safe distance is fun attack one animal and it runs off 
 to get others and the pack surounds you this is a great game and it deserves 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  STALKER is a game the in my opinion missed the mark, its shorter and smaller than it could have 
 been - the work the dev team obviously put into the environments is impressive but a lot of it 
 is sparsely used and a bit wasted. The mechanics of the game just about work but it does have a 
 cobbled together feel, its a bit incoherent in places and the plot doesn't make any sense - plus 
 the quests are poorly put together and largely simplistic.
  
  The engine of the game also leaves quit a bit to be desired, its quite demanding and buggy + STALKER 
 is very sensitive to even small amounts of instability in your machine (that overclock my have 
 to come down a notch or two) . The graphics on the whole are fairly good but look rather dated on 
 a low to mid range machine, on a high end machine the graphics are great but not stunning. STALKER 
 can be pretty spooky at times, a lot of effort has gone into upping the suspense and scaring your 
 pants off where ever possible, the game is quite dim and you do rely on your torch in most of the 
 underground/indoors areas. I can confidently say this is in the top 5 all time scary games. The 
 guns are pretty good with different ammo types, parabolic trajectory and a large variety of actual 
 guns, in addition there are many unique guns. STALKER uses a rather annoying weapon degrading system 
 which means your constantly swapping out your guns - if you let them degrade too far they will 
 jam a lot and always seemingly at just the wrong moment.
  
  You do get the opportunity to to join factions but you have to go out of your way to do it and 
 it's easier to just play through the main quest. That is symptomatic of the whole game really, 
 the content is just too sparse and not sufficiently engaging. The main quest plays though fine 
 but is rather short. One the whole I would say they the shooter element of STALKER is solid, its 
 just a shame the rest wasn't quite as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohitsil123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  The Game, which is based on a horror, adventure theme is done well in terms of the enviorment and 
 atmosphere with day/night cycles. Its story includes the Nuclear Power plant In Chernobyl that exploded 
 and spread miles of radiation.
  BUT the story didn't stop there, the radiation formed new anomolies and mutations that dangerously 
 affected the surroundings and organisms such as animals, plants and even humans. STALKER is also 
 action packed with interesting weapons ranging from Machine Guns (of course, which game doesn't) 
 to shotguns to sniper rifles. The year mentioned is 2012, 20 years from the main event . STAlkers 
 visuals are quite awesome with good use of shadows and textures. The action isnt usual run and 
 gun. Winning gunfdights require tactics or even fighting alongside allies (which is pretty annoying 
 sometimes since they keep shouting in a foriegn language) . The area in Stalker is large and very 
 detailed, and that maybe a problem if youre a bit lazy and dont like walking great distances. Stalker 
 also features quests and side missions which can be done for fun, or fore money or rewords. The 
 few problems that I found in the game wasnt just the few bugs (especially with Vista) but also the 
 handling of weapons and the audio of gunshooting. But downloading a few mods were the soloution. 
 Stalker nicely blends adventure, action and horror and is a good game to add to a gamers collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aggiehacky
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Chernobyl is a great idea for a setting of a game; plus the idea for how the social situation would 
 be is probably very accurate, although I wish the bartering system was a bit more extensive. Could 
 use a few more guns, but other than that, it was a superb game. Nice selection of weapons, albeit 
 slightly limited. Good ideas for radiation and survival, should've been a bit more vital to the 
 game. Enemies are great, using cover and working together, even though they sometimes act a bit 
 stupid. Overall, there's nothing really negative I have to say about the game - it's a great idea 
 and great execution of said idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zbiggie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Well a game like this I always was looking forward to. A post-apocalyptic world, were everyone 
 is out for them selves. You always feel like your alone even though your can always see or hear 
 someone just around a corner. I felt that this game was a bit more then the developer could handle 
 and that is why it had so many complaints about it. Graphics- The graphics looked great, at times 
 they were to dark, at night, but then again you have to remember your no long in the middle of 
 fully powered city but at the site that has been destroyed by radiation and no maintenance. The 
 characters themselves did seem very well designed, along with the gun models. some of the creatures 
 seemed a bit strange but they did suit the environment. The buildings and environment look great 
 from the sunny days to the rainy nights you always were wowed by the details in the game.
  
  Atmosphere- you always did get that sense that everything could end for you at any moment. 
 Sure there were a few scary moments, such as the first time you meet the creature that can turn 
 invisible. But other then that you always feel that the land is dying and there is nothing you 
 can do to escape. You can fight it but eventually you will fall.
  
  Story- Well the story did seem to be a bit off. You did get it like many games from the characters 
 around you but I always felt they could have fleshed it out a little. At times I was hoping they 
 would elaborate on the Why did that happen, not that it just happened. Overall the story was great, 
 but you really did at times get bored and do have to do some side quests. Overall I did love this 
 game, even though I did have a few bugs myself I still don't have that much to complain about. 
 This game is great and if you do have a higher end machine I would strongly recommend it, if you 
 have something that is mid range I would stay away until most of the bugs are done with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alladat
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  i had to play this game almost everyday once i started, it is that good. all the reviews say about 
 the same thing: fun! Excellent: the guns get progressively more accurate and powerful, which makes 
 it exciting when you find a new one. the realism is just that, it truly immerses you in the game. 
 excellent sound and graphics. Mediocre: the suits are pretty good, the realism of how many guns 
 can be carried. the animals were viscous, maybe too much so. the jumpy people had too strong of 
 attacks, (they remind me of mutants in Crackdown) , and were too hard to kill if you get surrounded. 
 openedness is over rated, you still have to do what is assigned to you in order to get to the next 
 level. compared to Fear, this was not very scary, but still gets you in the game.
  
  Poor: everything about the ending, from the wish grantor to his eyes! i even went back to my save 
 and played to the end again because i thought it was another bug! DANG IT!!!!! if the ending had 
 been on par with the rest of the game, i would have given it a 9.3! yup, that JUST happened! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmflood1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  The bugs..... OH THE BUGS! If you get this game, make sure you manually install the newest patch, 
 because the game does not auto-update. Something I wish I realized before playing 20+ hours, because 
 the newest patch will erase your old saved games. Because I was so far into the game, I had to 
 play without any patches! The patches are a must for playing multilayer, so I had to wait until 
 I finished the game, before trying that out. This game would have scored higher with me, but the 
 bugs really hurt my experience. Just make sure you save your game as often as you can. But, I suggest 
 buying it! It's like Oblivion but with GUNS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedioSinjari
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Stalker has an impressive presentation. What other game lets you free roam across chernobyl, in 
 first person, while carrying a gun? Truly a revolutionary idea. This game takes a regular first 
 person shooter game, throws away the boring linear gameplay played in tight, closed up, warehouses 
 and brings it to life in massive chernobyl. The graphics are spot on, the atmosphere is incredible 
 and even tho u hear alot about its demanding specs i can run it on maximum video settings at 1440x900 
 without ever skipping a beat on my geforce 7600gt!!!! The sound is great, from the guitars around 
 the campfire to the monolith booming things in russian while you're exploring the depths of the 
 chernobyl powerplant. Gameplay is terrific. The guns feel real and are challenging to master, unlike 
 other games where u can snipe some1 with a pistol. The ballistics are realistic and the recoil 
 can be quite a pain. The game has a lot of replay value and the replay value just keeps increasing. 
 Theres a modding community with a bunch of fun things out already, such as driving cars in cordon! 
 and the developers themselves havent given up on shadow of chernobyl yet either. They are on the 
 verge of completeing a new patch that enables freeplay mode!! now you can run around the zone without 
 needing to go through the missions all over again. All in all, Stalker: Shadow of Chernobyl is 
 the greatest pc first person shooter to be realeased in 2007 and is likely only to be topped by 
 its prequel clear sky coming out early 2008 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coodename007
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 5:36 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R The shadow of Chernobyl is nice ,for playing first hour i thought i was playing game 
 similar to Half-Life 2 or Doom. But for playing 3 hours straight i seemed to understand that Stalker 
 is more than just a similar game its way more better and interesting , in spite of graphics the 
 game play rules and the things that you can do in the game two. One of the most important things 
 that makes Stalker different from other games is exploring the map ( thats my favorite thing in 
 stalker) . One thing that made my mood bad was that i cant repair my items but that can be fixed 
 by mode: http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/stalker/download_6172188. html
  Finally i like to say: Game is great , i love it. THQ go for the next one !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanaka_k
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  Stalker is a very ambitious game with some great aspects but also a few flaws. I wont talk about 
 the story, or any of the gameplay basics because thats already covered in the gamespot review. 
 Here is my review of the game, including some useful hints for getting the most fun out of it.
 
  
  Good:
  
  The weapons in this game are fantastic. There is a wide variety of weapons, about 40-50 total, 
 plus some with custom modifications You will have a ton of fun collecting new weapons. Also each 
 weapons has about 3 different ammo types. Many weapons will share the same ammo, for example all 
 variants of the AK-47 use the same ammo. Also you have a combat knife which is great for stealth 
 kills from the rear.
  
  Good: Combat. Outside of the occasional AI bugs, the combat is generally very fun. Its somewhat 
 similar to a game like GRAW where the emphasis is on realism. Sorry, no bunny hopping allowed. 
 You will have to use cover effectively and make every shot count. Stealth is also very useful in 
 some situations. Head shots are your best bet especially mid-way through the game because enemies 
 will start wearing body armor.
  
  In combat each weapon handles distinctly and you can zoom in with the right mouse to use the iron 
 sights or a scope for better aiming. The weapons handling is very realistic and unforgiving. For 
 example an AK-47 has a huge recoil just like in real life and you wont be able to keep the gun 
 straight during full auto. More advanced guns like the G-37 handle much better. Overall, the shooting 
 feels great if you are into realism.
  
  Good:
  
  Open-ended gameplay. In general you will be rewarded for exploration and thinking creatively. You 
 can pretty much go where you want and kill who you want. There will be consequences for your actions, 
 so dont expect to freely go on a killing spree in a town. One fun and creative way to get some 
 free guns is to roll an exploding barrel near some neutral NPCs. Shoot the barrel and you'll kill 
 them without turning them hostile, then loot their bodies for free ammo and guns! This is just 
 one example of how you can use unconventional tactics to progress through the game.
  
  Mixed feelings:
  
  HOWEVER, if you dont like open-ended gameplay you should probably avoid 
 this game. Its very easy to get lost especially with the confusing map system. You will also spend 
 quite a bit of time jogging from one location to the other, which can be boring compared to the 
 non stop action of a traditional FPS like Half-Life
  
  Mixed feelings:
  
  The AI. Great in some places, horrible in other places. In a fire fight most of the time the AI 
 is very smart. Dont expect them to charge you. Enemies will work as a team, use cover and flank 
 your position. However sometimes the AI will shut off , meaning the enemies will stop fighting 
 and just look at the sky or the ground. Thankfully this bug is pretty rare.
  
  Mixed feelings:
  
  The Graphics are atmospheric with good lighting, good detail, yet somewhat 
 dated and grainy looking textures. You will need a good system to run the game at high settings. 
 I recommend a minimum Nvidia 7800 or ATi 1800.
  
  Bad:
  
  Lots of bugs. Im playing version 1.003 and whatever people tell you let me assure you this game 
 is still buggy as hell. Some quest cannot be completed if you do things in the wrong order. The 
 game can hang a bit after entering a new level. Rarely, maybe once every 7-8 hours or so, the game 
 will just freeze. Also there are AI bugs as noted above. Thankfully the game is still being supported 
 and a new patch is weeks away, or so I hear.
  
  Bad:
  
  Cumbersome inventory system. Once you start getting a lot of items things get really cluttered 
 and annoying. Your best bet is to pick two stashes to hold your items; one for large items like 
 guns, the other for small items like ammo and healing. This will make organizing things MUCH easier 
 because you will not have to scroll through your guns before the other items. Trust me on this 
 you will thank me later.
  
  Overall:
  
  I really like this game and its definitely a very special experience that I wont soon forget. However 
 it does have its share of flaws and annoyances. Mainly the bugs and annoying interface/item management 
 are what bring this game down a notch. Its not for everyone, especially more casual gamers that 
 dont enjoy open-ended gameplay. If you can handle the occasional bug and you're not afraid of a 
 little freedom, you'll find yourself deeply immersed in a unique and overall very enjoyable game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  I waited a bit before actually playing STALKER to make sure they got out all the bugs (which is 
 what I now do with majority of new games) however I did still get caught in the versions where 
 your saved games could not be saved. Luckily I stumbled across a patch released by a devoted fan 
 (and scanned many many times with various virus scanners) that corrected the problem and allowed 
 me to continue on without have to get rid of my saved games. The fact this bug made it through 
 cost STALKER a lot of points when the game first came out (along with it's other bugs) but I'm 
 basing my scores off the game I played, not what the company shipped.
  
  STALKER has outstanding graphics and sound that really immerse you in the whole Chernobyl atmosphere. 
 Creepy, dark, uncertain, and yet extremely curious surroundings are filled with danger, fear, rewards, 
 and action. STALKER has an excellent storyline that's very open ended. I also enjoyed the realism 
 aspects of the game very much. Cover is a MUST. No running and gunning here since your weapon moves 
 around as you run (like in real life) you must stop and aim to hit your target. You must conserve 
 your ammo as it's not always available and there's a limit on how much you can carry. Missions 
 are fun and vary quite well. You won't find the classic: Go here, kill x amount of y creatures/npcs 
 then return for z reward quests. Also there are different endings for the game as well so you have 
 something to strive for even after completion. This is a very good game and I look forward for 
 the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewsta76
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I believe S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is an atmospheric, challenging and involving FPS with RPG elements. Although 
 there are some issues with bugs and performance the gameplay outweighs all. The sheer size of the 
 gameworld and freedom to roam it knowing at any time you could happen upon a battle either between 
 factions, mutants, bandits and yourself is brilliant. The addition of seven different endings leads 
 to replayability, although only one is the TRUE ending. The atmosphere is simply awesome with excellent 
 weather effects and haunting audio. It is quite a difficult game but not in a annoying way, it begs 
 you to try again, never seeming repetitious. For all FPS fans a MUST buy and for anybody else ,worthwhile 
 giving it a shot. Worth the very long wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Husky_herbert
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Is a groundbreaking game with its non-linear gameplay that has been implemented 
 in a FPS. The FPS also got elements of RPG and has some interesting twists to it. Personally the 
 Apocalyptic style atmosphere really hit the spot, but if your not quite into it the game is still 
 worth a shot. I also read in the Gamespot review that the story wasn't that coherent, but if you 
 don't cut corners and actually do the missions you get the whole picture. The game has several 
 possible endings, and personally I have tried 3 of them. (Got very annoyed when I ended up dead 
 the first time, so i just kept playing :P) . The start says that your mission is to kill a S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 named Strelok, and this is the main mission. Later on you will get more missions, and you get the 
 possibility to help others reaching further into the zone. So all in all, the story is driven forward 
 by movies, and speech so the only reason anyone at all would find it incoherent would be if they 
 chose to do a mission where you cut corners, and basicly run through the entire game, doing as 
 little as possible.
  
  So at the start everything seems fuzzy, but as you come further into the game everything seems 
 clearer as you go.
  
  The game also includes a very cool system that makes the AI animals eat each other, and react to 
 each other. They also respond to fear.
  
  Well the game is actually something you haveto experience for yourself, and not something you can 
 read about, or watch trailers to get a better understanding of it. I recommend that you go to the 
 closest store that sells S. T. A. L. K. E. R. and buy it, because its guaranteed worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyshadow
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I love it. I play alot of games. Some are Guild Wars, BattleField 2 and 1942, 
 Brothers in Arms, War Front, Tiberium Wars... ect. This game, STALKER, I have to say mixes many 
 qualities. The way the inventory works, and your equipment, relates slightly to that of a RPG. 
 Also the quality of going up in Ranks. I adore the hude map that you can explore and must to follow 
 the game's story-line and/or do Tasks/Quests. I don't know where to start on this game man. It's 
 hard to explain. I think anybody who likes action/adventure, shooters, RPG's or a mix should like 
 this game. Gamespot did mention quirks, I have to say, with a good system (I'm talking about going 
 over the minimum requirments) I have had absolutly no glitches or any complaints. AI is great and 
 all that. I don't know, just a great game all round. Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 8, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is the FPS, with a huge playground and a lot of weapons and suits. The graphic and 
 sound is very carefully made, that&acute; s why are both perfect. Its true, that the game got a lot 
 of bugs, but you even don&acute; t see them. There are many quests and missions in the game. The story 
 is so good, that my heart beats for that game (Haha) . In the beginning you lost your memory, so you 
 don`t know your name and how that anything happened. You can be everything you want. You`ll get a 
 jobs from one person to another and so on. But your main mission is to find the stalker named Strullok. Almost 
 in the end you know the truth about everything about you have been searching for. Thats all from 
 me and if you want find more about it, a recommendet you, to play the game.
  
  Graphic: Very beautiful playground and models. Effects (Storm, Fog...) are made by masters
  who 
 know how to create the games. Gold Medal
  
  Sound: The main music is very beautiful, and the effects are amazing.
  
  Gameplay: Perfect gameplay, but 
 it will be better if there were some vehicles in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahughs007
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking to find a game that will easily confuse you due to terrible map display, confusing 
 directions, and a rediculous inventory system then look no further!!
  
  Everything about this game says it should be fun, and yet it isn't. There are some interesting 
 things about the game, like the fact that enemies can hear you, and your movement affects your 
 precision aiming, and yet that's about as far as it goes. Nothing is quite more fun than realizing 
 that you've gone into the next area too soon (and of course saved your game) and then had to go 
 back into the house you JUST left from, to have a loading screen come up and un-explicably be murdered 
 without even a chance to fight. Just Game Over, please reload your game 
  
  Yay! Why do you have to pull up the minimap and although it is realistic, why the hell doesnt the 
 fighting stop when you want to look through someones inventory. It sounds somewhat interesting 
 but it's really crappy when playing. I just don't have the patience to play what feels like a half 
 finished game, and on top of that, It fully ripped me off my hard earned money. Nice box art work 
 though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RelXe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  I for one, have only waited several months for this game. Unlike many other people who waited like 
 4 years on this game.
  I didn't have very high expetations, but sure did not get disappointed.
  Although i completed 
 the game with many question marks still above my head it was still a very good game.
  Graphics? good, not lost planet like, but still good. Gameplay? Now that's something really good 
 ( at least i think so ) . I like the way you can ( partially ) modify your weapons, unload them, 
 find better ones, fit your items/clothing/artifacts, search body's etc.
  But i still do not know WHY i ended; Make me rich... &iquest;? :s because back then i was like 
 ***da*n. Why?
  I guess i have to play it all over again :) And search for Strelok ( because i didnt get the chance 
 to find him/kill him ) *ashamed* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 4, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  The good: The graphics are fantastic and the cut scenes may be the best graphics I have yet to 
 see in any game. There are parts that I could swear were just video, but I ran them again and they 
 are actually computer generated. The AI is unbelievable. its about time a game got that part down. 
 The best part about it is, as you get better, they get better and in turn, much smarter. They actually 
 take alternate routes to hunt you down, and just dont come walking into a room knowing you are 
 standing there ready to shoot (at least after you get past the rookies) .
  
  The weapons are basic but they cover every angle, from shotgun to sniper, its all there. And plenty 
 of itI dont think I was ever really without any ammo during the entire game. Even the controls 
 were pretty straight forward and didnt take long to get the keys down.
  
  The storyline is well done and all the characters play out well.
  
  Rag doll physics were well 
 nice and so were the overall movements of the NPCs.
  
  And as a side notethe arena was a great little ad on. Very very cool.
  
  So now the bad
 
  
  By the time I actually got this game to play, I had played the first hour about 4 times. I finally 
 had to tweak my registry to make the game playable. Once done it crashed on average about 2 sometimes 
 3 a night. That wouldnt be so bad if there was more than one quick save slot. It really sucks 
 when you hit quick save and you shouldnt haveno going back a step or two. This left me doing 
 a full save every half hour or so, just in case.
  
  Ok, so I am all for non-linear, but come onAt one point about 4 hours in, I actually found myself 
 in what turned out to be, one of the last areas of the game. For the life of me I couldnt figure 
 out how to (insert spoiler) . I had the best overall weapon in the main part of the game about half 
 way through, and some of the best armor as well. I bow my head to the person who can finish this 
 game and completely cover all the missions without reading a guide. And trust me, when you have 
 to run all over gods green earth to get somewhere it really sucks. The main reason you need to 
 go back to the trader is that you are so weak that you can barely carry anythingso you get weighted 
 down, and then you cant run. not good. The least they could do is let you clear an area and then 
 when you return to make your 20 minute trip to sell your goods, the area would be openbut not 
 the case here. I can see when monsters respawnbut humans? And those stupid as* anomalies. what 
 do they serve besides being unbelievably annoying. With the game being so non-linear, at least 
 let me explore. Having to constantly stop to get rid of the radiation got old about 2 hours into 
 the game.
  
  I mentioned the AI as a positive aspect of this gamebut now the negative about the AI. Ok, way 
 way to hard heredear god, this is one seriously tough game. And why cant they make it so a NPC 
 says something once or twice? I had to mute my pc every time I want into the bar. Over and over 
 and over againHey mister, come in come in or the annoying scientist saying hello, hello over 
 and over and over again. stalker get out of here stalker get out of here.. it really took the 
 realism of the game and tossed it out the window. Could someone please tell me the point of money? 
 I did not buy one single item the entire game besides some food here and there. It served absolutely 
 no purpose what so ever. I have read that having X amount of cash at the end of the game creates 
 a different ending but I cant verify. Oh, and for the endingwell, I wont spoil that buthuh?
 
  
  Overall
  Oddly enough, even with all the bad things about this game it was still fun. It could have gone 
 up a point or two if added a couple of different dimensions to the game. Hopefully the developers 
 will catch on and make the appropriate changes for an expansion, or another full game. If they 
 do, I will buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neatfeatguy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 4, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  How many people out there have actually learned anything about the Chernobyl incident back in 1986? 
 It's quite a tragic story and the images that have been released show a desolate and unpopulated 
 areas surrounding the nuclear reactor. Thus, making this a very well thought out setting for a 
 decent FPS to take place in.
  
  STALKER is not your normal FPS. Most FPS are very lineal and they don't leave you much room for 
 making your own path. Now, granted STALKER does not have the open-ended quality of, say, Oblivion.... but 
 it is a start.
  
  STALKER starts you out in a small settlement of other newbie STALKERs and mixed in are a couple 
 of senior STALKERs and your main goal is to try and figure out who you are, along with the fact 
 that your job is to track down and kill an NPC.
  
  Your starting weapon is a pistol and a few extra clips of ammo; you'll soon come to learn that 
 beginner pistols are pretty pathetic. The range and accuracy on them won't do you justice. After 
 your first raid on a near by farm with a few other NPCs that you join to help, you can get your 
 hands on a shotgun (very useful at close range) and you might come across a sub-machine gun (SMG) . 
 You'll also come to find that most weapons early in the game lack good accuracy and damage, so 
 it is in your best interest to load up on armor piercing ammo whenever you can find it. You are 
 allowed to carry one pistol and one large gun at any given time in your weapon slots. You can however, 
 keep other weapons in your inventory, but to use those weapons you need to access your inventory 
 and equip them into a weapon slot.
  
  STALKER uses a trade and barter system, and you can access this with any NPC that you are able 
 to talk with. Some NPCs carry next to nothing to barter for and then there are a few NPCs that 
 run shops that have loads of guns, ammo, armor and other misc. items you can make use of.
  
  To keep track of your progress and to check your journal entries, you have access to a PDA 
 that shows the map of any area you are in when you're out in the world; the PDA does not give any 
 maps of underground areas that you travel through. Your PDA also will show you were your current 
 objective lies.
  
  STALKER has its issues that do cause some headaches. Take for example that if you do not at least 
 download patch 1.0001, you will run into bugs with the main storyline and you won't be able to 
 finish the game. So it is HIGHLY SUGGESTED that you download this patch. Also, any saved games 
 prior to patch 1.0001, you cannot use those and you'll have to start from scratch. Even after installing 
 patches 1.0001 and 1.0003, there are still bugs you'll encounter with some side missions and graphic 
 support for ATI cards is still on the poor side. STALKER runs best with Nvidia cards. If you're 
 not running a half-decent rig, then don't expect to be able to turn on HDR lighting and to be able 
 to have the graphics set on high. Even though this game runs on a game engine that doesn't quite 
 look as good as Half-Life 2, STALKER is still very taxing on many machines.
  
  Gameplay on STALKER is rather refreshing. It's a mild mix of DeusEx and a moderate mix of FPS. 
 You have the option of joining several different factions during your game play; if you befriend 
 one faction, NPCs from other factions may not take your presences well and open-fire upon you. 
 So there is a bit of re-playability, especially with the 7 different endings. There are lots of 
 areas to explore, but you will come to notice the annoying invisible barriers of radiation that 
 will quickly kill you if you try to venture out too far. Also, the anomolies caused from the nuclear 
 explosion from Chernobyl are interesting. Some are more deadly then others and if you get good 
 at it, you can use them to your advantage when fighting monsters or NPCs.
  
  Some of the AI still needs work because there is nothing more annoying then having a group of armed 
 men all of a sudden stop looking for you and turn around to start walking away.... and even when 
 you open fire on them after they turned around, they keep walking and won't fight back.
  
  Also, the ability for armed men to NOT be able to spot you when you're ducking down behind certain 
 bushes and even when you're hiding under a pine tree helps take from the atmosphere - so, either 
 use these things to your advantage or do your best to ignore them. In other words, don't let something 
 like this hinder your appreciation of STALKER.
  
  Lastly, if you feel that the original version of STALKER is a cake walk, even on the most difficult 
 setting, then check out a couple of mods that people have put together. They do a wonderful job 
 of adjusting weapons and armor and touching up on the difficulty of gameplay, not to mention that 
 they also have tweaked settings to allow STALKER to run smoother and to be less taxing on your 
 PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sZZZlepy_101
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Story: this game is set in Russia at a town called Chernobyl where it was known for the nuclear 
 disaster which took place years ago and is somehow happening again. your protagonist is some guy 
 given a name marked one after your little accident you suffer some kind of amnesia which made you 
 forget about your identity and why your even here etc etc etc. Game play: Very difficult AI and 
 takes loads of rounds just to kill an enemy. it's not like any other FPS you've played because 
 of its open ended levels giving players the freedom to explore that is if nuclear radiation's doesn't 
 come in the way at most spots. Why not kill em than trade em? Sound: music is good enough to fill 
 up the mood of a nuclear disaster, quite atmospheric. could get better sounds for reloading, shooting 
 and arming cause they sound a lot like the weapons in counter strike.
  
  Graphics: for such a hardware demanding game it still dosen't quite prove its reasons for it. environment's 
 quite detailed but texture's not quite up to its date.
  
  last words: Its not as free willing as oblivion and unforgiving difficulty hogs down the game play 
 but its still interesting enough for anyone with at least a med range PC to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toad1956
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  This game is the game if played more hours on with out having to repeat myself. Halo and HL only 
 had certain game time, this game on the overhand I have been playing for over 30 hours and I am 
 not done! There are not set levels, but missions that you choice to go on or not. The difficulty 
 becomes what mission you are willing to take on. For example going after a Snork can be very difficult 
 if you do not have not enough Rad Medicine or the right weapon. (A simple handgun that you got 
 in beginning does not cut it. &amp;#61514;) There are no vehicles in Stalker to ride to the next 
 location, because all vehicles do not work in the zone. This means you go every where on foot. 
 This is a good thing though, because if you were traveling along at 60 miles an hour you would 
 not know of the Vortex in front of you! The Zone is not a friendly place. You have to deal with 
 Anomalies like, Vortex and the Burner (there are more) . Factions like, Duty faction and the Freedom 
 Faction, ext. There also the weather, bandits, zombies, animals (not your everyday kind) and Mutants. 
 Each willing to make have a bad day. Here is a link to the GSC forms and posting on SUPRISE! (best/worst 
 suprises you've got) http://www. gsc-game. com/index. php? t=community&amp; s=forums&amp; s_game_type=xr&amp; thm_page=1&amp; thm_id=8742&amp; sec_id=1. 
 That will give you just a taste of how much fun this game is.
  
  There are some negatives with the game. First the weird way it saves the game. When you save a 
 game (do this often or you will pay &amp;#61514;) it will save the game, go back to the game and 
 back to the main menu. Weird! Also weird is when you exit to Windows you see the programming (?) 
 code as it closes. It also has various glitches that GSC has not solved yet. Most of those glitches 
 are livable with though.
  
  Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  STALKER is a hybrid game, trying to fuse a FPS with RPG elements. However, it doesn't take the 
 latter far enough in my opinion. STALKER features a quest system where on your PDA tasks are listed 
 and directions are given on a map to find the necessary locations.
  
  It must be compared with System Shock, Deus Ex and even Oblivion. The advantage of STALKER is that 
 the gunfights are awesome, better than in any of those games, however there is no real character 
 development, you get better only by getting better equipment (but there is a lot of that to discover) . 
 There are multiple endings, but I don't think they are as distinctive as those of Deus Ex.
  
  That said, I was very impressed with the game, the post-apocalyptic atmostphere of the Chernobyl 
 area is spot on, graphics (especially lighting and shadows) are very good, and the enemy AI and 
 gunfights are top notch.
  
  With version 1.003 I had no stability problems at all, there were a few hitches in the quest system 
 and diary though. I also got jumped on level-transition points a few times, not very pleasant, 
 but that may have been due to the same quest getting triggered over and over.
  
  Get it. Play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13qe244
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 31, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan of FPS. Getting the bigger, super alien gun with explosive rounds and class 900b 
 armour is quite lame. Killing 1000s of attacking people, aliens, animals or whatever add to the 
 lameness. That is the general formula for a FPS. Stalker combines elements of a FPS and a RPG. 
 The player must choose their path in the game to end up with one of seven endings. The game does 
 start a bit slow, but gears up to be a highly immersive game. Because of the radiation, mutants, 
 and other anomolies, I found the game somewhat disturbing - I would have bad dreams after playing 
 the game and I am over 30... That being said, the environment of the game is very well done.
  
  It is also refreshing that your inventory is very limited. You cannot carry every type of weapon 
 and / or supplies that is wanted. Again, you must choose what is best at the current point of the 
 game. If you like RPGs and FPS get the game. You will be happy - or sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gear60
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  STALKER is basically one of those games that tries to do alot but manages to complete little of 
 everything.
  
  Good thing: Freeroaming aspects of the game is where the game really shines. You get to explore 
 this area around the Chernobyl power plant in Ukraine. It's atmosphere is incredible. Decaying 
 buildings. Abadoned villages. Abandoned city's. Radiation and anomalies. Good thing: The weather 
 system deserves a note because it really is incredible to see the sky be blocked out by clouds 
 then raindrops start dropping.
  
  Good thing: The AI of this game is somewhat impressive for a free roaming game. The AI usually 
 is smart enough to take cover when shot at , retreat when losing, and flank.
  
  Good thing: RPG elements of the game make it worth while to play and explore the Zone. You can pick 
 up items you see and add them to your inventory, loot dead bodies, buy items, upgrade your guns, 
 and choose factions. This is all done well with the fact the AI makes it so your not too powerful 
 early on.
  
  Bad thing: The graphics in this game are HORRIBLE. They look madly old or something. It might be 
 because of the developement time but it looks like everyone is a cardboard cutout. Theres not much 
 to say but rather to look at the screenshots. Though on a good note you can really see the lighting 
 underground is great
  
  Bad thing: While the AI is smart and all sometimes it doesn't turn on? I managed to kill an entire 
 faction base without any retaliation other than an alarm being broadcasted.
  
  Bad thing and Good thing: The game's underground parts are slightly creepy and atmospheric. If 
 you didn't get spooked a bit playing the entire Main Quest you must be Duke Nukem's illigitimate 
 son or something. Though the horror really turns to mindless zombie like killing after you realize 
 how all the tricks work.
  
  Bad Thing: The game really feels restricted even though it's a freeroamer. It seems that areas 
 have too small landmass the borders seem to close in on you with radiation everywhere.
  
  Bad thing: The story itself is pretty shady supposedly your a guy who was supposed to be dead and 
 put on a truck out of the Zone. Your saved by a trader who helps you find a man named Strelok who 
 you must kill according to your PDA. I'm not sure but it might be the bad english translations.
 
  
  I suppose STALKER deserves this score for being ambitious and doing it's best to fill everyone's 
 happy meal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suavepoe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I am normally a strict open-ended RPG gamer, but now I am going to have to broaden my title to 
 'open-ended gamer'. I haven't played too many FPSs and I've never been into them. But I 'hesitantly' 
 tried STALKER out ONLY because it claimed to be open-ended. And after 5 hours of playing so far.. 
 I must say that I love this game!
  
  The intense shootouts, the futuristic punk/horror feel, the free roaming capabilities, the AI, 
 the graphics.. and the list goes on. I have to get deeper into the game to give a better review. 
 But the first impressions have left me in awe. Thanks GSC!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicscrape
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was actually fun. It was like Oblivion where you can go anywhere and do anything 
 you want (minus the roleplaying part) . The only thing that I didnt like about this game was it 
 got boring after a while. It seemed like I had nothing to do.
  The gameplay was pretty good although I did have a hard time killing enemies at first (I was stuck 
 in the first objective for a long time) .
  The Graphics were pretty good. It had a nice gloomy feeling. It really made you fell like you're 
 in a wasteland.
  The sound was AWESOME. The guns sounded like the real thing. It probably would have sounded better 
 if I had better speakers but still it was great.
  All in all, its a great game and any FPS fan should pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polarpedro365
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Well this game has many objectives ( not the ones displayed in your PDA) but the main objective 
 is to survive in a place called The Zone .The zone is the result of the disaster of the Chernobyl 
 NPP (NPP = Nuclear Power Plant) .
  It isnt pasted 1 or 2 years after the incident but really far, like 27 - 29 years after. It is the 
 simple result of wat was left of the 4th Reactor of the Chernobyl NPP.
  This games features a nice storyline, idea and other stuff wich is really great like the fact of 
 the maps beign huge ( There all 18 different maps at all) . And i guess this contributes for the 
 game rating, because most of the FPS and RPG mixes have tons of maps wich u need to load at every 
 5 minutes.
  This is a nice game, i recommend to try it when u can. Although the game idea is good and might 
 look pretty long and hard to complete, it is quite easy if u know wat to do and when to do. Like 
 when u are taking cover behind some debris and there are like 5 soldiers shooting at u with AKm 
 74/2 and u simply, pick up your F1 grenade pull the ping and throw it at the soldier's feet.
  Other thing that called my atention in this game is that u need a lot of equipment to survive for 
 long time and to complete objectives. And come back with an inventory filled with goods. After getting 
 some money to buy equipment and supply all your needs like medkit's, food, bandages and Anti radiation 
 drugs or vodka.
  A must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorCain501
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  DONT READ IF YOU DONT HAVE THE GAME, CONTAINS SPOILERS
  
  So I acquired Stalker the other day...
  
  Before I start this review, i'd like to mention that 
 this game was in development for about 6 years... thats like a third of my entire life. Props to 
 the devs for making it. I've come to known this game about 3 years ago, and have been waiting patiently 
 right until yesterday.
  
  Naturally such an ambitious and hyped project got my hopes and expectations extremely high, which 
 at start, left me disappointed with the game. After a few hours I realized I had to imagine I never 
 heard about this game, and after another few hours I fell in love with it.
  
  There are quite a few flaws and bugs in this game, both minor and major, but mostly nothing a patch 
 or two can't fix.
  
  The pros:
  
  The fighting system.
  
  The Atmosphere.
  
  The characters
  
  The Ai
  
  The cons:
  
  The Open-ended-ness of the game.
  
  The 
 Quests.
  
  First of all, the open-ended-ness of the game. If you imagine Oblivion with guns, you will be disappointed. 
 Sure, the world is big, but its not as open-ended as you would like. The world is divided into 
 levels, the levels themselves are BIG. Nothing too huge unfortunately. These levels are then surrounded 
 by impassable barbed wire.. which you can't pass... another bummer. This really takes away from 
 the experience.
  
  There are 2 types of quests. The main quest which takes you throughout the zone, trying to figure 
 out who you are ( you apparently suffer from amnesia ) and what the hell is going on in the Zone. 
 So far im really enjoying the story, albeit its a little confusing at times.
  
  Then there are the side quests. There are 3 main types of side quests - Kill X, Find X, Eliminate 
 the camp of X. Occasionally there are more interesting quests which could take you on small raids 
 of sorts with other npcs, but these quests are very rare.
  
  One thing that confused me was the fact that you are limited to carrying 50kg to 60kg ( 50+ your 
 endurance drains much faster, 60+ you can't move ) of items, which is great, I love that, but you 
 can carry hundred thousands roubles worth of money with ya. Where do you put it? o. O
  
  What really amazed me was the whole fighting system. If you were a fan on perhaps, Rainbow Six, 
 you'll love this. You can't just run and gun, thats suicide in the real world, thats suicide in 
 Stalker. Instead you always have to use cover. Aiming is important too, you may spend a clip shooting 
 a heavy armored soldier in the torso only to realize he is still alive, while carefully aiming 
 at his head can bring him down in 1-3 careful shots. Which also brings me to different types of 
 cover. The ballistics system is awesome. You have to find cover, then you have to judge if your 
 cover is good enough. For example if you're hiding behind a wooden plank, the bullets can pierce 
 through the wood.. and through you. On the other hand if you hide behind a solid concrete wall.... 
 Which reminds me of the ricochet system ; Bullets ricochet just like in real life, and not against 
 everything either.
  
  This game sports one of the best Ai's i've ever seen in a videogame. These guys really know how 
 to fight. They for the most part, work as a team. The enemy always tries to flank you, they support 
 each other with covering fire while the other reloads, etc. Infact some of them are so good, you 
 really have to pick your fights, because these guys can rip you apart withought you even knowing 
 what hit ya. On the other hand the ai still has a few bugs. Sometimes they decide to shoot the 
 enemy through a solid concrete wall, doing nothing. Other times they just stand and do absolutely 
 nothing, which is extremely rare, but happens.
  
  The atmosphere is really what did it for me. Each level is completely different from another. While 
 the graphics look a little bit dated, the game still looks gorgeous on full lighting and maximum 
 settings. This really does feel like a living, breathing world, and for once, it doesn't resolve 
 around you. You can find mutants fighting each other, or stalkers attacking a bandit camp. The 
 weather system itself is wonderful to look at. At night you may get caught in a huge thunderstorm, 
 which is just beautiful to behold as the whole level is only being lighted by the rather frequent 
 lightning.
  
  Other stalkers in the game really do have a life of their own. Although its surprising how many 
 of them carry guitars with them. They also tell stories and sing songs and tell jokes to other 
 stalkers around the campfire. Unfortunately, they mostly talk in Russian, but the main dialogue 
 like quest information and essential dialogue is all in English, so don't worry. I laughed when 
 after a recent gunfight a few stalkers got around the campfire, then one took about a guitar and 
 said Time for a music break 
  
  The economy in stalker was a little bit disappointing. There is really nothing that you can buy 
 that you can't find on your own. And you will have absolutely no problem getting rich, very quickly. 
 But the inventory system is great, you're not a packmule, you can't carry everything the enemies 
 drop. Which makes you think what you should take and what you have to leave behind.
  
  I have yet to play multiplayer so cannot comment on that. Personally I can't imagine how this game 
 took 6 years to make, but considering the fact the game changed engines and ideas very frequently, 
 its no surprise.
  
  In closing, this game is a true masterpiece. There is simply nothing like it in the market and 
 it delivers a unique experience to the player. But like any other game on the market nowadays, 
 it does have a few bugs, but nothing gamebreaking. Its really one of those games that, if you allow 
 it, will grab you by the balls and never let go. There is really not a dull moment when you play 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fisherGangsta
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  Well, i bought S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 3 or 4 months ago and even i finished it twice, i'm still playing. Really 
 don't know why S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is so underrated. It has so many unique things in the game, great story 
 and best looking-realistic graphics. I see many people talking about some bugs, crashes or something 
 like that. In all this time of playing it, i have never encountered any bug, or any crash, freeze etc. I 
 like   
 one word-EVERYTHING. That feeling of freedom, you can always discover something new. Multiplayer is 
 awesome too, but for some reason in last two months i can't play it because i have invalid cd key 
 , (someone probably using mine) , but i don't care, there's so many other multiplayer games. So what 
 to say on the end of this review?
  I suggest everyone who love shooters, you MUST try this game!
  
  Just can't rate it any lower! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkLonerOne
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 24, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  I got really into the climate of the game. Everyone will I'm sure. Great graphics, great engine. 
 Real-like ballistic environment. Great atmosphere of suspense, uncertainty and... amnesia. Also 
 great commitment from the player's community with available game add-ons and mods making the second 
 pass a lot more fun.
  
  I strongly recommend this game to anyone but beware - the ending will dissapoint you. . . Designers 
 could have commited more of their creativity to this very important part of the game which constitutues 
 a kind of a dessert for any involved player who has to spend quite some time to come to its end. 
 I don't want to say more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  I've enjoyed this game immensly and find it great if you like games along the lines of Oblivion 
 . Graphics remind me of the visuals and atmosphere generated in the film Children Of Men with Cive 
 Owen, and watching the movie gets me back to playing the game.
  Mentioning films, and this is the purpose of my review, GSC has not alluded to the movie, made 
 some time back and now available on DVD, called... Stalker . It is Russian by director Andrei Tarkovsky, 
 with English sub-titles set in a place strangely enough called The Zone, where a man enters with 
 his disturbed daughter and links up with a Novelist and Scientist to discover what's going on. 
 They meet a loner, called, you guessed it, a Stalker. He has his own motives for leading the group 
 through the mutated wasteland and together they face unkown horrors in an attempt to solve the 
 main character's problems with his daughter. It is based on a novel by Phillip K. Dick ( Total 
 Recall , Do Androids Dream Of Electronic Sheep , etc) , and the influence of this film was heavily 
 felt by Ridley Scott, James Cameron and David Lynch. For GSC to suddenly come up with the title 
 of this game (which many players have asked the meaning of) , and to have set it in The Zone seems 
 hardly a co-incidence, however nowhere have the Developers or Publishers referenced the novel or 
 indeed the film. Maybe they thought, as the movie is a cult film (and Russian to boot) , noone would 
 notice. But even the poster for the film is strikingly familiar to the box art of the game.
  C'mon guys, give credit where its' due and you might even find a stronger following for the game 
 if players see the film.
  'nuff said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popsadent
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  Stalker has you play as a very orignally amnesia stricken protagonist. You awake in a bunker after 
 being saved by some random guy from the DEATH TRUCKS with one mission and one mission only; kill 
 strelok. The gameplay consists of your usuall first person shooter controlls with the ability to 
 lean around corners. You cant put your back against them, but you can at least lean around them. 
 The game has an Oblivian-esque feel to it and you can loot pretty much anyone and anything you 
 find or cool, which is quite cool. What and how much you can carry is based on a weight system. 
 The amount you can carry and how it effects you isnt too realistic but it adds some management 
 aspects to the game, aswell as balancing the player from carrying all the best crap and an unlimited 
 amount. The gunplay feels very good and the bullet physics are cery tight and refined. The rounds 
 fall and fly like the would in real life. The bullets actual go slightly down out of the barrel 
 and then up, like real life. All this stuff and more make the gameplay very solid and fun, keeping 
 you jazzed about going forward in the story and killing more peeps.
  
  The graphics are also very good. The lighting and shadows in the game are top notch, but the textures 
 arent as high of quality as the lighting though. The game has a gritty and real feal, matching 
 the delapidated world in which your in. All in all the graphics are very good and hold up well, 
 even for a game with an aging engine. Good, but not the best,
  
  The sound is also high quality. The guns all make realistic noises and the monsters are devilish 
 sounding. Voice overs also get good marks. The sound is definately good, but as in all the other 
 categories it is good, but not the best.
  
  The game has quite a bit of value to it because of its free- roam type gameplay. You can do whatever 
 you want whenever which works for the first time through when you wanted to do the story 100% or 
 the third time thru where you just killed everyone. It even has like 8 endings so you can play 
 thru it a bunch of times. And a multiplayer aspect adds the the calue a little to, but not a ton. 
 Yet again, great value; but not the best.
  
  The tilt is also good. very high. The story seems like your normal fps with a mission system but 
 towards the end it takes a U-turn into crazyville and C-Consciessness (not correctly spelling) is 
 the mayor and your just aloing for the ride. Trust me, its like combining a steven king, Shamalan, 
 and george a. romero story into one. Never saw it coming. But still its kind of unoriginal and 
 boring besides the crazy psuedo-endings and the C-cons crap. Just it comes out of nowhere.
  
  All in all the game excells in every catagory, just not the best in every catagory. So i give 
 it a solid 9.0. Worth your purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnbuCaptain564
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are excellent but the story is confusing and the AI isn't without its problems. To 
 kill an enemy you need to empty about 15-30 rounds in him and ammo is scarce which makes reoccurring 
 firefights difficult . The bugs are terribly annoying, but fixed easily. It's still an impressing 
 shooter. The creepy atmosphere adds something the game wouldn't be complete without. It's not for 
 people who want to run around and blow stuff up tho, you have to take your time, you can't just 
 run around and kill everything expecting to beat the game. And this is whats cool about the game, 
 it makes you think and take your time. Theres alot of cool things scattered through out the zone 
 if your willing to take some time and find them. Its amusing to see how the characters react with 
 each other. The endings are a bit... crummy. but other than that its a pretty good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matteo86
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 21, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  PROs: Great gun physics, graphics JUST meet today's standards in FPS titles, good mix of story 
 missions and side missions, non-linear gameplay to a certain extent, multiple endings (&gt;5) that 
 depend on how you've played, great variety of realistic weapons. The range of Mod's available further 
 enhances the realism of S. T. A. L. K. E. R.
  
  CONs: Too many glitches, the storyline is poor, bugs in some of the missions which affect game 
 progression, bit too easy to die (I hope you like frequently auto saving) .
  
  Verdict: Worth buying this title if you like your first person shooters. I'd recommend getting 
 all the patches and most of the mods available here on Gamespot to get the best out of this game, 
 they make a dramatic improvement in all areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oni_black
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  This is by no means your typical FPS (or FPRPG) so it's obviously not for everyone. Blending an 
 extremely realistic ballistics &amp; physics model, intense FPS combat and simple open-ended RPG 
 elements all rolled into one sweet package. The AI is revolutionary in terms of its behavior although 
 there's still a couple of kinks here and there that can easily be fixed via patch. No confrontation 
 is ever the same. Due to the intelligence of many of the enemies, the game can be extremely difficult 
 at times.
  
  Excellent graphics, especially in the lighting department. Extremely lifelike visual, especially 
 out in the open with graphics on full (although they can be taxing to your machine) . Sounds are 
 quite good and the simple things that you can hear in the distance add a great touch (such as firefights 
 occuring far away) .
  
  Lots of replayability due to the random tasks, amazing and unpredictable AI and choices you make 
 along the way (what factions do you wanna join up with, etc.)
  
  Overall, an amazing experience with only a few minor bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budlogger
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  With patch 1.003 this game is fantastic. The AI is the best so far. Waiting for the prequel to 
 come out. I've gone through all the endings. I wish they would come out with expansion packs for 
 this game like the ones for half life 2. Also not having to put up with that spaceforce copy protection 
 crap is just another plus. I'll pay full price for any additions to this game and any others these 
 folks come up with in the first person genre. Just need to watch out for some of the mods. Always 
 save the entire game folder before implementing a mod. some cause bug trap crashes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fade2gray
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Let me just get this out in the open before I get too far. I never finished this game. Take that 
 for what you will, but I'm the kind of person that typical finishes every game I play.
  
  I've been a fan of FPSs for several years now and a fan of RPGs for as long as I can remember, 
 so you can imagine that I though that STALKER would be a perfect fit for me. Everything about this 
 game sounded interesting to me when I decided to but it. Unfortunately, I started running into 
 problems almost as soon as I started playing. My computer easily exceeded most of the game's recommended 
 requirements and yet it chugged like Thomas the Train-engine through out most of the game. The 
 controls were another issue; it took me a good fifteen minutes to rearrange the controls so that 
 they resembled something that was actually meant for human fingers, and even then some of the controls 
 (like the backwards mouse wheel when zooming) were unchangeable. Even after all this the controls 
 still felt clunky much of the time (why is it that I can only sprint straight forwards?) .
  
  The RPG elements were probably the biggest disappointment. finding, organizing and completing 
 quests often felt like a chore. They were usually vague and frequently wore down into a monotonous 
 grind as you slowly walk (you're severely limited on how far you can run) huge distances to complete 
 quests. Compounding this, I also sometimes found quests spontaneously declaring themselves failed 
 if I didn't manage to get back to the quest giver soon enough. The inventory management system 
 was even worse. By the time you add your armor, the huge variety of health items you'll need, your 
 weapons and ammo your character is walking at a snail's pace and every time you need to pick up 
 something you're more than likely going have to drop something else. The weapons were a particularly 
 big problem as ammo was ALWAYS in short supply. Some people feel that the constantly hunt for ammo 
 added to the game's atmosphere and believability, I think it was just a constant cloud that hovered 
 over my enjoyment of this game.
  
  The environments were fitting for the nuclear waist-land theme with lots of signs of abandoned 
 urban decay and strange mutant lifeforms everywhere. However, even here there were some disappointments. 
 First, the sound was all around dull and almost absent in the longest stretches of waits-land where 
 it could have been used to break the tedium. Second, there were to many areas with little going 
 on in them beyond an occasional mutant or bandit. Third, after a while all of the urban decay and 
 barren waist-land begins to look the same.
  
  I'm not sure what to say about the game's story line. Judging by walk-throughs it seems that I 
 got a little over half way through the game before calling it quits. In that time I only found 
 myself growing more confused by the main quests and the infrequent, vague cutsceens. Maybe all 
 that would have made since in the end, but it definitely wasn't driving me forward in an attempt 
 to see what happened next.
  
  I really wanted to like this game, but ultimately its flaws overshadowed its strengths for me. 
 Maybe other people can look past them and find a good game underneath, but I'm not one of them 
 and I can't recommend this game on the off chance that someone else may be one of the lucky ones. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerd_rock_riot
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 19, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: It is a basic FPS but adds lean funtions as well as a few other quick keys that are helpful 
 in a firefight
  Graphics: Due to its lengthy developement process the graphics show their age but the enviornment 
 is so engrossing that its easy to ignore
  Sound: Everything sounds as it should and the haunting creaks, music, and enviornmental noises 
 add great ambiance to an already atmospheric game
  Value: Its huge and long and never really plays the same way twice so there is much replayability 
 and there is even more to explore and find.
  Tilt: It was just so kick ass how can it not be recomended... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dozzpot
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 18, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  I have just finished this game and completed two of the possible endings. I will play it again 
 one day but not just yet so sold it back on Amazon. It is definitely replayable another day; as 
 it is non-linear there are many possibilities and ways to go.
  I found it better than HL2 in every way: story, gameplay, graphics etc. Also, I never finished 
 HL2 as it gave me motion sickness after a while (!) but Stalker did not. The only thing I didn't 
 like was that sometimes your shooting misses and it may take several head shots but over a distance 
 I guess that is realistic. Maybe I prefer tactical shooters more so prefer the one shot tactic.
 
  I would not say it is really that much like a RPG as there is no character development, you just 
 get an inventory that's all. If I played again I think I would download the mod that is out there 
 that allows you to carry more weight as it was always a shame to discard the sniper rifles because 
 I had no ammo for them. Would have been good to hang on to one until more of their (rare) ammo 
 was found. Everyone likes an assault rifle, shotgun, pistol AND sniper rifle in their bag, right?! 
 By the way, make sure you get the pistol that has been modded to use big rounds about halfway into 
 the game. It is hidden in an underpass full of pipes and stuff (I think there was a task to go 
 there for something...) .
  The game is a bit buggy but I only had 2 or 3 crashes in total; worth putting up with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I cannot imagine a PC gamer out there who was not excited for STALKER to come out when it was first 
 announced. I was expecting it to be the next Deus Ex except with more of an emphasis on surviving 
 in a hostile world. Fortunately, STALKER is a good game with an original and memorable setting. 
 However, the game itself left me feeling unsatisfied overall which makes the game hard to recommend.
 
  
  Gameplay - I found the first half of STALKER to be the most enjoyable (apart from the terrible 
 first mission) because the setting made me feel vulnerable and alert. Your character basically 
 starts off with a very weak, inaccurate pistol and you have to approach each encounter cautiously. 
 It took some getting used to, but I eventually learned how each weapon works. I believe this is 
 a good thing because it makes each weapon feel unique. The AI in this game is more impressive than 
 most FPS games because enemies do not tend to rush to your position in a line. These guys are actually 
 trying to survive just as much as you are.
  
  After picking up a few artifacts and killing some military commandos, I was able to kill enemies 
 with less trouble until the game placed me in a research facility. I found the monsters that were 
 revealed in this area to be rather frightening. The game had turned from a shooter to more of a 
 Resident Evil-like survival horror game. I enjoyed the transition the first time, but the feeling 
 wore off after the game started to repeat itself.
  
  After the Bar area of the Zone, I had started to lose interest in the story. The NPCs that give 
 you each mission make the story extremely boring because they have no personalty. *SPOILER* By 
 the end of the game, I really didn't care who Strelok (I) was anymore. *END SPOILER* If I had spent 
 as much time on a story as I did running around, then I would not be complaining now. There is 
 flat out too much running from place to place in STALKER. I would say that 20-30% of the time spent 
 on this game is just running to your next mission. Enemies also respawn after you leave an area 
 of the Zone which I started to completely ignore since you can run past them and survive without 
 taking too much damage. The side quests in this game are also a bore and require running around 
 as well. The rewards make the side quests fairly pointless, except for a few which have decent 
 awards. Thankfully, the game becomes fairly difficult once you reach the power plant. I just felt 
 that the last few levels felt a little too rushed since there are a few hallways and over 30 enemies. 
 The true ending area just feels misplaced, but it was still entertaining. I would not recommend 
 this game based on the gameplay alone, since Far Cry and FEAR are still hard to beat when it comes 
 to the FPS genre.
  
  Graphics - The exterior portions of STALKER can be impressive at times, especially when you are 
 looking at a massive power plant with helicopters flying around while shooting rockets at the ground. 
 The less extreme exterior areas pull off what the game is going for. Every building is run down, 
 cars are broken down and populate the area, and the grass blows in the wind. This game also has 
 the best looking lighting during a sunset that I can think of. The interior portions of the game 
 were my favorite because I was not expecting them to be so scary. They work because your flashlight 
 casts shadows on everything and many areas are pitch black. The monsters look grotesque and are 
 very well animated. The draw distances are impressive especially when are you standing hundreds 
 of yards away from a chaotic fight. On the downside, the humans are pretty stiff and the textures 
 have a pretty low resolution. I had a very stable frame rate with an E6600, 2 gigs of ram, and 
 a 7800GT OC while running at a 1280x800 resolution with everything set to high.
  
  Sound - This is definitely the most immersive part of the STALKER. Hearing the wind and watching 
 the grass sway in the distance makes you feel like a part of this huge Zone. The ambiance of the 
 interior segments kept me on my toes and the music used during these portions did not make it any 
 better. There are so many little details in the sound of STALKER that make it memorable. Hearing 
 someone recruiting Duty members on the loudspeaker in the Bar, random stalkers playing guitar around 
 a fire, and hearing the highest frequency ever in a game from a mutant all add to STALKER's atmosphere. 
 The only complaint I have about the sound in this game is that the voice acting is pretty average 
 and there is not much of it.
  
  Value - I really do not see a reason in playing this game again. It was a fairly long experience 
 for an FPS (15-20hrs) and there is a reason to replay the game *SPOILER* to get the different Wish 
 endings. *END SPOILER* However, the gameplay is not compelling enough to make me want to enter 
 the Zone again. Just thinking about running from zone to zone while watching respawned enemies 
 try to kill me makes me yawn.
  
  Tilt - Even though the game has such an original and immersive atmosphere, the story and gameplay 
 are just not up to par. I think it is worth checking this game out for a short while just to see 
 the zone for an hour or two, complete an interior mission, and to see the chaos that unfolds at 
 the plant. Hopefully BioShock or Crysis will raise the bar that STALKER could not budge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rajh20
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  s. t. a. l. k. e. r. is one of a good game. the story of the game is good but the graphics and guns are 
 not much good. the year that release of s. t. a. l. k. e. r is not good. because the most games release 
 in this year are high graphic and most effective.
  
  the design of monster are not much good. but the map is good. because it most suitable to the story 
 of s. t. a. l. k. e. r. the sounds are good. it just intersting to play. the bad thing is there are many 
 games like fear and doom 3 are design perfectly. so many players did't waste time to play this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3t3t3
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 14, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 2/10
  Good: Large enviroments to explorer, plenty of guns and items for you.
  
  Bad: Even though the enviroments are big there is no tempting reasons to explorer them. The guns 
 are very weak. Shotgun to the chest and the guys don't die., but 2 bullets to you from mp5 will 
 knock ya. Missions are stupid, very basic ask and retrieve types. Long trips without any cars/tanks. 
 Graphics: 9/10
  Good: Graphics and effects in this game are vert nicely done and polished.
  Bad: Requires a slightly high-end pc. Running it on 8800 GTX and E6600 I still can the occassional 
 stutter.
  Sounds: 6/10
  Good: Character voices are well done.
  Bad: Guns don't sound real.
  Value: 9/10
  Good: If you don't get bored of it from the beggininng 
 there's alot of content and can keep ya playing it for a while.
  Bad: If ya do. It's only worth about $5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MorStriochBais
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 12, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Hardware:
  laptop
  2.00 GHz Intel Dual Core T2500 (not the new Core 2 Duos)
  2 GB RAM
  256 MB GeForce 7900GS
  Game ran with minimum amount of lag most of the time. A few places caused 
 some problems. Major framerate lag near any of the garbage can fires found in the zone. I suspect 
 this is from the game and not my system.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Graphics weren't that bad to be honest. They certainly don't stand out when looking at screenshots, 
 but once you're in the game and moving about, they were still more than adequate for immersion. 
 The gun models could have gotten a facelift in my opinion - but luckily now, there are plenty of 
 mods that does that and more.
  
  At night, with NPCs that use flashlights, it makes for an awesome sight.
  
  Gameplay: 8 [Minor 
 minor spoilers]
  The AI was okay. Enemies with guns mostly strafe left and right once they notice you. However, 
 there were a few brilliant moments when enemies actually did manage to flank me. Also, first encounters 
 with Snorks and with Psi Mutants were quite memorable. Unfortunately, once you get to late-game, 
 especially Chernobyl, gameplay became rather easy since you have access to high end items. A few 
 of the items also appeared too far into the game so there wasn't enough time to fully enjoy their 
 use. I also thought the endings were slightly lame. There is one true ending, and even that didn't 
 end in a satisfactory manner. A few sidequests, especially those involving NPC battles, were pretty 
 fun, but most were fetch quests unfortunately.
  
  Sound:
  Didn't pay too much attention. Certainly it wasn't bad or I would have noticed.
  Ingame music, 
 however, became repetitive.
  
  Overall:
  Not bad. The setting is quite memorable. Prypiat and Chernobyl matched their real life counterparts 
 to a degree that still amazes me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angle180
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Just about as I was beginning to lose hope ever seeing good First-Person Shooters for PC again, 
 this got released and it's was in that sense, a lifesaver. I absolutely love this game and don't 
 even know where to begin in describing its good sides which cover most of the sides a computer 
 game can be rated on at all. First of all the AI (at least that of your enemies) is really clever 
 and the fact that you can change the difficulty level of the game via a simple visit to the options 
 menu makes S. T. A. L. K. E. R playable by anyone interested in the theme, be it a newcomer or an experienced 
 gamer. The scenery of this game is outrageously realistic and simply pulls you into the Zone (that's 
 the place the story takes place in) , creating an eerie and somewhat exposed feeling whenever there 
 aren't any friendly faces around. The well developed presence of Factions and the 'role play gamish' 
 ability to choose your own path (the whole Zone is practically open to you from the very first 
 minute of gameplay.. you'll set your own pace and begin exploring accordingly) further enforce 
 the sense of realism which of course further pulls you into the world and plays with your emotions.
 
  
  Now the story is a whole other thing altogether. I think I can honestly say I have never come across 
 a computer game with such a strong storyline and development. That is probably because most computer 
 games aren't based on exceptionally good novels as is S. T. A. L. K. E. R - Shadow Of Chernobyl. A good 
 story can make the whole experience of a book, movie or indeed a computer game more believable, 
 more buyable, more playable and this game isn't lacking. If you're into the classic sci-fi/catastrophy 
 theme and don't mind a little horror on the side, then this game should be just for you.
  
  Sometimes when you finish a really good book or a movie, you stop to think about it to digest the 
 experience. You'll find yourself looking at the sky in the middle of the night, thinking of the 
 story and how you felt touched by it. Well to me this game is the jackpot. It's well built up, 
 has a good engine and dozens upon dozens of hours of playing time A n d it carries the bewitching 
 effects of a post-apocalyptic scenery, a catastrophic theme and a strong story with impressive 
 character development.
  
  If there is one thing that this game has lacking it's an experience gaining system. All the necessary 
 requirements for it are there although I must admit it's the only thing preventing this game from 
 being an RPG and maybe that's not so bad after all with all the shooting going on. Besides the 
 gadgets, weapons and armor tend to get better and better as you play so that's pretty much the 
 same thing.
  
  All in all I think 'S. T. A. L. K. E. R - Shadow Of Chernobyl' is a wonderful game based on a wonderful 
 novel and if you're into FPS, RPG and good sci-fi then you don't want to miss this. One of the 
 best games I've played so far for its innovativity in masterfully adapting story with playability. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalesinger
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  It is a truly intersting game but ONLY if you do not make enemies with other factions  
 or BANDITS.
  U MUST BE NEUtRAL WITH !!! LONERS!!! (duty is loners best friend) THE MAIN MISSIONS CONE FROM THE 
 !!! TRADERS!!!. The main point of the game is to find the WISH GRANTER. I will not go in further 
 detail so i dont spoil the story...&lt;
  &lt;
  Pros: INCREDIBLE, IMMERSIVE GAMEPLAY! 100/10 *UBER* VERY replayable with the latest pach there is 
 no bugs sound is VERY realistic anomalies are an interesting twist nuclear blow outs are intense 
 radiation is a fun challenge *Scince i am a hardcore gamer ,i said to myself, WOW, finally, a game 
 that ACCUALLY challenges my uberness! * (A lil bit) cons: well, i guess some of the graphics are 
 a tad outdated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naval
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 10, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game for countless, I can assure if you like FPS games, just go and pick it 
 up. It's a great FPS with few RPG elements like items, armor thrown in . These elements really 
 add to the fun factor of the game. Graphically the game looks astounding on good hardware and even 
 on older computer it looks quite nice. Here you will traverse vast tract of land, may use different 
 methods to solve your goal and a you will find hours flying away like minutes.
  Caution: Although I didn't encountered any bug, it highly recommended to first install the latest 
 patches before playing this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknOwN58
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it is because I had never heard of the game until it came out and I happened to see it at 
 gamestop, and came into the game with almost no expectations.... but I really enjoyed the game. 
 Really well implemented physics that made the guns and shooter aspect feel really solid and thought 
 out. The little splash of RPG elements was a nice touch. The story plays out nicely with just the 
 right amount of suspense and some of the moments with the mutants really scared the **** out of 
 me! This game is well worth the 40 dollars and any fan of FPS games should have this in their library. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustednail56
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 10, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  lets just say u die alot in this game.... make the f6 button ur friend cuz u will be quick saving 
 alot trust me.
  idk much about the story line cuz i killed all the factions so idk.... but i read the plot on wiki 
 and its pretty interesting..
  the graphics were allright i guess.... the rpg type inventory is cool for the first 10 minutes 
 of the game, until u get overencumbered and u have to do enie meenie minie moe, or however u spell 
 it, and pick stuff out of ur inventory to just throw away.
  overall its an alright game....... buy it if u got teh cashhhhhhh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mttyd
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jul 7, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I followed stalker from the beginning through the vaporware stage and beyond... After playing the 
 game I noticed a lot of features were left out. Driveable vehicles for one. Stalker was also supposed 
 to have AI that adapted and roamed around the map eating whatever and doing whatever in a real 
 true to life type of action. Unfortunatly stalker fell short on that too. AI was somewhat formitable 
 however it was far from the roam around and act natural type. Most of the AI seemed more to be 
 concentrated in pockets and regenerated quite quickly. For those of us who don't charge right through 
 a game it was simple to stock up on cash early on. I thought the buying system was a little weak 
 and the depth of items was also a little off. As far as combat goes if you know how to perform 
 a headshot and not hold down your fire key you are golden. I also thought the anomaly system/idea 
 was great in concept but poor in excecution. Voice acting was completely poor. If I heard one of 
 those guys say ehh stalker come here one more time I think I was going to dose myself with radiation. 
 Voice comments can be great in a game however developers need to learn how to back the F off and 
 have their characters learn when to shut up.
  
  In reguards to learning how to shut up.... I shall wrap up... I look at stalker and think about 
 what could have been. There were an amazing set of ideas on the board and I think perhaps the development 
 team got a little rushed. Although I'm giving Stalker one of the worst reviews possible it isn't 
 because the game is horrible... More so because if you are going to do a job right you should not 
 rush your work. Games are art and reguardless of pressure you should never rush a masterpiece. 
 I'm sad because I didn't get the stalker the developers planned. I beat the game in a week and 
 my girl was sad she bought it and I was let down. I hope developers keep thinking of new things 
 like the stalker team did. I also hope that they implement these ideas.
  
  As a parting note: MORE GAMES NEED CO-OP MODE there is nothing better than walking through a FPS 
 with a buddy or 7 (ala ranbow 6) and having a ball. Deathmatch is overdone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuelhog2000
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  This game is great. It took quite some time to learn what everthing does in the game. In specific, 
 how to trade, how to use the pda and what the heck each rock does. I love the fact that the game 
 is so free, meaning you can go anywhere you want. I don't think it is worth trying the extra side 
 missions though. They really don't provide much reward, stick with the main storyline and you will 
 be fine. It would be nice to see a little more gore when killing enemies, just a little blood is 
 all you get. FEAR was great for gore. The game consists of a good balance of shooting and thinking 
 because most sitiuations have different solutions. Experiment a little and you will see some actions 
 provide better results than others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuckboy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  First off, this game is not about STALKING women in Chernobyl. In fact there are no women in Chernobyl, 
 apparently. Also don't bet on meeting the yellow guy on the front of the box at any point during 
 the game. Anyway, I wouldn't really expect anyone to buy this game based on the box art, unless 
 they are crazy about men with papier-m&acirc; ch&eacute; on their face. You'd buy it because it's 
 a great game, and I'm going to tell you why.
  
  Let's just get one thing straight; STALKER has often been dubbed a FPS/RPG hybrid. Well... it isn't. 
 If you want to defeat the hordes of enemies you will encounter in STALKER, you're going to need 
 more than EXP points.
  
  The game seems to start off a lot like many other recent shooters. You are this guy who lost his 
 memory, and you must set off on a quest to discover your own identity. The plot of this game can 
 be confusing, and occasionally takes wild turns with not even a hint.
  
  The story is told partly through text on the screen during conversations with non player characters, 
 and partly through 3D rendered cutscenes. Obviously, the developers thought text alone would be 
 a bit boring, so they have put a lot of effort into these cutscenes, and it really shows. Whilst 
 a little confusing, these cutscenes display absolutely masterful 3D modelling and animation.
  
  The first thing that I did before starting the game was to whack all the visual quality settings 
 on to max, and change the resolution to 800x600. This is how I like to play most games; all of 
 the flashy effects and shaders, just a little bit blocky. However with STALKER, I started the game 
 on this setup and it ran at around 1 frame per 3 seconds and, after a couple of minutes, froze 
 my PC prompting a restart. This wasn't a good first impression. I then spent the next 2 hours tweaking 
 the settings and I eventually realised that I was going to have to play the game on the absolute 
 bare minimum video settings. So by this point I was a little miffed. Add the fact that the game 
 kept crashing at random before I could get anywhere and I was seriously considering taking it back 
 to the shop.
  
  Ask a performance question a forum and you'll invariably get some smug b*****d saying UR PC SUX! 
 U NEED A SUPER QUAD ATI 960045X CROSSIFIRE DUO 400XT SLI PRO 2 GTR . I don't have the best graphics 
 card in the world, but I know it can run FEAR maxed out at 800x600 extremely smoothly in DirectX9 
 mode. STALKER has good graphics, but it's nothing amazing, so why does it run like a fat kid on 
 stilts? Answer: Well, it would seem logical to think that since the game has so many unfixed bugs, 
 it is probably also missing a lot of potential optimisation. Perhaps one day a patch will address 
 this.
  
  Anyway, after a great deal of wasted time the game stopped crashing so frequently, so I could finally 
 play the game! I'm playing it with no dynamic lighting, super blurry textures and p*** poor geometry 
 detail and yet... it is still fantastic. From the very start you feel like a part of a virtual 
 world. There is so much attention to detail: grass swaying in the breeze, autumn leaves blowing 
 in the wind, distant lightening illuminating the landscape. The mutant behaviour is very well done. 
 Mutated dogs will roam around in packs and will only attack you if they feel that they have the 
 advantage. For example if you fire upon a lone dog, it will usually run away with its tail between 
 its legs, only to return later with some doggy friends all eager to make you their new pedigree 
 chum. Sometimes dogs will run at you barking and then break off without attacking in an effort 
 to intimidate you. It's little things like this that makes the world of STALKER feel very real.
 
  
  The combat... it is possibly the most realistic firearms combat system I have ever seen in a game. 
 The amount of stuff you can carry in your inventory is limited by weight, so once you are lugging 
 around 2 assault rifles and a shotgun you can't run very far without stopping for a breather. This 
 forces you to carefully consider which weapons to take with you. Since different weapons often 
 require different ammo types, you often find your choice of weapon is affected greatly by whatever 
 ammo your enemies are using. Guns generally fire tracer bullets, which is more useful than ever 
 since your bullets are affected by gravity, recoil and at extreme ranges you also need to take 
 into account the time taken for your bullet to reach a moving target. When you are in a firefight, 
 you really feel it. The sound of bullets zipping past just metres over your head, the metallic 
 clunks and tinks as they ricochet off the burnt out car you are taking cover behind. To be honest 
 it felt a lot like paintballing, only with real (I mean virtual) guns.
  
  The human AI is impressive, and will intelligently take cover, flank and pin you down with suppressive 
 fire. Also what is impressive is that the AI characters are just as adept at fighting each other 
 as they are at fighting you. You will often find yourself in situations where you team up with 
 a squad of friendlies in order to defeat a whole bunch of enemies. This works really well, and 
 you don't every find yourself thinking Stupid AI as you watch an NPC determinedly walking into 
 a wall. In indoor environments the AI can sometimes be a little predictable, but I this has more 
 to do with the limited space available to move in than the AI.
  
  The landscape is littered with anomalies which are hazards caused by the fictional second explosion 
 of Chernobyl in '89. These take many different forms, from fuzzy, plant-like growths that shoot 
 needles out when approached too quickly, giant whirlwinds that suck you in and then repeatedly 
 bludgeon you and electrostatic anomalies that, well, you can probably guess. All fun stuff. Also 
 as you get closer to Chernobyl itself, you'll find that many of the cars, trucks, and other objects 
 you could potentially use for cover are radioactive, and will give you radiation sickness if you 
 get too close. This causes you to adjust your tactics and is quite an interesting feature.
  
  One of the things you will probably notice early on is that money is very easy to come by in 
 STALKER. There are three traders scattered around the zone that you can by new weapons, suits, 
 medkits and other items from. You can get money by finding and selling artefacts which are small 
 items formed in the anomalies which can have positive and negative effects on the user. For example 
 a sparkler artefact will make the player able to run for longer without tiring, but has will slightly 
 decrease their resistance to electrical damage. Some artefacts constantly irradiate the player 
 and some are just useless, and these will be the ones you will likely be selling. The real limit 
 on what cool stuff you can get your hands on early in the game is what the traders have to offer 
 you. The game has multiple endings, all but one of which result in the player dying in a variety 
 of nasty ways. It was kind of cool to have multiple endings, but the paths diverge very late into 
 the game, so it is very easy to save your game and go and see all the different endings simply 
 for sheer amusement.
  
  All in all STALKER is an excellent game; the perfect blend of tactics, action, exploration and 
 survival. The only things that bring it down are it's woefully inefficient graphics engine and 
 the numerous bugs and crashes that will most likely make you want to tear your hair out after first 
 buying the game.
  
  My advice; be patient, don't take the game back to the shop or sell it. Throw it out the window 
 if you must; I nearly did, but once you've calmed down a bit, retrieve it and resume tweaking. 
 Because STALKER is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustang_rider
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Maybe the first words that may came out of your mouth when you play the game is: this games looks 
 like Boiling Point Mixed With Fallout with his own history line.
  
  this game isn't bad but its still need some ia fixing and some bugs because CPU seem to be a little 
 bit stupid with the anomaly and mine field detection ( they cross over them insted of avoiding 
 them ) .
  
  Probably the game looks hard at the beginning but in fact is really easy also it may look a long 
 game but it isn't, its almost only 10 to 25 hours of game playing.
  
  Gameplay its just fine for me except for the noise reader ( doesnt seems to work right ) , the interface 
 ( including menus, inventory, pda...) its comfortable.
  
  Graphics are not out of the normal, the texture can look great with a HIGH-END machine but on LOW-END 
 machine can look like normal textures even the SOURCE engine that is more older looks better than 
 the X-Ray Engine.
  
  Sound is great specially the effects, explosions, gun fire and atmosphere.
  
  Cool game but 
 not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vladx12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R is one of the most Immersive FPS/RPG Titles of the year!
  The first time when you begin the game and get outside the bunker, you will be treated to one of 
 the best looking enviorments ever seen in a PC Shooter.
  (That is if your computer can hold every visual option to the max)
  The fighting is not only 
 Fun but also Rewarding. and unlike many other FPS games requiers Skills to play and overcome your 
 enemies.
  The fact that almost any other Stalker you meet speaks russian is great and adds to the realisem 
 of the Zone, (Chernobyl) Althou the game lacks subtitals to translate what they actually saying.
 
  you dont really expect that an Ukranian country would start to speak english all the sudden dont 
 you?!
  The Zone is chernobyl, and the zone is huge...
  
  There are some minor flaws in the game, that are a big let down and in my opinion, and i think that 
 if these things were in the final relese of S. T. A. L. K. E. R the game would be nearly perfect:
  
  The game is filled with many Factions, and your PDA gathers info on them,
  but you cant join 
 them. yeah you can do quests for them but you wont really be apart of them, and in a game of this 
 size... thats bad and dissapointing...
  
  The 2nd problam is like i said before the game is HUGE,
  but you cant ride a car to get past 
 the diffrent areas... so I hope you like walking for 30 minutes to get to a quest objective... Sure 
 you can download mods to add cars to the game, but my problam is that the developers dident added 
 the cars themselves...
  
  The 3rd and final problam is the Graphics, if you activate every option to the max, the game would 
 look beutifull but it would cost you in a huge drop of frame rates and longer loading times, but 
 if you turn of most of the visual options you will get a smooth frame rate but the game would look 
 like its graphics are taken from a 1995 first person shooter engine...
  
  Even with these minor flaws the game is great, and will be worth your while.
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R: Shadow 
 of chernobyl gets a 8.9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:00 am PT
Review:  I am very amazed by how brilliant this game is, theres alot of action and it can get very scary. 
 There is more action than it being scary and thats a good thing I have been playing this game for 
 along time but all this time I havent found any bugs or errors and thats terrific. The graphics 
 arent bad their good and it gets better if u have the latest drivers and the latest graphics card 
 like a Geforce 8800gtx or gts its still rocks on these graphics cards and on radeons new card series. 
 The good thing about the graphics in this game is that non heavy gamers can play it on their Directx8 
 Graphics Cards. I am pretty far in this game. This does not mean this game is bad but this isnt 
 a game that u can play for hours, because it tends to get boring after awhile if you can understand 
 what I am saying then u would get my point. I would advise any one to buy this game of course, 
 but different people have different opinions so some might be amazed about it and on the other 
 hand some might cry for their money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mlazaro
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I must say, i was little on the fence with buying this game. It was in development for a very long 
 time (as we all know) , and man, am i glad i bought it. The immersion in this game is astounding. You 
 really feel like your in Chernobyl.. The realism is astounding also.. And SCARY! The last game i played 
 that made me jump like this was Clive Barkers Undying.. The difference is, the atmosphere makes it 
 much more creepy... I just finished up Half Life 2, then F. E. A. R.. I think this trumps FEAR in the 
 scare department by far. Atmosphere is waaay better, as is the realism.. If your into survival horror, or 
 even shooters, you cant go wrong here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slickr
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  EDIT: I take back the previous high 56 score and lowering it to 5 as this game is ****
  GSC's Stalker Shadow of Chernobyl the ridiculously long awaited shooter arrived in March but was 
 it too soon!?
  
  5 years before the game was released the hype started about a very ambitious team of developers 
 wanting to make the perfect game! At one point the promises were so many and soo good to be true, 
 that as Stalker became closer and closer to release, we saw developers taking back their promises, 
 removing or canceling features that were supposed to ship with the game!
  The most crucial feature was vehicles. Driving by itself is interesting but the fact that the developers 
 promise was that vehicles will need maintenance, running out of fuel and breaking apart added a 
 certain thrill for the long awaiting fans! Soon we found that vehicles won't make it into the game, 
 as that wasn't bad enough a lot of additional features were removed. At first look you may think 
 those are little features that won't make a difference but think again. Much of the fans liked 
 the game as it was promised it will be. -FPS game with RPG elements, set in a huge world where 
 you can explore, trade, sleep, eat, drive vehicles, do whatever missions you like, shoot and kill 
 enemies and monsters as well as the main story driven missions that will only add to a solid game 
 even without a story!
  
  But what did we get of that? -Nothing. Absolutely nothing. Vehicles, sleeping, eating, trading, 
 freedom of choice and much more was removed or canceled from the final game. So what kind of game 
 did we get!?
  -Well we've got graphically dated game with lots of DX8 rendering and models and just tapped out 
 DX9 features that are easy to implement. Either the developers got really lazy or they just did 
 not want to make the game look better. Those trees and skies are the worst ones I've ever seen 
 in a game. The trees look like the game is made in 1996 year, when making good modeled trees was 
 big stuff!
  Not to mention the bad looking weapons without any details on them.
  
  Second thing we've got is SMALL sized world with limited movement freedom and nothing to explore! 
 For things to be worse there was actually a loading between levels and to make things even worse 
 the progressing of the game was so fricking linear that in order to progress you only need to move 
 straight and you'll get to the next level. Third thing we've got was lack of side-missions and 
 random thing to do. The most "interesting" (boring) thing you could do instead of following the 
 linear-story driven boring missions was getting killed by stupid anomalies. And boy let me tell 
 you was there anomalies. There were virtually hundred of anomalies every where you go. Take the 
 dirt road instead of the cement road and you are up for trouble with those irritating anomalies!
 
  
  Forth thing we've got is no trading, sleeping and eating. Yap all those wanting those RPG elements 
 better throw that 5 years waiting for stalker and go look for another game. I heard Oblivion 4 
 was pretty good at that stuff. So yeah the trading with AI was only limited to trading with the 
 trader or special characters. Not to mention the trading was so simple and basic basically you 
 can sell whatever you want for an already set price and sell it or buy stuff the same way as selling, 
 by buying overpriced stuff.
  No sleeping, so now you can go for days (game time) without the need for sleep and without the need 
 for food;-Yeah very realistic and interesting isn't it!?
  
  Fifth thing we've got is a boring linear story driven missions that actually lack story, atmosphere 
 and fun. All missions are the same except that "saying": go wipe out the entire place", it says 
 "go get the documents".
  And everything you do seems meaningless and repetitive, sometimes even annoying because of the 
 tough enemies. With the lack of content, story, features and everything else we have these absurdly 
 tough enemies that you need to shoot at least 20 times in order to die. But you as the main character 
 will die from only 5-10 hits, depending what armor you wear!
  Not to mention the blocked terrain that forces you to basically go from 1 or mostly 2 ways. Instead 
 of having unlimited choices/ways, you usually have only 1 or 2 choice/ways of doing stuff!
  
  I can go on like this for pages and I'll end up with an unreadable review that's more of a 
 book than a review. To sum it up: Very ambitious game with lots of promises that fails to deliver! 
 The end result is somewhat unfinished game with lack of features, missions, "size", graphics, story, 
 thrill, mood, atmosphere and fun.
  Playing this game feels like a bad, bold and non-motivated scenario occurring again and again and 
 again until the end, sort of deja-vu effect!
  In the end it's a good game for the price of $5. For every dollar more take out 1 point and you 
 end up with mediocre game that sells with a huge hype generated by deceiving promises and marketing 
 tricks!
  
  It's not even better than kill switch-very budged and time limited game that was developed for 
 only 4-5 months.
  
  Now compare Stalkers 5-6 years in development and kill switch 4-5 month in development and the 
 result may be even funny!
  One more thing i want to add is: Boiling Point. Yeah if you remember this game is somewhat similar 
 to Stalker with many differences. If you compare these two games Boiling Point wins in every aspect. 
 It has better graphics, exotic jungles and places, drivable cars, jeeps, trucks, buses, boats, 
 helicopters, airplanes, a lot of weapons, better AI, unlimited choices, huge area to explore and 
 more interesting missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricaWildebeest
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  STALKER - Shadow Of Chernobyl is EVERYTHING I was hoping it would be (once I'd installed the two 
 released patches and it stopped crashing everytime I tried to save it) . It's atmospheric, scary, 
 fun, and has a bit of depth. The graphics are top-notch, the lighting effects are fantastic, and 
 the AI is pretty good.
  If I HAD to complain about something (and let's face it, I'm human and naturally like to complain 
 about things) it would be that it's quite easy to get shot through solid objects like trees and 
 walls (annoying but not dire) , and it's sometimes hard to tell exactly WHAT you are supposed to 
 do to complete a mission. For instance, I was wandering around the outside of the Agroprom Research 
 facility for a couple of hours trying to convince the game that I had in fact found a way back 
 to the surface (if you've played the game you'll probably remember the mission) . In the end I had 
 to go through the tunnels completely again and it finally said I'd completed it! My other whinge 
 would be that sometimes when you move from one level to the next it will load up and you'll be 
 in clear view of someone who very much wants to kill you. There's no opportunity to sneak up behind 
 cover (my preferred way of playing) , you're just landed in the middle of a firefight.
  Apart from those niggly little problems I LOVE this game. It's escapism at its best. It's a very 
 vibrant, living world that you are exploring and the little requirements such as having to eat 
 to keep your strength up make it really feel like you are living another life (that's a lot more 
 exciting than my ACTUAL life!) .
  This is a game that I will be playing for a VERY long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquid_ninja
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  STALKER is one of those games that doesn't come around too often. It has great gameplay, good graphics 
 and an awesome environment to live and kill in.
  
  This game draws you in from the start, giving you easy jobs to do, kill bandits/mutants, recover 
 items etc. It may seem a little useless to do, but it helps you become part of this awesome world.
 
  
  The graphics are good, but a little dated and you'll need a decent system to run it, but if you 
 have the ability it is a must play. This game is open-ended and like no other game I have played 
 recently and is one of the greatest single player experiences I've had since Half-Life 2.
  
  If you're into single player games, and you like to shoot people in a great environment, this 
 game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbisco25
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  I been waiting a long time to play stalker and i must say it has turned out quite well indeed. 
 I dont know how long this game has been development, but it been a long time that for sure, but 
 all thing said and done it turned out quite well, the graphics if the not the best in the world 
 turn out to still to be quite good , i really do like the weather effect, which are really somthing 
 to see. i was hoping for a free roaming world which it is to the most part, but it always going 
 in one direction, which help the game have focused but sometimes makes you feel boxed in. the A. I 
 in the game is amazing you could spend hours just watching them going around doing their own thing, 
 without you interfering with them, their are a lot of bugs which i think will be ironed out when 
 the patches come out, so it final came out and i think it was worth the wait in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ck753
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is worthy to be mentioned with the likes of Half-Life, System Shock 2, and Operation 
 Flashpoint: Cold War Crisis. It has elements reminiscent of these games: it welds together action-based, 
 RPG-based, and realism-based shooters, with a twist of Gothic and Fallout thrown in for good measure.
 
  
  I keep hearing how this game was delayed, delayed, delayed, for many years. Yet, to me, the graphics 
 seem exceptional, if only because of the incredible level of detail in the environment. It plays 
 smoothly on my five-year-old P4 system with my 6800 GT graphics card upgrade, at 1280 x 1024 resolution, 
 with most of the options set either medium-high or very high. I had to use static lighting, though, 
 because dynamic lighting caused an inordinate amount of hitching and stuttering; still, with static 
 lighting everything looks great, and I do not feel as though I am missing anything on that score. 
 The graphics and environments are very engrossing, and the special effects are both innovative 
 and inspired.
  
  The physics engine is also too good to be true, for a game that spent this much time getting assembled 
 -- or perhaps it's a justification of its lengthy development, that S. T. A. L. K. E. R. has such good 
 physics. The weapon models are among the best I have experienced, surpassing even games such as 
 F. E. A. R., Call of Duty 1&amp; 2, and Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30 (have yet to play the sequel 
 to that last one) . In S. T. A. L. K. E. R., even the bullets and their trajectories are modeled: with 
 longer shots, you can see the bullets streak wide from your intended target in highly realistic 
 fashion; and, some guns take heavy, slow, armor-piercing rounds, and you can see the bullet drop 
 on long shots, and must account for it by aiming high. These heavy subsonic bullets even bounce 
 along the pavement if they drop there. It's a pretty realistic ballistics simulation, where trajectory 
 and recoil are concerned; obviously the damage is toned down so that not every shot results in 
 a take-down.
  
  Not that the weapons themselves are anything mind-blowing; you're destined, for the most part, 
 to lug a rifle or two along with a pistol. (You can also take a shotgun, but I usually chose to 
 allocate the weight for the second rifle.) For gamers who appreciate depth and realism, though, 
 there is quite a variety of conventional ballistics weapons, with variations on handling, accuracy, 
 rate of fire, recoil, and damage -- all of which have a noticeable effect on your ability to wage 
 war on your enemies. Getting the right tool for the job is a priority in this game, and it's all 
 part of the great fun.
  
  The open-ended play is also an attraction, as there are many holes, debris-piles, and buildings 
 not necessarily in your main road, that are fun and worthwhile to explore.
  
  The interface can be a bit clumsy at times, but it's forgivable, and cannot dampen this deep and 
 satisfying game. Interfacial awkwardness includes the inventory system; but if you want some RPG 
 elements in your FPS, with inventory and artifacts (or artefacts ) and what-not, then you must 
 be prepared to do a little fumbling about. And not being able to pull any of 10 Big F-'ing Guns 
 out of thin air (or some other less savory place) is all part of the realism deliberately imparted 
 into this fine game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Admiral13
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Definitely worth playing, but the lack of voice acting in some of the conversations was very disappointing. 
 But the ambient noise and sound effect were top notch. The graphics at first glance look out of 
 date, but the more you play and come to realize the work put into the lighting and and sheer level 
 of detail of the world the graphics truly shine. The game world actually looks like Chernobyl it 
 really is incredible. All through the game the AI keeps you on your toes, this is the only game 
 where an enemy has actually knifed me in the back in a single player experience. Something that 
 was very disappointing though was the ending, but I'm not sure if there are multiple endings or 
 not. Over all this was a solid play and worth the cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzhut
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  i dont know where tobegin and where to end lets start with storyline
  storyline is not strong and type in which gamers get attach to game becmoes a bit boring
  Map
 
  has a very big map but u need to walk it al u cant drive a vehicle or anything for that case this 
 is the only reason to beleive it is different from Nexus: Boling point
  u have to waste 15 minutes just to get to a position.
  AI i was almost impressed with ai technology 
 used they act pretty good and are almost unpredictable (increases the game score)
  GRAPHICS
  everything u see is well designed and animated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Succumbus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl, is a game that isn't half bad. Lots of people came into the 
 game expecting an awesome RPG with a badass story and something that will be remembered with all 
 time, and no doubt, it is a decent rpg based game with a not-too-shabby story, but it just doesn't 
 live up to the hype people were percieving it by when they first entered its world.
  
  It is a freeroam, and it lets you kill who you want and shoot who you want and go where you want, 
 and to me, thats alot of fun. Although its a little slow in the beginning and doesnt have much 
 of a great start, it still has a better later on gameplay to it. Meaning playing the game is rewarding. 
 You are able to seek out artifacts and sell them to local traders or stalkers, kill enemies and 
 get good amounts of loot (armor, weapons -which there are alot of-, medkits, artifacts) stuff you 
 need to sell or use, roam around looking for treasure, explore highly integrated ruins with cool 
 looking anomalies, and finish quests which arent the emptiest.
  
  This game definately keeps you on the move, with decent graphics and an ok story. The Combat makes 
 this game so much fun. Don't step into this game expecting it to be an rpg thats the BEST, come 
 more into it hoping its a good/decent FPS, which in this case, you will not be dissappointed.
 
  
  I give this game a good score, because of how its made and how its decently realistic (bleeding, 
 radiation poisoning, bullet drop, weather system, etc...) . Its a good FPS and game and should be 
 played by all First Person Shooter/RPG fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon6786
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Well, Stalker isnt the worst game on my list.... but its no where near the best. I played Stalker 
 for about 2 hours then i said... no... Its a good game but i mean the bugs just screw it up, even 
 with the downloads it just doesnt work out.... The shotgun is fun, depending on which one you use... 
 my favorite is the pump single shot one, not the sawed off double barrel... The deagle is a good 
 pistol, and i like all of the assault rifles... The enemies.... are just plain stupid... and they 
 cant aim... at all... But they're funny.... Ummm yea the zombies are the best!! wooooo zombies!!! 
 Umbrshaaaaauh woo!! ummm yea sorry... Sooo anyway.. the anomalies or whatever u want to call em 
 are kinda.... annoying... lets step over here AAHHH IM ON FIRE AHH yea you get my point.. Umm well 
 your allies are just as retarded, Lets go over here... and die.. wooo ok well there's your fantastic 
 review of stalker.... woo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl was originally supposed to arrive at the same time as Half-Life 
 2. However, after a lengthy wait, it finally arrived this year on the PC. Does the long delay mean 
 that the game is outdated and disorganized, or does it mean the development team took all that 
 time to refine and polish the game? In this case, its the latter. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a remarkably 
 ambitious game and, thankfully, all of the gameplay elements come together very nicely. It features 
 solid shooting action, a huge world to explore, and an excellent presentation, and they all combine 
 to make a terrific game.
  
  Originally, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. was to be a showcase for the splendor of DirectX 9, and it was the visuals 
 that first garnered the games attention. The game is no longer ultra cutting edge, but it still 
 looks great. The character models look a bit blocky and outdated, but they are the only flaw in 
 S. T. A. L. K. E. R. s appearance. All of the games environments are realistic and dreary, with highly 
 detailed textures and superb lighting. The attention to detail in the game shines in many small 
 ways, like the detailed weapon models and the way that the grass sways in the wind. The lighting 
 makes use of features like dynamic shadows and HDR with a clever subtlety that many other games 
 (e. g. Doom 3, Gothic 3) have failed to achieve. The landscape is dotted with dangerous small areas 
 called anomalies, and when you are about to enter one, your view becomes grainy and distorted. 
 Its a brilliant effect that adds to the dangerous feel of the game. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. has a bleak 
 atmosphere that is reflected in every area  the best way to describe this style would be to call 
 it beautiful ugliness. Everywhere that you go, vehicles and buildings are in disrepair, the sky 
 is gray, paint is chipping, and people are dressed in simple plain clothing.
  
  Bleak pretty much describes everything in the game, which creates a very dark and morally ambiguous 
 atmosphere. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. does many things right, but its greatest strength is the ever-present 
 tone of hostility, unfriendliness, and insecurity that it conveys. No game has created an atmosphere 
 like this since Fallout. There are no sincere friends in this game, only convenient allies. You 
 never feel truly safe or comfortable, no matter where you are in the game. Many of the characters 
 that you meet seem like misfits that would be at home as much in a prison cell as The Zone. Some 
 games have attempted to manufacture moral ambiguity by throwing some variation into typical good 
 and evil choices (e. g.: Jade Empire, Knights of the Old Republic 2) . However, none of them have 
 managed to create S. T. A. L. K. E. R. s self-centered and unfriendly world.
  
  It is not enough to complement S. T. A. L. K. E. R. on its atmosphere though, because the gameplay is 
 not merely solid, but great as well. It consists of two major gameplay elements: open-ended Oblivion 
 style exploration, and good old first person shooting. The shooter aspect of S. T. A. L. K. E. R., by 
 itself, would make a pretty good game. Weapons have a good feel to them and enemy AI is among the 
 best in the genre. For a game that sports so many wide open areas, the enemies do an amazing job 
 of finding and tracking you without getting lost or exploited like morons. When enemies notice 
 you, they will typical advance toward a cover position and take shots at you from a distance. They 
 will also occasionally sneak up on an exposed flank of yours, a trait that adds to the games unforgiving 
 difficulty level. Firefights are highly tactical and without a good plan of attack and judicious 
 use of cover, even weak human enemies can chew you apart in a short time. Gunfights are never scripted 
 and rarely play out the same way twice, and the unpredictability leads to some memorable moments. 
 Once, I was in a gun battle with an enemy and both of us were behind cover. The enemy started to 
 slowly advance out of cover and accidentally walked into an anomaly, which promptly blew him into 
 little meat chunks!.
  
  When youre not fighting bandits or mercs, youll find that gun-wielding humans arent the only 
 challenge of the Ukranian wasteland. Numerous dangerous mutated beasts like giant boars and bloodsuckers 
 (deformed humanoids that can turn invisible) roam the countryside. The mutants who inhabit underground 
 labs and abandoned buildings make those locations downright terrifying. Monsters exhibit a lot 
 of pack-like behavior, so that usually one might run away from you, but a group of five or more 
 will attack immediately. Many times you can hear or see a pack of them in the distance, but you 
 wont be sure if they will attack you. Sometimes, you can lead a pack of them into a group of enemies 
 and then hide and watch the action. None of the beasts are very smart or as challenging as humans, 
 but the packs of them around Chernobyl still make the countryside dangerous and creepy.
  
  And what a massive countryside it is. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. eschews the traditional level-based structure 
 of first person shooters in favor of colossal sprawling areas separated by occasional loading zones. 
 The game does not quite rival Elder Scrolls or Grand Theft Auto in its open-endedness, but it is 
 very unique and ambitious for a first person shooter. The radiated remains of Chernobyl provide 
 a rich environment to explore, and every square foot of the game area has been mapped out with 
 unparalleled attention to detail. You can spend hours and hours exploring the post-apocalyptic 
 world, looking through abandoned buildings or finding ways to climb on top of roofs for a better 
 vantage point. This game is perfectly built for the attention-deprived. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. has unique 
 and memorable set pieces on every map, like a tall crane, a rundown factory, or an eerily abandoned 
 Ferris Wheel. When you are not out exploring, there are a couple of major hub-like areas where 
 you can take on quests and trade with merchants. Its a game that begs for exploration, although 
 it fails to reward you well for doing so, and that is one of the games flaws.
  
  All of this open space does come with some drawbacks, however, one of which is long loading times. 
 This is another one of those games that takes seemingly forever to start up from Windows, and it 
 takes a long time to transition between areas. Furthermore, it also occasionally chugs and hiccups 
 in the middle of an area, as if the game were loading behind the scenes. Traversing the open space 
 can sometimes be boring. This game requires hours and hours of just walking around and backtracking 
 to complete lots of fetch quests, many of which also require walking across two or three loading 
 zones. This problem is made more annoying by S. T. A. L. K. E. R. s numerous respawning enemies, which 
 effectively prevent you from clearing an area for more than about five minutes. The third or fourth 
 time that you have to kill a pack of five dogs or four bandits, it starts to get old.
  
  Storytelling is also not one of the strengths of the game. Very few of the characters have any 
 meaningful voice-acted lines, and it seems like one or two actors did all of the games spoken 
 English. This can be confusing, as villains can have the same voice on your radio as friends. Most 
 of the story is told with voiceless text, which you usually see by clicking on dialog options with 
 various NPCs. Its too bad, because the underlying story is actually very good. The voice acting 
 (or lack thereof) is a shortcoming in the audio, which is very good other than that. Weapons sound 
 unique and powerful. Monsters sound sufficiently scary, and the distant snorts or barks you hear 
 from roaming animals always keeps tension in the game.
  
  It is worth mentioning that S. T. A. L. K. E. R. has a good interface and control scheme. It is not very 
 complicated and the interface isnt revolutionary, but it is a refreshing change from the console-port-itis 
 that has plagued PC gaming recently. It is nice to have a point-and-click inventory with items 
 that you can drag-and-drop for a change instead of clunky layered menus. It is also nice to be 
 able to bind all of the actions that you need to the keyboard.
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. s missions are about 10-15% storyline, and the rest is sidequest. This means that 
 you can spend dozens of hours playing the game, or less than fifteen if you want to speed through 
 it. There is a lot of content in this package, but how much of it you enjoy depends entirely upon 
 your play style, and how much you like exploring and experimenting. This game requires patience 
 to enjoy fully.
  
  Whether its a challenging first person shooter youre looking for, or just a unique world to go 
 wandering around in for twenty hours, I highly recommend S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl. The 
 long development time for the game has paid off with excellent graphics, great shooting action, 
 and a massive, dismal world that anyone interested in post-apocalyptic subject matter can easily 
 get absorbed in. Great open-ended games like this are rare gems, and open-ended shooters are practically 
 non-existent. If you have been following the game for years, then it was worth the wait. If you 
 only just heard of it and youre interested in the gameplay elements that it offers, I doubt that 
 you will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tchn0holiic06
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I love the graphic, it was no problem for me, although I'm no hardcore gamer that would spot what 
 a true hardcore gamer will spot. But the game was great, I love it. At some point, it scared me. 
 Silly me. I don't really know what to say here, but the game is simply speechless. Except one thing 
 that disappoints me ultimately. This game is not real great for deaf or hearing impaired gamers. 
 I am one of them, and I looked forward to understand the game play, the storyline... Where's the 
 full subtitles? Is the developers lazy? I want to see the subtitles full. Although there is an 
 add on for the subtitle only in the movie. When I got to the end, I get to ask the questions, but 
 I don't see anything that's being said. No subtitles. This game needs one, there ARE deaf gamers 
 out there. Even maybe one deaf dude/dudette will even come across this review, they'd say RIGHT 
 ON! All games that has storyline that needs to be understood.. needs subtitle, period. I am looking 
 to fall in contact with the developers. This is why I rated the gameplay 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greeneyes702
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Blending a realistic world with supernatural happenings makes for a great atmosphere 
 that is compelling. The World:
  The world of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. known as the zone is nothing short of amazing. The realistic outdoor 
 environments are fun to explore and beautiful to look at. Even when outdoors you can enter just 
 about every building you see creating a very realistic feel. Also buildings arent just boxes with 
 walls most are detailed with framing and interiors. Weather effects add to the realism such as 
 gusts of wind that kick up dust clouds and thunderstorms. The world has day and night cycles as 
 well and the night times are exceptionally dramatic.
  The game world is actually split up into different areas that you zone into resulting in a loading 
 screen between areas. However each area is large enough to where I dont mind the short pause between 
 them. The Gameplay:
  While this is a shooter the gameplay is a mix of action, strategy and role playing. Everything 
 is open ended and while there is a main storyline you don't have to follow it you can just head 
 out exploring.
  The action side of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. includes firefights against enemies that act like real people. 
 Also you will have allies that will fight with you in certain areas. Realistic weapons with bullets 
 you can see (if your fast enough) . The weapons also have stats such as damage, handling, accuracy, 
 range and durability each with its ups and downs. The exact number of weapons there are I am not 
 sure but I think its around 30 within the classes of melee, pistol, shotgun, sub-machine, assault, 
 sniper, heavy and explosive. You can also customize each weapon with items like scopes, silencer 
 and laser sights. You will fight against humans from diffrent factions like military, loner, duty, 
 bandits, zombies and a variety of mutants everything from humanoids to animals.
  The strategic side of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is very deep. Unless your very lucky you will need to use 
 strategy to survive. You start the game with binoculars and bolts both very usefull. Binoculars 
 reveals enemies from afar by bounding boxes that will turn red if they are hostile and yellow if 
 they are friendly. Bolts are used to reveal anomalies which are traps created from the radiation 
 fallout. While fighting using cover to avoid bullets is a key tactic that is both easy and fun. 
 You can crouch as well as peek around corners allowing you to shoot your enemies while only revealing 
 a small portion of your body. While crouched you make less noise so this is key while sneaking 
 around. You can keep track of the noise you make using a meter at the bottom of the screen. Also 
 there is another meter that warns you when you are seen by others. And you have a minimap that 
 shows you all friendly people and shows you enemies if they are visible to your character. Using 
 the interface really helps to keep you alive and gives you a tactical feel. If you do take damage 
 there are fistaid kits and bandages that allow you to heal yourself. These work alot like healing 
 potions in other games. Everyone you kill you can loot and most emenies have usefull items likewise 
 everyone on your side you can trade with. Often when looting you will gain some kind of info from 
 the fallens PDA. Everyone including you has a PDA and it's a great device that keeps info for you. 
 Things like mission data, rankings and the encyclopedia which grows as you explore and loot.
  The role-playing side of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. puts you in the shoes of a marked one who lost his memory 
 after a brutal truck accident. And while I could give the whole story I wont. I will say that it 
 has more to do with it than simply the Chernobyl power plant. The main story is completed by taking 
 on the main missions and the game has multiple endings. However there are what seam like endless 
 side missions to complete many lead to more contacts. Picking who you are going to help and who 
 you are going to hunt is a big part of the role play.
  
  The Sound: Sounds in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. are very well done. There is alot of voice acting in the game 
 some in english some in russian. And even the ambient sounds good they can be both eerie and soothing. 
 Occasionaly someone will be playing a radio or even the guitar and the music is the kind you either 
 hate or love and I love it. The Bad: S. T. A. L. K. E. R. does have a few bad sides. Being such a large 
 detailed open ended game with overactive artificial intelligence I think its amazing the game has 
 never crashed on me. However there are bugs but most are laughable. Some examples are bodies getting 
 stuck inside objects, minor voice acting bugs and minor side quest bugs. Running the game on it's 
 highest settings will require some serious PC power however this is due mostly in part to the dymanic 
 lighting option. However if you do have a older PC there are plenty of settings to tweak and you 
 should be able to get the game to run decently. I have a slightly old PC and the game runs amazingly 
 smooth on my system.
  
  I've played many shooters but all around this game is my favorite.
  I recommend this game as 
 a great dynamic single player experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkslaye336
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Gameplay is a amazing thing to behold. The combat in the game goes so excelently that 
 it feels as if you are in Marked One's shoes. Also, ya walk around looking for stuff to kill and 
 things to loot, you find anomalies. These things add some difficulty to the game by either 1. Making 
 you use your mind to get through a patch of them or 2. Tricking your enemies to run right into 
 the patches. The radiation poisioning is a pretty sweet feature, just don't wear any artifacts 
 with +5 on their negatives and you won't get poisioned every 5 minutes. Graphics: The character 
 models and such are sorta, bad. But that doesn't mean it isn't beautiful! The storms are a rain 
 are rather cool but the lighting, thats just plain art! (As good as light can be)
  
  Sound: The sound literally chills you! The underground parts, you walk around and you hear shifting 
 parts, I can barely play at times it freaks me out so much!
  
  Value: Well worth the 40 bucks! I promise you will either LOVE IT or HATE IT!
  
  Overall: Amazing 
 game that does many things right plus ya can get some of the cut things from mods (though it could 
 very well screw up your game *snicker*) www. stalkerfiles. com is a good place for such mods! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lanesade
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 24, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm changing my review.
  I've played a little more and I've decided I am sick of this game already.
  I can t get any ware 
 because I keep dieing from radiation sickness. You walk 5 steps and your in another hot zone with 
 your geiger counter clicking away like crazy. Some times you are talking to another character in 
 the single player mode, and you just fall over dead for no reason. Regardless of the medicine you 
 keep taking.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  
 I think most people will tell you, this is an odd mix of styles. Not completely a shooter or an 
 R. P. G.
  
  The look is very nice, the controllability of your character is very good, and the audio is very 
 well done and the environments are excellent.
  
  Problems: ... well the biggest one is that it has serious problems with Vista.
  I spent 4 hrs 
 over 2 days just getting it to work. Tracking down what fixes exist out there, took a while, and 
 then you have to be careful to you get the patch for your country. I wasn't paying close enough 
 attention and made that mistake.
  There are also problems with the dynamic lighting for higher end machines. As bizarre as that sounds 
 ... the combination of vista and the higher end hardware actually causes the graphics engine to 
 only display the sky and no terrain, just sky. ..... Go figure.
  You have to turn the dynamic lighting off in these cases and hopefully it will then work for you. 
 The game also likes to crash when you get killed or when you go to the next level. Game wise, I 
 don't like that I spend all my time managing my radiation exposure. I'd rather play a game, not 
 manage an illness. This gets tedious reel fast.
  
  These bad points taken into account, whit a few patches, this is a cool distraction, but not something 
 I'm going to spend hours playing at a time.
  
  Overall good though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigges
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  The best advice anyone can give you with Stalker is to take your time and absorb the experience. 
 Granted due to its 6 year development period and multiple developer cycle at first sight the graphics 
 look dated with many of the models resembling something out of counter-strike 1.6. Besides this, 
 sometimes it is hard to get past the fact that some of the current generation effects added near 
 the end of its development cycle such as HDR lighting and bump mapping seem to have been slapped 
 together and in some cases seem to overshadow what really is good about the graphics, its extreme 
 attention to detail. As you move into the game and appreciate what is there in front of you, seeing 
 beyond some of the dated looking graphics, you discover a world that pays attention to geometric 
 detail as well as those little things that make this world inside the zone feel alive and real 
 to such a point that it is easy to believe this place really exists (in all its fictional as well 
 as factual detail) .
  
  The Zone is basically a place existing in what could have been Chernobyl if another meltdown had 
 occurred after the first. All creatures in the zone look distorted due to radiation poising or 
 mutation but most of these are based on real animals created by hideous mutation. Even humans dont 
 look unscarred by the harshness of the zone, from simple scars on the faces of those you meet to 
 fully fledged zombies who have succumb to the poisoned world. One of the most impressive things 
 about the zone is that it is completely alive and each area of the zone is pretty large. It contains 
 animals that move in packs and act very much as animals do in real life. A pack of dogs may get 
 aggressive and attack you constantly of flee when you take a few shots at them. Animals in general 
 try to circle you so as not to stay in your line of fire and if they do finally overcome the player 
 you can often see them dragging your rag-doll body off to feed on.
  
  Another impressive feature of the zone is that in certain missions your success or failure will 
 actually have an effect on the physical appearance of the zone and by shutting down certain reactors 
 you can restore certain safety to an area allowing for friendly NPCs to now enter the zone in 
 place of hostile ones. Besides this, weather is completely random and realistic to an extent, so 
 if you play the same mission twice, the first time it might be a beautiful sunny day and the next 
 it may be in the pit of darkness in the middle of a raging thunder storm. Such effects as the forks 
 of lighting in the sky and the area around you being lit up really do add to the creepy zone atmosphere.
 
  
  Weapons hold realistic ballistics and it is hard to get a distance kill without a scope. Usually 
 it is more effective to outsmart NPCs rather than trying to rush them head on and they do exhibit 
 (usually) enough intelligence to make the intensive gun battles rather exciting and interesting. 
 This can be annoying to hard-core FPS gamers who enjoy the head-shot run and gun style that most 
 games have, but get used to it and youll feel more of a reward for the kills you get.
  
  Artifacts can be collected around the zone, you build up a lot of statistics on yourself and you 
 can buy and sell equipment in a Diablo manner. In fact the game often feels like a FPS RPG which 
 isnt a bad thing, and you get a very open ended experience from start to finish. You can make 
 friends or enemies at any time allowing for a unique game experience each time you play and you 
 can choose how you want to play, should it be to move quickly through the main story from start 
 to finish or explore the impressive size and depth of the zone while completing a magnetite of 
 side missions in the process.
  
  Stalker is a game you will most likely love or hate but should you be able to get past the unusual 
 mix of graphics in the game and get involved in the feel of the zone that has been created it 
 should be a game that stays on your mind for a long time to come. Not to mention it has about 7 
 endings so if it really is your cup of tea, each time you finish it there will be something new 
 for you at the end. Id recommend this clever and creative game even if it was released about 3years 
 too late, and I believe this isnt the last well see of S. t. a. l. k. e. r and The Zone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christeribaren
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 22, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  Well, I think this game is great. But I did not like it the first 30 minutes of gameplay. I was 
 very near to throw it out of my PC. But I did not. And I am very glad because now I love the game 
 and I cannot stop play it. The atmosphere is great. You really feel that you are into the zone. 
 The very large areas to explore are very, very big. The game can give you many hours of gameplay. 
 By that I mean if you want to, because if your only aim is to beat the game, its over very quickly. 
 My advice is to take your time and explore the game as much as you can.
  
  Yes it is hard in the beginning to take down your enemies, but that is because of the weak weapons. 
 Trust me, as long as you play, your weapons arsenal gets much better.
  
  I also love the fact that the game is re playble. Its a new experience each time you start the 
 game all over.
  
  Sorry for my English. (Swedish s. t. a. l. k. e. r.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charley_mcd
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I bought stalker hopin for a new type of game. I read loads of reviews and checked the website regulary. Being 
 7 years in development you would of thought that this would be a AAA game. unfortunetly that was 
 not the case. Gamespot gives this 8.5 I'd give it 7.6 its got a strange storyplot. uninspired graphics 
 and controls can be a bit bit awkrawd at times. Elder scrolls fans could refer this as a downgrade 
 of oblivion for it is very simiar yet it is lacking that little peice of magic that made oblivion 
 so great. On the plus side i LOVED the whole atmosphere and settin that the game gives. with realistic 
 mutants and factions. I dont have the latest computer technology so i feel that im missing out a 
 lot on stalker so this might not be a fair review in some peoples eyes but I only only review what 
 I see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r1crawford
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  Remember Boiling Point: Road to Hell?
  Well this game is the next step up. An even larger area to explore, and crucially without the huge 
 amount of bugs that made BP almost unplayable for many.
  
  I gave this game an 8.5, and I think it deserves it. It isn't one of the greatest game, so I don't 
 understand how people can rank it above 9!, and it definitely not a sub-par game, so I don't understand 
 how people are ranking it below 5!
  
  Most of the reviews touch on the shooting problems of the game. You can empty a complete mag on 
 a guy and only then will he drop. Even a shot or two to the head won't disorientate some of the 
 enemy or cause him to miscue his shots.
  
  I didn't find my aim, speed or strength improve, so I don't see the RPG factor in the game. You 
 get better weapons, and can use artefacts that improve your abilities (but only while you have 
 them attached to your belt) .
  
  While there are problems with gameplay, the overall experience is still worth making the purchase. 
 Vast areas to explore, excellent setting, many side missions (even if some do repeat) , and multiple 
 endings (which may not be worth replaying for) .
  
  Some of the missions are quite difficult and very enjoyable. A lot of the map is worth exploring 
 if you want to deviate from any mission.
  
  While the main game can be completed quite quickly, you can replay for the multiple endings if 
 you wish. Although a few of the endings can be reached if you save about 30mins before the end, 
 and restore from there.
  
  It's not in the league of HL, Deus Ex or Farcry. But it's still a quality FPS. The graphics aren't 
 crystal clear, but then again this is meant to be a nuclear area, and the size of the areas between 
 loading can be large.
  
  I didn't buy the game when it came out immediately. I waited 6 months, bought it for 10 on eBay, 
 and had all the updates for it. So, definitely a must buy if you can get it for that price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WillieFarrell
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  i found in this STALKER game the graphics were amazing the lighting was fantastic though the game 
 play fell short slightly with the aiming problems i had sound was superb along with the total value 
 of this game i found it a must have for fps gamers! If you dont get the aiming system right away 
 just work on it, trust me it gets better. i found it to be a mix between a shootem up game and 
 almost a zombie shooter and its almost scary at some parts!! its a very fun concept. though the 
 game might be a little expensive right now, try waiting a few weeks im shure its going to decrease 
 soonthanks for taking the time to read my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warpld
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 2:36 am PT
Review:  There is so much love and so much hate at the same time for this game on the net. That's a good 
 thing actually. it means that this is a game that's really touching - you either hate it or love 
 it but you can't stay indifferent.
  
  Now, I am giving this game a very high score and I intend to defend that score. Let's start with 
 graphics since that's the easiest. 10 by me! Many people say the game looks like **** Well, they 
 must be ****ting something different than me then! For me, with all specs on, the environments 
 were just breathtaking and the game was flying under XP. As for models, they look great with just 
 enough detail to be remembered. I'm saying that because modern games tend to abuse the use of detail 
 just because they can, leading to the creation of some very sophisticated monsters which are totally 
 indistinguishable just because my brain has limited functionality and can't remember the sum of 
 all that polygons while it's moving. Everybody knows how the pink demon in the very first Doom 
 looks like, right? Now try do describe a random enemy from Quake 4! That's what I am talking about. 
 In S. T. A. L. K. E. R. the balance is just perfect.
  
  Second comes sound. Many people complain about Russian speech in the game. Well, the action is 
 set in the Ukraine goddammit! I so much hate it when I play a WW2 game and the Germans are talking 
 in broken English with an accent that some American thinks is German! It's stupid! Russian in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 is great and it's even better when you understand it (I do) . The only place where I felt the language 
 odd was when the Wish Granter was summoning me in Russian to grant me my wish in the Chernobyl 
 NPP interrior at the very end of the game. It just doesn't sound sinister enough. Another bad aspect 
 of sound is that weapons sound underpowered but that's a problem of virtually any shooter. They 
 just make them that way so shots don't make your ears bleed as it would be in real life.
  However, monster growls make your skin crawl!
  
  Gameplay is probably the most discussed aspect 
 of the game. Some like it, others don't. I did. There are some things that I have to mention though. 
 The game was advertised as free roaming game. It is not. Most of the time you are very limited 
 to the path you can take through an area. You can always revisit locations of course and stroll 
 through the wilderness but there is no point in doing that plus it is affiliated with some bugs. 
 Still the game succeeds in conveying a very authentic survival feel. Not only because monsters 
 are scary, but also because 50 kilos carrying weight are nothing and you always have to consider 
 what you take with you - ammo weights a lot, you have to carry food so you don't starve, bandages 
 are needed or you might bleed to death from just one serious hit, not to mention medpaks and antiradiation 
 medicine, because some areas are just radioactive and you must get exposed in order to traverse 
 them. For example the whole first level of Chernobyl is radioactive and you are constantly glowing 
 while trying to figure out the right way. Now add your armour and primary weapon which are like 
 10-12 kilos together and it leaves you no limit to pick up practically anything from the ground 
 - you will be always short of resources! But try running around in real life with 50 kilos on your 
 back. That's authentic.
  
  Gameplay, however, suffers from some cones like minor bugs which are still annoying. I like to 
 play games thorough and restarting secondary quests really got on my nerves. Everything other than 
 that is fixed in version 1.0003 I believe.
  
  Now to justfy my value and tilt scores - this sections are entirely subjective. It's just that 
 I loved the game! The main reason is probably distant to western users - I am from Eastern Europe 
 and I have lived through the communism here. The car models in the game - Moscwich, Zaporojets, 
 ZIL, Lada, Kamaz, KRAZ, etc. are exact replicas and are probably never seen by young people to 
 the west but they mark the communist era here and create a really authentic atmosphere in the game. 
 So are the tall pannel blocks of flats in Pripyat. I have lived the better part of my life in such 
 a building and seeing it in a game is pure extasy for me. The only other big title where I have 
 seen that is Half-Life 2 because the leading level designer is from my country :) .
  
  Speaking of authentic, I forgot to mention something else that has been seriously hated in this 
 game - ballistics model. I like guns and practice at a shooting range like every week and I can 
 tell - that IS the way real guns fire. No, Counter-Strike is not real, not at all! They should 
 have just added a surface penetration ability and it would have been like in real life but the 
 game is better without it, because it can be seriously exploited using the quick load fucntion.
 
  
  That's all I wanted to say about S. T. A. L. K. E. R. It has minor problems but they are nothing to the 
 feeling the game creates! Plus, the game tries something different. Give it a chance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdwinJason
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 17, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  This is a refreshing take on the crowded FPS market, though the role playing element hasn't been 
 fully employed... But it feels good to roam wide open spaces, taking part in very nice unscripted 
 gun fights and an engaging story... though in the beginning you will find it difficult, due to 
 the lack of good armour and weapons, sometimes it can be frustrating because most weapons are inaccurate 
 as they would be in the real world ... But a few minutes into it and learning a few tricks, (like 
 how each weapon has its own damage and accuracy, crouching increases accuracy, and head shots really 
 count) .. you will really start enjoying the challenge and eventually get hooked to it as the story 
 starts to make sense... I definitely recommend this to any FPS fan, probably one of the best shooters 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pacman15
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing! I remember the first time i saw this trailer years ago, i was stunned! 
 Since day one I'm following this game and I do not regret having bought it! Amazing graphics, sounds 
 greats, monsters are scary. One particular thing that amazed me was the stalkers in the first camp, 
 when they sat near the fire, and one of them starts to play guitar... Wow... have you ever seen 
 a game like that?...
  
  I just regret that my graphic card can't play it at high definitions... :) I thing I'm going to 
 overclock my baby so I can play it in higher graphic quality. Despite the fact that I'm playing 
 a low settings, the graphics are great, so even if you play with extra low settings, the graphics 
 will look always better than HL2, and I'm a FAN of that game too...
  
  This is a must have for the FPS lovers out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tntnavid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R is a good Action RPG game that can make you busy for 50 hours (with Side Missions) 
 but when you do this game you feel that you are exactly in Chernobyl and in a Real HELL with Mutants 
 and Humans (they are more dangerous than mutant) and Traps (Anomalies) .
  when you walk in zone you can see Dead bodies that Dogs Surround them or Alive Stalkers that have 
 a few Food and no courage to enter dangerous places....
  Game Play:
  Stalker has a good game play that make you realy Interest to Continue Exploration of the Zone and 
 Kill more Mutants and find new things to do.
  Shooting Part of the game is real real and it make game harder to do but have more fun... (The guns 
 and Rifles have a problem in their desgin an it's their cock that they are in left side of the 
 guns but in real guns they are in Right side)
  Story:
  the story line is good and STALKER has a good story with too many endings
  Graphic:
  It's good 
 too but have some problems.
  At last:
  STALKER is a good game with new exciting ideas .... but it has many bugs in missions and in game.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirillhaas
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  This game is the best!! It was worth waiting!!! Graphics are great! The only thing that they have 
 to work on a little is sound!! I have a 5.1 System and I don't fell the atmosphere or presens effect!! 
 Maps are huge, you can walk forever!! You'll need at least 2 GB of memory if you want to play an 
 medium and higher, but any normal game is like that today!!! I play at max settings with my XFX 
 7900 GT Extreme Edition!!! So don't need a super duper mega fancy comp fpr it!! And I am proud 
 that it was made in my country and my city!!! Go  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fishworm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 14, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  PROS: Wonderful gameplay gives a feel of uniqueness.
  PROS: Amazing graphics with lot of new substance to hang around with.
  
  CONS: Have some bugs 
 with XP and a lot with Vista.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  STABILITY: Some say heavy on system some say not but it can run on a system with decent configuration 
 and atleast 6600 GT with 256 MB video ram.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  OK the game story lines is on the blast which occurred in 80's in Chernobyl, Russia where the 
 gas explosion occurred and the situation is very different from now the Chernobyl has turned into 
 a place for two diff. leagues one which fight or kill for money and one which are renegades.
  
  Now we come to the GRAPHICS. This game was started devloping 6 years ago and the most interesting 
 thing being that the developers were building this with DirectX 8.1. The thing to be noted is that 
 during this 6 years the gaming scenario has three levels of directX 8.1, 9 and now the 10. The 
 developers not only has to work three times more but also three times with language and graphics. 
 So we can say that it is the result of THRICE the work.
  Being an open ended game the environment has been given the utmost detailed scope. The trees, the 
 stone, the grass and the animal (especially dogs.... just joking) has been created with fine detail 
 and is not scattered all over. All things are in the place with there point to importance. The 
 old buildings , tractors, cars and many manmade things has been given the abandoned look to show 
 creepy side.
  
  The WEAPONS are selected with utmost care. The bullet firing and the shells clinging out is good. 
 The no. of weapons increases as you advance the game. The game is designed in such way that a given 
 type of weapon is suited for a given enemy. So u can't go around shooting a zombie (or whatever 
 they are called) with a 9 or 13 bullet pistol until unless you have good reflexes.
  
  The SOUND is good. Normally you will only hear chirping of birds and insects (if not fighting) 
 but if it comes to fighting the bullet squilling from your ear will tell you the sound quality 
 and the sound usage. The voiceovers a definitely good. As this is an open ended game there are 
 many characters whom with you have to talk to advance in the game and also to acquire new missions.
 
  
  The GAMEPLAY is what u can say ummmm.... Ya OBLIVION. The game shares many of the gameplay elements 
 with Oblivion. You get diff. vehicles to ride on, you spend a lot of time arranging your inventory, 
 you get travellers with you sometimes which also work as reinforcement. So the gameplay is lot 
 of fun and especially non-repetitive. But sometimes you find yourself hanging in the story for 
 linearity. SO THIS GAME IS STRICTLY NOT FOR PEOPLE WHO LIKE TO MISSION BASED GAMES.
  
  MULTIPLAYER can have 32 players online. And is not much for talk as it shares all the same same 
 experience.
  
  CONCLUSION for this game is that it has been turned into benchmark. So what else we can say. The 
 scope of replaybility is enough. If you took it out of your cabinet about 8 months later you will 
 not get bored and will be happy to know that you can really enjoy it AGAIN. As for the bugs, some 
 patches will surely ease it so that ultimately it won't be an issue 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing Graphics for when it was first produced. Gripping story line Addictive Very Accurate
 
  The Bad: Still has some bugs Takes some time to get into the story Hard to tell who you can kill
 
  The Ugly: Sometimes crashes for no reason Can be a bit `too` realistic
  
  Well if you havent heard of this game, then you must have been living in a hole for around 6 years. 
 Thats how long it has been in development for!
  But the when the game was actually released, sometime in March, you start to realize why they spent 
 such a long time developing it. So lets start with the gameplay. You start off at the beginning 
 of the game as a `Rookie Stalker` hence the name of the game is S. T. A. L. K. E. R. A stalker is someone 
 who goes around `the zone` which is what the 10km or so area around the Chernobyl power plant is 
 called, collecting artifacts produced by the mass of radiation. At first you dont know who you 
 are, all you know is you have to kill another stalker called Strelok. And the main story line revolves 
 around this mission. Also because it is a RPG style it does have many side quests you can do, mainly 
 collecting stuff or killing stuff. The main game can take around 10 to 20 hours to complete depending 
 on how you play, doing side quests all that stuff. But despite the length of the game you dont 
 get bored with it there are many obstacles along the way, from rival stalkers to poltergeists. 
 Also like all other RPGs it is realistic to an extent. If you get shot, you can start to bleed 
 and need a bandage to stop it, if you go to near radiation you get radiation sickness for a while, 
 until you drink whisky (who knows?) or take an AntiRad injection. And also unlike some other RPGs 
 if you dont eat you start to starve and ultimately die of starvation. The only real downside of 
 the game is the fact you have to go everywhere on foot, although there are some mods already that 
 allow you to drive vehicles some are versatile and blow up every time you crash.
  So the main thing everyone likes; Graphics! Despite being in development for so long the graphics 
 dont seem outdated, of course there not like dedicated RPG games such as Oblivion they are still 
 very very pretty, you still get the all important HDR or you can choose to have normal static lighting. 
 The detail on the guns is beautiful and it seems the developers took a lot of time into developing 
 the gun textures and all of the other textures. The details on the NPCs are also pretty, more importantly 
 on the melee attackers! With HDR at full and every other detail at full it has a good try at scaring 
 you when the mutants attack you mainly because they look so realistic. The animation for everything 
 else is also well thought out, although some of the rag doll physics do start to clip into the 
 world you dont really notice it.
  The next important thing, Sounds. Like every other part of the game it sounds like no corners were 
 cut, the only obvious one is that quite a lot of the NPCs and the play dont have speech sounds. 
 Only the main people do. But you dont really care because you want to get back into the action 
 so you can just keep clicking your response. The sounds from the guns are also impressive they 
 sound like you would expect and the changing of magazines or clips sound like you would expect. 
 Of course they also put effort into the explosion sounds (and the graphics I forgot to mention!) 
 they are very loud! Just what you would expect.
  So a bit of a long review but its a good game! I recommend it to anyone who needs a new game; it 
 will be a classic for some years to come. But of course no game is perfect this is no exception, 
 it has its own collection of bugs which the developers are trying to kill ASAP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silveressa
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw trailers for this game I was mildly impressed, it had a dark gritty feeling like 
 AVP 2, and a moody atmosphere that reminded me of F. E. A. R, and promised single player gameplay 
 that would take 50 hours + to complete.
  
  I was skeptical, but couldn't resist, and was delighted at the game play delivered.
  
  Graphically 
 the game is a little dated, but the broken down, rusted out look to most everything is captured 
 superbly well by the games graphics engine, and the mood of a post appocalyptic russia is captured 
 perfectly.
  
  Sound also does wonders for the immersion, with the majority of the npc's and enemies speaking 
 in full russian, or broken accented english. The sound effects of creatres and weapons also feels 
 superbly done and the ambient sound track adds to the game without being over bearing.
  
  The play control was well done, and offered a surprising amount of flexiblity, feeling solid through 
 out. If you've ever played any fps, you'll feel right at home after about 20 mintues of game time.
 
  
  From the opening storyline, upto the final ending, (of which there are several completely different 
 ones) the game feels huge, and open ended. There's that definate Oblivion rpg feel to the quests 
 and world setting, in that you aren't rail roaded down down a single path, but get to choose your 
 direction, and return to any area at your leisure. The full day/night cycles and wonderful weather 
 effects really help bring the world to life, as well as enmies having their own scripts, and taking 
 part in combat with each other, independent of the chars actions.
  
  Combat varies in it's approach, depedning on your preference, from stealth attacks with silenced 
 weapons, to long range sniping or close quarters with an assault rifle or spas shotgun. The AI 
 is superb, with enemies taking cover, retreating if demoralized, or laying down supressive fire 
 while a smaller group flanks you. Unike most other fps games you get a definate feeling of combat 
 being realistic, and challenging. Charging a squad of assault rifle wielding soldiers like you 
 would in other fps games is, like in reality, a good way to get killed. Using your head and assaulting 
 from cover, or surpsiing a group with a grenade, will make things much easier.
  
  All in all it's one of the best fps/rpg games I; ve ever played, enhanced by a large and thriving 
 modding comunity, that provides numerous extras to make the game more fun, or more challenging.
 
  
  For the price tag, it; s money very well spent, and easily has 4 times the play length, and 10 times 
 the replay value, of any other fps out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codenamex47
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Stalker really is one of the better games to come out this year thus far. The graphics are good, 
 the A. I. is interesting, the storyline is compelling and the game does things no other game has 
 before. The ever changing quality of the worlds and the go anywhere style of gameplay make it especially 
 interesting. Each situation generally has several possible solutions and outcomes and each individual 
 quest/mission affects the story/game as a whole. I also really enjoyed the weapons and equipment 
 at your disposal. The damage system makes sense and makes the game very challenging. In addition, 
 the inventory system adds further challenge.
  
  Most importantly however, is the amount of time and energy put into creating the world itself. 
 It is about as realistic an interpretation of Chernobyl as possible. You can tell that the developers 
 did their homework to say the least. All and all, Stalker is a great game. Yes, it has it flaws, 
 but they are minor and yes, it has a learning curve. Ultimately though, it is a very enjoyable 
 and unique experience. You should definitely play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akkad
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  Just like The Marked One, you start the game without any knowledge of the story. You get informations 
 just like your character. You can choose your friends and your enemies. The destiny of your character 
 is very related to your own personality and not to the script of the game. You are on your own 
 and that's why I'm glad that is a little bit more difficult game. Real life is not so easy as a 
 tetris game and have to fight a lot. Without the scarry scenes probably the game would be boring. 
 I didn't found the monsters in the game ridiculous at all (as in other games) and not even an exaggerated 
 idea. Original creatures, although scarry, but not so dangerous. The weapons don't impress and 
 probably it shouldn't impress. When you are desperate you usually are in need of a spectacular 
 weapon. That doesn't happen. That reminds you to manage with what you have. Actually the area where 
 all happens fits perfect in the scenario: graphics - not so loaded because is an abandoned zone; 
 sound - just from the few beings left alive and of course anomalies; objects - rusty or damaged 
 . My impressions left about S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl is that is very original in the 
 way that other games can't be. Is the living king of its age All I can say is congratulations to 
 all who made this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 401225
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  something that makes me think that STALKER is a revolutionary game apart the graphics and the sound 
 is the A. i., im saying this cuz the enemies are not just like shoot and shoot like idiots, in STALKER 
 the enemies hide and then shoot you in burts. and of course the sound of the nature that is something 
 that we have to note when we got the volume high.
  
  Thats why i think that STALKER will be a game that wiil survive at least a pair os years...... 
 TRUST me this game really deserve your money..
  
  Well and to finish this take care ........... enjoy the game: GG...... XD :) X) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archanid
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  Don't believe that baloney that the graphics are a little bit aged, because it looks just great. 
 I think the story is good, but way too short. If you don't solve any sidemissions, you can actually 
 finish the game in a day. Something cool about the ending of the game is that there are 6 (!) ways 
 to finish it! I've only finished it once. When you're at the end of the game, in the sarcophagus 
 of course, you need to interact with something called the 'Wish Granter'. You press the action 
 button and a cutscene appears. If you rob dead people throughout the game just like me, your character 
 will say: I wish I was rich , and that's it. A bit too short, but an open ending is good for a 
 second part.
  All together the game is hard to describe. It's incredibly interactive, with good graphics, and 
 the combination of the theme, scary tunnels, swamps, and buildings it really can sometimes frighten 
 you. There are parts that make you go 'wow', and there are parts that make you cry. But still, 
 a good game for your boring weekends.
  
  A Tip For Ya: The game is the most fun when you play it on Stalker difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellosnolvr
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  After being set for a 2003 launch and being delayed for 4 years, you can definitely see that the 
 developers didnt see to update the graphics much. But thats just a poor excuse to tell someone 
 that a game is bad. Several textures look a bit dated and have less detail than you would regularly 
 see in a game in this day and age. But, great screen effects also come up here. Grainy and brightened 
 screens are the result of your close distance between you and a heap of radiation. The lighting 
 is what is so spectacular about this game, though. If the few less-detailed textures didnt satisfy 
 you, the lighting effects will. IF you think about the great lighting/shadow effects in the Doom 
 3 engine, I shall say, the X-Ray engine does its best to beat out that engine by a few points. 
 If you shine your flashlight at something, look behind it to reveal a shadow, pretty damn detailed. 
 Looks like some games have some competition with that sort of lighting. And the ability to do that 
 with the lightening while in a thunderstorm is just as amazing, the lightening in the sky lights 
 up everything that is in the light's path. To add to the graphics, the model animations are amazing 
 as well. The last time I've seen something like this was in Oblivion. In STALKER, the ferocius 
 beasts that you meet up with are pretty well animated with life-like movements. Examples of these 
 great feats are when someone shoots, when they aim, when a dog does a 180 turn in mid-air to quickly 
 turn back and once again attack you, when the scary as hell bloodsucker attacks you, and even when 
 a person hits the ground to their death. If GSC could just update some textures, models etc., we 
 have a damn well made game. Although we already do have one.
  Well, I put the graphics discussion first so here goes Gameplay. About gameplay: this game really 
 does not have a levelling system, so it is not a full fledged RPG. So don't go off and buy it and 
 expect to run around beating beasts up and eventually get a 100 in strength. Its not like that... Its 
 a nonlinear First-Person Shooter that breaks the ground with its open-ended gameplay. Why games 
 like this are so rare, i dont know. Take Halo for example; that game is great, it was a good hard 
 linear game. But for 6 years up to this game, no FPS really had an open-ended gameplay lined up 
 like this. Just, let me tell you about it... Over the course of gameplay, you'll discover that you 
 can have the choice to hold off on your main questline (forever, basically) and go into sidequest 
 mania. Several people will give you mini quests that deal with clearing mutants out of a certain 
 area, that inolve killing other stalker (s) , finding an artifact for someone, or freeing someone. 
 There really isn't much of an end to the sidequests, as they do come back up with the same objectives 
 but the mutants showing up in different places. Some quests make you go through various stages 
 before you finally complete your goal. Another thing about gameplay, is the atmosphere. It really 
 shows what it actually is, a post-apoctalyptic wasteland. From dark clouds, akward ambient sounds, 
 and several anomalies sitting waiting for you to walk in and get either A: killed because of the 
 explosion-like events they happen to produce. B: killed because of radiation. or C: badly wounded. 
 Walking through a huge level and hunting down species of mutants or bandits can be a favorite among 
 people, just walking around and blasting people to bits with the huge array of weapons seems to 
 be endless, since it is so fun. Then doing it for quests is even better, you get rewards for things 
 you like to do, hehe. Another fun thing to do is to run around searching for artifacts to sell, 
 as they are very valuable and you dont really need them to survive, as I have never used an artifact. 
 If you find a artifact that has powers that you want, feel free to use them, artifacts can make 
 the game a bit easier. Some artifacts slow down your bleeding, others increase your health, and 
 some also do bad things to your body like give you radiation or make you bleed. Another thing that 
 STALKER has is the relationship feature, if you dont know what im talking about, its when you can 
 trigger more and more quests by being friends with a certain faction. There are many factions out 
 there in the game, such as Duty, Freedom, Monolithian, Bandit, Military, Mercenary, and Scientists. 
 Only 2 factions are joinable (Freedom and Duty) , while others are just your enemies (Bandits, Monolithian, 
 Military, and Mercenary) and the Scientists faction can be your friends after you help them out 
 by doing several things like saving one of them, escorting one of them somewhere, or retrieving 
 items for them. The 2 joinable factions are in a war, however. Duty vs. Freedom, and each quest 
 you can get from Duty, you can get from Freedom but sometimes arent as well paid. On with what 
 you use to make some body bag meat... There are a ton of options for you when you want armor. It 
 may not be clear at first, but over gameplay you will realise that there are a wealth of choices. 
 But what really will stun you, is the amazing amount of of weapons. From pistols, submachine guns, 
 assault rifles, grenade launchers, rocket launchers, sniper rifles, and shotguns, there are a wealth 
 of choices within each category. What will amaze you even more, is that you can add grenade launchers, 
 silencers, and scopes to weapons that dont already have such equiptment attached to it. What's 
 even better, is that there are multiple types of ammo for every gun. Whether it may be armor piercing 
 or special sniper rounds, the ammo you will obtain other than your standard issue ammo won't disappoint 
 any more than the stock. Well, i guess that sums it up for gameplay lol.
  You hear that bloodsucker roaring, that bandit crying out for a medkit when you down him, the strange 
 sound when you approach radiation, STALKER has it all. Only if you listen, you won't get the whole 
 experience. STALKER also supports the EAX feature that you heard in Battlefield 2142. If you have 
 a SoundBlaster X-Fi sound card, your experience will be multiplied as that pack of dogs comes to 
 attack you, and it gets even better when you pull out your weapon and blast them away. It isn't 
 hard to tell you, STALKER definitely has awesome sound, especially since the environment adds to 
 the experience and makes you feel immersed in the hell that your character is living in. Gunshots, 
 items dropping, people yelling, mutants roaring, the sounds of your anomaly detector, and anything 
 else that you will hear is all of great quality. Although, some of the pistols sound sort of quiet 
 and puny. And the silencing of some weapons is pretty unnoticable when the higher pitched noise 
 the silencer makes is just about as loud as the gunshots without the attachment. But it is a no-brainer, 
 the surround sound that STALKER features will leave you satisfied, especially you audio freaks 
 out there. We know you'll like it.
  Well, it has come to the end of my review, and with that, I tell you that STALKER is at least a 
 try for $30 or $40, maybe even more if you are really into FPSs and you actually believe me for 
 once. STALKER is a great buy, and can run on virtually any gaming rig with the minimum requirements 
 of a video card at a GeForce 5700.. heh, we all have 7900s by now, so you are in good shape. Have 
 fun with your purchase, and i doubt you will regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomer101
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  The story begins with a vehicle being driven somewhere during a storm, and it then gets struck 
 by a lightning bolt, it rolls over, explodes... The next morning, some cool-looking stalker finds 
 you, brings you to Sidirovitch, a trader, and well, he helps you get back on your feet.
  He directly admits that he did saved your life only to win favours upstairs ...
  What knowledge 
 do you start off with?
  1- You don't remember anything. (amnesia)
  2- All you have is a PDA, from which you get the main quest : Find Strelok - Kill Strelok.
  That's 
 it.
  You then start off by performing some simple tasks for the Trader, and the story picks up from 
 there...
  
  Storyline : The more you play into it, the more immersive it gets, with a dramatic twist at some 
 point... can't spoil too much...
  
  Graphics : Pros : Good looking graphics, i. e. effects, shadows, characters, weapons, grass, trees... 
 etc... etc..., everything beautifully detailed, even the places where there is nothing to do but 
 to walk around...
  
  Cons : Poorly optimized in some areas, when compared to today's games, the graphics seem dated.
 
  
  Gameplay : Pros : Freedom of doing ALMOST WHATEVER YOU WANT, i. e., you cannot kill the MAIN traders... 
 but you can kill everyone else... Many vast areas to be explored, many quests to be done, abandoned 
 villages to scavenge, many battlefields to loot...... 7 possible endings, depending on how you 
 have played through the game, many realistic elements such as bleeding, radiation, stamina, etc... 
 etc...
  Another great thing is that life in the game goes whether you are doing something or not. NPCs 
 attend to their tasks, bandits attend to their raids, military officers walk in groups looking 
 for stalkers to kill, mutants going crazy, etc... etc...
  And, of course, the fact that there are the different factions that are joinable (see cons for 
 gameplay) ... those are the Duty and Freedom factions Interesting artifact hunt mode in multiplayer.
 
  
  Cons : MANY bugs, though it is getting quite better with each patch, firefights can sometimes be 
 quite unrealistic, you cannot ACTUALLY JOIN the duty or Freedom faction, you can only make them 
 friendly to you
  
  other : Pretty standard multiplayer, but i cannot consider it as a con.
  
  sound :
  Pros 
 : GREAT voice acting for those who do understand Russian (Russian speech mostly, so most people 
 won't understand) , great music... everything is great about it.
  
  Cons : Can't find any
  
  Value : Pros :This is where this game should score much higher than 10... For me at least. 
 It never gets boring, 7 different endings, the will to always experiment the what if scenarios. 
 tilt : Great game, 11/10 in my mind.
  
  In conclusion, I was blown away by this game, and this is the only game in a very long time to 
 offer me such an immersive, unique, and re playable experience...
  
  Bottom line : Get this game... You will be far from disappointed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhabazatknis
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I've watched many reviews about this game read post on the net etc.
  I heard that at first the programmers wanted to create a game world where you have lots of space 
 and you just go around killing stuff. I bet if there was no storyline or purpose many people would 
 never go down into those dark scary laboratories. They would be pointless to have. But because 
 of the storyline people actually have a purpose to go down there. The game is great I love playing 
 it. Cool weapons cool armor awesome locations Dazzling weather effects deceiving anomalies and 
 blood-hungry mysterious vicious monsters make this game one of the best.
  But of course the main role is played by the Storyline that the programmers thought of.
  Some 
 small things I really like are old posters still left from the times of the USSR. Its actually 
 fun to read them for people that can understand them like me. And That the currency used in the 
 game are Russian Roubles and not dollars. Oh Im so sick of using dollars in the game its great 
 using some other currency for a change. One thing that gets boring in the game are dialogs of people 
 in the game. Of course they are different but you will hear the same thing at least 7 times during 
 your game. ( Of course if you dont understand what the people are saying it might not get boring 
 to you) , But overall the atmosphere of the game is great. Many people say that the replication 
 of a world in S. T. A. L. K. E. R is similar to Oblivion and I guess its true. I've played both games 
 and I see quite a few similarities. Of course Stalker shows us a dark modern sci fi disastrous 
 world and Oblivion is a magical world and even though you could say that those two genres or subjects 
 or whatever have nothing in common the feeling of reality and your presence in the world feels 
 much the same. There is much that can be said about this game but Ill try to be short and will 
 finish my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 7, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that picks the best aspects of other games and produces one very good 
 game. This game is set in The Zone where radiation ha caused horrible mutations and those brave 
 or dumb enough to go in there have to put of a fight for their lives. You may ask yourself why 
 would anyone go into such a hellish place?? the answer is the artifacts, able to grant you powers 
 and sell for lots and lots of money. Those people are known as Stalkers, think of treasure hunters. 
 But this doesn't mean Indiana Jones or Laura Craft. Imagine Doom set in the world of ArmA, so demons 
 roaming about on a HUGE world. The Zone has quite a lot of missions and sadly there isn't many (or 
 any) dungeons in the Zone, unlike Oblivion. BUT just because there is no dungeons doesn't mean 
 you are restricted. You have 30 square km to explore with monsters everywhere you look. One of 
 the bad points of this game is how quickly the monsters respawn. People dislike the fact that they 
 have to kill monsters everytime they go back to somewhere but if I were a mutant wouldn't I want 
 to take back all the territory stolen from me?? and also they are mutants so who knows how quickly 
 they can breed and multiply. Also people get confused, they think that this is suppose to have 
 an Oblivion feel to it. Well it does from all the NPCs and small settlements but you must remember, 
 this isn't a RPG and it wasn't suppose to be. This is a Tactical Shooter so imagine weaponary from 
 Counter Strike, added with the enviroment of ArmA and that enviroment is filled with the monsters 
 from Doom. Sounds pretty nice doesn't it? This is a MUST BUY. Also mods (and there are lots of 
 them) will make this game 10/10 because they add so much cool things such as enhancing the war 
 between the factions, this means that you will see gun fights around the Zone between one faction 
 and another. Whats cooler is that the settlements can be attacked too and defending a settlement 
 with some other NPCs is quite cool. WARNING, on Vista (not sure about XP) the game WILL keep on 
 crashing when the textures are put above medium so to fix this bug just leave textures around the 
 medium point. Still looks sweet at medium though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzynutz_usa
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Not a half bad game, worth playing. I had not read much about this game before its release, so 
 didn't get into any of the hype that it may have generated as most decent FPS's do. The game seemed 
 like it was going to be like Fallout FPS, with RPG elements but these never really pan out. The 
 story is quite linear even though it would have you believe that it isn't. It could have been much 
 better in my opinion, imagine this game with some Morrowind/Oblivion elements thrown into it. That 
 is what I was expecting when I first started playing, so maybe I was a bit disappointed.
  
  It did end up to be a decent game and I ran through it twice to see if there was much different, 
 but no... not much. All in all not bad and worth playing. I haven't played this game since I beat 
 it the second time about a month or so ago, but it had some bugs at the time that could even ruin 
 the main quest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyntakaiwa
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This game was a big surprise to me. First of all, the story. You're an anonymous which was involved 
 in some terrible accident near a DMZ Zone around Chernobyl. The time, 2012, and the first thing 
 you discover about you it's your strange tattoo and that you're stuck with some nasty rats in the 
 most awful trashcan you can found in this part of the world.
  
  The Region is twisted like it's inhabitants, the Stalkers. The Stalkers are the few of crazy fried 
 brainiest bud that went into the Zone to retrieve many artefact or animals, because those are really 
 praised by laboratories and corporation for R&amp; D. And you're probably one of them... Your goal? 
 Going to the center of the zone, where lies the Chernobyl... It's like a safari hunting ground 
 into hell. Like some spartans said, today you dine in hell, and it's not going to be with Ares 
 but with some nasty mutants.
  
  The game play is a cross over between a standard fps and the classical Elder Scroll rpg games. 
 You can manage your inventory which is very important for your quest, you are totally free of ignoring 
 goals, quest, you can do everything you want... or can... The only fail I found out in this game, 
 is the number of bullet you have to put in a guy (formerly a naked bandit require 4-5 shots to 
 be dead, unless you shot him in the head...) , a former soldier of mother russia require a complete 
 load of your expensive ak-47... Good luck soldier, because you have no skills, and no level. Only 
 your skills with a keyboard can save you from this **** hell... And with these hard skins it's 
 gonna be a really painful experience.
  
  Stalker is a strange game, it have a good ambient, with those anomalies, a twisted ecosystem and 
 those many clans, group and armies you encounter in the game. But the gameplay is not really fps 
 oriented... It's like playing Oblivion with a shotgun (except your opponent have some kind of super 
 kevlar armor shirt....)
  
  If you like that kind of game, it's all yours, here one the best... If you prefer half life, turn 
 around and go the other way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pos3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 5, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  When ever I hear about a science fictional sci-fi RPG FPS that takes places in the Ukraine, I usually 
 think Great, another one. ....... not :P
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R (an acronym for god knows what) takes place after the Nuclear power plant incident 
 in Chernobyl, Ukraine. Apparently, after the plant went critical, the radiation completely screwed 
 up the Ecosystem of the area populating it with mutated versions of previous species. The area's 
 inhabitants have either formed their own factions or have chosen to go solo. Some of these organizations 
 can range from the Military to the Anarchists to the Religious Fanatics and so on and so forth. 
 Basically, they're all out to get these things called artifacts, which are radioactive items that 
 can be sold for lots of money. These artifacts can be attached to the characters belt and give 
 beneficial (or harmful) qualities to the character such as resistances.
  
  One of the first things you might notice in the game is that, well, it's not entirely all in English. 
 ALL of the road signs and billboards are in Russian and conversation's between NPC's around camp 
 fires are in Russian. So if you felt like sitting along with the NPC's and getting a tip on the 
 latest news about Chernobyl, unless you speak Russian your fresh out of luck bub. But don't worry, 
 the important stuff is in English. Though the graphics are a bit dated, the game is fun. The action 
 is good, the environments are crappy (in a good way) , the mutants are cool, and my adjectives suck 
 (ATM) . The arsenal is pretty basic for the most part, but there is like 3 versions of the AK.... lol...
 
  
  Sadly though, the campaign is a bit on the short side if you follow it without doing any of the 
 side quests. The good thing is though that there are like 9 different endings which will definitely 
 have you coming back for more. One of the big issues is the stability of the game. I had it crash 
 on me a few times and a it runs a bit choppy sometimes. If you have Vista, your screwed :P
  The multi player is standard but fun and the mods will make you come back for more. If you like 
 FPSs or RPGs. You should check this out. Hell, if you want a new unique experience, you should 
 check this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattisgod01
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  My Favorite Game genre is easily FPS and This game was Fun from the very start. The graphics are 
 not spectacular but they suit the creepy setting that S. T. A. L. K. E. R has. At first when i found 
 that most of the speaking was in Russian it didn't seem like a great feature but after a short 
 time it was probably better not knowing what people where saying to you. S. T. A. L. K. E. R offers allot 
 of great guns, a wide variety of enemies to engage as well as a decent A. I. and the the well designed 
 and wide variety of areas to explore from military bases full of Spetnaz to the bunker underneath 
 Chernobyl itself this game is one of my all time favorites.
  
  The Game isn't perfect with a some noticeable bugs and the shooting system is at times annoying 
 (at distances there is a luck factor in whether the bullets hit the target or not) . And when i 
 got the game i was under the impression that it would be open ended in that way that even when 
 you finish the main storyline you could keep playing but it was more in the way that it offers 
 several different ending all of which end the game completely.
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R 2 will be EPIC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WestleyViau
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl - Single Player Review
  
  Gameplay: Stalkers gameplay is much different than many of the current fps games out there. It 
 delivers a fun, exciting and tactical combat environments such as urban warfare, outdoor combat 
 environments in open area fields where u run to the nearest tree to take cover. The kind of combat 
 in stalker is like nothing I've seen before because it ranges from different locations and themes 
 where ever you go. The Plot in stalker is fairly simple, nothing too complicated, im not going 
 to go over it since it would take too long to discus and its not really that important in the game. 
 But just a breif summary, you're a stalker ( kind of elite soldier ) and you start off in this 
 land not too far from where the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant disaster took place. Most of the 
 land in stalker is covered in debris and broken vehicles and scrap metal, abandoned factories and 
 buildings. Radiation, anomalies and broken everything cover the land. This gives you the sence 
 and feeling in the game that your walking around in desolate fields where everyone is trying to 
 survive and not be killed by bandits, army soldiers or other stalkers. That also gives you the 
 feeling that you're out there and its a kill or be killed world which really makes the whole experienced 
 even better.
  
  Another thing that really surprised me while playing is the number of different wepons. All the 
 wepons look real and act real, the quality of the gun determines the chance you have of your gun 
 jaming and therefore requiring you to reload, which if your gun jams at the wrong time, could mean 
 ur death if a bandit is right around the corner with a shotgun. Theres a huge range of wepons and 
 different kinds of amunition for the same gun, for example you can get a standard bullet, armour 
 piercing which is good if you're enemy is taking cover behind a scrap of metal or a car and theres 
 also hallow point bullets which increase the power of the bullet to kill your target in less amount 
 of shots.
  
  The Enemy AI was very well done, they're almost just like how a player would sneak around and use 
 their environment to its advantage and use tactics just like you would. Like I said its a kill 
 or be killed world in stalker and these arn't stupid AI.
  
  You would think by some screen shots and the cover that you'd be mostly killing mutants the whole 
 game. This is incorrect because most of your enemies are other NPC AI players.
  
  Sound &amp; Graphics: The sights and sounds of stalker really contribute to the experience, hearing 
 gunshots in the distance and cries for help is normal in stalker ( its a kill or be killed world 
 ) . There isn't much in game music, except for when someone is listening to music or playing a guitar 
 at night, other than that theres no backround music which also adds onto the experience, gives 
 u the feeling that the player is there. If your computer can handle any current games today, then 
 you shouldn't have any problems as far as graphics requirements go, its nothing new in stalker, 
 it looks nice, the guns look real. The scope and zoom effects were well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norton158
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game, which will make you think of it being great in the very beginning, that, IF 
 you never saw anything better before. This game posses a equilibrated gameplay, a very well developed 
 engine. Sounds are kinda ugly, but it's ok, it's trying to feel lifelike, not trying to surpeend 
 you. Must not forget, that it is a heavt game, so people with low end pc nowadays will suffer to 
 make it run smooth in DirectX 9.0 systems. The story is good, will make you keep on playing this 
 game for a good time, ripping off some hours from you, and you will not even catch that this happened. 
 The multiplayer is... Plain good, and will make you get kind of fixed in this tough. Overall, when 
 you finish this game, I think you will not want to make the entire singleplayer again. because, 
 for me, it did not surpreended, I mean, the way the entire thing rolls, just will not do it right. 
 Unless you can be able to unlock something up (IDK if there is these things in the game) . But you 
 still have the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MChief8
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Stalker starts you off with a creepy cutscene of a truck of dead bodies crashing in this rainy 
 area, (without spoiling the story) You wake as a scavenger of sorts, at odds with the Ukranian 
 army, other Stalker teams and the multitude of wierd mutated beasts that populate Chernobyl's exclusion 
 area. STALKER isn't like half-life where your taken on a scripted ride of linear enjoyment, Stalker 
 plays more like an rpg. you have stats an inventory and a weight limit. Tons of weapons and supplies 
 litter the Exclusion zone, You'll need to manage what you keep with you though, as there's only 
 so much you can. Stalker adds some nice real-life touches such as the need for food and drink every 
 once in a while and bleeding when injured. Your gieger counter will constantly click when you near 
 odd traps called anomalies. a main point of the game is to collect artifacts odd little trinkets 
 (probably mediocre items at one point) that were warped by radiation into giving the holder special 
 abilites (you can hold somthing like 3 artifacts at a time) as you move around this warped world 
 you'll start to notice some things, animals fighting eachother, hunting for food and taking shelter 
 in packs, yep you guessed it Stalker's wildlife behaves like REAL animals, some of the weaker ones 
 will only attack in packs and will flee once a cap whack's em, many will attempt to kill you outright. 
 and then of course their are nocturnal animals (like squidface.... you can unload 2 clips of machinegun 
 ammo on that f*****r and he wont die, plus he goes invisible) the buggers will only show up at 
 night, come and git ya in yer sleep....
  Weaponry is pretty great, they took real-life guns and changed some things and names (game takes 
 place in 2021 they had to) guns like the MP5n and the Spetnznaz enter the game as well as Colt 
 .45's and .9 mms. however none of these guns and unload a clip without missing, the accuracy system 
 is FANTASTIC, you MUST shoot is small measured bursts with automatic weapons and space your shots 
 out with semi-auto's , plus the firefights give you the feel of real outdoor shootout's (unless 
 your unlucky enough to be indoors in this game, combat is suicide at close range) enemies are tough 
 and tricky, they'll take cover turn their flashlights off (yeah they can see your's too) and especially 
 try to flank you. when an enemy goes down, doesent mean the bugger's dead yet, in one firefight 
 me and a bunch of Loners (a Stalker group) were fighting some bandits and at the end i saw guys 
 walking up to fallen bandits and capping off another shot into their struggling forms. (enemies 
 WILL get up given enough time) plus the more damage you take to lower area's the slower and choppier 
 you'll move (theres optional screen shaking when walking/runing, dont go without it , makes the 
 game a wholelot more realistic) . You'll also have to wait for the right times of day to do certain 
 things, such as rest up, travel and go deeper, Ukrainian guards have tons of outposts around the 
 Zone and for instance, they sleep at night, making it easier to go up and take them out during 
 naptime, others like bandits move at night (you'll learn to stay off certain paths at certain times 
 of the day) ther is a storyline to this mutant of a game, your tasked with finding some guy named 
 Strelov ( i think its Strelov) but ther are tons of little sidequests and side-stories as well.
 
  
  All in all STALKER is a GREAT game deffinately worth playing for firstperson shooter and RPG fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SobiOne69
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  If you have very powerfull computer and you have graphic card with support DX10 - you MUST PLAY 
 this GAME ;}
  Amazing gameplay, realistic graphic and sound, lots of guns with ammo and others items. Mnimum 
 35 - 45 hours game (not with subquest) . Very big world of game. World lives independently from 
 you. Day and night cycle, running time, change of weather, radiation or poison - your choice at 
 death, friends and enemies. You die, die, die ... - save often because you die in any moment. It's 
 worth spend money at game. For me = mix Far Cry, DeusEx and Fallout 1 or 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRM114
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  At first, STALKER felt like a total letdown - the game's beginning is underwhelming to say the 
 least - and I was all but ready to put this one up for auction on ebay. I decided to give it a 
 second shot, and after putting a couple more hours in I'm glad I didn't chose to take the game 
 out of my CD tray. Once you get past the initially, and I should also stress, deceptively subpar 
 graphics and weak weaponry, the game really starts to grow on you. Though the game is still plauged 
 with bugged quests, both the visuals and gameply really begin to improve once you leave the starting 
 sector. The Zone's ambiance is really on a whole different level, and will leave you both immersed, 
 awestruck, and perhaps a little terrified (those who have had the pleasure/misfortune of exploring 
 the subterranean passages of the zone should know what I'm talking about) . Over all STALKER is 
 a solid game that any FPS fan should try, the open-ended, RPG inspired mission structure and inventory 
 is certainly novel, as is the game's spectacularly enjoyable environment. Hopefully more developers 
 will give games like STALKER a shot in the future. To be honest, it's probably the best single-player 
 shooter I've played on the PC (and yes, I've played em all) , not to mention the first one that 
 I actually finished in its entirety. You owe it to yourself to give this game a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 1, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. : Shadow of Chernobyl is a FPS with a decent storyline but with rather dissapointing 
 gameplay.
  
  Gameplay:
  Basic weapons, with all new FPS games coming in with great realistic weapons, this game brings 
 up the worst aim in game history, you can get a shotgun, walk to a enemy, and shoot him full in 
 the chest without hurting him, the aim is just pointblank range and is bad.
  
  Other then the bad weapons, the game features hundreds of NPC's that are standing around a rather 
 large map, you can get weapons and armour of the alive friendly NPC's, and the same thing from 
 dead opponents or friendly NPC's.
  
  If you want to do the whole compaign with all the useless sidemissions with it, it'll take a few 
 good hours going up the 60 hour range, but most sidemissions don't vary and are bland.
  
  Graphics:
  Other then that, because of the huge map for each level, the game has a bad map to 
 come with, you can't tell where you're at because the whole map is basicly just topdown view with 
 a realistic bluemap of all the buildings and is hard to navigate thru.
  
  The textures look fun, the physics engine looks abit disjointed tho, maybe thats because the opponents 
 are mostly mutated.
  
  The game has a very gritty scene going on, the atmosphere is just perfect for a game like this, 
 the sounds are impressive and the style atleast deserves a ten.
  
  Story:
  You're this one guy who finds himself in Chernobyl, suffering from mutation and amnesia, and the 
 recent war going on with gunwielding forces and other Chernobyl expierences, you'll have to fight 
 you're way thru hordes of enemy's to somehow find out who did the mutation to you.
  
  Multiplayer:
  This is dissapointing, it only brings DM and TDM, not offering much maps and doesn't 
 have options to play with lots of players, the multiplayer is downright cruel.
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  Lacks in many ways, mediocre graphics, great atmosphere and sound, incredibly 
 lame gameplay makes this a bad FPS, I'd recommend a rent tho, since the game is for certain tastes, 
 you might want to look further into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broken181
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Yes the game has many bugs, and quite a few other problems, but it's not like they won't ever be 
 fixed. It seems like most of you guys complaining have never had a PC game that didn't glitch, 
 or crash, or have any bugs before any patches (impossible) , or have some kind of HUGE problem with 
 it's only slighted dated graphics and cry like spoiled babies because it's not shiny like the rest 
 of your over-hyped games (read: Halo 2/3) because it took longer to develop than expected. Stalker 
 is a very awesome game, the map is not as open as I originally expected, and it had a few quest 
 errors that stopped my progress sometimes, but the atmosphere and game-play were spectacular. I'm 
 still hooked on this game because of the three times I've played through it, it was a different 
 experience each time, and mods will just continue to make it that much better.
  
  This game is NOT for the people that think this is the same as every other FPS game, and you can 
 just hold the fire button down until your enemy is dead, and you can run right up to them and not 
 die at all. Unless you're aiming for an unarmored part of most human enemies in this game, it WILL 
 take many more shots to kill them, because they all have different sets of armor that protect from 
 different things better than others. So aim for the head and stop complaining, and enjoy the game 
 you paid for. (and try some mods FFS if you hate it THAT much...)
  
  One last thing, if you guys keep over-hyping games that look awesome, you'll only continue to be 
 disappointed, so lower your expectations a bit and go from there. ( Halo Example: You all expected 
 Halo 2 to be ANOTHER ground breaking FPS when it came out, but more than a few of you were disappointed 
 simply because you expected it to be 10x better than Halo: CE, when you shouldn't have expected 
 it to be. You should have expected it to be at LEAST as good as Halo: CE and went from there, so 
 as not to ruin your current and future gaming experiences because you got spoiled by another game. 
 I know it seems from my posting that I have something against Halo, but I don't I was just using 
 it for the sake of example. Though I'm not saying that it's the greatest FPS ever either.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokxxx
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  So S. T. A. L. K. E. R. the game about the history of Chernobyl, i think that this game is very good maked 
 its those real things that are there in real life like the houses or the landscape. The shooting 
 with guns is also realistic like if you have a pistol you wont shoot an enemy from a long range 
 like in some games like Counter strike....'sigh' Also the others stalkers in the game when you 
 get back to your campsite, there stalkers that sit around fire talking stories about life, joking, drinking 
 VODKA, eating and even playing on guitar, its very cool.
  Well the graphics are good very good hard work for the creators if i do say so myself. Also in the 
 game there are military men, mutants, they are your enemy but they arent alone your enemies, another 
 enemy is the radiation you can be killed from it if you wont look were you going...
  The military men, there are many types of them and everyone of them have their tactics to kill you, one 
 of them are attacking everyone, another one atacking and the others defend themselves by standing 
 and waiting for you, cool ha? the same story with the mutants others have some powers like invisibility, others 
 very fast...
  So if your looking for something new in FPS, this is your lucky day! buy buy buy.... see ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsqmko
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  STALKER is a good and let's say a disspointment too.
  STALKER uses the new technology so u should have a perfect PC to play on High detail and that's 
 what i like on games, hard PC, hard graphics.
  
  Good:
  
  Graphics look awesome ( on high detail) , all the enviroment near u look so real from the incident 
 in Chernobil from the past and it's a great way to discover the ruins of Chernobil , and the most 
 exciting about stalker is when a thunder comes and u see it, u will remain so silent and wonder 
 that the graphics look perfect.
  Sound is awesome, all sounds so perfect for the wolrd of STALKER, for short the sounds is creapy 
 and cool for that kind of world.
  
  Bad:
  
  1) Bad in stalker is THE STORYLINE, it's so messed up and u don't understand that much.
  
  2) In 
 STALKER rains to death (hell yeah like a tsunami) and where are the rain spots on ground and the 
 rivers...... u know what i mean.
  
  3) Hmmm, wonder the sky is so funny today ?????, because the sky doesn't move and so much wind, 
 geeez.
  
  4) All is not so smart like in FEAR, they run into u like stupid flyes and they don't cooperate 
 and... just one time that they soround me and i wonder are they smart?. Dogs are smarter, if u 
 shot in the sky they run.
  
  5) Can anyone play STALKER???.... no, because in this world people have some nasty pc's so STALKER 
 needs a monster PC. 6) So many bugs, glitches and GAME CRASHES..... oaaaa. 7) The difficulty.... i 
 try it on all and the game it's HARD ON ALL, and for newbies is hell.
  
  AND WE WAITED SO MANY YEARS FOR THIS, THEY COULD MAKE HIM BETTER. THEY FORGOT THE LITTLE DATAILS 
 THAT A GAME SHOULD HAVE........ but it's a great game, u should try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kitchen007
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 30, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This game let me down. I'm all for realism but c'mon. You shoot a guy 10 times and he doesn't drop 
 yet he shoots you three times and your done.
  Not to mention their amazing accuracy from a distance. Yet when you try to shoot them with the 
 exact same weapon from the same distance you couldn't hit the broad side of a barn. Nice looking 
 game but the fact you have to mod the game to hold more that 50lbs sucks. The fact you have to 
 unload picked up weapons is rediculous. If you already have the same weapon it should automaticlly 
 add it to you weapons ammo. Not to mention switching weapons in a hurry is not very effective. 
 All in all to many downsides for me. I am more a fan of games like HL2. Just a little more unrealistic 
 for me please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Floydleroy
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games to come out this year. It has a nice selection of weapons and armor 
 to choose from. They don't make enough games that are shooter/rpg. Its definitely worth buying 
 ... .... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 
 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 
 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgalvan
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 29, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I understand. I know that with the gaming industry reaching for new ideas that gaming companies 
 are trying to be innovative and design new and improved game types. A game that trys to be an FPS 
 and an RPG has been done and done quite well. Deus-Ex comes to mind. There are more, I know but 
 I can't think of any at the moment. In both of these areas S. T. A. L. K. E. R. (hereby reffered to as 
 Stalker from here on out by me because I hate using perios after every letter) falls waaaaay short.
 
  
  RPGs are a simple concept. Reward the player for advancing in your game by allowing them to choose 
 how they become more powerful. Leveling is typically used as a measure of progress but it can also 
 be determined by getting better at the skils as they are applied and used. I don't need to bring 
 up any RPGs because we've all played them. Great FPS by design is a twitch game. It combines fast 
 reflexes and timing to kill something before it kills you. A good FPS makes it just challenging 
 enough for people to get a thrill out of almost being killed but stil the player should have an 
 upper edge as the human mind can react quicker.
  
  Now on the RPG front. Getting better weapons does not, IMHO, make your game an RPG. Niether does 
 receiving and completing missions. Just because you include the mission element into your game 
 it does not give you the right to say your game is part RPG.
  
  On the FPS front. Yes you must have twitch skills and good timing to play an FPS but because I 
 am not an uber 733t ha&gt;
  
  Well for some reason the gamespot editor removed the rest of my post but let me just say that the 
 content you missed was funny and original. Ahh well I guess you'll just have to trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kap_thirteen
Rating: 4
Date: May 27, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Graphics let this game down. I was really looking forward to this, I had hoped it would have been 
 somewhat like Fallout. Sadly it all feels a bit like your doing the same thing over again. The 
 RPG aspects of this game are not fully realized, the action is never really action packed. In the 
 official gamespot review it was cited as having great gun ballistics. Sadly I do not agree with 
 this at all. The guns in this game lack drama, in fact I would go so far as to say the guns are 
 almost pathetic. This coupled with the relatively poor graphics makes for very sorry gamespot. 
 I would hoped a game cited for being a great shooter would have at least damageable levels or even 
 some sort of deformable character models. Sadly nothing in this game is new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame_Co
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 26, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Alright, This game has been getting a whole bunch of crap about bugs, emptying clips into enemies 
 who still stand, and lastly STUPID ANOMALIES! 
  
  anyone who can't enjoy a game like this needs to go back to some mindless Counter-strike or something. 
 This game may be a little hard to start, but once you begin to do quests and the like it really 
 grows on you. In response to peoples problems with this game, they're really unfounded. The bugs 
 I've noticed are when you're doing a quest and the questgiver dies, you fail. Although, this really 
 isn't a bug at all, it makes perfect sense how can someone pay you if they're dead? The whole emptying 
 clips thing is ridiculous, it has realistic damage, most enemies are wearing super strong Kevlar 
 vests, 10 pistol rounds isn't going to kill them. 99% of enemies take 1 hit to kill, a shot to 
 the skull. Lastly the STUPID ANOMALIES! comment. Personally I like anomalies, and think they add 
 to the game, but if you don't enjoy dying there is a fix. simply download the traveler mod. I think 
 the reason this game is so great, is because of the mods. I'll agree version 1.0 was very buggy, 
 but with patch 1.03 and oodles of mods, this game is amazing. I highly suggest finding yourself 
 some decent mods and installing them. It will make you appreciate the game much more, and you will 
 most definitely enjoy this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is an ambitious game set in the exclusion zone around the Chernobyl power plant 
 in the Ukraine. The games setting is great for science fiction, and it offers a creepy setting 
 for a first person shooter The game is not as open as I would have hoped, but movement between 
 the levels is fairly seamless.
  
  The graphics are nice the out door environments are a bit muddy in the texture department, but 
 the Lighting effects are some of the best in a video game to date. There are many dark labyrinths 
 of long forgotten research facilities that are creepy to explore, &amp; the audio adds to the eeriness 
 of the scenes.
  
  The Use of a paper doll inventory system similar to an RGP is great for this game, and helps to 
 add to the immersion, as you can only carry so much before you have difficulties moving. It leaves 
 players having to make choices on what to bring along with them on their mission. Unfortunately 
 once you start to find NATO weapons the game becomes really easy, as there is no real shortage 
 of weapons or ammo after you get past the first area of the map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imigrant71
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 26, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  This is the classic argument we've all have discussed: Gameplay vs. Graphics
  
  And STALKER is another sad example of poor gameplay and great eye candy.
  
  I bought the game, 
 installed on my PC (NVidia 8800, Fatality-1 Soundcard... all the goodies) ... runs beautifully. Playing 
 the game sucks! No quick load (F5) or quick save (F9) . Switching weapons is daunting and slows 
 down the action. Too much copy to read (story) and most of all the weapons are bad. The enemies 
 are almost immortal. Shooting is simply not fun. The learing curve is higher than what I expected. 
 The map, tasks, inventory (PDA) and the like are pretty and do help... but you'll have to study 
 the darn thing! Yes, this is not a pick up and play game... I expected the action to be similar 
 to FEAR, HL2, R6LV, GRAW... and was let down.
  
  Why can't we have it all? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thongman
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 26, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  Well, it started out alright. The game itself ran smoothly. I would be expecting that after 10 
 GIG OF SPACE. It took a long time to load up originally, but never had that problem again. It was 
 just standard loading times after that.
  
  The graphics are nonsense considering what quality is being produced now. Running of what looks 
 to be the original engine for Medal Of Honour or something, too outdated. The textures still had 
 enough in them however to make up for this, so not all was lost.
  
  As for the gameplay? For such a large area of space in a game, what about some proper transport 
 to get around the joint? I can see the point that it wouldn't be 'technically' correct for the 
 game story, but it is a huge pain to spend fifteen minutes to sell of stuff. And even then, anything 
 that can be bought can be easily picked up in the world.
  
  Picking stuff up brings me to another issue. You can't get enough stuff, with the realistic weight 
 limit. I suppose that's what I do want, but it can get painful at times. The enemies are alright 
 however - good enough really, not totally dumb. Damage factor is realistic, and as for the cover 
 and environment, it comes to life really.
  
  Overall it has it's class, but it could have been a dominant game, had it been given a total overhaul 
 of the engine, released when it should of been originally and had a little more thought put into 
 it about the bugs, flaws and logistical issue with it.
  
  7/10. Minus points for the flaws, gets the seven for what it can entertain, and what it did provide. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harolds
Rating: 1.5
Date: May 23, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Point blank 2 rounds with the shot gun in the guys face, while I'm reloading he kills me with one 
 shot, real **** life like there. 30 rounds with machine gun the guy just bent over, again while 
 reloading he shoots me twice I'm dead, both of these with full health, and novice level (which 
 didn't make a difference) . By far the worsed game I have ever played. Don't bother waisting your 
 money. Sometimes the characters talk but most of the time you have to read what they are saying, 
 and most of the time they really don't have anything useful to say, who's the idiot that thought 
 that up? If you don't properly finish the level, you could end up playing for days for no reason. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbal782
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 23, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  After so many years of waiting, we finally get a chance to play S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Was it worth it? 
 The answer is a resounding YES! This game has personality, fun quest, a great main storyline, but 
 what stands out in S. T. A. L. K. E. R is it's atmosphere. Setting: Set in the Zone of Exclution (which 
 is an abandoned section around the aftermath of Chernobyl) , you are a mercenary/bounty hunter and 
 you have no idea why you are there. The only thing you have to your name is your PDA, which is 
 where you will keep all your quests, maps, etc. and a quest to kill someone. Why? The fun is in 
 finding out. You will meet a lot of characters in the game world and take other quest besides that 
 of the main storyline. Game play: It's your pretty standard FPS with a twist. You will get equipment 
 in your travels that can be used to boost your stats, or protect you from radiation. Your weapons 
 are the standard pistols, shotguns, auto/semi-automatic machine guns, etc. One of the things to 
 get used to is that your weapons do wear out over time. If you try using a worn out weapons, it 
 will jam and you'll be stuck in a bad situation! This isn't really a problem since there are a 
 lot of weapons to get off of the others that you kill and find in the game world.
  
  Graphics: If there is only one down draw to S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is the graphics. Don't get me wrong, 
 they're not bad by any means, but there is better out there. I'm sure this is because it was under 
 development for so long, but again, they're not bad. We're just used to better. Sound: There isn't 
 much music, but when it does play, it sets a very good mood for the game world. The guns sounds 
 pretty realistic and the voices (when used) are pretty good. Overall: I can't say enough good stuff 
 about this game. If you're looking for a different experience in your FPS, than S. T. A. L. K. E. R is 
 all for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe93gt
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 22, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  OK, so I 've read quite a bit of reviews about this game and finally decided to write my own. In 
 many of the negative reviews I've noticed some commonality and it as follows: (the game is terrible 
 because...) bugs, radiation and emptying clips and enemies not dying. I've played the game for 
 about 12 hours and felt I had to debunk these myths. Let's start with bugs. The game has not crashed 
 a single time for me on both the 1.0001 and 1.0003 (I think the decimals are right) versions. There 
 may be a few bugs, but the patches help a lot. I also have no problem with choppiness (I do have 
 a somewhat high end computer and my settings are at maximum) . Basically, the bugs are minimal and 
 they don't detract from the gameplay.
  
  Radiation and anomalies. I've read that people are tired of running around and getting killed by 
 radiation and anomalies. People it's Chernobyl after 2 nuclear reactor explosions! Of course there 
 will be radiation and anomalies. I easily manage to avoid these danger zones. You can see the anomalies 
 so avoiding them is no problem. You have a geiger counter for the radiation. The easy way to avoid 
 radiation is to STAY ON THE PATH. You start running into radiation once you stray from the marked 
 paths (roads, etc.) It's all apart of the atmosphere and I think it adds somewhat of a realistic 
 touch.
  
  Emptying clips and enemies not dying. It's called body armor. Some of the guys I've fought have 
 some kick ass body armor that will take a full clip, especially if you don't shoot them in the 
 head. The bandits without body armor are much easier to kill than the army soldiers with it. I 
 must say though I'm playing the game on the easist setting. If it was any harder it might almost 
 be too difficult.
  
  Overall, the game rocks. Especially with the unofficial mods out there. This game is classic for 
 me and is the most fun I've had in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrdjuice
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 22, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  I've not played this game much yet, but already i've seen that the game are a lot under my expectations.
 
  
  I mainly bought this game, as i had no other fun games to play and the game idea sounded cool. 
 (You know the ghost town of chernobyl feeling.)
  
  But now when i tested it, i made a conclusion that it wasn't really worth the money i bought it 
 for. The graphics were very dissapointing , as i had large expectations. The sound wasn't to good 
 either, but much better then the graphics still. Another quite annoying thing was the update. First 
 it took me like 10mins to install the game and then i apply the 1.0001 patch. Then when i tried 
 to install the 1.0003 patch, the update stops at the .exe and says the file wasn't orginal. (Fixed 
 this by reinstalling the game and installing the 1.0 - 1.0003 patch.)
  
  (Excuse my English, as i usually don't speak it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante3452
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 21, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R -Shadow of Chernobyl is a game for those too lazy too level up and for those who 
 don't want to have over 200 games for First-Person Shooter's and over 200 Role-Playing Games. It 
 combines these two aspects quite nicely with a variety of different weapons always being different 
 in one way or another. There is also an encumbrance type of thing like Oblivion. Later on in the 
 game which might not be very far for some people. Mutants come and attack at the player every time 
 your underground. While the scare factor in the game is high the graphics are mediocre because 
 they are based off of an outdated graphics system. There are bugs like when you are transferring 
 from one area to another it might close immediately thus hindering your progress. Multi-player 
 wasn't really needed for this game but they put it in anyway. The higher ranked players just find 
 a good camping spot or an unfound glitch that they only know of and use it to there advantage. 
 I didn't want to play multi-player after that. It's still an enjoyable experience. So pick it up 
 if your into these types of games but don't expect an enjoyable multi-player though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingprincess
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  There are three game types in this. Each as different as the first. Rookie, Stalker, Vet. The guide 
 explains what has happened in the area. it is a true life experence. Taken from the actual incident 
 in Chernobyl. Most of what u see is what they saw. The real laugh of it is you dont speak russian 
 or check. and most of the soliers around yell and give orders in russian. some english. A real 
 foreign game. sorry. anyway, your given a PBA, gun, banoculars. and sent out. As a rookie you see 
 and hear things that set your teeth on edge. The buildings the death. however, Storms rumble in 
 the background thunder rolls and lightening cracks. The errie sound of the wind blowing up to you 
 with Dead Dogs howling, Blind and starved they hunt in packs. if you use your banoculars and watch 
 them from a safe distance you see them hunt down the bloated wild pigs in the area. Dogs fly through 
 the air as the pigs defend themselves. Most interesting just to see what is happening off scene. 
 You must be a good shot when fighting. i found head shots worked the best. The enemy is heavely 
 armored. Your goal is to reach several buildings. Turn off a Brain sorcher mangeles your thoughts. 
 however, there are a few creatures dead and deformed that dont want that to happen. plus, you have 
 to find drs. scientists, Traders and then as you go through hell then ending. however, there are 
 three endings to this so save save a lot. When there not shooting at you radiation is all over 
 and some you cant see. little waves then bam grabs you and you explode. This was made in an excellent 
 fashion, Scared and dieing race of humans with cut scenes that are just so awsome that you really 
 want to figure the reason out. i found myself just stopping in a safe zone looking around. you 
 will to. this is not one to rush. Take your time. Have a thought about it more then a game. This 
 happened....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonelyGhost
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 20, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I like many other bought S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl on the release date, expecting to 
 then go home, install it and have a spectacular gaming experience. Unfortunately what I got was 
 merely an 'adequate' experience, to nicely put it.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay for this game is rather ambitious, and isn't bad at all once you get used 
 to it. In fact, it works out quite well. Firefights can be unpredictable at times and the AI, although 
 not amazing does have its ups. In addition to this, the concept, despite it not being the most 
 refreshing does allow the game to play out well. There isn't too much to say about S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s 
 gameplay though because it is mostly generic at times like many of todays other FPS's. One element 
 that does make this game as an FPS stand out from the rest are its RPG elements. The ability to 
 manage your inventory, carefully choose your weaponry and keep an eye on its condition do add an 
 extra appeal.
  
  Graphics: Generally speaking S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s graphics aren't anything special, and aren't much 
 better than that of HL2, if not on par. That being said, the system requirements for S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 are ridiculously high, compared to games such as HL2 (inc. Ep1) and CoD2 which both have very good 
 visuals and require much less resources. In addition to that, S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s optimization is 
 terrible and even on a high end system results in lag issues.
  
  Sound: The sound effects in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. are actually quite good, despite the lack of visual 
 aid to match. Sounds from treading gently on grass, to running on concrete and the hammer of each 
 round fired, add to the murky presence and intensity of the game.
  
  Conclusion: It must be noted that despite S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s high system requirements and disputable 
 graphics, what the game lacks in is certainly made up for in gameplay. The game is relatively short 
 but does have replay value, if only for 1 or 2 times after initial completion. However, it is advised 
 that some of the mods created for it (i. e. ones that improve FPS) should be used as it certainly 
 does enhance gameplay. Certain bugs and other issues are mostly fixed in the patch releases as 
 well, so be sure to pick them up and install them before playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  After years of waiting, I thought I'll never play STALKER. In march, I had already finished it. Well, it 
 seems like in 2006, a second explosion had taken place in Chernobyl (really?) , more devastating than 
 the one from 1986. The action starts in 2012, in the Zone, full of STALKERS, mutant creatures, militia 
 &amp; bandits. Survive, find out who you are &amp; what caused the explosion. You're a STALKER, as 
 many others. Fight to survive in the Zone. Only one traider &amp; some loaners to do buisness with 
 are not enough for you. This is a surviaval FPS/RPG, so you have to eat, to heal your wounds, rest 
 &amp; upgrade your weapons/suit. A continuous struggle for ammunition, food is taking place: if you're 
 desperate you'll shoot anyone that gets in your way to take even just 6 bullets. Expect the same 
 from other STALKERS. Now, the groups will love/hate you, due to your actions &amp; missions, so be 
 carefull. Then come wild mutant animals: blind dogs &amp; other wild ones, but except goblins too. A 
 dog is scared of you when he is alone; he runs away. After a few minutes, he comes with a whole group 
 to attack you. Realistic. Gather at camp fires at night: the russians laugh, drink vodka, sing with 
 guitars, etc. STALKER really has the best atmosphere in all of the games I've seen. Not to mention 
 storms... Graphics are superb &amp; very appropriate to the East-European Ukranian territorry. Russian 
 signs, russian cars, etc. Not as good as in Call of Juarez or Prey but still very good. The sound 
 is amazing, no point in describing it: it is simply perfect. The only bad thing is some voice acting, which 
 is not very convincing sometimes. The only problem is the world. Big, but with loading screens,&amp; 
 whwn you go to an other part of the game it says: Do you want to go to the next level? , &amp; 
 that's really annoying. It's not better than Call of Juarez, but it's longer, more original than 
 it, worth the wait &amp; is the best survival FPS ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintivan
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 19, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This game consists of highly challenging firefights, and a small touch of exploration. Enemies 
 are tough and will frag you fast. Having to read text when you talk to a character and not hear 
 them speak is weak; who has the patience these days? They don't say anything interesting in any 
 case. Side missions are boring and weak. Main missions aren't great either. Is the game really 
 so open ended ? Yes and no. There really isn't anything to do other then try to get from point 
 A to point B as fast as possible without getting fragged. Despite the lackluster story, I was enjoying 
 this game to a certain extent, but the crashes just kill it for me. Every level, multiple times. 
 Crash. Computer frozen. Reboot. Kiss my ass, I am going to get C&amp; C 3 and won't play Stalker 
 one more time until another patch (one that actually works) comes along. Oh, and the map/PDA interface 
 sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tako1982
Rating: 8
Date: May 19, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  I'll make this my first (quik) review and I hope you'll forgive me my bad english. I Like shooters 
 (my girlfriend hates them but thats an other story) so when I saw STALKER I thought I should buy 
 this one. I was impressed by the grafics even on my low system. The invirement looked very real 
 and I was reaaly drwan in to the game. Although the game is told not to be linier you have to follow 
 there rules at some point. So you have some big manouvring space but that is all.
  
  The shooting was very realistic as an headshot giving more (instend) damage then a leg shot. Enemy's 
 dogged away but not for long. That's where I fountd a lack in the game. I you shoot a couple of 
 times they will come to you to be slaughtered. Some improvemend would be nice but then the game 
 also would be harder to play. The ending I found not so thrilling, I made the mistake not to pick 
 up a certain item in pripyot (or whatever) so I cxould only make a wish... for money, I wont tell 
 you what happend but I was shocked and was not happy.
  
  Over all I liked the game alot and would recommend it. Ag=fter you have played the story round 
 you can have some hours of fun playing all the sidequest that are in the game. Maybe Ill do that, 
 for now I will crawkl in the corner and cry a little.....
  
  end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dupreez
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 17, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R, very nice overall game concept. Combining an open world with a futuristic RPG element. 
 Nice characters and graphics, but the gameplay let it down in a lot of aspects.
  
  If pushed into further development based on the current idea an engine could evolve into a very 
 enjoyable and addictive gaming experience. The potential for this game is great, breathing fresh 
 ideas into a very popular genre.
  
  If only more developers would try and walk the way of oblivion, and take a chance on a genre not 
 yet experimented with that much, take a look back at, Halflife Series and Oblivion, If you mix 
 up the Fantastic Gun play and Rpg elements together with the freedom... could only be a winner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trancemg
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  you have to use the updates if you want decent framerates, but after that is has pretty nice effects. 
 I wish the physics were better but maybe there will be a patch for that.
  the meat of the game is a bit different from other fps i have played. i find myself searching bodies 
 and slowley dropping the cheaper stuff to keep my weight down just like in morrowind. intresting 
 artifacts around give you boosts such as better health or armour, sell trade and chat with just 
 about anyone. sucks butt that the guns arent named real but i saw a mod to fix that. all in all 
 this game is worth buying if your into fps style games, but dont expect a great story since its 
 a russian game and lost a lot in translation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinmancr
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 17, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  this game is lots of fun a little serious but still fun, I agree with the statement it is somewhat 
 like oblivion.
  although it is much more versatile and characters will react more realistically than they do in 
 oblivion.
  the weapons for the most part are cool, why is it that no one uses actual names anymore?
  some 
 of the best visuals I've seen sound is clunky, voice acting is average, game play is intense.
 
  it also has a fair amount of story which reminds me of the System Shock games.
  all in all if you have an up to date computer or close and you can shoot you need it! so yeah only 
 gripe is that it is too much for my pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegrimguy
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 17, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  While Stalker isn't everything that was promised back in the day. While you don't have the freedom 
 of games such as Oblivion and other RPGs this game really impressed me with how real this game 
 seemed to me. There were many a time when I was playing this game in my darkened room and I lost 
 touch with reality until someone came in my room and then I remembered that it was luckily just 
 a game. This game is one of the atmospheric games that I have ever played at many points in the 
 game you will thank your lucky stars that you have your automatic weaponry on you so that you can 
 blast those freakin zombies in the face!
  
  I love- the atmosphere+the action
  I hate- it does sadly have a few bugs+you sometimes remember something that was promised is not 
 in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matconnor
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 17, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  Well, STALKER...... where to begin?
  
  A simply epic &amp; immersive offering from a relatively unknown group of Russian developers. I've 
 been holding off on writing a review of the game untill I felt I had absorbed enough of it's magic 
 to give an objective &amp; informed opinion . Now, after recently completing my 3rd playthrough 
 of it, I thought I would offer a breif overview.
  
  STALKER is not a game for everyone, least of all inexperienced or impatient gamers who are used 
 to traditional run &amp; gun type shooters, where tactics &amp; realism take a backseat to speed 
 &amp; action. Not to say there isn't something for even the more casual players to discover within 
 it's wonderfully strange &amp; atmospheric levels.... just that if you are looking for more of a 
 HALO-style shootfest in your FPS, you might not appreciate what STALKER will throw at you.
  
  And the game WILL throw a LOT at you. More fellow Zone inhabitants, mutants, anomolies, bandits, 
 mercs, soldiers, &amp; assorted ill-tempered trigger-happy foes than should be allowed by law. 
 A wide-open, free-roaming canvas to explore, plunder, run, walk, creep, &amp; of course fight your 
 way across. You traverse the various non-linear maps of the game as a Zone nomad known only as 
 the Marked One to your fellow stalkers. Throughout the different levels of the game you will see 
 &amp; experience many amazing sights, sounds, &amp; situations. Some good, some bizarre, &amp; 
 some rather dark &amp; sinister. The path you choose will eventually determine 1 of 7 possible 
 endings; 2 of them good, the other 5 considered not so good .
  
  Be advised right up front about this title; it takes up an enormous amount of computer resources 
 to truly run &amp; exhibit the game the way the devs intended. If you don't possess a video card 
 of recent vintage, at least 1 gig of RAM (preferably 2) and a 3.0 Ghz processor or better, you 
 might very well be frustrated with getting STALKER to perform satisfactorily on your pc. The game 
 also is known to exhibit a few bugs &amp; glitches, though I never ran into anything of a serious 
 nature whlie playing. At the time I'm writing this there are no less than 3 different patches available 
 for downloading &amp; installation, along with a plethora of various mods to extend the STALKER 
 experience for a long while indeed.
  
  I won't elaborate on the fundamental mechanics of the gameplay &amp; objectives. At this date, 
 enough has already been published about the game and it's wonderful features &amp; environments, 
 as well as it's idiosyncracies. If you consider yourself a fan of the whole FPS genre, you owe 
 it to yourself to experience the world contained within the Chernobyl Zone. Just remember to pack 
 plenty of ammo, medkits, artifacts, &amp; canned meat ,would-be stalkers..... you are going to need 
 them all ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playdennisc
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 16, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  I havnt played much of this game, but so far it is turning out to be a good game. Its a good challange 
 and definitly worth a play! I like the unexpected attack from mutants aswell. I like the idea of 
 a main story line but with extra quests from certain charicters at different points at each level. 
 I aslo like the way you can increase your rank in throughout the game and the way you can keep 
 track of ur place in the leaderboard. Another good feature i found was when you search a dead stalker 
 you can pick up his PDA and find out what he knows about the area........ overall a gr8 game so 
 far.............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DendromutantX
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 16, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  This game reminds me much of Fallout series. Like in Fallout, there is a sense of dread and hopelessness 
 that weighs upon you throughout the game. Whenever you see a group of fellow stalkers sitting around 
 the fire, cracking jokes (all zone related) , playing guitar, if you listen to them carefully (provided 
 you speak Russian) you will realize that most of them hate zone deeply, but see no other life alternative.
 
  
  There is also a very high degree of open endedness in the game. You want to go hunt some pseudodogs 
 for tails? Go right ahead! Feel like taking on a bandit camp and looting it for money? You're the 
 boss. Decided to shoot some zombies with a shotgun? There's plenty around brain scorcher.
  
  I have read the book this game is based on ( Roadside picnic by brothers Strugatski) , and I 
 was a bit disappointed that some key elements were not included or changed in the game. In the 
 book anomalies are mostly invisible, and every stalker carries a sack of metal nuts to throw in 
 front of themselves. In the book, if you see a dead stalker, its a darn good indication that you 
 should not be standing where his body is lying. In the game your first impulse is to loot the body, 
 and most of the time you're rewarded for it. In game's defence, the atmosphere was presented just 
 perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elberto
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 15, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  OK, so I'll reveal my age. I grew up with DOOM, Quake, etc., as well as the likes of Half Life 
 and Max Payne. I am a FPS fan as long as the game has a decent story line and challenging puzzles 
 to work your way through. I do not like simple childish run and gun. I have been waiting a long 
 time for a true work of art like STALKER. It is a gaming programmer's masterpiece, in spite of 
 its lack of polish. The bugs will get worked out folks. I have played for 14 hours straight with 
 no serious setbacks as long as I remember to save after every few kills. This game has it all. 
 Realism, sci-fi, post apocalyptic setting. It works the way it does because it works like REAL 
 life does. Life has crashes, the unexpected, excitement, and let downs. Things break down, you 
 get sniped. Come on folks, you have to use your head. Pick your mission, your armor, your weapons, 
 your path. Choose wisely my son, invest some time with this game.
  To really appreciate the level of detail that was used to create this environment you have to have 
 visited an Eastern European country, preferably Russia itself to have an idea of where these guys 
 came from.
  I have seen it myself twice and am greatly impressed. Easily has my vote for game of the year - 
 maybe the decade! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrabith
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 15, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for STALKER to come out for a long time as it was made by programmers from Kiev. 
 The game itself got into the news when it was found out that programmers went to Chernobyl itself 
 to take the real pictures of all places. In general I think the plot of the game is really interesting, 
 and most importantly I like the element of RPG, just like Deus Ex. Although I think game lacks 
 sometimes some alternative ways (e. g. when you are asked to kill a deserter-soldier, you have no 
 other choice, but to kill him) . Another interesting thing is that mods add some good features to 
 the game, but although it makes it interesting/easier, I think the game should be in natural version. 
 (I have used mod myself, so I am guilty too) . A lot of people complained about Russian language, 
 I loved it, but I understand it, so I can see why non-Russian speakers would complain the lack 
 of subtitles. The game definitely sucks a lot of resources, and until patch 1.003 came out, I really 
 hated the amount of crashes I had. All in all I think this is a really good and interesting game, 
 and most importantly, where else can you have up to 7 different endings. I am also disappointed 
 with length of ending cut scenes, could have been longer. I give a huge plus to the reality of 
 the environment, amount of different weapons, artifacts, and armor. I would say this is a good 
 buy, I have not played multiplayer yet though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danwesoly
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 15, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  I dont even like thinking of this game anymore! Its one of these games that just make you sick 
 by even thinking of it. To have waited that long for this piece of **** I mean its not even that 
 it looks so bad or that the gameplay is **** its just the atomasphere it gives off is horrible. 
 The AI worked well i think but other than that this game is a total let down. The only reason id 
 ever use this game again is if they brang out a map maker for mods so you could try and make it 
 something else. Cause aslong as the games name is stalker.. As long as theirs only little confined 
 maps that join onto eachover leaving loads unexplored then this game is just total crap. Highly 
 disapointed and i gave it a chance too. If you see all my othe reviews you'll see that i normaly 
 give fair reviews but this game is just terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: builtman
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 13, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let me start out by saying t hat this game is one of the best that I have ever played but,........ 
 The BUGS!!!! This game is so full of bugs that if you are not willing to reload from time to time 
 from the beginning or a previous save th en you will beat this game with a sledgehammer. The storyline, 
 creatures, weapons, ect were first rate. Also there are some great downloads and hints on the net 
 so make sure that you take alook at them. I would normally give a game like this a 9.3-9.6 but 
 with the buggs, it gets about an 8. There are several endings so make sure you save often and look 
 in every nook and cranny as you never know what learks around each corner :) happy hunting STALKER.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McSqueaky
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 13, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  A unique story and excellent combat make this game far above average. However, the annoyingly common 
 glitches and the downtime it takes for you to travel through the levels really brings it down. 
 There are lots of weapons to choose from to blast your enemies, most of which you can pick up from 
 bodies laying around the battlefield.
  
  One of the more disappointing aspects of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is the running involved. You character 
 oftentimes must go on tedious missions that you spend most of your time running from one end of 
 Chernobyl to the other, usually giving you disappointing and mostly useless rewards. While you're 
 running from place to place, you can take time to admire the detailed and intricate environments 
 around you. The weather changes from sunny to windy to pouring rain, and from night to day.
  
  The sound in this game could have been tweaked much more. There are so many irritating and 
 repetative sounds, mostly characters saying the same thing over and over. Something that can bring 
 down the combat part of the game is the fact that the sounds do not give you any sense of where 
 they are coming from. If there is something right around a corner in front of you, the sound you 
 hear will make you think its behind you instead. The sounds themselves, however, are of the highest 
 quality and are very original sounding. The music is spectacular, especially the main menu theme.
 
  
  One thing that makes STALKER such a great game is that there are multiple endings and you can take 
 different paths to get there. Sub-stories and side-missions will bring you different results in 
 the end.
  
  While it has several irritants, this is an excellent game and you should definitely give it a try. 
 STALKER has a lot to offer and you will probably want to play again even after you've beaten it 
 several times. It's a lot of fun and it deserves a lot of credit for its originality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sourasvasilis
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 13, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review ever so maybe is not the best you've read but i'll try my best! Well STALKER 
 is one of the best games i've played in years... it has it's flaws but overall is a great game with 
 incredible atmosphere. I've been playing games since i was 9 years old, and now i am 20 so i can 
 say that i touched quite a few games all these years. Some of them stayed with me and i still recall 
 great moments i had while playing them... well STALKER will be with these games in the years to 
 come i think! It delivers great realistic modern warfare with RPG  
 attributes) that give the depth needed to make this game balanced. Now, the best aspect of the game 
 in my opinion is it's unique kind of meta-apocalyptic atmosphere... everything in the world of STALKER 
 from buildings to environment in general gives the feeling that it takes place in a nihilistic 
 land... there is rust everywhere, broken windows, dirty interior spaces, grey sky with the occasional 
 dusk or dawn.... everything resembles a torn apart future. So it think that i don't need to tell 
 you about the graphics or the sound in this game (though they are great as well) ... it's all about 
 the feel!!! And its great to see games like this to come in 2007, cause i thought that they were 
 dead. In these times seems that everybody is caring about graphics and production values in general 
 and not about about feeling and overall atmosphere like some great examples in the 90s... so if 
 u like the combination of atmosphere, guns, RPG elements, some good story elements and replayability (5 
 endings, different approach of gaming every time) ... then check it out and you won't miss! And i think 
 all the other gamers like me that grew up with games like Fallout, System Shock, Thief... and the 
 likes of these will have it already!!!:-P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B4PH0M37
Rating: 4.6
Date: May 13, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  This game is Bugged beyond belief! Unplayable at best, but maybe patches could fix this game play 
 horror called STALKER 
  
  I put in about 15 hours into this game, to put up with nothing but buggy content and a CRAP ending. 
 joining a faction is almost impossible due to bugs in this game, and The physics of this game are 
 false
  
  Bullets don't fall with distance...
  
  the AI is incredibly stupid
  
  and the game's very unbalanced (you can kill everything with a head shot)
  
  There is barely 
 a Storyline so its more of a mindless shooter, and the ending makes you want to assassinate the 
 developer. (all 2 endings are retarded)
  
  Ive been waiting for this game for about 5 years! Waiting was a terrible idea on my behalf... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ovp87
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 13, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  After buying this game and installing it i had high hopes. I had been looking forward to this release 
 for a long time. Well now i regret even buying it. Its a decent FPs when its on its best, and a 
 damn right terrible one at its worst, ive tried to exclude bugs and such from my judgement but 
 there are several gameplay issues that just seem broken. A good example is the quest system wich 
 is.... non existant. i have played quite a few RPG's and i must say i have never been so confused 
 about a game story in my life. This is partly because of the broken questsystem, but i think they 
 have just done a poor job at getting the player involved generaly. The game uses an absurd amount 
 of resources when you consider its merits:
  
  1) Graphics doesnt look bad, (but it doesnt look all that good either)
  
  2) While the game 
 is an open world where the world goes on if the player is there or not, (a bit of a cpu sink) this 
 just isnt worth the toll it takes on your comp, the living world mostly manifests itself trough 
 random guys walking arround killing each other, (doesnt sound so bad right) problem is there is 
 no reason whatsoever for you to give a crying rats ass (pardon my french) . None of theese characters 
 have any impact on you or the missions you do.
  
  Another think that frustrated the hell out of me is the skill level you have.
  basicly when you 
 start your a rookie wich means that even if you creap up close to an enemy , stick your gun up 
 his *** (yes that was ear =) and fire, theres still a good chance you will miss. its a bit like 
 morrowind (for those of you that have tried it) where you swing and swing your sword, you jsu dont 
 do any damage. it also enoyed me a bit that with the starting weapons (pistols, shotgun &amp; so 
 on) you can stand right next to the guy and shoot, (and in the off chance that you do hit him in 
 the head) he just stands there for a second looking rather stupid, turns around and shoots back. 
 before buying the game i read on gamespot that the game had an impressive ballistic modeling system. 
 well, point blank range, pistolshot to the back of the head and he is still standing, not all that 
 impressive.
  
  If you do however bother to get trought the rookie level, the game gets better, and on some moments 
 it is entertaining, but the whole ordeal just isnt impressive in anny way, and it makes you wonder 
 what the developers where doing all these years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moe556
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 13, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  Very fun 1st person shooter except the bugs in it really draw away from the experience, especially 
 when it crashes a lot in certain parts of the game, for vista at least. They have released a few 
 patches that haven't done much to address the vista problems and crashes, so hopefully in the future 
 us vista users can join the rest. Also the multiplayer looks like it could be very fun, but it 
 is very lagy in that, all the players you see actually float across the screen, the don't walk 
 normally. Again a patch to help fix this would be great, as the multiplayer looks great. The graphics 
 in this game seem old, but with dynamic lighting and other effects it is surprisingly very good 
 looking, and the game play is great too. Very impressive feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edito24
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Stalker blends RPG with FPS excellently. This is no ordinary shooter, dont even compare this game 
 to QUAKE, DOOM 3 or HALF LIFE because this is nothing like them  in a good way!
  
  Some people say the graphics arent that good, I disagree. If you look at the amount of detail 
 they use its ridiculous. The textures are so unbelievable. On the bonus dvd (collectors edition) 
 they show a comparison of actual Chernobyl and the games screens. They look virtually the same!! 
 HD lighting adds the extra flavour to make this game even look better. They have other lighting 
 systems for those who dont have the hardware.
  
  The enemy AI are the smartest I have ever seen. They flank you, run away from grenades (therefore 
 chuck another at the opposite direction) , they work as a group, they will even drop to the ground 
 and play injured. They are very sneaky which makes for interesting gameplay.
  
  Heaps of monsters, useful powerful artifacts, hazardous anomalies and some serious gun fire.
 
  
  Cons: there were some bugs, so what! Thats why they released patches. Still some bugs therefore 
 they are making more patches. At least they are fixing it. This game can be hard on even high-end 
 systems, to the rescue comes the float mod to improve performance. The story is a little loose 
 but overall its good. The sequel should address the story line better.
  
  This game is realistic in that you cannot make a headshot with a handgun from 500m. Thats not 
 the style here, hide behind trees and make use of your environment and get closer. Yes there is 
 some strategy  not a brainless shooter
  
  A ton of replay value with about 8 different endings, and thats not even mentioning the array 
 of mods to make this game even more enjoyable (eg. Faiakes mod kicks butt)
  
  This is the ZONE, it will exist even if youre not in it. So get in there &amp; have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggoldsmith
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 11, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  ... though it kind of reminds me of Oblivion in that you get to explore a an entire world and take 
 missions at your liesure. But STALKER is not an RPG; the game structure is more like GTA except 
 without the vehicles, and lacks even GTA's minimal RPG element. You gain abilities and firepower 
 soley from what you find in the world such as weapons and anti-radiation charms. Then you choose 
 where in the world you want to go in order to complete special (core) or regular (opitional) missions. 
 Now about the graphics: FANTASTIC!
  Go ahead and apply the latest FLOAT 32 MOD patch just posted. This will give you a significant 
 FPS boost , and even better graphics! Now the firefights are a lot of fun, but they need some getting 
 used to. The enemy A. I does seem quite goofy most of the time, but it knows a lot of flanking tricks 
 to keep a player guessing, and usually outnumbers you. Aside from using the shotgun, you must make 
 head-shots to get quick enough kills before you get wasted, and that can be fun and challenging. 
 But close-up shotgun blasts to your enemy's head can be even more fulfulling (don't try this in 
 real life) . With automatic weapons, it's best to aim a ltitle low and let the recoil move the trail 
 of lead upward towards the head.
  
  Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iXBuRny
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I must say this is probably one of my favorite games of all time. It has me hooked! The gfx are 
 pretty good, although I could say they could be a little better. And there are quite a few bugs 
 in the game and the patch didnt fix. But I cant put this game away! I absolutely love it...... The 
 monsters scare the bejesus out of you sometimes, Ive jumped more times on this game than I would 
 with a dam jump rope hehe. I would definetly recommend this game to anyone, although the multi 
 player isnt that great, but sp roxors! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 1.7
Date: Aug 3, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Sisters and brothers this hardcore gal just received her S. T. A. L. K. E. R.
  cd-rom today. I am delighted except for when I try to save a game. STALKER crashs to my desktop everytime. Iam 
 sure a patch will come out shortly though. There seem to be a patch or two everyday. I think I will 
 give a little ground and see what THQ can come up with before I pounce on them.
  So far I have crashed 3 X's and have not even gotten past the first rookie village. The game does 
 have complex sound and graphics issues leading to major game crashs. At least the game just crashs 
 to my desktop both on high end PC and MAC computers both running Windows VISTA Ultimate.
  With all the problems VISTA has it may not be soley the game. After struggling through more crashs 
 to my desktops under Windows VISTA Ultima on my PC and MAC while playing one of the greatest games 
 ever made ,this is just my opinion though ie, STALKER Shadow of Chenobyl. I made it to the second 
 mission bypassing the little animal kill missions offered by my current trader and friend Wolf 
 ,even with all the famcy patchs promising you hope and no further problems, the patchs patch one 
 problem then create two fold more problems, so numerous that I am surely not the only gamer complaining. The 
 worst new crash created by the latest patch I might add is one trying to save her/his game outside 
 the quicksave F6 key. After Save Game is typed in the gamers slot, the gamer is immediately thrown 
 to her/his desktop, looseing all ones progress back to your last quick save.. I will continue my 
 review as or if I can go forward without to much dispair. Why cannot the game and software developers 
 get it righ from the beginning ? Why are us PC gamers so mislead as to the developer claiming they 
 have built the most perfect game ever created, then charge the gamer outragious prices for non developed 
 software which utterly stinks. It looks good putting their screenshots and sending reviewers like 
 GAMESPOT their perfect unblimished software. Then selling their second handed software to the game 
 consumer ? The above review was done on the digital download of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. ,not to many kind 
 things can I say about the digital downloaded version. However the DVD version is as so far as perfect 
 as perfect as a game can be had and that so far through my first two missions are flawless on both 
 a high end PC and a MAC, also this is without any of the many patchs available to the gaming community. 
 The graphics, sound, game saves are as close to perfect as it gets.! Somethings this girl would like 
 to see incorporated into a patch is when one pushs the stance key marked one would stay down .rather 
 than when released he immediately stands up, A prone position would also be a nice addition in 
 the form of a patch. This gamer is reluctant to install any patchs that will not play her current 
 game saves as well. Most all of Stalker's game patchs clearly state If one applys this patch you 
 will lose your saved games .In closing S. T. A. L. K. E.. R. Shadow of Chenobyl cd-rom version is the 
 finest game I have ever played on a PC or MAC. The grpahics, sound and game play are a hardcore gamers 
 spetacular delight.
  On the other hand the digital download ersion is a flop full of agrivating crashs .This game can 
 be played over and over and never will you play the same version in any level like one did the 
 first time. It is one of the most superb games to come along in very long time for the PC and yes 
 the dvd version runs perfectly under Windows VISTA. I have been playing this remarkable game for 
 over four months now, the dvd version is all it can be and then some. There are a few quirks now 
 and then but what PC game does not have them ? This game is beyond compare bar none its simply 
 famtastic. One can play it over and over at different levels and never play the same game twice. The 
 Ai is almost human and smart smart they are indeed. I have played STALKER on the PC and MAC versions, simply 
 put its just FANTASTIC ! Although I have given this great game a perfect score I was under the 
 impression that the developer would fix the many many game bugs in the latest patch, version 1.3 
 does not even begin to fix the game. Now the developer says they have completed the game and are 
 moving on to update it. I hope they pay attention to not only myself as a hardcore gamer ,but the 
 many thousands of brothers and sisters that have put up hard earned moneys for S. T. A.. L. K. E. R. 
 Shadows of Chenobyl, leading the PC gaming world to belive that THQ and the developers where working 
 to
  provide a better patch than version 3 of which after one installs it and looses all their games. Only 
 afrer one installs the patch is one advised that you have lost all your game saves, of course our 
 fine and wonderful host GAMESPOT gives us a warning in the download area of the patch. But how many 
 other gaming hosts do the same ? It is a kindness of GAMESPOT to do so, and I for one truly appreciate 
 it, as well as many others do for sure.
  Now at E3 the developer has everyones ear about another addon for the game. Well Mr. developer how 
 long will this update take ? Will the PC world get the promised updates before S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is 
 just a memory ? I for one will be very pressed to put up my hard earned moneys for a addon
  that more than likely will be bug riddled, when the original game was never quite perfected. Because 
 the developer has patted them selves on the back
  and decided the game stands perfect as it is. I am going to take back perfect game rating of a 10. 
 To many graphic and sound bugs and frequent unknown crashs for my taste. This is the longest review 
 I have ever written, however this game is worth the effort. A few walk throughs and gaming sites 
 claim that the AI's and mutants in S. T. A, L. K. E. R. cannot climb ladders etc. in this great game. Well 
 bothers and sisters the AI and some of the mutants can climb ladders and chase you up them and 
 down them with no problem. Perhaps it has to do with a gamers particular version of the game, but 
 do NOT belive what has been posted on many game sites and walkthoughs. Because this fantastic game, despite 
 its graphic and sound bugs will make some great gamers eat their words. I have been playing version 
 1.000 patched to 1003 ever since the game has been released, its very very adictive. This morning 
 I was playing the game again for the 9th. time on the hardest level. I wanted to some sniper work 
 with a new sniper rifle from a mod, so I climbed up a ladder and here comes a army guy chasing me 
 up the ladder and behind the army guy was one of those furry slimmy dogs, the ones with long hair 
 chasing the army guy that was chasing me.
  The army guy was easier to kill than the dog of which after a double shotgun blast, was able to 
 fall off the ladder almost two stories high and limp away in the bushs ! Growling and snarling 
 all the way. I am so sad todcay for I must say goodbye to what I thought was the game of the year. But 
 STALKER has so many bad scripting and graphic issues in it I could only read about the ending in 
 GAMESPOTS review columns and message boards. No matter how hard I tried I could NOT get the game 
 to run normaly under VISTA Ultimate's O/S. However I will give
  Microsoft the benifit of the doubt. STALKER has crashed so many times that the game has had me in 
 tears. Playing on Master level for the last six months and to come to the Monolith Soldiers Temple 
 of prayer is NOT a easy feat considering all the scripting errors and game crashs. This is sadly 
 the first time since I have become a hard core gaming addict that I have had to dump a game off 
 my PC just because it was not compatible with a high end PC !I am sure I am not the only gamer 
 to have to give up in despair because THQ took our money and ran away with not any game support 
 what so ever. It will be a very long time before I plunk my hard ear ned moneys down on another 
 THQ product ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhexagonsun
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  I have been enjoying FPS games since the original DOOM, however the majority of FPS games I have 
 played all suffer from a linear run-and-gun game play that quickly becomes boring once the graphics 
 appeal wears off. I don't think I've ever had the desire to play the same single-player FPS twice... 
 until STALKER.
  
  STALKER is different, addicting, and immersive. The combination of RPG elements to the game have 
 created a more open-ended style of play without the story line dictating when and how you do things 
 (to a degree) . STALKER allows the player to explore the map and subsequently be rewarded for it 
 with new finds of weapons, ammo, armor, etc.
  
  Gun fights require more tact than run-and-gun, though it can be done it is not entirely wise. Weapons 
 and armor degrade with wear-and-tear and use, so there is always incentive to explore or loot as 
 well as to fight tactfully.
  
  NPC graphics are not state-of-the-art, and easily pale in comparison to upcoming games such as 
 Crysis and Bioshock, but the other attributes of the game buttress it well so that graphics do 
 not need to be the be-all-and-end-all of the game.
  
  The atmosphere of STALKER is superb. This is easily where the game excels. The developers did a 
 great job creating a world that feels post-apocalyptic and gritty. It is that grittiness that really 
 offsets any shortcomings of the NPC graphics.
  
  Of course I have my complaints. The patches are up to version 1.0003 now and the game still has 
 its fair share of bugs as well as performance issues. However, these are slated to be fixed in 
 upcoming patches, if not version 1.0004.
  
  Though the variety of weapons and armor is quite good, it would have been nice to have more. Especially 
 more weapon add-ons. Also, the map could be larger. Finally, there is the question of a freeplay 
 once the main quest is completed. This is much needed and will be coming in an upcoming patch release.
 
  
  In conclusion, the game is a classic as is, but currently feels unpolished. Hopefully after the 
 release of more patches (and possibly new content) , STALKER will reach its full potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCrapper
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  I bought this game when it first came out. It was plagued with bugs and I got frustrated with it. 
 I gave it bad review. I put it on my "maybe I'll try it again someday" shelf and forgot about it. 
 
  A year later, I ran out of things to play and reloaded it. I was pleased to find a significant 
 list of patches to load and I had high hopes that I could actually play it. I am so glad I did. 
 So much so, I can't wait for the upcoming release of Clear Sky. I really enjoy playing this game 
 now with it's semi-nonlinear format and super challenging skirmishes. In my opinion, this game 
 is not for casual players. One must really be persistent when playing because getting kills early 
 in the game can be frustrating. But, if you hang in there, keep advancing through the game, it 
 get's real good. You can acquire better body armor and weapons which eventually makes things easier. 
 Yes, the encounters become tougher as well, but you don't feel as helpless as one might early in 
 the game. I also like how your own actions determine outcomes and how other factions and or groups 
 treat you. I made the mistake of pissing off the military and I am still paying that price but, 
 this is what really makes it fun. 
  The game still has some minor glitches, but overall, it's a really great game. I feel it has a 
 high replay value just because of the different endings and strategies you can try when playing. 
 Just remember two things, be sure to load all the patches and be persistent. Don't quit on it. 
 The weapons early in the game are junk and part of the game is getting to the good stuff. Enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vecuf
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 11, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  I have waited this game for quite a long time, I have invested in upgrading my computer, but unfortunately, 
 I wasn't much rewarded for the long wait after I played the game (well, a quarter of it) . Stalker 
 deliver a astonishing graphics and superb effects, but the game is not quite what I expected.
 
  
  Keep shooting tons of enemies that comes in waves from nowhere is not my goal in a video-game. 
 I mean, over the years there were some really great shooters, but this one is just too damn difficult 
 even if you play it on rookie mod. I even grabbed a godmode from the internet just too see how 
 many enemies you'll encounter in the game: well, the answer is that you'll have tons of them. And 
 as soon as you escape alive from a battle, you won't have any reward, because immediately after, 
 another battle comes right after the corner. I mean, you receive a task to talk to someone, you 
 find the respective character (after a lot of shooting and hard work) and try to talk to him, but, 
 when you select the questions and the conversation lines, you are assaulted by almost an entire 
 army who kills your character and you, as well. It's very frustrating.
  
  Over the years I have came to a motto: if something in a video-game is not fun and enjoying then, 
 it shouldn't supposed to be there.
  
  I recommend this game for those who want to see great graphics and an excellent setting and creepy 
 strange atmosphere, but for those searching stealth actions, more puzzle solving, more mystery, 
 more searching, memorable characters and a great experience in general, I have to say them to search 
 somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 11, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  First impression Not quite ... but then from first fight scene you see how game great and interesting 
 is?!
  
  Graphically its look like half life 2 all flashy and gritty. I felt a bit bluring effect in game, 
 dont know that is because of my eyes or this is actually in there. Anyways, from grapihichal point 
 of view the game is ok.
  
  Sound effets in game reminded me as bit frustrating and annoying voices from Stalin Subway.... 
 not quite impressive but you have got an option
  Turn speaker off! :-) :-)
  
  Right, gameplay! most interesting feauture of the game. Chalenge in every step of the game and 
 very dangerous route to the glory and uknown world.
  
  Danger hid in any corner and place, that waits to strike you with its anomal power.
  
  Well 
 enough that **** Just play and have fun! :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felluca
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 11, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  Stalker is an excellent and very immersive game world that can at times, if the lights are dim, 
 give you a bit of a jolt. If you take away the depth of Oblivion, add in elements of Half-Life 
 2 and youve got Stalker: Shadows of Chernobyl. The environments are amazing and the visuals even 
 better if youve got a rig capable of handling this beat. The game doesnt have much replay value 
 at all nor do I imagine many will play it all the way through. For all its pomp and flare and 
 amazing physics and design; it lacks substances that will want you coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdesires
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 9, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  As you start a new game you see a FMV, your 1st impression will be wow, awsome cause the FMV its 
 really cool, as the real game starts you'll notice that the graphics are not only great on the 
 FMV, the whole game as great graphics appart of the weapon designs that I personaly deslike (knife 
 its an exception) . You can buy and sell items you get, its a familiar system to RPG players and 
 a nice addition to the game that works fine. The game its a bit hard, if you are not familiar with 
 FPS you'll probably have a hard time getting started, but as soon as you get it you will love it. 
 The game works by jobs system, you talk to someone, ask Im a job and get the job done, of course 
 the game as a storyline that will offer you much play time. The game atmosphere really suits the 
 theme and sometimes you can find somethings like radiation that you have to avoid, this is other 
 nice addition that its not very seen, the game deliveres a unique atmosphere never created before 
 that makes Stalker a unique game, If the unique atmosphere wasn't enouth the game offers a great 
 sense of exploring, you are in a mission but you see something cool, you go check it out and find 
 some monsters and items, really good.
  The monsters really look mutated cause of radiation, some of them look like animals we all know 
 but mutated into something monstruous and extremely ugly, there is mutated people has well and 
 they are as monstruous as it can get.
  Stalker its a must play game but will not apply to all for sure, some people will not enjoy the 
 envoyrnment in stalker and some will love it. Stalker was one of those games like Prey that were 
 many years in production, Stalker and Prey have turned Unique games (not perfect and not classic 
 but unique) , what about Duke nukem forever? ahahah will it ever be released? if it is, can it be 
 good like stalker and prey? lets wait to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homebrew197516
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 9, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing tis game I was a little disappointed because I thought the PDA system 
 was a bit clunky and not well drawn. But when I started to play the game I soon forgave the clumsy 
 PDA interface. This game excels in atmosphere. It has frit me many times with its dark moody setting, 
 and the sound gives it a chilling feel. The graphics are good and well drawn but not ground braking.
 
  Yes it have flaws but the game play and atmosphere more than make up for it. I recommend this 
 game.
  
  This is probably the most atmospheric game I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serenityuk
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 9, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  To start with this game is very buggy, hard to play and a little confusing at times BUT..... and 
 its a big But this game is amazing! The Story line is great fun and the stunning visual graphics 
 like the sky and background affects WOW, even in minimal settings this game is great. This is a 
 must for people who enjoy survival horrors like Resident Evil, Fallout, and The Thing. When you 
 start the game for the first time, it is very hard to get your head around, the map is not very 
 easy to work and tasks are a little complicated at first. The AI are very smart and some great 
 affects on the background. Very sorry for the bad review style this is my first review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karl319
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 10, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  So... about 6 and a half years ago. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. was... announced, a highly ambitious setting, 
 making the whole of Chernobyl between Belarus/Ukraine into a game.
  
  Also being the (among the?) first Dx9 games to come. Now it's no news that it didn't achieve the 
 dx9 part. But either way.
  
  So. As it should, we'll divide this into the rightful categories.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Damn, 
 the longest part of the review alllllllways comes first... ah well. I've written longer things 
 on essays. So, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a  mix. Using an 
 inventory and a first person modern theme (guns) .
  
  The game starts you off in an underground room and just throws you into the game. After a short 
 albeit rather boring intro, you finally go above-ground. Now what comes first, is a deep breath 
 of happiness, you think whoooa.... my god, finally, I've waited for YEARS ... god... thank you! 
 Buuuuuuuuuuuuuut you'll stop cheering as soon as you look at the map on your PDA... or at least 
 that's what I did WHAT?! ... that's it!? ... wheres... what the, that's no red forest... is THAT 
 tiny spot what you call Pripyat!? ... WHAT!? ... well you get the idea.
  
  Now after I just told myself to calm down I went along into the game, started with some quests 
 and looking around. And on the first quest I already noticed a huge flaw in the early part of the 
 game. The guns are, worth-less. The iron sights-accuracy are soooo off you can barely get a shot 
 at someone unless you're ... a few feet from them. Not to mention it takes a load of ammo to kill 
 someone with only a jacket on (Maybe because I'm playing on hardest difficulty? ... but who can 
 blame me, I want a good game, so I go for the hardest) .
  
  Now, the anomalies are a cute addition, but, rather, useless. As you'll rarely ever wander into 
 one unless you're either blind as a bat, or just reaaaaallly clumsy. And seeing 20 anomalies in 
 a tiny field is kinda dumb looking. Hm, well, the AI ain't bad. They prove to be a pretty tricky 
 target to kill, it's like they vanish into thin air at times, which is kinda fun tho. Too bad the 
 sneak system in the game is a bit flawed and sneaking and stealth killing with your knife depends 
 on whether or not the game is up for being buggy enough to let you or not.
  
  Now comes the big disappointment ... sigh, open ended... yeah right.... there are barbed-wire fences 
 around the maps (you move from load-time-to-load-time) ... limiting your sections of maps to something 
 comparable to... battlefield series map, from small to large. I mean it's not too bad but, face 
 it, the open-ended dynamic and re-created world we were promised years ago ... is gone. The game 
 is scaled down so to say. Pripyat is a mere shell of what it really is. The red forest is more 
 like, the red PARK. And the lack of houses that you can go into, is sad.. I was hoping to go inside 
 huge apartment buildings, schools, factories... instead of just small low detailed buildings once 
 in a while. Or houses that are part of the quest, they're too boring.
  The maps are comparable in scale to something like, the small to medium Battlefield series maps.
 
  
  Now I hate to whine but there's one MORE thing they've kinda ... cheated us with. So we were told 
 the AI moves around, animals eat, people set camp, move around invading... yeah, they do, WHEN 
 SCRIPTED TO DO SO. In the start of the game theres a bridge with only 2 ways through it, either 
 you go kill the 10 or so army fellas who NEVER leave the under of the bridge, or you go climb over 
 it, but either way, those guards will stay there until you kill them sooner or later.
  
  You can't progress into the deeper parts of the zone without HAVING to do the main quest ... which 
 is also, pretty, lame. Well the game does do some things right tho as said. Guns break, iron sights, 
 having to eat once in a while, bleeding, scopes, grenade launchers etc... one thing I did notice 
 tho, the enemy NEVER uses grenades? Strange.
  
  Well, lets move on.
  
  Graphics
  
  The visuals in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. are great, superb in fact. Dynamic real-time soft-self-crossing shadows 
 that adjust to every light in the environment. Beautiful. Bumpmapping using shader model 3.0. Beautiful.
 
  
  The water, altho not exactly around much, doesn't look that great tho. Not much to say about the 
 graphics other than, superb. If you got the PC for it, you'll get quite the treat.
  
  Sound
  
  Sound is good, people speak their native Ukranian/Russian language, guns sound fairly 
 good, altho a bit plastic. Ambience sounds are spot on and do a great job.
  
  Value
  
  Waiting 6 years for S. T. A. L. K. E. R. ... well, takes dedication, and, well, you GOT to admire the 
 fact at least they finished it, instead of saying ... screw it 
  
  Tilt
  
  9 of 10
  
  Overall 8.4
  
  Not what we were promised, but an enjoyable game for the most part. Worth 
 a buy, if at a reasonable $20 or so range. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnrlcryingwolf
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 8, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  Well well well, after years and years of waiting in eager, of awaiting every new screenshot &amp; 
 trailer they threw at us, it is finally here. And what can I say? Stalker: Shadow of Chernobyl 
 is just about everything I expected it to be. A vast game, with a unique and simply amazing atmosphere. 
 It has been since the release of Half Life 2 and, subsequently, Episode One, that a game's unique 
 character has grabbed me so thoroughly by the neck and immersed me into it's world. Suspension, 
 horror, pure action, strategy, supernatural, this game has it all! I am unwilling to write about 
 the storyline, as it is something you absolutely must experience to understand.
  I can only tell you that you are dropped inside a world that would keep turning even if you weren't 
 around. People act freakishly real. Animals are as unpredictable as real animals. Nature breathes.
 
  Although the system requirements are steep, if i have to nitpick, the graphics are, in all honesty, 
 just a tad dated, but never in such a way that it is obvious. So no state-of the art AA and lighting/shadow 
 effects, but this is more than compensated with superb level design &amp; 'atmosphere creation'. 
 In my opinion, the only drawback is the length. After more than 5 years in development, I would 
 expect an open game as Stalker: Shadow of Chernobyl to be longer than the +/- 12 hours I spent. 
 Enough replay value, though, as there are 6 different endings, depending on the choices you make 
 during the course of the game.
  I haven't been playing much multiplayer (too immersed in the single player part) , but it offers 
 really good gameplay &amp; the absolutely terrific ballistics model makes it outshine many other 
 multiplayer games.
  There aren't many new games worth their money like Stalker: Shadow of Chernobyl. All in all, a 
 must-buy for any PC enthousiastic. No excuses. Whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jingwa
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 7, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  So a quick summary of the game? You start with almost nothing, so u go and kill people and do quests 
 which normally involve killing something, which gives u more money and weapons. Also there is a 
 main quest line which like any quest u can start doing it right away or leave it on hold for as 
 long as you like. The main quest line will eventually lead you to the end of the game with an ending 
 based on how u played the game... so if u simply want to see the ending? Ignore all side quests 
 and do the main one, you will be done surprisingly fast.
  
  The gaming environment is pretty large when your simply looking at it and following the road, but 
 try and explore it and u will bump into fences at every corner, which somewhat spoils the game 
 feeling of freedom to go and do what u want. On the good note you do get some decently large spots 
 along the way which do give u more then enough room to move around and wage your private war on 
 some bandits or whom ever. So yes you will in counter lots of bandits and people to shoot at, which 
 will increase the further you get in the game, so thankfully u wont spend much time wondering 
 when your next fight will be. While the general wildlife is very common, its hardly worth any interest, 
 mutant dogs and pigs which can be knifed to death in 1 hit.... but thankfully there are also some 
 freaky mutants which will most likely send a shiver up your spine, but sadly you wont in counter 
 them very often : (. Besides being shot at and munched on there is still 1 way to get yourself killed 
 and that is the various anomalies you will most likely run into at every corner, from radioactive 
 areas, to a wind vortex, which will suck you up and spit you out as blood and bones if you havent 
 got the muscle to survive. They do keep you on your toes at times, but for the most part I found 
 them more of an annoyance then an enjoyable part of the game. Onto the game play side of things, 
 1st thing u will realize is getting weapons is easy as pie, but getting good weapons is actually 
 hard to come by in the 1st areas of the game, also troubled with the problem of weapon malfunctions 
 as your weapon degrades with use, u will need to get a replacement fairly often. You also will 
 need to upgrade your armor, which will become a requirement as your opponents get more powerful 
 weapons and the environments get even more radioactive. Thankfully you can also pick up items which 
 give u a bonus to certain stats, which can help fill in lacking areas of your armor or buff them 
 further when needed. AI is okay in the game, It will normally take cover and try to flank you, 
 which can prove initially challenging, but once you know this, its easy to counter and also even 
 more easier to run away as you can sprint extremely fast, u almost feel like superman... but you 
 also have a weight capacity on what u can carry and the more u have the shorter the duration u 
 can sprint, to the point were u cant even walk, if u decide to exceed your weight limit. Overall 
 the game play is pretty good, mix of quests with killing and some immersive graphics works nicely. 
 So graphics and sound? sound is actually pretty good, but nothing worth even talking about. Graphics 
 are outdated, but have a very good overall look to them, they really do help draw you into this 
 world your playing in and make you feel apart of it, which is one of the main reasons you will 
 enjoy playing the game... given if your computer can handle it, even though outdated, you may need 
 to tweak your settings to get the most of the game.
  
  In the end I found the game to be good fun, I enjoyed running around and having my own private 
 wars without really having to worry about the quests, but in the end I did do the quests since 
 you can only get so far simply killing everything mindlessly. I ended up finishing the game rather 
 quickly as a result... so fast I was actually extremely disappointed. Because the last few areas 
 felt like I was being rushed to proceed and the environments even though looking genuine felt uninviting 
 and made me want to turn back almost at every corner, all the way up to the end cinematic sequence. 
 I only continued forward due to my desire to finish the game and add another game to my list I 
 had completed, but in the end the best fun in the game was in the middle which is the biggest part 
 of the game also, thankfully. The environments give you more options, more freedom, more to do 
 and simply feel more inviting then the last hour or 2 of the game.
  
  It is worth playing, but my advice is dont rush to the end of the game right of, take your time, 
 kill and kill some more and do a quest or 2, build your gear up and then once satisfied rap things 
 up in style and u should have a more enjoyable experience then I did the 1st time round. Also there 
 is a fair few mods available as I speak, so if u dont like something odds are u can change it 
 :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wee_Jinky
Rating: 3.1
Date: May 6, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I Like most people ,waited a long time to play this game, and i am not one to get to excited about 
 a game, i did not with this one and when i sat down to play it i was not really expecting anything 
 special. But with the time it took to get this game made and the hype for it i was at least thinking 
 it would be finished and slightly fun.
  
  It is not, it is shoddy workmanship in terms of game making and boring repetitive monotony in terms 
 of gameplay.
  
  I have a top of the line PC and still experianced trouble, the interface is terable and the spoken 
 russian dialouge that is spoken off the cuff in game seems to be wasted on anybody that is not 
 russian.
  
  I really really wish i never wasted my money on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Predatorfree
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Really!!! Super game atmosphere!!!!! and single player game stories is supper!!!!! super graphics 
 !good sound! great game very impressive... thank you, developer team worker!!!! to be continue please!!!! 
 always Stalker!!!.. oblivion lost! im score 10 PERFECT game!!!!! cult game. i am machine is windows 
 xp service pack 2, 1,5 gb DDR ram, nvidia geforce 7600gt 256mb driver 93.71,! and 5.1 creative 
 5200 (super sound) ) best gameplay, no bugs and no trip! best performance game! only shadows quality 
 off!!!! i like the chapter is brain scorcher and garbage (texas:) game videos is so cool!! i am 
 waiting the (so long missions ) expansion pack! no end! great work GSC GAME WORLD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pms81350
Rating: 3.1
Date: May 6, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  No excuse for this steaming pile of a game. No excuse. I have a state of the art system and it still 
 plays like you're in molasses. The game even feels old and that is probably why it brainlocks on 
 newer systems. If I'm not mistaken, Prey made the same boo-boo, only it played far better. I guess 
 it was too long in development or they rushed it to market. Either way they should have ironed out
 
  the bugs or shelved it. In this day and age there is no room for this sort of garbage in the gaming 
 community. Just for the record I am running Vista Home Premium with an AMD FX 57 processor,2 Gigs 
 of Mushkin Redine Ram,2 Nvidia 7900 GTX's, WD Raptor 10k HD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfarious
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 5, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  The early combat frustrations go away eventually leaving you with an immersive experience. I'm 
 currently two-thirds through the main story so I've seen enough of the game to make a few comments. 
 I've played many of the best shooters in the past five years to be able to make good comparisons 
 against Stalker.
  
  First here are a few of my criticisms to get them out of the way.
  
  One criticism I have is preventing those boundary box transgressions, specifically the bullet 
 sparks from ricochets penetrating through walls. I'm sure writing code for a modern shooter is 
 challenging, but some developers are better then others at keeping the walls opaque and impenetrable.
 
  
  The graphics in general aren't up to modern standards, say compared to the elaborate spark and smoke 
 effects in Fear, for example.
  
  Of course, as others have said the inventory system could use some streamlining, which I agree.
 
  
  The frame rate issues are well documented, but I'm doing pretty well using the medium settings. 
 Also with the new frame rate enhancement mod, I can now run the game with full dynamic lighting. ( 
 Gforce 7800, Athlon3000, Windows XP)
  
  I had to turn the gamma up a small bit because sometimes it seemed too dark.
  
  Headshots are 
 almost mandatory. I think they could make some chest shots be more lethal.
  
  Of course vehicles would also be a nice addition.
  
  And now to some unique and noteworthy 
 things I like about Stalker. They a. i. routines of animals are interesting, and on the right path 
 for future games. They aren't smart enough to suspend disbelief, but they are an improvement over 
 dumb monster zombies without survival agendas that just kill or commit suiside.
  
  In pure human combat the enemy a. i. does some cool stuff such as hiding behind walls, crouching 
 down for cover, and showing team work. One scene really surprised me early in the game where I 
 was set up behind a tree along a wall waiting to ambush the enemy as they rounded this corner ahead. 
 When the first npc guy came around the corner, I shot a couple of bursts at him, nicked him and 
 he retreated for cover. Next time he came around the corner he was crouched, moving sideways, and 
 firing all at the same time! He was a tougher target, and I subsequently missed with my first burst, 
 and thats all it took for him to turn me into Swiss cheese. The extra a. i. script here was subtle, but 
 for me it makes a big difference. Its a more immersive experience to not be able to predict all 
 of the a. i. tactics after just seeing a couple hours of the game.
  
  Another unique thing about stalkers are their rpg elements, which allow for some dialogue with 
 some npc characters. I'm not much of an rpg gamer, so I'm nonplussed about that aspect. It includes 
 a bunch of text boxes to read.
  
  The sounds in the game are fine. Wispy wind, Geiger counter clicks, and the occational gun shot 
 are par for the course. The Russian language used in the backround, and in the taunts is fine for 
 me as it just adds to the atmosphere.
  
  the supernatural aspects of the game are eerie but not frighting, like another reviewer said. No 
 Alma moments so far!
  
  Also, the game had an aspect to it, that I haven't seen in many games, which is not to have to finish 
 off every enemy in a given area. So if your're objective is to ge somewhere else, then shooting 
 it out may not be the most efficient way to complete that task. Why fight if you don't have to? Of 
 course some fights are mandatory.
  
  The level design nearly perfect for it intended purpose. It looks just like what rusted Russian 
 ruins in the countyside around Chernobyl might look like. Here's an example of subtle detail. When 
 I was searching one dead end room looking for a path to the next area, the developers could have 
 just filled it with some uninspired crates, instead it had rows of metal lathes and other machine 
 shop equipment. I thought that was cool. An extra effort that adds to the reaism.
  
  I also like the weather effects and how they add to the dystopian atmosphere.
  
  A few other 
 game developement choices I liked included gun jamming, the limited ammo available, the dark coridor 
 fighting tactics, and not freezing time for PDA checks or searching bodies. I think some of the 
 darker corridors are interesting in regards to tactics. Do you turn on your light to see the enemy 
 and have the enemy see you at the same time.
  
  Overall I think it's a great game so far.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  n 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokerdk
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 5, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  A long waited game is finally and again finally out! I started with answering to a topic but ended 
 with this. I was not impressed at all when I began to play, but later after talking to my friend 
 on the phone and discussing the game for a very long time, I decided to give it another shot. We 
 have been waiting for this game forever. I still remember sitting in the dark room together with 
 my friends, reading out loud different creepy, scary stories on the S. T. A. L. K. E. R. s homepage. 
 I still remember downloading every trailer, every picture that I could get my hands on. Enough 
 of that, lets see what the final game can offer. Of course the game has it's downsides. It's not 
 as open ended as Oblivion. Many side quests can not be completed. When you start playing it's not 
 all that great. You are running around the Zone with practically nothing: bad armour, stupid shotgun. 
 Not until later in the game where you get werious nice upgrades, weapons and artefacts. I love 
 the game for its: superb AI, incredible weather effects, underground levels, creepy monsters, unpredictable 
 anomalies. It feels more like leaving though the game not playing. The game play it self is so 
 tense. There is always something new you have to do, accomplish. Besides that I just love to stop 
 for a moment and listen to other stalkers in the zone, sitting by the fireplace, telling different 
 jokes, stories and playing the guitar. This is a HUGE PLUS that you understand Russian. I can tell 
 you that you miss a lot, by not understanding what other stalkers are talking about. The mood 
 in the bar felt so real that I did not want to leave that place. For a moment, I was stunned and 
 could not move!
  Finally the game has 7 different endings, but they are basically the same.
  I think that this 
 game should be the game of the year.
  The game graphics are overall great. I am running the game almost maxed out at 1680x1050 (after 
 installing 1.02 patch) on my C2D 6600, 2GB DDR2 and 7900 GTX EE and my brand new 22 SyncMaster 
 226BW. I still remember them saying S. T. A. L. K. E. R. will be very rewarding for the Hardcore gamers 
 that are using all there time and money to have the best of the best. Its so true, that I might 
 even buy a new 8800 GTS/GTX for only one purpose, to run this game on MAX.
  All for now, awaiting for Expansion Pack! Thank you GSC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcostin
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 5, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  This game of course is not revolutionary, but GSC Game World has produced a good game that was 
 not really meant or geared towards Vista. I have Vista Ultimate 64bit edition and I cannot even 
 get going after the first check point without it locking up on me. I have the guts to run anything 
 and my 3dsMark06 score of 15482 shows I have a stable machine. My engine is 680i montherboard with 
 4GB of XMS2 ram and 2 8800GTS video cards in SLI mode. I love the look and feel of this game and 
 would like it even more if it liked vista. Or maybe Vista like it, lol. Non the less WIndows Vista 
 Ultimate 64bit and STALKER do not mix. Hopefully a patch will be released to address this, then 
 again maybe not since 64bit is not mainstream just yet. Though it should be since it handles higher 
 GB of ram then 32bit OS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxiM_
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Someone said it grows on you . Well, it does.
  At the beginning you may think it's nothing exceptional if you played enough FPS games, along with 
 RPG titles like The Elder Scrolls series - at least i did. Man i was wrong! When you really start 
 exploring the world around you it becomes something unique. The atmosphere is incredible, the whole 
 Zone is so realistic and immersive. In most games graphics are just graphics and levels are designed 
 to be usable as much as they can. Here its a different story. The world seems pretty random, 
 but not like oh Im a bored mapper, Ill throw some junk to make the map look better, its random 
 enough to seem natural, more life-like. Some things are there just to be there  to make you feel 
 like in a real world after a nuclear disaster, not in a Hollywood production. I could write about 
 the atmosphere and the environment for hours, but thats enough for this review. Let me just say 
 this: you really want to engage in a big firefight in a stormy nigh at the Garbage.
  Some people are complaining about the lack of a real RPG system, or lack of oh the horror, the 
 horror! horror. Thats just whining. I really thing removing leveling system ad stuff like that 
 was a good choice after all. You do develop you character, but in a different manner. You are developing 
 you own skills, because the game is different enough from the other FPS games that you will have 
 to adjust. If youll rush through the game it will be even more difficult. In this game leveling 
 up would be fake tbh. As it is now, you get new equipment (very often by fighting for it and you 
 really have to earn it most of the time) , new artifacts; you learn new tricks, you adjust to the 
 game after every major equipment switch. This solution is really better, than artificially forcing 
 you to kill fifteen more boars to wear that armor or weapon. Really.
  As for the horror part: thats another over exaggerated expectation. This game has enough scary 
 element as it is. STALKER is psychedelic, it doesnt make you jump in your seat too often, but 
 it makes you all nervous and anxious when you encounter some things or events during game-play. 
 Psychedelic factor of the game beats cheap scares anytime imo.
  Gamespot says you can complete the game in about 7 hours  man, what a waste of good game. It took 
 me about 40 (or more) hours to beat it. I wasnt rushing the plot, i was experiencing the world 
 in the game, doing some sub-quests, exploring regions insignificant to the plot-line, but very 
 exciting nonetheless. If you pay attention to details, ending of the game will not be any major 
 surprise for you, but it will definitely tie up some loose ends if you manage to get the right 
 ending. The best ending is very satisfying and allows you to explore more of the infamous Chernobyl 
 power station.
  I love the weapons, armors and artifacts  their differences. Everyone will find something for 
 themselves, suiting their game style: from fastnfurious scouts, to heavy juggernauts.
  This game is rich, even though the plot isnt very fancy. But its deep.
  Its atmospheric, immersive, 
 exotic and fresh. You wont find many of those things in average mainstream productions. For every 
 Fallout (or simply the post-nuclear) fan this game is a must. Just one thing: dont expect this 
 game to be what its not supposed to be in a first place: a horror of a full scale cRPG. Its STALKER.
 
  I enjoyed this game quite much, even though there are some bugs (I played the patched version, 
 but there are still few glitches, that less engaged players can easily skip or miss) and I am more 
 that sure that I will attempt to finish this game at least one more time before it gets really 
 old (or Fallout 3 beats it) .
  My advice to finish my review: dont listed to whiners, just try if you like games like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 3, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. was delayed and delayed and delayed.......
  And now its out in the stores.
  The good thing about stalker is that it features a nice world (landmass)
  to explore with tons 
 of quests and things to see.
  The bad thing is that it is so damn hard that its almost unplayable.
  Like when you walk on the 
 road and suddenly five or six blind dogs appear.
  It plainly sucks.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Enough too do and see
  +Features solid shooting sequences
  +Good variety of enemies too discover 
 and kill
  +Its got multiplayer options!
  +Its got lots of atmosphere
  +Its got the alliance thing, where you can choose too be friendly with one faction and neutral 
 or hostile against others.
  -This game is so damn hard, even on low difficulty
  -Weapons are not really powerful
  -PDA sucks
  -Some quests are actually boring
  -Story isnt 
 that interesting
  -Where is the horror, some cellars with pigs and bloodsuckers dont scare me.
  -too much bugs 
 due to the open end gameplay
  -Translation problems
  
  Graphics:
  +Looks good, even though it was delayed alot
  -Requires a bit of good hardware
  -Looks a little 
 foggy, just like area 51 or pariah
  
  Sounds:
  +Amazing background sounds like the wind and rain
  +weapons sound great, too bad the weapons 
 are so weak
  +/- Alright music (inro and stuff)
  
  Value:
  ++ Lots of stuff too do and kill
  +Good variety -Not enough weapons
  -Game is so damn hard
 
  
  Tilt:
  +Standard FPS conrols (OMG)
  -PDA sucks
  -No real tutorial
  -Story sucks and is very boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nanofear
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 1, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I needed a fps to play and remembered stalker had came out a few weeks ago it was fairly inexpensive 
 so i picked it up. I dont know why but this game started out to be the biggest pain in the ass 
 to figure out what the hell was going on with the story and gameplay. I must've redone the first 
 sub missions 4 or five times to see what the motivation of the game was even about and the whole 
 time some missions would be available at certain points but not after a redo. Once I got going 
 and tried to blow through some story I some how advanced to where the weapons actually took down 
 enemys and items became a little more abundant helping in the progression. The glitches in the 
 game were a surprise to me ive never seen a game with this much **** hampering the whole of the 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda024
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 1, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Man this is the game that made me create a gamespot acc.
  
  1-Graphics: Ok so not better looking then Oblivion but they give the game a good gritty feel to 
 it, I wouldent change the graphics for nothin.
  
  2-Sound: Great sounds in this game, really sets the mood for the Zone
  
  3-: Gamelay: This is 
 were the game really shines, best gameplay in a fps sice farcry, i thought farcry gave me freedome 
 but I love how i feel like a merc and do what I want when I want kill who i want. It was awsome 
 when i first played and i killed the guy after i got a quest item from him, when the patch came 
 out i had to replay so this time i didnt kill him and i found new stuff in the store that wasnt 
 there before, Thats what i call a game were you can change the world around you.
  
  4-Replay value: This is a game were evry zone is dif and not one building is the same you will 
 play this for a good long while, great value.
  
  Overall this is a great game with good graphics and non liner So your free to do as you please, 
 take it frome me one of the best games for PC end of story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtysoutherner
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 8, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  Reviewing a game without playing it all the way through or at least a significant amount of time 
 is something I usually wouldnt do but I can honestly say that with STALKER I got all I could handle 
 very early on. I, as were many, was very excited while waiting for this game to finally hit stores 
 and even though the developers promised a lot, I was still skeptical about how good it would turn 
 out. I even told myself not to get my hopes up too high while waiting so long for STALKER. But 
 even so, the level of dissapointment is massive. My first gameplay experience in STALKER was very 
 telling. I see the atmosphere for the first time, I turn all the way around to get a good first 
 look and I notice a mutant dog running in place. WIthout anything absructing its path the dog was 
 running in place with open space all around it. But even with this as an introduction to the game, 
 I still held hope and for what?
  
  Basically, there is NOTHING great about STALKER but everything in the game is either just pretty 
 good, average or below average.
  
  First, the so called great graphics- Nothing special. Considering the bigger world, the graphics 
 are pretty good but overall nothing more than that. They are muddy and basically average for todays 
 standards. Had the game been releasted even remotely near the time it was scheduled to be then 
 the graphics would be a lot better, but I cant ignore the quality of the graphics because the game 
 was delayed multiple times.
  
  The AI is off and on and when its off, its way off. Early in the game I meet up with someone and 
 soon after we stop talking bandits attack our group. As bullets fly all around him he proceeds 
 to stand in the middle of the open area and stare into space while I take cover and his friends 
 fire back. After we finish off the last of the attackers I look back and see that he hasnt moved 
 the entire time. I never saw any real smart action by the AI in the game. The most I saw was guys 
 staying near the same spot I first saw them and shooting at you when you come into their view. 
 Most guys wouldnt move at all and just wait for you to pop into view. The guys I saw move didnt 
 move far from where I first spotted them but then again I couldnt force myself to play long enough 
 to fully see the full extent of the AI. The tactics of the AI could quite possibly be showcased 
 later in the game so I cant comment on the good but I can say how bad the AI can be and if ive 
 seen this level of stupidity by the AI this early in the game then I wouldnt bet that this kind 
 of horribly dumb AI is all that uncommon.
  
  You have probably already heard the opinions on the FPS and RPG elements of the game. Overall, 
 they are both average or below in my opinion. I dont play many RPG's but im possitive that they 
 arent limited to the shallow gameplay as seen here. As far as shooters go, and I play a lot, its 
 the same deal- nothing more than average. As with many other gameplay elements, whats promised 
 isnt whats delivered. The developers promised realistic ballistics but what we get is more random 
 than realistic. You could miss from under ten feet while an enemy hits you from extreme ranges 
 and vice versa. Some enemies spot you from long range while others wont notice you run at full 
 speed close to them until you are a few feet away. I realize the guns you get early on in the game 
 are more inaccurate than the later guns but its too unbalanced to be taken seriously. The shooting 
 feels lifeless and lacks serious impact. You usually dont know if you hit a target or not and if 
 you do figure out youve hit your mark, its probably because the guy you hit does an animation where 
 he slumps over which I saw countless times in my limited time playing.
  
  Bugs run rampant in the zone . Which is to say that for everything you experience in the game there 
 will be a glitch lerking around somewhere. Bugs are abundant in the game and its a little weird 
 considering the extremely lengthy development time. When you ask people who love STALKER what they 
 think is so great about it, they will probably mention the immersive atmosphere first. It is pretty 
 immersive but thats where it ends. The game promised a huge, open world that you could explore 
 freely at your own pace. Not exactly what was delivered once again. In the game you progress through 
 levels, they are just bigger than levels in other games. Seriously, the huge world is just some 
 bigger levels. You need to confirm you want to move to the next level then wait for it to load 
 up. These levels are all boxed in like levels in any other game. You can only go so far on a certain 
 level, period. Plus, there are scripted events. One time I came up on a warehouse and heard fellow 
 stalkers calling out for help because they were about to be attacked. I died in the battle and 
 came up on the warehouse again and the same thing happened.... again. So now you know.
  
  When reading reviews on the internet you have to stay skeptical to get the full unbiased reaction 
 to a certain game. There will always be 9's and up on gamespot for almost any game and even lots 
 of them for games that are nothing more than average like STALKER. But what you have to look at, 
 especially on gamespot, is how many negative reviews a game gets. Just a couple negative reviews 
 among very many good ones isnt much to change your opinion on buying a game but when you start 
 to see more you should start to suspect something. Look in the reviews for STALKER, there are quite 
 a few who give it the score it deserves. Your always going to have people giving average games 
 great reviews but just look at how many negative reviews STALKER has.
  
  Overall, there is nothing special or even that good in STALKER. Even if STALKER hadnt been in development 
 for so many years and hadnt promised so much innovation and immersion it still wouldnt be anything 
 more than a decent shooter. But considering the hype, this game should get ripped a new one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerchris810
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 30, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  having had the game for a few months now ive been able to find alot of different tricks, i can 
 tell you that the game itself is good.
  
  The graphics are pretty good not superb but not too bad either. the game play is decent, the amount 
 of weapons you get is great it ranges from small pistols to rocket launchers, all of which will 
 be useful at different times in the game. The enemies in the game are great again there is a large 
 variety of people and mutants to kill. the mutant dogs are superb as they attack sometimes such 
 as, if there in a pack then they will more likely attack than if they were on there own.
  
  the story is really good and intense, it can be extremely scary at times but others it can be a 
 really fun sunny day, the weather system is amazing specifically the rain and thunder storms, it 
 also has a day/night feature which works very well.
  
  the sad points are the fact that I'm running the game on a 8800GTS and the game can not be maxed 
 out, showing a clear graphical issue. which is real shame, some other flaws are a few glitches 
 such as the rain bug, where it rains and you get strange white lines across the screen.
  
  but all in all stalker is a good game and id recommend it to anyone who is interested in fps/rpg 
 games.
  
  gamerchris 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_bingham
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  ---my review has changed ---
  Review below is based on dubious first impressions. My char just wanders around getting randomly 
 radiated and dying or killed by thugs; the stealth part of it ( a la Far Cry) isn't there, so you 
 can't sneak up and take out guards out one by one for loot -- not with the weapons I have and the 
 surrounding brush. Basically, the game is a waste of money unless I'm missing something. I have 
 a very good system, so I do not have any performance issues.
  And any bugs I have noticed are very minor. But the game itself is ... like, what is the game itself?
 
  
  It's a good start to where the genre is headed, but I'm done with this game after a few days. The 
 last game I finished was F. E. A. R then -- back in early 06.
  Before that Far-Cry, HL2, and Doom III -- all of these finished with a flourish and a smile. Had 
 a great time with all of them, scripted or not.
  
  This game will end up in my unfinished bin with a lot of other mediocre games. I just don't have 
 time for this sh! t. I may try more, we'll see.
  
  Dogs running in place here or there and other minor bugs that people mention don't really bother 
 me much as long as the overall game works. Maybe I'm too old for just an open world or too crotchety 
 to enjoy games different from the ones I've played already.
  Let me say, There needed to be a little more Far Cry/HL2 in this game; take me to a mission, give 
 me lots of room to finish it etc; but just running around and dying from radiation has gotten old 
 very quickly. You have to put more effort into creating an adventure than just ensuring I die every 
 15 minutes from radiation while I search for more vodka.
  
  -&gt; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siemek
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The atmosphere is amazing. Excellent graphics and sound help you to feel Ukrainian territory. One 
 of the best games I've ever played in my long gaming experience.
  yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes 
 yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes 
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes 
 yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes 
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes 
 yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes 
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes 
 yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes 
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes 
 yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes 
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes 
 yes yes yesyes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  STALKER: Shadow of Chernobyl was one of those games that I witnessed only momentarily flashing 
 by the screen on any given G4-TechTV show, or Gamespot Bulletin. The fact is, to me, without knowing 
 the concept it simply looked a Half-Life 2 port. Now, after some years, the game has finally hit 
 shelves while also forgetting to hit a home run... or even some expected marks. The truth of the 
 matter is that STALKER could have been FAR more than it is... A dirty, uninspired and empty looking 
 world with tremendously wretched graphics. The fact that 98% of then dialogue is text-only, and 
 further, that most of this dialogue is composed TERRIBLY with phrases only a ten-year old could 
 love ( Oh cool, that's awesome was one seasoned Stalkers response to my rescuing of a friend of 
 his) makes this game all the more intolerable.
  
  The game really doesn't feel that inspired, the plot, dialogue, graphics, and even sound are all 
 half-baked and sub-par, But I'll give it a few positives.
  
  It seems to have decent AI, aware of reload times of the player, and basic flanking procedures.
 
  
  The game has a great premise and idea, which may be better suited to a Television Show or Film... Both 
 of which I would watch
  
  It does a good job with a trade system (Item for Item) Has a decent sense of post-apocalyptic atmosphere
 
  
  The idea of Stalker competition had me excited
  
  All in all, you probably should check this one out via a demo or a sustained reading of other reviews 
 to see if it floats your boat. Shooting people and stealing their items can be fun in the least, 
 though, certainly not worth a purchase. By no means is the game terrible... It's just not very good
 
  
  Friendly Corporate Reminder: PLEASE hire decent writers if you're going to make the player read 
 through mountains of text. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Durb118
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  Very good looking game. Great graphics atmospheric sound. Good combination of FPS and RPG elements. 
 This game reminded of the on line game Anarchy Online, just had a similar feel to it. All though 
 the character development is virtually non existent, but perhaps I'm just looking for RPG element 
 that arn't there, after all this is a shooter, but it feels like an RPG! Good thing? Well it does 
 seem to work.
  This is one of those games where you really should be playing in the middle of the night, in the 
 dark, with a good set of head-phones turned way up. (Obviously not with a heart condition, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 does has the capacity to make one jump) .
  You don't often see a reasonable Mad Max type post apocalyptic story in games or films, they are 
 usually pretty lame. With S. T. A. L. K. E. R. though, its holds up.
  My overall impression of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is one of 30 quid well spent. I got plenty of hours out 
 of it before getting bored and apart from a slight repetiveness with the side missions this game 
 held my interest throughout.
  Would reccomend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leosdel
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 27, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Agree that it may not be as good as Half Life 2, but is indeed something extraordinary, the environmental 
 sounds and musics lets you feel the zone situation and really accompanies the players emo , the 
 mutants motion is very well achieved as the sense of horror in some parts of the game, also the 
 story is a hit. The freedom, exploration chance and open ending make it the Shooters RPG , in the 
 other hand they should have worked harder in the creation of big special enemies (kind of bosses) , 
 without mentioning the bugs problem, they could have done a better use of that big scenario and 
 the factions making the game pretty longer and impossible to forget, and well the last and personally 
 considered elemental weakness is the poor characters desing, which is the basis for a great catchy 
 game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoplexiorayo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 27, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  When was the last time you dreamed of a shooter that let you go in a large open world and do everything 
 you want? if your looking for this, then look no further cause S. t. a. l. k. e. r has arrived...
  
  It all begins with you driving a death truck, its dark and you cant see anything, a accident 
 happens and you and your comrades are dead. A sniper finds you and takes you to a mysterious man 
 called Sidorvich. You dont remember anything and you get your new name Marked One and on your PDA 
 it stands Kill strelok . Its up to you to find out whats going on and which sides your gonna take.
 
  
  What makes S. T. A. L. K. E. R different from other shooters is that you dont follow a restricted path 
 like you do in almost every game. This makes the game also feel like a role-playing game which 
 is great. You dont have one specific task you have to carry out. You can solve peoples problems, 
 you can search for artifacts and stuff, and you can see if you can find a better weapon. The Main 
 quests usually involves taking documents, and maybe searching for someone to either kill them or 
 to get more information. all of those quests feel really rewarding as you can get new firearms, 
 maybe a new cool artifact, or get a new body armor. The mini quests consists of either getting 
 something from a monster, killing som bandits, or finding some artifact. You usually just end up 
 getting cash. Whats really cool is that your always fighting for survival. Finding some ammo for 
 your gun desperately getting to the one your killed or find a medkit to restore your health in 
 the last second. This makes the game hard, but not so hard that its frustrating.
  
  Most of the game consists of pure action, but there is also horror in the game aswell. For example 
 one mission you have to go to an deserted underground lab. The game quickly turns into horror as 
 your just waiting for the next mutant to jump right at you. The horror aspects are done really 
 well and can certainly rival F. E. A. R on that part. A reason it is so scary is because of the intelligent 
 AI. For example in a bathroom a monster sneaks up on you and sends you flying. The humans are also 
 smart. They will hide behind cover, and stay in cover until you get close and then they shoot you 
 right in the head. They will also fall back in retreat and double team you. because of the excellent 
 AI. Making the only chance of survival waiting for them in a doorway blasting them, or throwing 
 a grenade. The only downside is that monsters especially in the underground will get stuck.
  
  As you progress the level of radiation increases and lets not forget the anomalies. Anomalies 
 are on the ground and they can get really annoying. They can either sqaush you to pieces, burn 
 you or shock damage you. The story also gets deeper as cutscenes gives the feeling of chernobyl 
 getting closer. Though some of the cutscenes doesnt really make sense at all. most of the characthers 
 in the game are not really deep, they dont have much to say and dont really give the feeling that 
 you are in chernobyl. The main quest characthers are much deeper and makes the game even more fun 
 to play, listening to someones story can be really exciting. There are 11 endings with 6 being 
 good and 5 being bad. some of them dont make sense, but its great to see all of the endings, the 
 endings have effect on which sides you take and who you help and what you find by the way.
  
  Multiplayer was Satisfactory. some of the maps gave alot of fun. It was sort of like CS combined 
 with Battlefield. It also uses the money system of CS. But people will lag alot in Multiplayer 
 which is dissapointing and makes it hard to kill somebody. but the game had a decent amount of 
 players which was good. Like with all games S. T. A. L. K. E. R have some bugs. some of the quests are 
 uncompletable, and some of them dont come off the map making you go too see if your done the quest 
 only to see you have already done it. You will also get the mini quests over and over again, and 
 all of the quests from different NPCs usually involves the same thing. The map can also be buggy. 
 sometimes when you zoom in you end up by zooming out and vica versa. The map will also show the 
 wrong location at times, making you scroll thorugh the whole map to find where you are. S. T. A. L. K. E. Rs 
 graphics are dated since the game shipped a little bit late. the weapons is the one who looks the 
 worst. But it makes up for it with the amazing amount of details. For example seeing the sun rise 
 down in the lush forests. The lighting effects are top notch. no game has ever created such good 
 effects. The flashlight will go through the room and stuff like that. The characthers animation 
 looks simply ugly but the face doesnt look that bad. In one city named Yantar the frame rate will 
 drop amazingly much, and its bearly playable, making the experience more dissapointing. the frame 
 rate seemed to drop when it was really bad weather or there were a high level of radiation. monsters 
 look intimidating and scary like they should be. Especially underground.
  
  Sound is a strong point. The guns sound powerful and like they should be. Hearing a animal scream 
 from far far away, or listening to the loop of the wind. makes the gameworld active. Voice acting 
 is really well done, and even better its voiced by russians. this gives more of the feeling that 
 your in chernobyl. There is no other worthy voice actor in this game then a russian. Also in the 
 underground hearing the rattling of a monster can give you shivers down your spine. or hearing 
 the air or some package falling down and crushing down always makes your mouse fly away. The only 
 annoying thing is that woman in mulitplayer. Man she talks more then a wrestling commentator.
 
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. S main quest will take you 15 hours or something like that. but with all the side 
 quest and you searching every crook and canny it can take up to 60 hours. The game is also well 
 worth to play again helping another faction or something and see what ending you get. The multiplayer 
 could use some work, but its decent anyway and it got 8 maps which is fair enough. Where you will 
 find most value is certainly the singleplayer. and by the way there isnt many games anymore that 
 lets you play a shooter for so long and being worth playing over and over.
  
  So all summoned up. if your looking for a superb singleplayer where you can go anywhere you want 
 and help anyone you want (my dream since i was a kid) . and combining action along with great horror 
 then this is what you should be playing. It may got some quest bugs and some performance issues, 
 but lets face it any game as bugs thats the way it is. If you are looking for the next great battlefield 
 or something then stay away as the multiplayer isnt really that good. Overall S. T. A. L. K. E. R is 
 a experience you should not miss. so buy now!
  
  ... Did you hear a mutant? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -BassO-
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 27, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  Since you'll probably be scanning several reviews, I'll keep this one short.
  
  - Remember Fall Out? Get it off its dosage of Prozac, add some of that grim slavic worldview and 
 shake. Pour it into an FPS mold.
  
  - Incredible sense of realism despite the bugs. From pretty able AI to the dynamics of the large 
 world around you, you feel part of the world instead of having the world revolve around you.
  
  - FPS dynamics for outdoor combat. This game does not compare to the FPS dynamics of Quake 
 or Unreal or other arcade shooters. However, the sense of combat is very real. You just spend more 
 time behind very big rocks, trying not to get hit.
  
  - Messy storyline. 75% of the voice-overs are in Russian. Nobody bothered to translate them. Non-linear 
 scouting messes up the storyline. Very little clues as to the relevances of side-quests towards 
 the finale.
  
  - Micromanagement. Gotta love fiddling with that inventory. Get used to throwing away perfectly 
 good guns. Get used to regretting it when you run out of ammo for the guns you kept. Dump grenades 
 to make space for food. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazorrazor
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  The game is awsome if your a fan of any types of shooting game then you will like this but i dont 
 like the fact that i had evrithing the requerments but still there was lagg problem and evrithing 
 i dont now maybet becuse i downloadit not buyed it but baseecly it was just fun till you have to 
 run around like an idiot
  but evrithing else was just fine +is that the game has cool movies in it -no Multiplayer game no 
 addons no nothing you have like 1 option go on a camping mod just complete the missionsa and thats 
 it no fun you play it fore like 10h and then you had a enoghf of this game bescly i TOUT that the 
 game is beter then in rewives but when i played it i now what there are talking about
  
  
  
  
  
  sorry for my bad english 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightmare97661
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I would have to agree with the review that says this game is one of the most frustrating fps that 
 they have played. I was really looking forward to this game and was disappointed back when they 
 delayed it. (IF only they had just let it fall off a bridge and die) . The game boasts being nonlinear 
 and sad to say thats exactly what this game is, devoid of a comprehensible story line (unless you're 
 some crazy Ukrainian fish barber or something) . If you thought that the RPG aspect of the game 
 would make up for its lack of everything except graphics, then you will be disappointed. As you 
 play through the game it will have its exciting and scary parts but after a little while you just 
 feel like your trying to tie your shoe in the dark and after a little while you realize there's 
 no point even trying anymore. I beat the game, please don't make the same mistake as I did and 
 waste your money and life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ukgamecubefan
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 26, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  This game is solid proof that when game makers say were perfecting the game its not always so 
 good, we waited too long to get a game thats as buggy as this one, it runs stable on my system 
 but when I go to save it crashes on me randomly and I have to start the part I just did all over 
 agene.
  
  This is a good game but I no longer whish to play it, as it is frustratingly stupid, all weapons 
 are a waist of time as you can never shoot anything everything takes that much longer than it should. 
 It feels more like a job than a game to play when relaxing.
  
  I've installed the latest patch and things seem to have only got worse, I'm sure there is a good 
 solid game here just can't seem to find it.
  
  Id pre-order BioShock instead 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pimozide
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  STALKER is a novel FPS game with a persistent world environment which takes place in the area of 
 the Chernobyl Reactor disaster. The games claim to fame is the AI that drives this world, and 
 though there remains some fine tuning to balance spawn rates and decomposition rates of corpses, 
 it largely works. Unlike most FPS games that are linear and divided into levels, STALKER has Zones 
 which are populated by a host of hostile, neutral, and friendly NPCs of both the human and non-human 
 variety. It is not uncommon, for example, to happen upon a human NPC fighting for his life against 
 a pack of mutant dogs. You can decide whether to use this as an opportunity to hit him while he 
 is vulnerable, or to aide him for the greater good. Within this context is a linear storyline to 
 help players negotiate the increasingly more challenging zones and it is fairly well executed.
 
  
  Gameplay: You character has two weapon slots, one for a pistol and one for rifle. The weapons are 
 of Russian make. You can carry other weapons in your inventory, but a 50kg limit makes such very 
 difficult without help from a host of mods already in existence. While this is realistic, it can 
 get frustrating when exposed to combat environment where a shotgun would be so much better than 
 a full-automatic rifle. You character's combat and defensive abilities are not controlled by stats, 
 but rather by your skill as a player and by the equipment you wield. Body armor helps soften the 
 impact of a relatively unforgiving damage system. It will degrade over time, and in a rather serious 
 oversight, there is no way to repair it. Fortunately replacements are frequent enough on NPCs and 
 stash loot as to keep your character well protected, but adding a repair system would have been 
 helpful. You can also increase your protection against various types of environmental, physical, 
 and ballistic damage with the use of artifacts that are worn on a belt. Though you can only equip 
 five at a time, extras can be sold to NPCs or one of the games few traders to buy first aid kits, 
 bandages, ammunition, weapons, or armor.
  
  Graphics: The ambiance of the environments adds to the immersive feel. the engine does a decent 
 job at post-apocalyptic scenery and the graphics are nice enough with decent textures. Unfortunately 
 the developer could have spent a bit more time optimizing the propriety rendering engine as players 
 have struggled with Dynamic Lighting and decent frame rates on top of the line systems.
  
  Sound: Both ambient and dynamic sounds are well represented. Users with native SoundBlaster cards 
 can enjoy EAX augmentation, while some users with onboard sound have had some difficulty with performance 
 when trying to enable this option.
  
  Stability: Most problematic is a lack of stability with Windows Vista, which unfortunately will 
 select out users with the systems best able to handle the high hardware requirements to play the 
 game. ATI users also have experienced game stopping stability problems. As mentioned above, the 
 graphics engine has not been well optimized, particularly with dynamic lighting. There are some 
 game stopping bugs as well, such as doors becoming stuck closed and denying access to storyline 
 critical characters. One patch has been released to handle some of these issues, but a long awaited 
 second patch remains unreleased and the developer has not communicated well with the community 
 on a timeline for when it will be released. For those with ATI cards or Windows Vista, asking them 
 to wait indefinitely for a patch has not been well received. But for those still using Windows 
 XP and with NVIDIA cards, stability has been tolerable.
  
  Overall STALKER is a very engaging game with good graphics and sound, but what would have been 
 a great game is marred by a lack of polish and stability. Another few months in the pipeline was 
 needed before its release. Still, if you can get it to work, it a great time and talk of hidden 
 code and game features that were not activated beg for the inevitable expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jschenk
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game. The screens looked pretty amazing, and the setting was very intriguing. 
 Once I installed the game however. I'm left very disappointed. The graphics (even on the highest 
 settings, using the ultra-high mod don't look much better than the average game out there 3 years 
 ago. Now for the game play... I've been playing on the EASIEST setting and I'm getting destroyed. 
 Yes, I know: you can't blame the game because you suck at it . Um, easy should be for toddlers 
 and people who have never played a FPS before. I am neither. The enemies can and will shoot you 
 from forever away with a crappy hand gun and kill you in 2-3 shots. Their range AND accuracy AND 
 damage is unbelievable. You can crouch, take cover and it seems to make no difference. Oh, and 
 they can shoot just as accurately while moving. As for you? Well, your gun (which is the same as 
 theirs, btw) is so inaccurate that you can be nearly point blank and miss. I have literally snuck 
 up on an enemy and shot through an open window (5 feet, max) , zoomed in at the center of their 
 head and missed. EVEN if you do hit them, I've unloaded multiple clips in enemies and they keep 
 coming. Your only chance is a head shot, which is complete luck, given the accuracy B. S. which 
 sprays all your well-aimed shots in a 30 degree cone.
  
  Oh yeah, and half the item descriptions are still in Russian. Have fun figuring out what everything 
 is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  Besides the awesome graphics, the realistic sounds and interactive game play this game comes with 
 something new : the freedom of exploration and of selecting the tasks. And this is something new 
 to this category of games.
  You will find various things there with supra-natural powers, strange characters, and mutilated 
 animals, it's very interesting.
  
  OK, the graphics are great, with high detail textures, vast exploration and unrepeating buildings 
 and places. So far this is the best graphics i have seen in shooter games.
  
  The sounds are excellent it gives the game a spooky atmosphere, sometimes you'll feel like playing 
 a horror game.
  
  Voice acting is remarkable, the russian - english accent, the acoustic guitar sounds around the 
 fire place makes it all.
  
  The only thing that bothered me is the difficulty. I mean it is a hard one, even playing on rookie 
 mode still it's a big challenge. I thing they have exaggerated with this. A game is suppose to 
 be fun not stressing .
  
  I will give it another chance sometime, anyway i am an adventure fan maybe that explains the difficulties 
 that i encountered. It's a great game and for a shooter fan it must be the release of the year 
 so far.
  
  Play it , you won't regret it!
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chainsaw-Lord
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 25, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  I can't exactly describe S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl any other way than just WOW! It succeeds 
 in it's genre where others fail. Its unique blend of exploring, explosive action, trading etc. 
 makes it a fantastic game. Another game of a very similar genre is Boiling Point: Road to Hell, 
 that game is the exact same style of gameplay but it just didn't feel right, I just never enjoyed 
 it that much; but S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a completely different story. The game is set in the aftermath 
 of the 1986 Chernobyl Nuclear accident where the powerplant suffered from a meltdown. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 is set in the near future, the area around Chernobyl NPP (The Zone) is now habitable (providing 
 you wear protection) . The Zone is a 30km square, that you may roam freely. You play as a man known 
 as 'Marked One'. Your unconscious body was dragged from a crashed 'Death Truck' (a truck that takes 
 recovered corpses from the zone) . You suffer from amnesia and know nothing of your past, except 
 on your PDA is a photo of a man, with the writing 'Kill Sterlok'. The story revolves around you 
 'gaining' access to the center of The Zone where Chernobyl NPP lays in its sarcophagus. But on 
 your journey you are not alone, there are other factions working in The Zone as well. There is: 
 Stalkers - Lone men who want to venture in The Zone and discover its secrets.
  The Army - Soldiers who corner off The Zone from the rest of the world, there are ordinary soldiers 
 and Spetnaz special forces, either way, they shoot on sight of Stalkers or any other threat
  Duty - A paramilitary organisation that want to make sure that The Zone doesn't spread, they want 
 to protect the world from the harmful Zone. Freedom - A group of people who want to just share 
 secrets of The Zone with the rest of the world. Science - A group of scientists who want to study 
 The Zone and learn how to harness the power it possesses; creatures, forces, anomalies, artifacts. 
 Monolith - A religious cult who believe in a 'tale' that inside The Zone holds a power that no 
 one has ever seen before, the Monolith.
  Bandits - A gang of men who do nothing but cause trouble in The Zone.
  Mutants/Monsters - Assorted 
 mutants and monsters traverse The Zone, These range from wild or mutated dogs to zombie like people.
 
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. has a few other features that make it very successful, the A. I., Anomalies, Artifacts, 
 Radiation (and other widespread anomalies) and Landscape. The A. I. in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is very good, 
 they will interact with you in and out of combat and make smart tactical decisions. Anomalies are 
 small areas in the land that are a concentration point of an element. There are fire anomalies 
 that once penetrated shoot out a large steam of fire. There are also lighting/electric, gravitational 
 anomalies and more. Artifacts are objects that are formed from things passing though and anomalie, 
 and each artifact has different qualities. One may give you extra endurance, while another may 
 make you bleed less, or health will regenerate. Radiation and other large affected areas are very 
 dangerous. Radiation will build up in you, and unless medical attention is acquired then you will 
 slowly die. Also, another large anomalie is a high PSI area. If you enter the area without proper 
 safety equipment then you will be slowly crushed and hurt by the extremely high PSI. The Landscape 
 in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is great, it is huge but also fun to just walk around in and take out enemies 
 you encounter. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. gives you a choice to complete the main storyline or go and do side 
 missions. Both are fun and exciting to do. The game combines the RPG element, combat FPS action 
 and a survival horror style to it. Exploring a dark, deep and mysterious series of tunnels and 
 labs while being attacked by mutated animals and people can frighten you somtimes. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 is a fantastic game that I and many others strongly suggest for you to get. It can be enjoyed by 
 fans of shooters or role playing games. GET IT NOW... WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR, LOSER? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miszczu69
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 25, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  The game can look great on mid-range graphic cards. You do not need 8800gt
  to play with full detail on high res with aa. That is what makes the game even better. I already 
 tried two of the 8 ending I've heard of. Now I play again and this time I am going to loiter aroud 
 in the amazing world. Tomorrow it will be 20 years since the Chernobyl incident so you can take 
 a look on discovery or national geographic channel to what extent the game reproduces the atmosphere 
 of the Zone. Another thing is that you can learn ukrainian in the game :)
  Vot musicanaya pausa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 24, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This highly anticipated shoot-em up, is designed quite well. It almost has its won ecology to it, 
 and it throws you right into the middle of it. Created by Ukrainian developers GSC, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 is a very impressive game to behold. It blends the aspects of a good shooter; action, horror and 
 exploration.
  One great and notable thing from this game is its uniqueness that sets it apart from others in 
 its genre. You play a as a soldier with amnesia that is stuck in the exclusion zone of a power 
 plant, the very power plant that had exploded horrifically years back, known as Chernobyl. You 
 roam this hot-spot dueling with the likes of mutants, faction soldiers, and all sorts of creepy 
 paranormal activity. All this however doesn't really set itself apart from others in its genre. 
 What makes this game unique is its open game play style. You are not restricted to just one path, 
 such as you would be in F. E. A. R. or Half-Life 2. You can go anywhere, and if you accept the consequences, 
 can do pretty much anything. And in this wonderful world, you will have plenty of target practice 
 as well as suitable paths to choose. Another unique factor is the addition of factions you can 
 join and roll with.
  The visuals in this game nearly match the excellent gameplay. The little exclusion zone of Chernobyl 
 is full of well-designed nasties, in a very horror-like atmosphere. The sounds are like you would 
 expect them to be, and the overall quality of the game is outstanding. Complaints? The story is 
 mostly.... blah. And the game is plagued by both minor and major bugs. The good however clearly 
 outweighs the bad in this equation, making this a very good shooter that no First-Person-Shooter 
 nut should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saltank
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Announced several years ago, this is one of the most awaited games several years ago, back when 
 the new nVIDIA 4 and 5 series cards were announced. Dozens of videos and screenshots were released, 
 outlining the very interesting gameplay ideas and state of the art graphics.
  
  That was at the time. Now, you'll be glad to run STALKER at the bare minimum settings, chances 
 are you will have difficulty configuring your settings just right. Of course you want the absolute 
 best for your system and with a few patches it can be fixed. It still hasn't been and there are 
 still some bugs that would force as gamestoppers for some people. But if you dig through some forums, 
 get the right application you'll be very excited with the results (oh and along with some new nVIDIA 
 Vista drivers!) .
  
  Graphics are great. The atmosphere changes dramatically depending on the time of day, however it 
 seems too quick to change between daytime and night time. Without the advanced HDR and sunlight 
 effects this game may not be even as exciting to play because a lot of emphasis is placed on such 
 small detail, it really does make a difference whether you run the game at lowest possible settings 
 or highest possible settings, you need the rig to run STALKER first of all.
  
  The sound is average, although it's nice to hear the native language being spoken, the developers 
 could have at least put in some subtitles so that people could understand what is happening around 
 them. There is not enough complexity of the sounds and only in the instanced environments and levels 
 does the depth of the sound library spook you out to such a level. Gameplay involves a rather open 
 ended storyline with a similar structure to Oblivion, although the HUD is a little bit nicer in 
 design it is cubersome to get around and will cause you frustration. The main storyline may not 
 make sense until only a second play through the game, where you're already familiar with the structure 
 of the game and have more time to read the sometimes variably boring logs and stuff you pick up 
 from other stalkers.
  
  All in all it's a worthy achievement for a rather no name company and you're bound to enjoy yourself 
 with this one, just give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoxTwo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 24, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing STALKER, I couldn't really get into the game. But, I refused to give 
 up, because I'm not about to waste my money on a game I won't play :)
  
  So I persevered and was rewarded with an intriguing story (although hard to follow at times) . Yes 
 the game has bugs and flaws out-of-the-box. But if you can look past those, you can get at the 
 game underneath. Plus, loading up Mods help with the fun factor too. It's not your traditional 
 FPS, meaning you don't constantly move, weave, duck, bunny-hop etc in-game. In this game most times 
 you need to think a little on how to get past this part etc.
  
  Also, the AI is rather impressive. If you thought Radiant AI from Oblivion was impressive, Alife 
 from STALKER will blow you away. Again, the AI might have some problems but in general, they act 
 like how a human would react, ie they flank you, they cover each other etc. You can only appreciate 
 this when you watch the AI duke it out when one faction meets another faction and you're just the 
 bystander watching the whole battle.
  
  All in all, I have no regrets getting this game. I'm now on my 4th run-through with this game and 
 discovering new things even now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nishiyigeshazi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that provides a fresh look into the world of FPS and RPG games. First of all, the 
 gameplay is very realistic. When you overuse your gun too much, it can jam. Gravity and target 
 movement all affect your shot so this game will test your FPS skills to the max. And this isnt 
 one of those level-based games either, so you have a whole lot of space to explore before you even 
 go on your first mission. This game has only crashed twice in my first playthrough (about 30 hrs) 
 and there are not any more bugs even when i'm running the game on the minimum specs (but still 
 high quality settings!) . There is also a realistic weight system that limits how many guns you 
 can carry so you may only be able to bring your primary and a pistol and some artifacts on some 
 trips into the zone.
  
  This game has just the right amount of difficulty and learning curves. It may get very hard in 
 the beginning, but once you know how the game works you will find it quite easy. The controls and 
 interface system is actually not bad. You can unload guns to remove ammo from them and use it for 
 another gun, or drop them for a new gun altogether. Its a very tactical game and some people who 
 are used to run 'n gun games might find it very hard but if you use cover correctly and be patient 
 this game will be worth it in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ark123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 23, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  While not realizing its full potential, Stalker is a very atmospheric shooter. Though it manages 
 to create an authentic setting, and good (but sometimes annoying) gunplay, it also has several 
 shortcomings that ultimately reduce Stalkers overall quality.
  
  The game takes place in Chernobyl after a nuclear explosion, where you play as an amnesiac stalker 
 (which is a nickname for a Chernobyl inhabitant) . You dont recall anything of your previous self, 
 but one guy agrees to help you if you help him first. So he gives you several missions, and when 
 you complete them, he sends you to people that may know something about your past, and this way 
 you slowly regain your memory. Unfortunately, all the flashbacks you have are in the form of vague 
 cutscenes that are very incoherent and hard to understand. Many times, after watching a cutscene, 
 you will find yourself thinking Okay, nice, but what does it have to do with anything?, and therefore 
 you will find it rather difficult to follow the storyline.
  
  What truly shines in stalker is the atmosphere. Stalker manages to create an authentic post-apocalyptic 
 world full of mutants, radiation, rival gangs, and small camps, scattered across the zone (Chernobyl) , 
 inhabited by desperate people. The outdoor areas are filled with ruins, garbage dumps and anomalies 
 (strange phenomena, such as vertexes and electricity storms) and look bleak; The indoor areas, 
 mostly labs and warehouses, look deserted for many years, and create a creepy atmosphere. And overall, 
 Stalker portrays Chernobyl very well.
  
  The zone is a big place, and is divided to about a dozen locations. You can explore it, look for 
 quest giving NPCs or just ignore everything but the main storyline. Unfortunately, the game doesnt 
 encourage exploring because there is no leveling up in the game and all the items can be found 
 while following the main story and it seems that there is no reward for accomplishing extra missions. 
 Moreover, the game suffers from respawning enemies syndrome, which reduces even more any feeling 
 of accomplishment: Help several fellow stalkers to fight off some bandits, be victorious, and then 
 return on the next day only to find them slain by a reborn group of bandits. Clean a military 
 warehouse of enemies, and get shot while looting the trophies because an enemy spawned behind you 
 back. Yes, they could implement respawning enemies in the wilderness, that will play the role of 
 random encounters, but enemies spawning in specific places that I have visited is an annoying 
 feature to say the least.
  
  Another controversial aspect is the combat. On one hand, the combat in Stalker is both tactical 
 and intense. You cannot blindly charge towards an enemy wielding a shotgun, and survive for longer 
 than 5 seconds. You have to take cover, aim well, and shoot in single shots or short bursts because 
 one cannot shoot 30 bullet burst from 200m and expect to hit 25 of them. But on the other hand 
 they went too far with weapon inaccuracy, and all weapons seem to fire with pistol accuracy. Even 
 when shooting from a powerful rifle, at a medium range target, you will find yourself missing it 
 more than you should. Moreover, when aiming, our main characters hands dont shake or move at 
 all, even after a long sprint, but still you will have a hard time hitting targets. In real life, 
 the factor responsible for not hitting the bullseye every single shot is instability of the hand 
 and not inaccuracy of the rifle, but in Stalker it is the exact opposite.
  
  Graphically, the game is very good. Not only the graphics are smooth and detailed, they, like stated 
 before, do a great job of portraying a post apocalyptic world. Stalker doesnt disappoint in the 
 sound category as well: Although the NPC voice acting is average, there is lot of dialogue in the 
 background. People complain about life, tell jokes and chat with each other  what definitely adds 
 to the atmosphere. Bottomline  Stalker is a unique and very immersive shooter. It offers a large 
 world to explore, intense firefights and interesting locations. However some flaws like respawning 
 enemies and mediocre story presentation decrease its overall quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crxhf
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 23, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Its hard to understand whats going on at the start and takes sometime to get use to. Its very hard 
 at first when playing because of the aiming and unskilled shooter that you are at first in the 
 game. Its not like cs where your bullet flys dead center all the way across the map. It has it 
 were gravity takes affect of the bullet. Also time spent playing increases skill level of your 
 weapon. This seems to go backwards but makes some sense when playing the game. You start to see 
 less bandits and easier kills. Its less challenging to me but iam only on veteran difficultly. 
 The worlds or Zones are really looking detailed. Alot of time to me looks like it was spent. The 
 graphics that everyone says are out dated aren't bad at all and if you can run this on max everything 
 its very detailed and quite impressive for its time. Underground worlds are creepy and the mutants 
 are creepy also. The high levels of radiation or prolonged radiation interaction effects your character 
 and there are artifacts everyone to be used to prevent this or slow down the pain. :) Its pretty 
 fun the explore in this game because its hard to tell what your going to find out there. Like it 
 said detailed is what i saw alot of in this game. Its a game that could be played several times 
 over because of the different endings but ive never really got that involved with a fps ever. Even 
 though this game does have those RPG elements with the inventory setup and trading. But trading 
 is really only done with the actually in game traders which are like what 2 or 3 maybe that you 
 can actually buy stuff off of. Others characters in the game that you can trade only have pitty 
 stuff like bandages etc.. even though money really isn't important in the game because alot can 
 be found on your killed enemies or stahes found in the game. But none of this takes away the gameplay. 
 Its definitely worth buying and playing. I love the whole story behind it and iam still playing 
 it, games usually get old on me fast but this is once again one of the few i have played over. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkmaniac7
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  ok well i got this game the day it came out because its ben delayed for 3-3 years? anyway this 
 may have changed since i have already beaten it and havent applied the patch yet. First off there 
 are hundreds if not thousands of guns in this game which for me is a major plus than the regular, machine 
 gun that doubles as rocket launcher shotgun/flamethrower etc. the game is based several decades 
 after the nuclear disaster at chernobyl I cant remember why but i think it tells you at the games 
 end about why their are mutants/monsters and anomolies (basically if you walk into one weird stuff 
 happens i. e. getting blown around like a twig getting caught on fire, electrocuted, etc. the game 
 starts where another Stalker finds you and picks you up and takes you to a merchant in a nearby 
 city, he saays you owe him a debt and you work for him and get better stuff until you are confident 
 you can make it to the net area of town at this point you start getting into the real part of the 
 story which i wont get into because id get flamed for spoilers XD anyway in version 1.0 i got crashes 
 out the.... it was a lot, also the graphics stuttering was a problem too (if you have any kind of 
 AGP card like me a 7800 GS tTURN OFF dynamic lighting! this happened to be my problem which made 
 the FPS go from 12 up to 53! this being with med. settings on FSAA 2x and 1280x1024) also on 3 
 occasions i can think of a critical character got stuck once on nothing another time trying to 
 go through a wall and another on a step..... I have heard from a friend that most of these issues 
 have been treated in patch 1.0001im unsure about dynamic lighting. just to throw it out their for 
 comparison sake i have an average computer built 2 1/2 years ago specs are:
  AMD 64 Athon X2 4400+ Socket 939 (overclocked 12%)
  1 GB PC3200 Ram
  250gb primary,320gb secondary 
 160 tertiary hard drives BFG Nvidia 7800GS OC
  700 Watt PSU
  -------
  I think thats all that really matters, also their has been talk of controversy that the devs stole 
 content from HL2 and Doom 3, these effects were taken from a free texture pack that they used, 
 heres the link to the story: http://www. planetamd64. com/index. php? showtopic=31415 anyway id say 
 10/10 if those issues are gone! go out and buy a copy today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spelman
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  This game is so nearly there that when you finally realise that it is all flash and no substance 
 the disappointment is all the more. S. T. A. L. K. E. R really wants to be the Oblivion of the FPS, but 
 falls down on many counts. Despite having a large open freely explorable area which is excellently 
 rendered and provides a good back drop to the game, the main plot (such as it is) is weak, weak, 
 weak and totally incoherent. Cut scenes seem to be fairly random snippets from some larger scheme 
 but there is no mystery, no building tension, nothing that drives you forward and so each of the 
 main missions (regardless of great atmospheric locations and pretty decent AI and foes) will leave 
 you cold. With such freedom to explore S. T. A. L. K. E. R really needs this strong central mission to 
 make you want to explore.
  
  The side missions are even worse, consisting of fetch-this or kill-that. Also, there is no incentive 
 to do them for the cash as you can pick up everything you need from your fallen foes and there 
 are very few special items worth buying. S. T. A. L. K. E. R features anomalies that function as kind 
 of power-ups. But the range of what they can do is pathetic and unimaginative and yet again youre 
 left with a big so what feeling. It feels like an idea that was only half implemented. In fact 
 later in the game anomalies essentially disappear, which tells you all you need to know about how 
 important they are! Similarly, the enemies that your face again have a strangely uncompleted aura 
 to them. Theres a mixture of human factions, mutants, zombies and beasts and although the AI is 
 quite good and there are some interesting ideas, there is no sense of any reason WHY. There is 
 no advantage or change in the plot/outcome if you join a faction, no over-riding reason for their 
 to be zombies or mutants in any one area, in fact everyone just seems to have decided to go to 
 Chernobyl for the hell of it! It is like the developers set the stage for something and then dont 
 bother.
  
  Finally, the biggest irritation that I had with this game was the lack of the ability to fast 
 travel between areas you had already explored. Again, this is an idea that is almost a prerequisite 
 for a game that wants to be so open. So for example, to follow one of the plot strands you suddenly 
 have to WALK back through about three-quarters of the game to have a 1 minute conversation with 
 someone.
  
  So overall, despite the visual excellence and interesting location and atmosphere, S. T. A. L. K. E. R 
 feels half finished. Wait for it to appear in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drazhar2000
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 20, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  We all learnt about Chernobyl in school, it was one of the worst meltdowns in history, but what 
 would happen if it happened again? Well, if it really did, you would get something from the game: 
 S. T. A. L. K. E. R - Shadow of Chernobyl. Stalker - Shadow of Chernobyl is a FPS set in Ukraine and 
 puts you in the shoes of a man who is suffering with amnesia and doesnt know who he really is 
 and what he is doing here. First ill explain what here is, like I said youre in Ukraine near the 
 old power plant of Chernobyl. As we should all know in 1986 this power plant kinda exploded with 
 the effects being felt in America, but 20 years later the nuclear power plant was put back into 
 service and it exploded once more, this time for real. Many people were killed and a radius of 
 radiation affected land was completely mutated, and The Zone was created. This is an area where 
 dogs arent just dogs, there giant blind mutants ready for a feed, very weird and dangerous anomalies 
 float around and you are someone called a Stalker, there are thousands of stalkers in the zone 
 and there all wondering around gathering food and surviving the radiation. The game play is similar 
 to the game Boiling Point (if anyone has played it) , its totally free-roaming with some RPG elements 
 and a lot of guns to find and use, its realistic and hard at the same time and most of the early 
 parts of the game will be you trying to get better guns and equipment by finding dead stalkers 
 stashes and gathering med kits, radiation packs and food, yes food, if you dont eat, you will 
 die! Also you get shot once you will start to bleed and if you dont bandage your self up, you 
 will die! This game play can be fun but also very, very hard! This game also has some problems 
 like its really buggy and every time you save, the game will drop out, and some times the sky will 
 turn green and the land will go dark but we can look past that, but we cant get past the difficultly, 
 its really hard and while your emptying 3 clips of ammo into one guy, he will shoot once and take 
 half of your health away. But if youre quick minded and you spend a while of the game finding 
 better guns and armour, you will do fine! The multiplayer is also great, with a complete buy system, 
 almost better then Counter-Strike, with the ability to buy med-packs, and bandages to stop bleeding, 
 not to mention gun upgrades like scopes, silencers and better types of ammo. Also the maps have 
 the same spooky sounds and anomalies as singleplayer and a really cool in-game multiplayer level 
 up system, each level gives you access to new guns and armour. If you like free-roamers and youre 
 a shooter fan, this is one for you. The story is great but hard to follow, due to hard accents 
 and a hard difficulty but the game play is right were it belongs and because of the creepy radiation 
 caused anomalies and the odd radiation caused demon mutant dogs this game hits a high point. Mix 
 in some good graphics and a cool night day system and you got a game worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ploppy3000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 20, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Okay.. this game is a work of art as far as I'm concerned. Have you ever watched the original 'Terminator' 
 or 'Attack on precinct 13'? They are dark, movie drome style films. Well Stalker: SHOC is such an 
 experience. There are flaws (as every cult movie should have) but there is a great idea behind 
 it and its execution is implemented in such a way that it provides a stark, living and entirely 
 immersive environment for you to follow the story. As far as I'm concerned the years spent developing 
 this have been well spent - okay it doesn't look like Doom 3 (too greasy) or Fear (too clean) but 
 it beats both games hands down in my book.. oh yes.. and I prefer this to the (very shiny) Oblivion 
 as well while I'm on my soap box.
  
  High points:
  - The weather.. okay sounds a bit boring, but as a Brit I love talking about the weather. You know.. 
 when you're searching dark warehouses at night with only your flashlight and the wind to keep you 
 company then when it starts raining and flashes of lightning light up the darker corners.. well 
 you have to be there really. I enjoyed doing this in the game too...
  
  - The AI.. okay your fellow stalkers/bandits/duty fella's/mad dog's are pretty good, they don't 
 just stand there like dummies taking pot shots, they wander around of their own accord, maybe they'll 
 get tangled up in another fight, maybe they'll get sucked up into an anomaly, maybe they'll play 
 their guitar, maybe they'll start firing at you and a pack of blind rabid dogs will hear the noise 
 and start attacking them while you sit quietly in a bush with a silenced pistol enjoying the show.. 
 okay its a bit weird I know but its what I like to call.. F. U. N.
  
  - The control.. running and ducking aren't anything to write home about, they're not that smooth, 
 after a quick cup of 'get over it' I was right as rain though since the gun control and accuracy 
 (or lack of it) is superb. The 'weight' of aiming and recoil is very counterstrike, which in my 
 mind has the best control of all games.. ever. Well, apart from manic miner of course.
  
  - The sounds.. a warning, your fellow attackers (animal/paranormal and human) are heavy breathers.. 
 one minute you're sitting there thinking you've got them all covered and then the next some joker 
 decides to get in on the action and creeps up behind you with a shotgun, the first you know about 
 it is the breath on your neck and before you can offer him a breath mint he's blown your head off.. 
 nice. Hang around on the death cam to watch him walk off though.. he might get attacked by dogs 
 if your lucky.
  
  - The graphics.. right, these aren't going to win awards, but they do a pretty good job and prove 
 that the latest graphical fireworks aren't necessarily needed to make a good game - the textures 
 are really well done and the overall effect is more than good enough. I can't run it in tip-top 
 resolutions so I run it at 800x600 (*gasp*) with all the effects switched up. I have virtually 
 no stuttering or lag and its good enough to get the full effect as far as I'm concerned.. in fact 
 the grainy feel makes it feel even more like a cult movie.
  
  Look, all in all this game deserves to do well, I was waiting to finish it before writing the review 
 but with all the bad vibes going around I thought I'd stick up for it - yes it probably could be 
 optimised somewhat, but to avoid it just because you can't run it in ultra high resolution with 
 everything switched up would be a missed opportunity to experience a living and (heavy) breathing 
 world that doesn't care much whether you're there or not.
  
  p. s. if you do buy it then apply the patch (1.0001 at the moment) before starting it because you 
 lose your saved progress after applying it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trooper72
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 23, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I`m getting really disillusioned with Gamespot. How the hell can you give this plonk 8.5?
  
  On the upside, its different I admit. The expansive nature of it is appealing. What I mean 
 is that the gameplay area seems huge. BUT, I have never come across such a CUMBERSOME, non intuitive 
 resource management part of a game in 30 odd yrs of gaming. If you come across some ammo which 
 happens to fit your main weapon, you would surely expect that to reflect that in the total ammo 
 available for you every time you have that weapon selected. Not in this game. You may have found 
 3 x AK 47`s and picked them up (intending to use 1 and barter the other 2, but its like the ammo 
 is allied to each particular AK you have and you cant use your total ammo between AK`s. Whilst 
 you are selecting a different weapon or whilst searching bodies for goodies, you still get attacked 
 whilst your`e in the pause mode as it were. I`ts not until you close the search window that you 
 can return fire. Not very realistic. OOh I`m sorry but I can`t return fire till I press this close 
 window thingy!!!)
  
  There is no prompt as to whether you are hitting a mid distance target or not, therefore U don't 
 know whether to adjust your aim or not. What`s that all about?
  
  You happily traverse the game area picking up goodies, someone attacks you and you cant move because 
 you`re too HEAVY or too TIRED to move, therefore you get slotted trying to discard weight so that 
 you can flee or return fire!! Surely some kind of warning is required to advise you that if you 
 choose to collect some thing, that it will put you over weight!.
  
  This is one of those overly delayed games which should have been overly delayed a bit more to get 
 it working.!!
  
  N. E. W P. O. S. T
  
  FORGOT TO MENTION THAT THE AI CAN BE REALLY GOOD AND THEN REALLY CAK! I WAS ON A ROOF VIA A LADDER 
 AND THESE BODS CAME UP FASTER BACKWARDS WITHOUT HOLDING ON TO THE LADDER AND THEN HAVING TO TURN 
 ROUND TO FIRE LIKE I HAD TO. PLUS THEY APPEARED 2 AT A TIME LIKE SIAMESE TWINS WITH NO DELAY IN 
 BETWEEN. OTHER TIMES, IM CROUCHED IN THE GRASS AT NIGHT AND THEY INSTANTLY SPOT ME AND START A 
 BLOODY WAR AS IF IVE GOT A STROBE LIGHT STICKING OUT OF MY RECTUM! u CANT GET AWAY.
  
  AM I MISSING SOMETHING OR AM I CORRECT THAT YOU CANT LIE DOWN PRONE? YOU CAN STOOP, STOOP LOWER 
 BUT CANT LIE DOWN.
  
  WORKING OUT WHAT YOUVE GOT TO DO AND IN WHAT ORDER IS EXTREMELY HIT AND MISS.
  
  IM REALLY 
 MIFFED AT THIS, IT COULD HAVE BEEN SO MUCH BETTER. I`M LOOKING FORWARD TO PATCH 304z. MAYBE IT 
 WILL BE BETTER THEN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 20, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  What an annoying game - Stalker is a combination of a tactical shooter &amp; role playing game. 
 upon first starting up I thought the graphics were fantastic, but as you get into the game, in 
 some parts the graphics look about 5 years old. It is just plain weird. Some of the textures especially 
 in the lanscape and buildings are the best ever seen in a game, then you can walk down the road 
 and the graphics are cartoonish. It's like the game has been released half finished.
  
  Menus are clunky and the map is difficult to read.
  
  Sound is OK but the NPC's have annoying 
 east European accents and often they are speaking in a foreign language, but that does not enhance 
 the game like in Battlefield 2.
  
  Game play is reasonable but the storyline is difficult to follow.
  
  The game lags tremendously 
 in Vista.
  
  On the whole this isn't really worth spending any money on, but is worth a go if someone gives 
 you a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Madness-X
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  okay, this game has some good things but it does not beat games such as half life 2, but it does 
 belong in the fps genre as to be remembered. This game boasts some nice new editions to gameplay 
 that we have hardley seen over the years, such as change of weather environments, and the whole 
 atmosphere can change instantly, 1 min your in the big outdoors, the next your inside a small enclosed 
 dark area. This game is so open ended and that's what makes this game quite scary, but only for 
 a moment because after a while you get used to things creeping up behind you, and it all gets very 
 boring after a while, and taking quests can be fun, but the game desperatly needs transport in 
 order to get around, because the map your in is freakin huge and takes litrally forever to get 
 to a quest location, but if you like fps, pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btwillett2003
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 19, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so this game is not top of the line. So what! The game was actually from Europe and designed 
 by a group of guys who actually lived near Chernobyl. As for gameplay, it is a FPS RPG. This is 
 one of the games where you actually have to try at winning, you cant run around all retarded like 
 shooting like an idiot. You have to pick your battles and take cover and go all covert like. WHY 
 DO YOU THINK THE GAME IS CALLED STALKER!!!!! Stalk your prey! Hide behind trees and rocks and buildings. 
 I had to take the game off of Master mode to get past some areas it was so hard. I like the game 
 so don't believe all the retards who voted it a 3 or 4, they probably bunny hop around in other 
 deathmatch games and don't know how to actually be silent in a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scooch2K
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Great shooters are often defined by a variety of elements coming together in just the right amounts. 
 In my opinion, STALKER is just such a game. Set in the year 2006 and with the premise of another 
 recent meltdown at the Chernobyl nuclear facility, otherwise known as the 'Zone', the backdrop 
 is a bleak, post-apocalyptic world devoid of the normalcy of life and instead filled with survivor-types 
 who have learned how to cope in this new reality.
  Enter the player, a STALKER who, though nameless, is skilled and capable in survival within the 
 'Zone'. Left for dead in the intro scene and rescued by a passing scavenger truck, you must gradually 
 establish his/your previous identity through performing missions given by various 'traders' and 
 other stalkers/individuals within the Zone. Also, through the finding of 'artifacts' within the 
 Zone, one can enhance their attributes in various ways with each artifact either adding or subtracting 
 specific capabilities when added to the player's equipment screen.
  However, the really impressive part of this game is the pervasive atmosphere of creepy desolation 
 with eerie winds blowing through burned out/blown out buildings crumbling from years of neglect 
 and decay. In the distance, one hears the cries of other people in distress accompanied by the 
 sounds of creatures not so human too. The sheer variety of creatures which you meet in this game, 
 range from your standard human opponent to your mutated horrors and each reacts uniquely to your 
 actions, flanking you, hunting you or simply ignoring you. You may also make friends and enemies 
 depending on your mission choices/dialogues, altering the way in which future interactions with 
 this faction may go. This makes for a more customizable game state, constantly evolving depending 
 on how you play. These simple factors make this game approach a 'living' environment more than 
 other shooters I've played in the past.
  Anyhow, this is a great game and certainly deserves your attention if you're a fan of shooters 
 and post-apocalyptic reality games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kemicon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 18, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Stalker isn't all bad, and it even does some things well. Such as setting up an interesting environment 
 and having wide open level design that looks convincing enough. Comparisons to Oblivion wouldn't 
 be totally off the mark. To some extent Stalker plays a bit like Oblivion with guns, just a lot 
 worse and without the deep RPG aspects.
  
  Unfortunately the shooting mechanic is basically backwards as the handgun you start with will take 
 out an enemy faster and more accurately than an AK47 or some of the heavier and according to the 
 game, more accurate weapons. Que? Basically this renders all of the cool hardware you get later 
 on, somewhat pointless, except of course the sniper rifle.
  
  Running around on foot is also a long and tedious chore. The developers should have included the 
 vehicles like they originally intended.
  
  In the end it seems like the best programmers at GSC left pretty early on in development as there 
 are so many areas of the game that come off as half baked. Oddly enough even with all the problems 
 the game is still compelling, even if it is just to keep saying wouldn't it be cool if you could 
 ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvgeniBuzov
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 18, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  Shortly put, GSA did the nearly impossible. They made a RPG/Action game from the FPS angle and 
 stuffed it with all the greatest elements of Eastern European Fallout . Not only does the game 
 have a great storyline, sounds and autmosphere which alredy proves much, but it also has killer 
 gameplay, physics and many great twists.
  
  Gamers, Gamespot and some other users here defently underestimated this game. If you want about 
 a week or two of great single-player and a whole load of multiplayer action, I defently suggest 
 for you to get this game - it's worth it.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt13091309
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Great FPSG. The graphics are great - just not 'pretty'. The enviromnets are amazingly detailed 
 and atmospheric. The creatures are scary!. The AI is good and not smarter than you:) . The NPC's 
 fit in with the harsh environment and the main characters are well done with good voiceovers. The 
 ballistic modelling is groundbreaking - every gun feels dfferent and theres one you feel almost 
 privaleged to own. The Qs are kinda quick but fun nonetheless and some are VERY worth doing. The 
 storyline is good - not on a par with Deus Ex but original none the less. Havn't found all the 
 endings but one of them puts Half Life 2's to shame. Only major bugbear it's just too short. After 
 5 years in the making i was expecting something along the lines of Morrowind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punk_knight_200
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 18, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  First this game is an amazing game, but there are a lot of flaws and bugs that just bring down 
 the game a lot! Hopefully they will be fixed as for now they play a crucial role in how I rate 
 this game, especially seeing that this game was 7 years in the making :| .
  
  Graphics: For the size and type of game it is the graphic are great, but in no way can beat HL2, 
 Even on max setting it still doesn't impress me visually. Again though I need to realize what type 
 of game it is and the size. All in all graphics wise I give this game an 8.
  
  Game play: This is another mixed feeling but, I think I'm just going to talk about the basic idea 
 of the game. Which is simply amazing FPS meet RPG (Think Fallout meet Morrowind) , they do it and 
 add a lot of nice things to both genres might even pave the way for more games like this. I just 
 wish the bugs weren't as debilitating, but I'll leave that for another section. I think what makes 
 the game play more interesting is the fact that it is a what if scenario dealing with the accident 
 that happened in Chernobyl. Which add a new level of coolness to the game. Great Idea mixed with 
 real world things :) . All in all they have achieved the goal of making a world like feeling. It 
 feel like you are there and the open-end ness is great, makes me love this game even more.
  
  Sound: Can't complain great ambiance and sounds. Great feature is the fact that they actually 
 made ai around detection work well. Lots of great sounds and music, I like the fact the NPC's randomly 
 play guitar and sit by the fire adds a whole new sense of realness.
  
  Value: Now one section has to be used to talk about this Major problem so here is. Normally I would 
 complain about bug and glitches but this has a crippling effect on this game. Random crashes plus 
 semi long load times equal a nightmare : (. The radiation scheme is messed up some random spot that 
 don't make sense. The major problem with this game and I know it will be fixed, is the glitches, 
 bugs , and crashes. The reason y it is in my review is because they had 7 yrs to get this all set 
 and they still haven't. As I've said normally this wouldn't be an issue, but there is just so many 
 that it hurts this game a lot. Once all is fixed with that my score for this game will be a solid 
 9.0. As for now 7.8 is the best I can give it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: This will be a must own game....... Emphasis on the must! I suggest waiting to 
 buy this game until all the update and patches finally fix this game. It is immersive game, great 
 game play and all in all a fun romp in the world ridden in nuclear fallout. The game does a great 
 job at what it says it wants to achieve. All in all I am quite happy with this game. But if u don't 
 have like to deal with the crashes then before u buy this game wait so can enjoy it. Within time 
 this will be a must own game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FootFetish24
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 18, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  The story in stalker is basically the nuclear fall out from the nuclear powerplant in chernobyl 
 and according to the game, mutants of some sort have infested the area. And you as a stalker went 
 into Chernobyl to gather artifacts which are pieces of various things which contain special attributes. 
 Stalker starts off with an amazing cinematic and ends with an amazing cinematic which may vary 
 off the course of how you play ( i think ) . But whats in between? Game play. Is it off the hook 
 jaw droppingly good? The awnser is no. After the first hour of play time, i felt uneasily depressed 
 because of the graphics which by the way is grungy and uneasy. The sound is nothing special, with 
 no incredible music pieces that are memorable. The gunshots are amazing only in bursts. Otherwise 
 it is incredibly choppy. The models in the game are nicely modeled and the inventory system in 
 a fps is what i find original in this game. Overall this game is not amazing, it is decent and 
 creates an environment of solitude and you will want to take a break from time to time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamid5052
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R Stalker is not a FPS action you must play everything The Objective Say
  When You Play This Game You see All Of Things Around Yourself
  And Maybe You going to be mad 
 but when you play the game you see incredible things like when you stand in a place everything 
 can happen
  maybe a friend has arrived and maybe an enemy you can't imagine what happen next.
  
  the fear 
 of this game is real good and you can not analyze it when you kill
  benedits and army (enemy) in a nice scene in underground in a dark place
  you facing a monster 
 wants to kill you very hard and you shock really bad and in next scene you face someone like human 
 and he make you giddy
  and you cannot do anything and you must escape
  
  a game like nothing Other FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TryDaBeardON
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  My specs: AMD 64 3000+, 1.5 GB RAM, 6800 GS OC 256 MB.
  Game Difficulty: Veteran.
  Video settings: Object Dynamic Lighting, Medium Settings, 800x600 (mostly) .
  
  STALKER is a 
 game that tries hard to make you hate it. I'm not talking about bugs and stability problems here 
 (as I haven't experienced any until the end of the last bonus level and that one was easily fixed 
 by a reload) , but rather about the overall, as though deliberate, lack of polish. Graphics engine 
 isn't optimized, UI is bulky, translation seems to have been done by my Ukrainian grandma, side 
 quests are rarely coherent and often pointless - the list goes on, yet making you hate it is one 
 mission STALKER fails. Instead, it delivers an FPS experience you'll remember for a long time.
 
  
  From the very first mission your inner Dorothy will realize that she's not in City 17 any more. 
 Enemies dodge, suppress, flank, and use their sprint button so well, at times it will seem they 
 appear and disappear at will, all the while pelting you with juicy tidbits of Russian slang. As 
 a result, firefights are intense and extremely satisfying. There have been complaints about the 
 lack of choke point tactics displayed by the otherwise very capable AI, but personally I thought 
 the main (and only) problem was their inability to throw grenades they carry aplenty, especially 
 later in the game. In fact, if they figured to toss a nade in the room before trying to storm it, 
 some of the points in the game would require a dozen or more reloads to get through.
  
  The graphics are on par with Half-Life 2, which isn't really an accomplishment at this point, but 
 whatever the game's visuals lack in technical aspect, they more than make up for in artistic. Anomalies, 
 thunderstorms, makeshift camps, abandoned cities and equipment, piles of radioactive debris, orange 
 bogs and, of course, the huge NPP itself are all done extremely well. Flashlight and fire effects 
 are probably the best in the business presently. Combine this with eerie ambient sounds and creatures 
 that populate The Zone, and STALKER makes DOOM 3 feel like Mrs. Packman's Adventure in comparison. 
 It's simply the scariest game I've played to date.
  
  That said, it could probably be scarier. Some of the best creatures are encountered only two or 
 three times in the course of the main storyline, so 99 percent of your opponents will be human, 
 which is a shame. Another weakness is the RPG element of the game. It seems you're encouraged to 
 collect loot, but your carry limit is way too low for any meaningful gathering, there are only 
 3 1/2 traders in the Zone, the artifacts aren't as varied as you'd want, and the money you make 
 from loot cannot be spent on anything. My advice: just get the stuff you'll use, don't bother with 
 trading. Still, the inclusion of ANY kind of inventory system is a welcome addition to the genre.
 
  
  Aside from being scary, the game really succeeds in making you feel a part of the living world. 
 Both, scripted and unscripted AI makes for some memorable moments. STALKER supposedly has 6 or 
 7 different endings, of which I saw 3. Nothing spectacular, but not too bad either. What's too 
 bad is the fact that the game doesn't have the option to return you to the Zone after you're done 
 with the main quest. All in all, STALKER's roughness will undoubtedly alienate a few gamers, but 
 those who stay in the Zone till the end will not regret it. Learning Russian is recommended for 
 complete experience ;P . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcadius
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 18, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  After a few years waiting, I finally got to play STALKER. Though the premise of being at a nuclear 
 disaster area didn't appeal to me at first, it was when I got out of the initial trader's outpost 
 and looked at the surrounding that made me appreciate what this game was all about. I thought at 
 first, due to lack of research on the subject, that Chernobyl was the site of a nuclear explosion, 
 so I naturally expected to see a wasteland, not a beautiful place stained by strange occurrences. 
 Of course there was a nuclear accident at the Chernobyl plant, but not in the manner some of us 
 expected. Radioactive materials were spread all around this area, now called the Zone , which caused 
 a massive evacuation, people would never to return to it again... until this game of course. Despite 
 using an old engine, this game manages to look great, the surroundings, the buildings, lighting, 
 sound makes an eerie atmosphere, where everything looks as if nothing had happened, but you know 
 the moment you begin exploring that something is terribly wrong, and a feeling of hopelessness 
 drags you in. During a quick Google research I learned that many of the people evacuated were told 
 that it would only last a couple of days, so they didn't take most of their belongings, little 
 did they know that it was the last time they were to see their homes. And that is how the world 
 of STALKER feels... a hasty evacuation where everything looks just abandoned.
  
  You are a STALKER, or a scavenger, going into the forbidden quarantine area known as the Zone, 
 looking to get rich. You get to see mutated creatures, radioactive areas, mercenaries and of course 
 you get to shoot your gun. Enemy AI is quite good, enemy soldiers flank you, surround you, and 
 do headshots (that is, you can have most of your health and then die all of the sudden) , the mutated 
 creatures mob you, stalk you, and scare the bejesus out of you too. The areas are quite vast, though 
 not as big as Oblivion or Morrowind for that matter, but considering the story takes place in a 
 relatively small area, its well done.
  
  The sound is another element that makes this game great, I just love when idle fellow stalkers 
 just sit by the fire, pull out a guitar and start playing, as if they were knowing their dire situation 
 and are just saddling up for whatever comes. The guns: well here's the thing, they don't shoot 
 that well, in fact they shoot very realist rounds! Anyone that has ever shot a gun at the range, 
 knows that a doing a headshot is very hard, and in this game to get a headshot is VERY hard, you 
 can either get a really accurate gun (like the dragunov) or get lucky in order to score them.
 
  
  Story: Well imagine your mission is to get into the site of a nuclear accident in order to get 
 rich with whatever you can find, and in the way uncover the secret at the Chernobyl Power plant, 
 with a well detailed and accurate world and you get Game of the Year material.
  
  Bugs: Of course there are. Not game killing mind you, but they are there.
  
  So in the end 
 if you feel compelled to get the game after you've read this attempt at reviewing, go for it, you 
 won't be disappointed. And if you are into history too, check out wikipedia or other online sources 
 about the Chernobyl disaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sancezz
Rating: 8
Date: May 13, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Well, its been a long time coming. And perhaps because of that, S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl 
 feels a little outdated. While it is a fun and interesting game, it could have used some more time 
 in development in order to fulfill the potential that this game had. It could have been one of 
 the greatest games of modern history, simply put.
  
  You play as a nameless (well, almost, NPCs refer to you as The Marked One, which may sound hardcore 
 but seems a bit forced) , speechless character as with many First Person Shooters, and although 
 this was fine in the original Half-Life and at a stretch, Half-Life 2. But its getting a bit old 
 now. If we are to identify and feel for the character we are playing as, they need a personality. 
 Pure and simple. Unfortunately; the only personality hinted at here is in the choices you can make 
 when replying to other characters, which, frankly, there arent many of, and none of them really 
 affect the storyline or game play; and the personal diary logs written in the in-game PDA. Here, 
 Stalker seems to have taken a leaf out of Doom 3s book, however, its not executed anywhere near 
 as well. The interface is, at best, annoying to use and unintuitive. For example, to access recent 
 conversations that you have had, you must bring up the PDA, go to Diary down the bottom, and 
 then search around until you find the button which takes you to recent communications. Not only 
 are the buttons small, but theyre not even buttons, theyre just words. They glow a green when 
 there is new information, but this seems broken, as even if you read the new information, it still 
 glows green, which is extremely annoying when youre trying to find out about that code you need 
 for a door and arent sure which article youre supposed to be looking at, which results in trawling 
 through the many different articles there. Granted this doesnt happen often, and the only time 
 youll really want to access the PDA is for the map and quest objectives.
  
  Stalker seems to want to be an RPG. You are given quests in the form of missions from various NPCs 
 who want their family rifle bringing back, or a local den of mutants cleared out, or even, on some 
 cases, the arm of a specific type of mutant. Although, Ive never actually been able to figure 
 out how to get an arm of a mutant. As a reward, NPCs will give you money, and sometimes, artefactswhichcan 
 be sold for money. Artefacts are items that can be found around game world, and infer various benefits 
 such as increased resistance to radiation, or decreased bleeding rates. However, they almost always 
 come with a negative side effect, and youll have to weigh up whether being able to sprint for 
 longer is better than being more vulnerable to radiation.
  
  Stalker consists of a supposed big game area known as The Zone, a several kilometre area around 
 the Chernobyl power plant. However, in reality, its a series of smallish rooms. No matter how 
 much you want to explore the countryside, you just cant. its all fenced off, and every time you 
 try to move area, you are faced with a (long) loading screen. It just takes everything out of it. 
 This game could have been huge, full of secrets and exploration, but instead is hemmed in. It takes 
 a lot out of the atmosphere of the game world. This, for me, is one of the greatest flaws with 
 this game. Other games have huge game worlds without load screens. If GTA on the PS2 can do it, 
 why cant the PC?
  
  Granted though, the areas that the game divided in, are fairly big, and are usually teeming with 
 life. AI NPCs go about their jobs patrolling an area, attacking bandits, getting held up by bandits, 
 shooting mutants, and generally living their lives as you would expect. The AI, however, isnt 
 so hot in combat. Frequently, skirmishes are long range, and when you get hold of scopes, it becomes 
 possible to shoot enemies from a distance from which they dont recognise theyre even getting 
 shot. Theyll move about a bit, as if alarmed, but they wont try and find you, or seek cover, 
 theyll just walk around confused. This makes some of the endgame battles a bit easy  and unfairly 
 so.
  
  Stalker seems to have inconsistent graphics. Sometimes it looks great, sometimes it looks rubbish. 
 My machine isnt top of the line: I play it on my laptop, which has an Intel Core2 Duo T5500 1.66GHz 
 CPU, 1GB RAM, and a Radeon X1300, and I just cant get this game to run smooth. I have it on low 
 at 800*600, and sometimes the framerate is fine, and at other times it would slow down inexplicably. 
 Load times take forever, which is jarring when changing areas, and the game keeps stuttering as 
 it loads things in and out of RAM. Basically, dont play this game if you have less than 1GB RAM. 
 I do have Vista, and I dont know if thats affecting it, maybe it is. However, the game is still 
 playable even in these conditions. And, contrary to GameSpots comments, I havent experienced 
 a single crash yet. And Ive been playing it for over 10 hours, and I havent bothered to patch 
 the game either. So, in my experience, this is a very stable game.
  
  I feel like all Ive done is moan since the beginning of this article, so, you as, how comes youve 
 given it an 8? Well, frankly, this is a great game despite its downfalls. The world is full of 
 gloom and atmosphere, it goes from being fun, clever, intense shootouts to plain creepy and scary 
 constantly. Thats great, because a game needs to have more than one tone, and this one nails the 
 atmosphere perfectly. The world is so desolate, so empty, yet so teeming with life. Its difficult 
 to describe, but its both beautiful and horrific at the same time. And there is a lot of variety 
 in the game play. Sometimes youll be in sewer-like tunnels, sometimes youll be storming a stronghold 
 building, sometimes youll be in a secret lab, and others, youll be chilling in a bar with various 
 characters talking about their lives. The shooting is well modelled, the various weapons (of which 
 there are plenty) , are each clearly different, both in the type of ammo they use, and their stats. 
 Recoil is, as far as I can tell, accurate, with the first 3 rounds being pretty accurate and then 
 a rising muzzle afterwards. Basically, youll want to fire single shots or bursts in order to be 
 effective. Full auto is only excusable in close quarters. Damage is also well simulated. One headshot 
 will take down even the hardest human foes later on, but several body shots will not penetrate 
 their armour. Theyre difficult to get, but the game will reward you if you managed to train yourself 
 to go for the head. As with some other games, take down several enemies quickly with a series of 
 headshots, and youll feel like a god. Its definitely worth doing, especially as ammo will almost 
 always be scarce.
  
  Basically, this game is one which is full of atmosphere, intense shooting, and some interesting 
 interactions and distractions from the main quest. However, it could have been so much more. The 
 graphics are a little dated, the game doesnt run smoothly, but it is very stable. The sound is 
 good, conveying what it needs to, but it doesnt blow your mind. Your character is speechless, 
 personalityless, and there isnt really a story. Some of the text is written in broken English, 
 which may or may not add to the charm, depending on whether or not that sort of thing annoys you. 
 Soldiers around you occasionally speak Russian, which adds to the authenticity. So, all in all, 
 this game is more than the pieces its made of. It turns out to be great, despite everything considered. 
 So if youve had your eye on this for some time, or are looking for a new FPS, with some soul, 
 give this one a go. Just dont hope for a revolution and you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackerelmundee
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  It lacks depth and imagination. Dealing with all the radioactivity drives me to distraction. Its 
 all been done before with the same weapons and the same storyline. The music is also very boring 
 and repetitive. I wont be recommending this game to anyone in a hurry. If you're looking for something 
 different in this game you certainly won't find it here. There is no doubt I have been well and 
 truly ripped off with this game. I've uninstalledf it and I certailny wont be in a hurry to reinstall 
 it in a hurry. In future I wont be purchasing any games unless I have had an opportunity to review 
 a demonstration version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheC0m1ssar
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 15, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  STALKER is a fine game. Though don't expect it to run smoothly on medium or low-end systems. It's 
 a good combination of FPS and RPG, but with the lag that plagues lower-end versions, it almost 
 feels like playing a frame-by-frame.
  
  Gameplay is okay, with the usual Oh, I found a better gun. Now I'm going to pick it up style of 
 play. When in combat, it's either you use your head, or you're going to lose it. Very fast paced, 
 as in the Zone, bullets are like money.
  
  Graphics look nice, and it looks amazing even on low or medium settings. The gritty world of the 
 Zone offers plenty of people, monsters, and places to look at.
  
  Sound adds perfect ambiance to the game.
  
  Value is great. I got mine for $30 from Best Buy.
 
  
  Technically saying, STALKER is a game worth getting, provided you could play with the lag along, 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazarus957
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  By far this is the best FPS game I've ever played and I've played many including Far Cry, Halo 
 1 & 2, Half-life and many more. Runs great on my Dell Dimension 440 with Windows EP. Love the ability 
 to follow the mission themes, take side missions, or just wander about and explore. This is the 
 first game I've every played that simulates the varieties of life in that the outcomes are not 
 completely scripted and can vary with every play or re-play. I have progressed thru probably three 
 fourths of the main scripted theme, having taken a few of the side missions. I'm looking forward 
 to re-playing after completing the main script just to see where the other missions might take 
 me as well as with different alliances and how they develop the game play. An early review of this 
 game caught my attention about a year before it's release. I tracked it's development, the numerous 
 delays of it's release and was able to purchase it the first day it was in stores. I have not been 
 disappointed in the least detail or aspect of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaabnaze83
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 15, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  This game is a excellent combination of RPG and FPS like to play Diablo II in first person with 
 guns, bandits, mutants and much vodka inted swords, bows, magic and demons. Pretty landscapes, 
 a great variety of weapons (pistols, assault rifles and shotguns among others) , the missions and 
 submissions levels make to S. T. A. L. K. E. R. a excellent choice for the RPG and FPS fanboys.
  
  PROS: Great story-line in the game, beautiful graphics (if you have the hardware) , a original 
 gameplay, three differents finals (the good, the bad and the boring) .
  
  CONTRAS: The sound isn't so great, weapons damage and accuracy need work, no vehicles, horrible 
 facials animation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluespike000
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  First off I have to immediatly give props to the engine that no one seem's to realise is a innovation 
 of itself. STALKER's AI is something new upon itself. Even Oblvion doesnt stack up to be honest. 
 I've come to countless random engagements between factions in the enviroment. Not the ones where 
 you get the call over the speakers going come help us but where two scouting parties found each 
 other and are now fighting it out through a hollowed out building. I'm sorry but that's just awesome! 
 I just kinda ditz around from time to time and find firefights to join in on. Yet I need to say 
 that the graphic engine is rather decent, i'm still seeing games coming out with weaker graphics 
 then this. I'd have to say it's on par with the original Half-Life 2 realease, which isnt bad considering 
 that the source engine is still being used by developers as of now and in the future. My biggest 
 concern is everyone is saying it's buggy as hell. What! I havent had a single bug to date, no crashes 
 nothing. My saves work hella well and the only complaint i may have is that the 1.0001 patch made 
 your saves not work. In truth it was kinda nice i played back through a little smarter then before. 
 But i have to say people don't see the new fun things in games anymore there like oh **** that 
 guy went through a wall, I'm done! people dont play through games to get the golden center full 
 off fun gun play. This game has everything that so many games seem to be turning away at it's realism. 
 People are like What! This game has bloody mutant's running amok yes it does but they still apply 
 to real world physics to a point. The human ai is smart but not all knowing you can flank them 
 and teach em a bloody lesson, it's nice to have a system that doesnt cheat to make it hard what 
 happens is they behave like you and me and they set traps to mess with you. To finish I must give 
 props to THQ who's been doing a great job funding great new game that change the genres we so love. 
 Keep it up guys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rembrandthc
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I haven't had as much fun since DOOM, SFC-1 or the original HALF-LIFE! It takes a LOT to really 
 engage me into a game so that I forget that it is Time t go to Bed..., this game DELIVERS!
  
  Yes there are some Parts that are repetetive, but it's always engaging! Yes the Dialogs of 
 the Russians can get on your nerves..., or in the Bar the Stalkers tend to repeat themselfs..., 
 BUT that's a small price to pay for a game that never seems to bore me! I always seem to be looking 
 around for goodies, shifting around my armor, guns, ammo, health kits and food for a mission so 
 I never get bored...! The Landscape is Huge!!! The Enemies range from Cannon Fodder to TERMINATOR 
 !!!
  
  And I'm not even halfway though yet!
  
  I love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flishkin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  It seems too short, the quests are too simplistic, there are too few items to find, and the anomalies 
 are novel but dont really make much of a difference. One the plus side theres great graphics 
 and fantastic atmosphere. But, alas, even technically I had a few crashes to the desktop (with 
 the v1.0001 patch) and I found the sound to be very buggy with moans and groans way too loud and 
 unrealistic. After finishing the game, I feel empty it wasnt worth the effort. The story has 
 potential, but so many elements were left hanging in the open. Another thing that annoyed me was 
 all the foreign voice acting. It seems that only the bare essential voice acting was translated 
 into English, the rest, well, is foreign. I will most probably wait for a few more patches to come 
 out, maybe even a good deal of mods, before I attempt the game again on a harder difficulty (if 
 ever) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joey_18
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  This game should be a recommanded for many players out there who loves PC games like me. Especially 
 if you have a excellent high ended computer with the right requirement or higher.... This is one 
 of the game i like it so much for PC gamers!!!! Althrough this game is good enough already hope 
 later on THQ would have more excellent game like STALKER SOC!!! What a great game overall.... This 
 game is excellent! It has many different types of details and i like just love the graphic. A great 
 graphics! Sound!! althrough it soud have more spooky sound effects, and but not last some horror 
 zombies!!! ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: didipot
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 14, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  First of all the game has bugs, that even games in 1998 hadn't. They release a game with saving 
 game problems? Oh my, no excuse...
  
  Passing the annoying bugs I get to the game story. It seems nice playing at a chernobyl infected 
 place, but folowing orders all the time and looking to the gps to see what to do next is just annoying 
 and repetitive.
  
  Then comes the worst part. The game engine! Oh my, and it sucks.... Even with a super PC you wont 
 feel a decent fps experience. Not like you do in so many fps like BF2, Counter-strike, UT, etc. 
 This engine sucks, and big! There's immersive action participation feeling.
  
  Finally, I was expecting much more, for a game that was been programmed over and over for at least 
 4 years.
  
  However the official reviewers have somehow found the game fine! They don't buy me :OP
  
  We 
 have much older and much better fps on the market. And what's yet to come, I hope it would be much 
 more than this.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P_Phatz
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty damn good game. I would recommend this game to any FPS fan. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. brings 
 a whole new game play not found in many FPS. You can tackle any objective that you receive at any 
 time and from any angle. It takes a little while to get used to the game, but most FPS die hards 
 will have no problem learning this within 10 or 15 minutes of play. There are a few bugs that I've 
 experienced and still experience even after the update. Hopefully these will be taken care of by 
 the next patch. Warning to all of you though.... download the first patch before you play because 
 this patch will render all of your saves useless. Hopefully future updates will not do the same 
 thing. Overall, great game. The graphics are a little dated but you really can't even tell because 
 your drawn in on the environment. It's a living breathing world and will scare you at times. MUST 
 HAVE FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danb0
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 13, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up around the time when v1.001 came out. My first hour or so within the game 
 wasn't all that interesting and didn't really capture my interest. I played on anyway and after 
 about 2-3 hours of play it started to get interesting. There was a mission where you had to retrieve 
 some documents from the 3rd level of a building controlled by the military and at that point I 
 was finding the game to be pretty cool and overall enjoying the experience.
  
  Further down the track, I started to take up more side-quests which gave the game more depth and 
 offered me an impression of just how big the Zone is. Having said that, the region of the Zone 
 they decided to use is catered to a lot of backtracking throughout the game. Although this is dependent 
 on which quests you decide to take, you will undoubtedly find that you spend a lot of time simply 
 traveling between cities.
  
  One of the issues I found is that enemy groups have a habit of coming back after you've cleared 
 out an area. I found one military outpost under a bridge would always have more troops the next 
 time I arrived no matter how many times I killed them. For example, one time I cleared out the 
 outpost and within three hours they already had reinforcements there (even though I had traveled 
 down the only road that could possibly provide reinforcements) .
  
  The combat system was best catered to outdoor fighting. Some of the best times I had in the game 
 were outdoor fights with a large number of allies fighting beside me. The AI I found to be pretty 
 solid and for the most part foes stick behind cover and usually won't come running around a corridor 
 into your waiting shotgun blasts. When indoors, combat often boils down to a process of memorizing 
 where certain troops are and then shooting them in the head before they shoot you. It can become 
 very difficult in dark areas because you won't be able to see them without your flashlight (and 
 even then it's hard to see more than a short distance ahead) and this will of course alert them 
 of your presence. Overall, it seems dated and very standard in the FPS genre.
  
  The RPG elements consisted of inventory organization, artifacts, quests and eating. Eating seemed 
 pointless, I understand that it's there to add to the realism but it really wouldn't have detracted 
 from the immersion had it not been there. What I would liked to have seen is a sleeping feature 
 in the game. Many times I would find myself having to travel from town to town at night. Combat 
 at night can be difficult as the only indication of where your foes are is their flashlight. On 
 top of this there are nastier animals around at night, though generally they're not a problem. 
 The quests were pretty typical- go here get this, kill this person, defend a base, clear out a 
 base etc. A few quests were decent but most of the side quests aren't overly interesting. Additionally, 
 there's usually not a great incentive to do the side quests since the rewards you receive most 
 of the time are poor (don't bother going back to Cordon later on in the game. I stole a briefcase 
 from the military and got a measly 2000 RU for it) . I don't mind the artifacts, they keep things 
 interesting but most of the time you can get by without them. The only time I found artifacts handy 
 was near the end when you encounter a lot of radiation. For the most part I relied on my suit to 
 do the job.
  
  I didn't pay much attention to the story, it wasn't overly exciting. Most of what I picked up was 
 from the bartender or the cut scenes. I could have spent more time talking to people and going 
 through PDAs but I didn't feel compelled to and honestly didn't feel like I was missing out on 
 much.
  
  The difficulty level towards the end of the game ramps up quickly. At the end, when you're trying 
 to get into Chernobyl it's pretty much complete chaos- snipers everywhere, helicopters blowing 
 up everything they see. At the same time you're trying to manage what little ammo you have left 
 and scrounge up any medkits you can find. Then once you get into the actual power plant itself, 
 you'd better hope you have a whole lot of protection against radiation.
  
  In terms of immersion, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. definitely came up trumps for me. It's a beautiful looking 
 game (even in DX8 mode) and that scene I described just near Chernobyl is something to be experienced. 
 I certainly felt like I was a part of a living, breathing world (despite the frequent respawns 
 of troops at outposts) and enjoyed my time exploring the Zone. Places like X16, X18 and the underground 
 area where Strelok's stash is have a great atmosphere. I found some underground areas genuinely 
 scary and was glad when I returned to the surface. These parts of the game were definitely some 
 of its strong points.
  
  The ending I encountered left a sour taste in my mouth. That's probably my fault for rushing through 
 the game but it just seemed a little anti-climatic after all the build-up to it. I feel that the 
 second time through this game will play a lot better and anyone who hasn't played it yet should 
 take their time and not rush through it- just enjoy the experience. Having said that, right now 
 I don't feel compelled to return to it and play it again. There was a lot of down time between 
 the action oriented parts of the game and a lot of the quests just aren't that interesting. A valiant 
 attempt at something marvelous, but didn't quite live up to the hype. Definitely worth a play though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kljco
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 13, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i'd like to state that i appriciate all the effort the team behind stalker has put 
 into this game. You can feel it is (or rather) was a very ambitious project. For whatever the reasons 
 (and i have my two cents it was not the developers fault) , what has been released shows very little 
 to differentiate itself from the 
  
  There are two things you have to like about the game: the graphics, and the atmosphere. Unfortunately 
 thats about it.
  
  Stalker was in the making for a LONG time, a siggnificant portion of that spent in the spotlight 
 of the on-line gaming news media. It is surprising to see how very little of what has been promised 
 actually made it onto the table.
  I'll limit my discussion on features i was most looking forward to.
  
  1) The RPG component.
 
  There isn't any. This makes some sense: I personally dislike over-rpg-ing a real-timish game. 
 It's not realistic to have a complete rookie/green/loser character evolve into a superhero in a 
 few game-days. But development is not the only rpg aspect there is. I would have expected deeper 
 NPC interaction with actual impact on gameplay/story. I do understand that because of the realizm 
 aspect that lets just about anybody bite the dust in the gameworld, it would have been harder to 
 tie story to NPCs (and cheating/forcing them to survive so they can play their roles) . Ultimatly 
 NPC dialogs are used only for purposes of mission accepting/declining. However, ther's nothing 
 motivating the player to perform sidequest: there are no uber-cool weapons/gizmos/powerups to attain 
 that you would not otherwise stumble upon. The introduction of money and hunger has been a totally 
 wasted effort on part of the developers. All that remains is an inventory interface, that just 
 gets annoying as you play: as you'd generally pick all ammo/health/powerups and weapons you do 
 not yet have, this could have been made automatic. (all you do in there is salvaging ammo from 
 weapons picked up anyway) , allowing yo to carry two types of pistols, two types of rifles or one 
 heavy weapon and one suit of armor (option of swap on pickup) would have been better suited for 
 THIS job. If any of the planned rpg features should have been discarded/dumbed-down it should have 
 been inventroy managment.
  
  2) The involving/ realistic AI
  Well, there are traces of that to be picked up, but again what comes through the filters in the 
 end is disappointing. Baddies are usually spawned in groups, but their only advantage comes from 
 numbers. The combat system leaves very little room for friends or foes to show of their IQ. The 
 fast pace of the gunplay forces you to drop baddies before they engage in any form of fancy teamwork. 
 So if there is underlying intelligence there, it too is wasted.
  Friendly stalkers especially have a tendency to lone-wolf themself to death. I've never seen an 
 attacked green dot retreat to group of other green dots to get support. In most cases if you stick 
 around long enough (if you stick around, baddies will be spawned in) the good guys will be wasted 
 by the baddies (though this might be dependent on the difficulty settings) . The spawning system 
 is dissapointing at first, and gets plain frustrated at times when foes spawn in in cleared and 
 secured areas behind you.
  
  3) Large explorable living world
  Just about nothing delivered in that department. The gameworld is broken into levels you can only 
 transit between at selected points you are FORCED to use by fences/radiation/anomalies. There is 
 very little motivating you to explore. In the end you just follow the objective arrow on the map, 
 sure to find a fight at your detination, survive that, follow the next arrow. Not much... actually 
 disappointingly little. About halfway through the game you just play because you want to finish 
 and have it over with. The world might be living but all you see is factions fighting and new guys 
 warping in. (Oh yeah, sometimes dudes play guitars.) In retrospect there is very little reason 
 for implementing a simulated bio-/ecosphere, since the rpg aspect was mostly discarded and the 
 game action-linearized. I dislike scripted stuff a lot (that is sooo half-lifeish) , but with a 
 tear in the eye i confess that THIS game could have done just this well with scripts. So simulating 
 whatever is simulated in there again is barely more than wasted effort.
  
  Again, the only thing surprising is the high marks in some of the reviews the game was getting. 
 I did find objective professional reviews out there, but they are few and far inbetween. The gaming 
 community has to realize that as long as reader reviews and forums are loud from the awesome! posts 
 (mostly posted by players after the frist five minutes of gameplay when all they have a chance 
 to judge are graphics and sound) , this is what we'll get. Publishers will push even the most ambitious 
 and innovative development teams to release by-the-dozen-beauty-shooters, and the first person 
 interaction revolution some of us have been waiting for for years will never come. I personally 
 am tired getting nothing new for my buck save for pretty new 3d shading effects. Just look at the 
 latest news on TimeShift to see how innovation is flushed down the drain.
  
  Sad, sad, sad...
  
  Hope there are others sharing these views. Happy gaming to all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 13, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  STALKER... hmmm STALKER ough its that game that you all are waiting for &amp; its finally in our 
 hands .. after 3-4 years of waiting the game is here so what i'm trying to say to you is that all 
 that waiting had really paid of ... In many ways Stalker revolutionizes the FPS genre first its 
 RPG/GTA style based on the sorroundings of Chernobyl wich are very well made allmost fotorealistic 
 &amp; practicly it gives you a chill on you spine because it presents to you the world in a way 
 that is posible to be ... what can i say i leave in Romania wich was a communist country till 1989 
 when i was born ( thank GOD!!!) :D so the architecture is still the same like in those Comu countries 
 so you will really be impresed infact i can't see anu difference bettween the town near Chernobyl 
 &amp; mine in desing thats really freaky ... not only that but olso tha characters that you meet 
 in the game are made very well &amp; the fact that you hate to negociate with them or fight them 
 or join them is very overwellming .. in the game are 3 factions DUTY , FREEDOM &amp; MONOLITH i 
 suggest you remain a renegade because its much easy to negociate with all of them the dialogs are 
 very interesting the story is SCI-FI in the true way of SCI-FI but olso lets not forget that its 
 roots are in our reality :) ... the weapons are very realistic you can upgrade them &amp; stuff 
 &amp; the missions are very well made but olso very scary i mean because of the atmosphere wich 
 is much greater &amp; intense than FEAR or DOOM3 + the post apocaliptic feeling that HL2 created 
 , really messes with your mind offcourse the sounds are good as well the only disapointment is 
 that they are repettitive in some momments ... X-Ray engine is quite old its the same generation 
 like Doom3 , Source , CryEngine but it camed up late but the release date should not disapoint 
 you because the engine is like a combination between Source &amp; Doom3 engine + a little drop 
 of Cry engine the interiors looks spooky , the exterior looks great &amp; the freedom is much better 
 than FarCry because of the rpg elements practicly your in a very interactive world like in a pure 
 RPG game . 1one of the greatest things in this game must be the A. I. .... the Human opponents are 
 so well organized you are thinkig that you are fithting against real players i mean real players 
 with army combat training the A. I. will try every tactic manuvre you have seen in every action 
 movie or documentary based on SWAT or SEAL training ... the monsters act in there own way they 
 are very smart to especially those invisible 1ones ... the only complaint i have to the A. I. is 
 that the zombies have the same accuracy as the human enemies : ( but in the rest its 3-times better 
 than FEAR enjoy the game it is really great &amp; worth the wait !!! I'm sure i will never forget 
 it ... &amp; GSC has proven that it dosen't matter from wich part of the world you come from because 
 everywhere there are talents GO GSC !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan_kennett
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Ive watched this game since its inception, almost 6 years ago now. I read a preview of it in PC 
 Gamer UK and i knew it was going to be a revolution. GSC promised much, and now that ive left college, 
 been to university, left home and started my career i finally have the shiny tin casing sat on 
 my desk. yet ive hardly played it. Mostly because i dont have the time, but i have played it and 
 its buggy enough for me to want to wait for a few patches and see how it pans out. The concept 
 (wandering around in the zone) was a master stroke by GSC they hit on a source untouched by any 
 other developer and strove to develop a game unlike any other. it was an admirable idea but maybe 
 a little naive. Over the years features were cut, details changed, release dates put back and many 
 people wondered if it would ever see the light of a shop. Thankfully THQ are a quality publisher 
 with plenty of molah and could nurse GSC for the time they needed to develop the game. The graphics 
 although some claim are dated (and you can say they are compared to upcoming titles i could mention) 
 but they are still very good seeing as the engine is probably 2 years old since finalisation. The 
 atmosphere is what really sets it apart. Having never explored the zone its a true wonder to actually 
 see it (im aware its not actually like this) and interact with it. Its upheld GSC's vision for 
 6 years
  
  The gameplay is solid enough, guns are realistic and the world around you surrealistic. Things 
 start to go abit 'pete tong' at this stage however. Its evident that features were cut late in 
 development or were never fully realised. Weapons degrade over time but currently there is no way 
 to repair them, potentially loosing your phat lewt. Side quests dont carry enough weight, they 
 are merely a distraction and/or for generating money, im yet to see if these make any real difference 
 to the enviroment or the story. The economy simply is too easy. looting bodies and selling artifacts 
 generates an excess of money, and more often than not the traders dont have much for you to waste 
 it on, your more likely to find better more abundant kit for free in the wilds.
  
  The AI is where most of the problems arise, its a very complex and advanced system and when it 
 works, its a thing of beauty, when it doesnt it shatters the intense atmosphere this game exudes. 
 With another year they could have nailed it but to be honest i think a game like this could keep 
 being delayed if it really wanted to fulfill its potential and the line had to be drawn somewhere.
 
  
  Its a buggy little bugger and the patches are desperately needed. Its a shame really that they 
 didnt get it right first time, but then there is always next time, i cant wait to return to the 
 zone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McErr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  ... and second game I really bought as licensed version. From the day of first announce of S. T. A. L. K. E. R 
 it was my homepage. But the game itself was little bit disappointing. No vehicles as was promised. 
 Reduced weapon alternative. And low usability of inventory. That's all bad things I can tell you 
 about game.
  Everything else is wonderful. Terrifying music, ugly monsters and intelligent NPC-s are main features 
 of S. T. A. L. K. E. R world. Graphics may be little old for you, but it doesn't matter how it drawn 
 - what is drawn! Landscapes and every piece of level is painted so good that I almost understood 
 why we waited all 6 years for it. After Fallout 1/2 this is first game I spent so much time for. 
 Enjoy. And learn russian... or not... percent of really funny jokes is not so impressive.
  -= for non-russian players some transcription of battle shouts =-
  prikroy menya - cover me
 
  pomogi - help me
  oruzhie ubral - put your gun away
  
  If you have some questions about translation in game - ask me, don't be shy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jay_J
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 12, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R is a game where you've been put into this mysterious area that has had two nuclear 
 accidents already, involving the nuclear reactors exploding. You start of not knowing who you are 
 and where you are and have to unravel your own questions by exploring and communicating with NPCs, 
 you also start with this PDA that says you have to kill a certain someone but you do not know where 
 he is, why you have to kill him ETC you also have this strange tattoo on your arm...
  
  Lets discuss the game:
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good, they have very nice anti aliasing 
 textures and the bloom makes the world how its supposed to look, gloomy and dark.
  
  Story: A very intersesting storyline of everywhere around you be unknown and have to find things 
 out.
  
  Sound: Good sounds, sometimes you go down into a forest type area and you can hear howling, eventually 
 you might come across these mutated dogs... nice :D
  
  The game also can be a little freaky when you come across nuclear possessed sort of people that 
 try to kill you (obviously) you come across quite a few of these and the way they are presented 
 to you (play it and you'll see what i mean) make it look like scripted campaign cinematics but 
 they are actually dynamic, becuase you dont have to come across them and so on...
  
  I can't rate the multiplayer area of the game as i havent tried that part yet but i bet thats good 
 too, i havent got far in the story either but i can tell you this: STALKER is a very interesting 
 game, and any RPG or FPS fan should definitely buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slonor
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  It's a solid FPS with very few RPG elements. The graphics are acceptable, but even on low settings, 
 the game staggers in some parts of the game but plays fine in others, rather inexplicably. So make 
 sure you have a monster, water-cooled computer unless you want to play on the lowest settings.
 
  
  Ballistics and realism is totally unrealistic in this game. Some targets can take literally half 
 the clip of an AK-74 before they drop dead (that is, to the torso) or one to two shots to the head. 
 Some targets will only stagger after a head shot from a rifle! Serious bleeding can be stopped 
 by clicking on a bandage button. Unfortunately, the same is not done for radiation medication, 
 so every time you experience radiation poisoning, you have to tediously go into your inventory, 
 locate the drugs, double-click on them, and exit out of the inventory. More often than not, you 
 will have been blasted by some enemy's rifle rounds by this point. Rifle accuracy is just atrocious 
 in this game, since you basically cannot hit anything with a rifle+scope unless it is a few feet 
 away from you. If it's farther than a stone's throw away, you might as well start throwing bricks. 
 Rifles in real life are MUCH more accurate than this, even the relatively inaccurate AK-74. Also, 
 where is the AK-47? Isn't that supposed to be the most proliferate weapon on the planet? I don't 
 believe I found a single one of these in the game. Same for the 7.62 ammo. Rather rare. Hand grenades 
 are also next to useless. After using them a few times, I simply started dropping them and ignoring 
 them. It's not shrapnel that they shoot when exploding, it's apparently some kind of rubbery substance, 
 since you have to stand on top of a few grenades before you die. Also, isn't radiation supposed 
 take a lot of time to accumulate and cause damage? It can kill you in seconds in this game.
  
  RPG elements are very weak. You can trade for money or items, but there is no point in doing 
 so. The sellers charge a killing for even the most basic items and buy your items for next to nothing, 
 with the exception of artifacts. Besides, the weapons are scattered throughout the map like bricks 
 at a construction site. And since weapons wear down at alarming rates, you will find yourself throwing 
 away weapons for less-used ones all the time. That's because a weapon that is even SLIGHTLY worn 
 won't be able to hit anything unless it's at point blank range or 20 feet away. Stealth is kind 
 of useful, but is strategically worthless. If you attack a member of ANY faction in a single map, 
 all of that faction's members will automatically know exactly where you are and come to hunt you 
 down. Doesn't matter if you knife him from behind in a sealed-off room. They all know and they 
 all know right away. On the other hand, if you kill every member of that faction on that map, then 
 leave and come back, they will respawn and act as if nothing happened. Oh, and the missions? They 
 are just pass-or-fail types of things. I guess they are the equivalent of side quests found in 
 RPGs. Usually to kill someone or bring in an artifact. That's about the extent of the barely-present 
 RPG system.
  
  Multiplayer mode is also totally simplistic. It's like Quake 3 but without Capture the Flag. I 
 think they just have Team mode, Free-For-All, and artifact collection. From what I have seen, there 
 is no mode to play the game against AI enemies with another human player. What a waste of a great 
 concept!
  
  That said, the sound in this game is pretty good, with attractive explosions, their visual effects 
 and voices. Characters speak in actual Russian, with actual Russian accents, but they usually just 
 repeat the same lines over and over. Plus, it's awkward to hear part of something in Russian and 
 the rest in English.
  
  Overall, it's not a bad game, having SOME re-playability. Unfortunately, the game does not appear 
 to continue past the ending, like many RPGs do (allowing you to play with your acquired items and 
 weapons) . It just ends, apparently. Do yourself a favor and don't complete the main quest (don't 
 go to the NPP) . This game could have been great, but it just lacks polish. Bugs (including corrupt 
 save games) exist even with the first patch. No polish to multiplayer or RPG elements give this 
 game sort of a FPS feeling like the Doom game, where you can talk to people, but that's about it. 
 RPG is really lacking, is what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely an FPS, first and foremost, and the RPG elements are rather minor. You 
 have inventory management and carry limits, you can talk to and trade with other characters, and 
 you can take up various quests, either to advance the main story or for reward. That's about the 
 extent of the RPG side.
  
  The breakdown:
  
  Graphics - Pretty good actually. The overall look of the game is gritty and dark, which helps convey 
 the not surprisingly dark and gritty theme. There isn't a whole lot of shiny or flashy, so this 
 may lead some to the conclusion that the graphics are crap. The gameworld has lots of detail and 
 it's clear that the level designers worked closely on every piece of the map. There are no copy-and-paste 
 moments and each area looks unique enough to be memorable (as unique as a bombed out disaster area 
 can get) . The dynamic lighting is excellent and really adds to the mood, provided you have a good 
 enough video card to pull it off. Lightning storms at night and the flashlight show this off nicely. 
 There's also a day/night cycle, which certainly adds to the atmosphere, but can also be a nuisance 
 as night fighting puts you at a distinct disadvantage against enemies who have no handicap on their 
 sight or accuracy in the darkness.
  
  The downside of all of this is that most people will not be able to play the game decently with 
 the highest settings like dynamic lighting, max draw distance, max textures, etc., so the game 
 may not look so hot after you've dropped far enough. I tried lowering the settings to static lighting 
 and medium textures just to see what it would look like, and I must say it looked quite bad. I 
 played the game pretty much with everything set to max, so my impression of the graphics quality 
 should be taken with that in mind. The AA is next to worthless and does not provide nearly enough 
 of a visual improvement for the performance hit incurred. Leave it off.
  
  Semi-free-roaming gameworld - It doesn't have the openness of Oblivion or Far Cry, but it's not 
 as railroaded as HL2 or Doom either, somewhere in-between. There are load zones between each map 
 and boundaries limiting how far you can range, usually a fence (the utterly impassable barbed-wire 
 fence) or a high radiation zone which will kill you. The maps are adequately sized, giving some 
 room for exploration off the beaten path, though it doesn't take long to hit the boundary. You 
 can go back and forth between maps at any point until the very end of the game, so in that sense 
 it is much more open than the standard FPS.
  
  The side quests for the most part are extremely generic and Fed-Ex. Get an artifact, mutant body 
 part, kill this guy, kill off a herd of mutants, etc. The rewards usually involve small amounts 
 of money, making the quests not worth bothering with most of the time. There are a few exceptions 
 where you'll actually be given a useful artifact. Many of the quests have 24 hour time limits and 
 end up expiring before you can get from point A to B and back to A again, having to traverse 4-5 
 maps in the process. Overall the quest system doesn't work too well, except for the main story 
 which thankfully gives you an infinite amount of time to finish.
  
  The combat can be challenging in the beginning as the early weapons have poor accuracy and good 
 body armor is not readily available (though it can be found very early on if you know where to 
 look) . Ammo conservation is very important as you may find yourself running out of ammo near the 
 end of a mission. Enemies don't drop much ammo and there's very little of it just lying around, 
 so it always pays to stock up on rounds at the merchant (carrying 300-400 rounds at all times is 
 a good idea) . The AI is all over the place, sometimes smart, sometimes braindead. Human enemy AI 
 will move around quite a bit and they can be difficult to pin down. The AI is not nearly as predictable 
 as it is in most FPSs, lots of flanking and changing of positions. The mutant AI, however, is much 
 more predictable, charging straight at you most of the time. When the AI works it's great, when 
 it doesn't, well... There were a handful of occasions where the AI just stopped, their guns either 
 pointed at the ceiling or ground, allowing me to run up and kill them one by one with no response. 
 Mutants often cannot climb stairs and will keep running back and forth as the player picks them 
 off from only a few feet away. These kinds of AI breakdowns didn't happen too often, but they do 
 happen and it hurts the game a bit.
  
  One of things that annoyed me the most about this game were the endless spawns. Characters (usually 
 enemies - bandits or military) will spawn at map entry/exit points, so oftentimes you'll find yourself 
 in the middle of a battle as soon as you enter a map. You can clear an entire map and only moments 
 later go back and find that a whole slew of enemies have respawned. There needs to be some kind 
 of cooldown period because as it stands it's out of control.
  
  Scripted sequences can also get screwed if you save in the middle and then reload, the Duty/Freedom 
 missions for example. The AI will forget what it was supposed to be doing and run straight into 
 walls, etc.
  
  One's feelings about the game will likely be impacted strongly depending on the type of ending 
 one receives. The true endings explain the situation fairly well, tie things up for the most part, 
 and one of the options opens up a lengthy battle sequence before the game is finally finished. 
 The other endings are really a joke, and were intended to be a joke. They'll either make you laugh 
 or smash the keyboard.
  
  The strong point of this game is its atmosphere, especially the labs which do a great job at being 
 creepy. The gameworld gives a decent illusion of being alive - stalkers sitting around campfires 
 talking, playing guitars, packs of mutants attacking passers-by, etc. Immersive, an overused word, 
 but it is that.
  
  The weak point is a lack of polish. Quests can break. The AI can break. There are also some balance 
 issues which need to be addressed - overspawning, deterioration of weapons/armor, jamming, money 
 adjustments. My game was stable - only a few crashes to report, not unusual for most games these 
 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: max_insane
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 11, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I've checked several reviews and first would like to say, that:
  1. It's not THAT buggy as you would expect if you red only negative reviews. On my rig (Athlon 
 64 3800+/2Gb RAM/Radeon X1950 Pro 512Mb) it runs smoothly, without ANY crashes (1.1 patch is applied 
 of course) and on maximum graphics setting. So far I haven't experienced any graphic related problem. 
 And it loads even faster than Half Life 2 for example.
  2. It's not THAT hard. Just play Ghost Recon series or S. W. A. T.
  
  So this game has to offer? 
 Everything that RPG fan wanted, but couldn't get from FPS games in the past (Deus Ex was the first 
 great attempt, but not quite an RPG) . S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is somewhat similar to Xenus, but surpasses 
 it in every aspect. It's hard to compare it to games like Half Life 2 - it's more like comparing 
 Need for Speed Undeground and Colin McRae Rally.
  
  Like in every FPS there are plenty of realistic and fantastic weapons thruout the game. But you 
 can't just load up with heavy machine gun, rocket launcher, sniper rifle, BFG and tons of ammo 
 for it. One can carry only as much as 60kg of gear. Usually it's only a pistol (I threw it away 
 early in the game) , one or two types or rifles with enough ammo, appropriate armor (yes, there 
 different types of armor you can buy or find in the zone) , several packs of medical supplies and 
 food. All new equipment is obtained a trophy from a fallen anemy or hidden stash in the wilderness. 
 Uneeded loot can be sold to several traders or other stalkers, who is not hostile to you.
  There are no experience or skill points or whatever you can expect from a typical roleplaying game 
 for advancing your character. Instead only your real skills matter. Only weapons and armor become 
 better as you fight your way to the center of the zone to compensate increasing difficulty of gun 
 fights.
  Game punishes for being reckless. Stalker, who wants to live long enough to see the next day (enviroment 
 is dynamic btw - days, nights and rain is making gameplay even more realistic) should be CAUTIOUS 
 and smart. If you just into a fight with several armed opponents - you would probably die without 
 taking out anyone. Bushes, trees, corners, boxes - that's obstacles for enemy sights and, most 
 importantly, bullets you should not neglect. Close quarter gun fights aren't so intense and polished 
 as in F. E. A. R., but still makes your heart beat faster.
  Some people complain about lack of fire power. But what you should from a regular pistol against 
 a bulletproof vest? In zone no one walks around without one. And if finally you get at least AK47 
 all complains would only seem funny - it just tears apart primitive vests that couldn't be shot 
 thru with PM (pistolet Makarova) . Just like in real life. And don't forget to aim (like in Call 
 of Duty) . By aiming at the enemy head, you cn take him out in one shot with just simpliest pistol 
 (until they start to wear helmets) . But if you just rely on a regular crosschair (like in Quake 
 or Half Life) it can take more than a round of ammo before only one enemy is down.
  Game isn't strictly limited to the story - one can relatively freely move around the game world. 
 But to enter some locations first you should finish corresponding mission. You would meet not only 
 mutants and enemies, but also neutral stalkers like urself, and even organised factions, which 
 can become friendly or hostile according to your actions. Sometimes you even would find yourself 
 in a squad sent to clean up some area, so game even features team work. But I must admit, that 
 A. I. of comrades isn't bright.
  Foes are tough and pretty smart. Again, comparing to F. E. A. R., they aren't THAT smart - but still 
 they react to enviroment, hear, see, interact with their squadmates, take cover, retreat if outgunned.
 
  Mutants are even tougher... But I won't spoil it for you.
  
  As for the story - it's not told straight. You have to be erceptive, to catch the twists - but 
 game teaches you that from the first enemy enconter. So be patient and listen and read any information 
 you can find.
  
  Summary: great gameplay, nice story, great graphics (with some minor disadvantages) . What else 
 do you want? Go get it - highly reccomended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoopdebejesus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 11, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Well worth the 5-year wait! It could have been so much better, (dated graphics) but this game shines 
 mostly in how unique it is, in terms of how open-ended it feels, and the immersion factor. Anyone 
 who loves RPGs and shooters or even adventure games will love playing this one. Highlights of 
 the game are the extreme attention to detail put into the maps to make them feel 'real'. Even without 
 the excitement of bands or roaming animals or deformed creatures or deadly bandits/shootouts, you 
 can be entertained just exploring the vast maps with abandoned buildings and ruins.
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R is a well worth the bargain price and is a 'Keeper'.
  
  PS: Anyone who loved 
 Deus Ex will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corsoski
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 11, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  6 YEARS!
   ....... *snifffle* 
 .... HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA ... *cough*cough* ... hahaha ... hihi ... tihi ...
  
  Well. The purported a-life is cool, sure, but I've coded more interesting a-life in elisp. And 
 one interesting feature doesn't really make a game, now does it? 6 years should mean the leanest, 
 meanest, most optimised code you could possibly imagine. The interface should have gone through 
 any number of cognitive walkthroughs, case studies and not to mention extensive playtesting on 
 a huge number of platforms. 6 years to produce a mediocre game is not so good.
  
  6 years to produce a game that doesn't even handle directx events from the mousewheel correctly 
 on the three setups I've tested it on is downright godawful. Here's hoping the x-ray developers 
 manage to rack a few up for technical merit on their resumes. I'd get a very long stick and keep 
 the QA team at poking distance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilvirgil
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  I have some questions:
  Is this game looking like one that have been developing for 4-6 years ?
  
  I dont think so. 
 Maybe 1-2 years. Maximum 2 and a half year.
  It seems to me that the game development team was working 1/3 and the others 2/3 was drinking vodka 
 and talk about what evere russians conversate when they are drunk.
  
  The game looks like a bad movie to me.
  It&acute; s too much like in real world. It&acute; s almoust 
 like it would be in real life if you would wake up in the zone with no memories about you. The 
 things you are told in the game are minimum of the minimum. Just like in real life. Go straigh, 
 first left, second right, again left, straight ahea, it&acute; a big buildin on the left, turn left 
 and so on. You get very tiny help for orientation throu the zone .
  
  The quests briefing are so spartan , so few word and detalis, that you feel completly unprepared 
 to do the tasks. Just like in real life. You have to walk/run from point A to B, over long distances 
 to fullfill some missions, but on the way, if you check your PDA you will see marked spots on the 
 map near your positions, but the explanasions for that spot are so tiny that you cant figure out 
 what you are supose to do.
  
  And by the way, it just come into my mind, I havent seen so worse animation for animals (dogs, 
 and so on) since Dizzy. Animals looks like broken toys. C&acute; mon 4-6 years of development, and 
 the dogs runs like they lego robots. C&acute; mon !!!
  
  Some of the characters are speaking some not, some in english, some in russian. I think that later 
 in the game I will found some character that speaks some englis-russian-doggish language. C&acute; mon 
 !!! Years of development and thinking and programming ! I can bet !
  
  So many text in this game, like old spectrum games. And a not very easy to read becouse of the 
 background of the letters (when you speak with another character in the game) . It&acute; s just 
 take years of development to put almost the same colour for the letters ond for the background.
 
  
  Guns are jamming and you cant repair them. Suits are degrading and you cant repair them. So brilliant 
 ideas. It takes years to come to this you cant repair ideeas.
  
  Another buggy thing. It takes to long to load for this years of development. Only for Doom I had 
 to expect long minutes before I can play. But Doom was lookinf like a movie, and not like some 
 legos runing through paper grass on my mother living floor. C&acute; mon !
  
  But its catchy. Why ? Becouse it&acute; s like in real life. Small amounts of informations, that 
 you can hardly put together, just like in real life.
  
  It would be more enjoyable for me if information comes in a logic way, and I dont have to read 
 oll the data from my diaries, pda and so on. I really dont have time, but I want to play this game.
 
  
  What else ?
  A,... a 4-6 years development ? C&acute; mon ! In their dreams. It dosent look and it feels not 
 like. Just if the game crew are some begginers or if the publisher told them after 4 years that 
 they were working on a wrong game.
  Another thing that I hate is that I have to shoot a few times the opponents until they lie down 
 (toomany time for me) .
  
  After all its an interesting experience. Its depends very much what person you are. The game is 
 catchy, but if dont like to wonder around, to figure up yourself what is this doing and what is 
 that doing (becouse the game tolds you wery little) well you will give the game a 4 to 6 mark. 
 But if you like to struggle to understand what is this game about you will give it a mark between 
 8 and 9.
  
  4-6 years development ... C&acute; mon ! Get serious ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oriontomas
Rating: 4.6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  I first heard abouth this game a few years back from a buddy, it sounded great on paper, a huge 
 world, freedom of movement, cool story, realistic gameplay and a FPS/RPG hybrid.
  Sounds great right?
  The end result is not that great, like most of the games that get published 
 nowdays.
  The game was in production for a LONG time and people would expect that the developers, given the 
 time spent, would at least make a good if not great game.
  
  Huge world?
  No, you have 10 or so levels that are not very big,2x2 km max.
  
  Freedom of movement?
  Yes/No. 
 while you can move where you want you first have to finish some kind of mission, steel the documents, turn 
 off the brain cooker thingy, so you only get free movement in the last 2 hours or so, not that you 
 want to go everywhere because there is nothing worth finding.
  
  Cool story?
  Yes/No, great potencial, bad performance.
  
  Realistic gameplay?
  No, Trade is unnecesary 
 because money is worthless, you cant buy anything good, all you need you will find on the dead bad 
 guys. Weapons suck, if anybody ever fired a real AK they will know what im saying, hiting a target 
 100m away with a asault rifle is not dificult, it is very easy and simple.
  The bullet spread is terible, you guns, asault rifles dont work on more than 50 m, except the guns 
 in the last part of the game, and if they do you still have to hit the bad guy 10-20 times.
  
  FPS/RPG hybrid?
  FPS part yes, the RPG part is still only in the developres minds. A RPG 
 consists of : caracter development ( nowhere to be found) , skils and atributes ( nowhere to be found) 
 ,comunication with NPC (you only say yes, ok, il try, i refuse to do this mission ) . you have no 
 efect on the world, if you kill a good guy he is dead and in a few minutes a new guy will spawn 
 and take his place .
  
  The graphics are are good, but i never was a graphics whore so they dont mater to me,8.
  Gameplay: 
 some bugs involving quests, and and all above,3.
  Sound, guns dogs and russian (wich i dont speak) ,7.
  Value, while the game has diferent endings 
 you have no hint what ending you wiil get, and all above again.2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  This Game has everything - great graphics, great sound, brilliant gameplay, and a massive world. 
 I beat this game in 2 days, unable to take my eyes from it, and boy did it consume me. The whole 
 time i played the game, I kept thinking to myself wow, this game is perfect .
  
  Unfortunately, that thought vanished as the credits rolled down the screen.
  
  It turns out, 
 because I didnt do some stupid side quest Kill Strelok , and because i had 300 000ru by the end 
 of the game, I got 1 of 5 alternate endings, called make me rich .
  
  Needless to say, it was pure bullocks, leaving me longing for more, a feeling which i knew would 
 not be fufilled.
  
  I would still recommend this game to anyone who likes a good FPS, but let me stress to you - DO 
 THE STRELOK QUEST!! or you will be left as I was - Unsatisfied and pissed off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akimitsu_3SF
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: This game is not for everyone, it is slower phased. Throughout the review I have assumed 
 you do not mind such type of game play dynamics.
  
  It is not every day where you see games like S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Not only is it unique, but it is challenging 
 and it adds a new depth to the same old first person shooter we have been playing for years. To 
 put it in the simplest of terms: if you are a FPS fan and have a decent rig you should definitely 
 get it. It delivers in so many levels; it is just unreal how much fun it is to be had.
  
  THE STORY:
  You are placed in a contemporary universe where the disaster of Chernobyl back in 
 1986 evolved into something more as the years passed; this place is ultimately known as the Zone. 
 After a tragic accident you are left with amnesia and all you have as a link to your past is a 
 PDA, in it there is a note that says: "Kill Strelok". For the most part, you are a Stalker (an 
 adventurer of the zone) and you must travel the territory to unravel its many secrets.
  
  THE GOOD:
  The mechanics of the game is what makes it so unique; they are a combination of an 
 RPG and FPS. There is an inventory system and a set of stats that are raised by the items that 
 you will obtain during your adventure, anomalies and suits are some of the items you will be collecting. 
 There is also a huge assortment of weapons, from pistols to grenade launchers. The game also offers 
 quite a nice story line, which is decent enough if you are able to reach the real ending out of 
 the 7 that there are. If you seek a challenge, this game has plenty of it, the engine features 
 very realistic ballistics therefore you will not be landing head shots all the time for afar.
 
  
  THE BAD:
  Now, lets not get confused here, this is the same game we have been waiting for over 4 years now 
 and many of the things that we were promised are nowhere to be seen. I seriously do not want to 
 spoil it to those who have never heard of the game, so just enjoy what you have Some of its shortcomings 
 include its (now dated) graphics engine and high system requirements for smooth game play (ironic, 
 isn't it?) . The game looks decent, but it is not the DOOM3 of 2007. There are also a few glitches 
 with the PDA system, often resulting in not being able to complete certain tasks. Another big annoyance 
 is how much you are able to carry, considering the large amount of items that are in the game, 
 it restraints you on what you want to use.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  Great game. If you are a fan: you should play it; however if you are not: this game will not change 
 your mind about fps. Like many games out there it has its annoyances and glitches, but it is not 
 really something that should completely ruin the experience. You will get at least some good 20 
 hours out of the game, and with this I would like to end my first review ever. Thanks for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thanatose
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  After years of waiting for this title to finally be released I can honestly say I am not disappointed 
 in the least, this game is a blast. With the open ended play style of this game you can play for 
 hours without advancing the main story. The quests in the game are fairly straight forward and 
 enjoyable and the graphics are stunning. This game offers many elements of an RPG with the exception 
 of customizable stats. What equipment you choose to use is completely up to you. As far as overall 
 gameplay goes this game has a bit of a learning curve but once you figure it all out it is very 
 enjoyable. Over all I can honestly say this game was worth the wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thanatos2
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 10, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  This game was obviously not finished. However, despite that, it was still decent. I'll review by 
 section :
  
  Graphics - A FEAR, HL 2 or Rainbow Six Vegas this isn't, but the graphics weren't horrible. They 
 were above average PC Graphics, not great, but above average, although some of the texture maps 
 in this game were HORRIBLE. (The Viper especially looks REALLY bad.)
  
  Gameplay - Alright, it took me all of 2 minutes to pick up the control scheme. People have been 
 talking about how many rounds it takes to kill enemies. Now, if anybody who says this game is hard 
 due to weapon accuracy, I really hope you don't play Battlefield 2, because the accuracy is about 
 on par (STALKER being a little worse) OK, bandits die from a few high chest or one head shot. Anything 
 armored, with helmet takes 2 or 3. This is not exactly difficult. I thought the gameplay was fun, when 
 it worked, leading to...
  
  The bugs in this game make it nigh unplayable sometimes, which for me detract hugely. I got to 
 this one part close to the Freedom base where, during the night, I would turn around, and all the 
 land would disappear and all I can see are gray lines and stretching triangles. Patching did NOT 
 fix this problem, as they didn't even release a save converter with the first patch. This is inexcusable. 
 Game Developers, beta test your damn games, and at least do the little bit of extra code to convert 
 the saves after patching for God's sake.
  
  Sound - Alright. Standard FPS fare. Guns sound like guns. Not much music, but a lot of ambience. 
 The people talking not matching the on screen script was funny, but not horribly so. All in all, 
 good job.
  
  Story - Not the greatest. Doesn't really explain much. Is basically an aid to get you where you 
 gotta go. Not impressed. Side missions aren't really very useful, you're better off just exploring 
 the countryside, killing some people and looting them, while using artifacts found on the way, 
 towards your main objective. This game gives the illusion of open endedness, but it's not a very 
 effective one, which is then massacred by the almost complete lack of a cohesive story.
  
  All in all, it's a 6 1/2 in it's current state with all the game stopping bugs, once they're patched, 
 7 1/2, maybe a generous 8. This game is not as amazing as people seem to think it is, it's just 
 good. Not great, but good, and it could be a bit better if it was properly beta tested. A game 
 that took 4 years to make should not have these problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genewarner
Rating: 2.7
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I am not a hard core gamer but like to play games as a past time.
  
  One trend I've seen recently in games is that the game companies are
  turning their backs on 
 casual game players like me by making the games
  too difficult.
  
  The first of these I encountered was Far Cry but I was unable to get
  anywhere in the game even 
 on the easiest difficulty setting, the
  enemies were too aggressive, too good, and did way too much damage too
  quickly, I soon gave 
 up on the game in frustration.
  
  I recently bought S. T. A. L. K. E. R. and am finding that it and THQ also
  ignores casual game players. 
 Again on the easiest play level, the
  enemies are too aggressive, too good, and do way too much damage too
  quickly. After several 
 days of playing it off and on and unable to
  complete even the first mission, I have given up on it in frustration
  and uninstalled it. I 
 will most likely list it on eBay and move on.
  
  Sad thing for THQ is, I will more than likely not consider any more of
  your games because of 
 my experience with S. T. A. L. K. E. R.
  
  Pitty, it looked like a really neat game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srgdrasco
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 10, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  STALKER is an awesome game. The graphics are brutal and visceral, while not being over dramatic 
 or unrealistic. The weapons in the game fire, kick, look, and sound like their real life counter 
 parts. STALKER is an extremely challenging game, even on medium difficulty. You cannot just run 
 and gun into a huge group of soldiers, unless you want to go to an early grave. I found myself 
 often having to snipe one or two soldiers, and draw out the rest, while I retreated to a building 
 to defend myself from their assault. Tactics are extremely important, and your allies are crucial 
 to your survival.
  
  The inventory and weight system worked well, you couldn't carry more than three or four weapons, 
 along with ammunition, which is quite realistic in my opinion. The addition of the 'artifacts' 
 is a novel and useful idea, though not very well explained. You have to figure it out on your own, 
 along with much of the game.
  
  There were several inconvenient bugs, and a few crashes for me, but nothing that would ruin the 
 game. Definately a great shooter, will hopefully become a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanco
Rating: 2.8
Date: Apr 10, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I play games to enjoy myself, but I have gotten zero pleasure out of STALKER. I just got done spending 
 the past 4 hours trying to get past the first mission. Out of maybe 20 tries, here's the breakdown.
 
  
  50% - killed within the first 3 minutes, + 1m 30 of reload time.
  20% - killed within the first 5 minutes, + 1m 30 of reload time.
  10% - took cover behind a tree, 
 managed to live a while, fired ineffectually at targets, decided to run for it, died + 1m 30 of 
 reload time.
  5% - Actually managed to kill someone by emptying a clip and a half into a guy at short range, 
 killed while looting corpse.
  15% - Computer locked up necessitating soft reboot. Did I mention the game takes easily 3 min to 
 load from a cold start?
  
  So basically I spent 2 hours looking at load screens or rebooting, and the other 2 was an exercise 
 in frustration.
  
  I'm off to play something that works, and is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suppernova
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  i can run oblivion on high and my temps willl go up accordingly, this game almost over heats my 
 system and i lock on 60 mhz refresh. even on novice your getting zapped with rads and u run out 
 of fixes fast and just die load times r awful on 800x600on low and it was still choppy. seems the 
 released to soon, what a shame. it was constantly raining from when i started the game. loaded 
 the official patch and everything is still all messed up. been building gaming systems for a long 
 time and as soon as i fire this game up my vid card and chip start blowing steam. dont get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandallsRaiders
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  The Problems with STALKER are too many to mention I thought it was a beta and finally just give 
 up and uninstalled it. Right from the opening credits there was a problem with the graphics and 
 the sound... I'm running an AMD 64 LIVE 4200 with a NVIDIA SLi 6600 256mb DDR , 5.1 surround...
 
  there should not be any video or sound problems... after the first cut scene with the death truck 
 the game locked up... after 3 restarts the action stopped at the traders desk where the stalker 
 could not move away or out of the traders room. After several retrys and resetting the controls 
 I could only open the locker door to find there was nothing there to retrieve. I could only purchase 
 a couple of food items and that was it. like there was not any way to move out of the traders office... 
 the game continued to lock up... I'm the type of player that just doesn't have the time to redesign 
 the game and MAKE it play... after untold hours of restarts I realized this game was not finished 
 in it's development and chalked it up to another loser trying to build on the success of MUCH MORE 
 SUPERIOR GAMES like HALF-LIFE and FAR CRY... I took it back and traded for credit on a future title... 
 this game is not even worth to be found in a bargin bin... a friend of mine brought over STALKER 
 and we reloaded it on my computer... we got the game to run got the STALKER to take a mission and 
 retrive the flash drive and off it went... Graphics and target action moves are very poor... everything 
 is similar to I. G. I covert strike or OperationFlashpoint in design and the game play is very simple... 
 Using the equipment and switching from one item to another is a waste of game play and detracts 
 from the action. My opinion of this game still has NOT changed and I stand by my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shervinv
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 27, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Overall I like this game. I'm funny with shooters, I hate games like Doom, but loved FarCry... 
 so for me it comes down to do I just have to run around confusing corridors and blast everything 
 or can I take my time and hide and snipe and have wide spaces to roam... S. T. A. L. K. E. R. started 
 off great. The gameplace isn't too linear, you have a main plot to follow but there's wide open 
 spaces and you can go around doing sub-missions all you want. The gun physics are pretty darn good, 
 and at higher levels your enemies are smart and challenging. I'm not a big fan of the monsters 
 that require many clips of ammo to kill, but that's just me... I prefer the human opponents. The 
 graphics are not the best, I think the game was a few years in development, but they're definitely 
 not bad. The sound is good especially with surround and you can actually track where oponnents 
 are by listening to them. The problems for me started after about 6 hours of play...
  
  There's wide open spaces like I said, and to get from point A to C, you have to walk through A, 
 to the exit point, the through B, and then to C. After a few hours this gets very tedious. Let's 
 say you finish a sub-plot and you have to go see someone for your reward, then you look at the 
 huge distance you have to walk and you only have a day to do it, so I'm not even bothering now. 
 The enemies spawn very fast in many areas.... the game is designed to make you rush through areas, 
 if you want to crawl about and snipe people and search bodies and stuff you'll be stuck with never 
 ending spawning enemies and it gets frustrating. You're very limited for how much weight you can 
 carry, which basically means you can carry 2 weapons if you want to carry enough ammo and your 
 weapons deteriorate with use. It's not a huge problem because there's weapons lying around everywhere, 
 but it would be nice if you could upgrade and stick with a certain type of weapon as opposed to 
 grabbing whatever is available. All in all, this could have been fantastic, but as it is it's still 
 pretty good. I don't think anyone will be disappointed playing it, but you won't hold on to it 
 as a classic either.
  
  I finished the game, there's some bugs in this game that need a good patch. The framerates are 
 ridiculous for fast machines like mine and unplayable for slower machines. The sub-mission system 
 is pretty much broken. Missions don't get properly updated as finished or not finished and locations 
 for some are incorrect. This game is a patch or two away from being done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XMantixxX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  What can I say. This game is amazing... Look at all the other over 9 reviews.. This speaks volumes.. 
 You've got to try it to believe it... For any RPG fans (or FPS fans) , its just a mix thats pure 
 pleasure.. You'll find yourself wanting more and more... Note: it is difficult (even on the lower 
 settings) and can be difficult to fight your way through (but if it was too easy, then you're just 
 watching a movie) .. As for the bugs, haven't seen a one, but I have a new decent gaming rig.. If 
 you've got an old piece of crap pc, then its time to upgrade if you really want the full expierience 
 on this one... Also the sound work is spooky as He. ll.. Sorta a Doom/FEAR mix...
  Gotta go, Stalker's calling me.... LOL... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warghost2k
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  STALKER could have been so much more. This game was in development for over four years and generated 
 a lot of buzz in the industry. It was still released too early, and it's apparent throughout the 
 entire game.
  
  The first thing that struck me as odd was how slow the game runs. I had to pull in the draw distance 
 quite a bit just to retain 30+FPS. For such a dated (and ugly) game, this is not a good sign. Expect 
 worse performance than Half-Life 2, but with graphics that are far worse.
  
  And that's not all that's wrong with this little gem. The mission objectives are vague, and sometimes 
 you fail a mission with no clue of how it happened or what went wrong. There are waypoints spread 
 over the map, but descriptive text over the waypoints don't even tell you what missions they are 
 for. There's also a nasty bug that involves zooming in and out of the map. The down-scroll mouse 
 button will zoom out, then suddenly begin zooming into the map, making navigation extremely difficult.
 
  
  There are also quite a few translation issues between the game's native Russian language and English. 
 This is quite common throughout the game and detracts from the ovarall experience quite a bit. 
 It's a shame that THQ couldn't find someone who was at least fluent in English to make the game 
 more understandable.
  
  My biggest gripe with the game is the difficulty level. I've been playing FPS games for well over 
 a decade now, and I consider myself to be pretty good at the genre. This game actually made me 
 drop the difficulty level to novice , which is STALKER's easy mode. The sad part is that the only 
 reason I had to lower the difficulty level is due to the fact that the NPCs cheat.... a lot. The 
 enemy troops tend to have ESP and know when you're approcahing, even if you're walking slowly and 
 behind cover. They also have the incredible ability of being able to shoot through walls and other 
 solid objects. And even After taking over an outpost and killing all of the enemy troops, there 
 wasn't much time before another wave would show up. After killing the next group, yet another wave 
 would appear. This is known as the GTA syndrome , named after that series spawning mobs right behind 
 you if your back is turned. It's not necessarily something that spoils the fun of the game, but 
 since it takes so many rounds to kill an enemy (usually 15+ rounds) , and the fact that there tends 
 to be a shortage of ammunition throughout the game, this can cause serious issues, since you're 
 having to kill more to get more ammunition. It creates a vicious cycle. It's disheartening to kill 
 20 or so troops, only to be killed with one shot by a soldier who just spawned right outside the 
 base you've liverated. It takes a lot of realism out of the game... especially when some enemies 
 will go through 50 rounds without hitting you, and others can shoot you in the eye from 100 paces.
 
  
  Yet another of STALKER's shortcomings is the A. I. You'd think a game that has some expert marksmen 
 for enemies wouldn't feature friendly quest NPCs who are so stupid they simply stand around complaining 
 about getting shot instead of pulling out their weapons and shooting back, or at least taking cover. 
 This happened to me on a number of occasions, and it even prevented from completing a few missions. 
 One example is when a friendly NPC named Mole showed me how to get to the underground complex. 
 After he wished me luck, more phantom soldiers spawned by the base we had just defended. I ducked 
 for cover behind a tree, but Mole simply stood there, eating lead. After vocally stating his obvious 
 dislike for being a meat shield, he eventually had enough abuse and died. I lost my mission and 
 had to reload the game. That was just the beginning of the many infuriating bugs that have effectively 
 made me consider uninstalling this game until a better patch is released. It's a shame that most 
 games are unleashed onto the public in an unfinished form like this. The game does have some good 
 qualities as well. The atmosphere is generally very well done. The interior areas look very nice, 
 and the ambient lighting is truly awesome once you're inside. The earthy tones make the game feel 
 as if you're playing in a wasteland. And sometimes I even felt the vibe I got when I played Fallout, 
 which was a true masterpiece. However, the character models and NPC leave a lot to be desired. 
 And there are some very nasty graphic anomalies, particularly fog when it's raining. Instead of 
 a mist, there's a very strange series of gray lines that fly around on the screen. It's very apparent, 
 and very ugly. Probably the worst graphic blunder isn't even a bug. It's the poor textures used 
 on the weapons. In a game that flaunts its realistic weapons, this was a huge letdown. The textures 
 are grainy and look hideous. I figured maybe that was just the case of one or two of them, but 
 every weapon I found looked very bad. All in all, I feel cheated out of yet another game that I 
 was really looking forward to. Now I guess I will just shelf the game for a couple months until 
 it becomes playable via patches. I did try the multiplayer, but there's nothing new in FPS multiplayer 
 games. It's all the same, with slightly different weapons and levels.
  
  Hope this review helped some of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blade_Tr4iner
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Stalker is a beautiful game, that is true, the graphics are good (if outdated) , and the sound manages 
 excellently as well.
  
  Stalker's main selling point was and is the living world , what you do can and does affect the 
 world around, BUT the world around you doesn't really need you... If you just stood in a room for 
 2 hours then other Stalkers would go on with business as normal, animals would move around, and 
 not like Oblivion which made all it's NPCs follow prescripted paths, but dynamically.
  
  The game is set in 2008, 19 years after the second Chernobyl meltdown (the fiction of the game 
 is based upon the fiction of a second meltdown) and manages a very good post-apocalyptic feel and 
 style, weaponry is based on real life, and so are the various wrecks and buildings in the game.
 
  
  The combat is what will make most people love or hate the game, it is extremely realistic, requiring 
 duck and cover tactics, and ammo isn't just lying around either (like most FPSs) so you have to 
 conserve it carefully. There is also bleeding, which has to be staunched by bandages.
  The stealth portion of the game is also well done, the AI vision is well depicted (you can hide 
 behind bushes, etc) and the noise bar on the left side of the screen helps in avoiding detection 
 since you know when you're making too much noise.
  
  Two interesting parts of the game are anomalies and artiacts, anomalies are - well - anomalies 
 which can harm you in a variety of ways if you go near them, but the reward for successfully avoiding 
 an anomaly can ba an artifact, which can be traded or used to modify your statistics.
  
  Since the game takes place in a nuclear meltdown zone there is of course radiation, the method 
 used to cure radiation poisoning is a bottle of Vodka, or in more serious cases anti-radiation 
 injections, and if you get caught in radiation withiut one of those you ARE in trouble.
  
  Overall Stalker manages it's goal - to be a freeform, open ended FPS/RPG -very well, but the combat 
 system might be a bit off-putting to some and in other cases you might just not like the game for 
 no reason other than it doesn't appeal to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alrenchy1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Game came out really nice with good story board and highly immersive gameplay. This game will scare 
 you, go ahead try playing it with headphones sorround sound and with the lights off at night. The 
 graphics is somewhat demanding and will need a good powerful system to fully run it with great 
 visual quality and good frame rate. But at medium settings it will not noticeable since the game 
 is very immersive as I've said. You can either go on and carry out the main mission or take some 
 small missions and just wander around. The replay value of this game is so good, you'll keep playing 
 it over and over as it ends with different outcomes. Highly recommended for FPS and adventure gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noclippin
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  The most important thing for me in a game is a good beginning and a good end. This game has none 
 of those, some people like to compare this game to TES: Oblivion, I can at some points agree because 
 the game is big and it gives you a lot of roads to follow, but overall the game is sort of straight 
 forward.
  I like the games where headshot = death...
  But when this is possible the enemy should also die by a decent amount of shots anywhere else on 
 the body. Stalker got this all wrong, the combat system is not only incomplete but sort of stupid 
 caused by the very strange and annoying AIs.
  
  The bugs pull this "could have been great game" down in a very deep swamp of "should have been 
 released 1 year later"
  
  Another thing that shocked me was that more then half of all the "chats" with AIs happend in rubbish 
 russian or simple text.
  Even the third person i talked to in the start of the game didn't even have a voice track :/
 
  To me this means lag of fullness and if you compare this game to the amount of the time they've 
 spent on it, it's NOT VERY GOOD. It can't compare itself to other FPSs like Half-life, FEAR and 
 such.
  
  It just doesn't have the "Spark"!
  
  To finish off i'd like to say in one of the "levels" when i saved infront any door and loaded the 
 save the door i was standing infront was open for a few seconds, so i could just walk through... 
 That's incomplete.
  
  Sorry for spelling errors n such ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattx13
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This Game has everything - great graphics, great sound, brilliant gameplay, and a massive world. 
 I beat this game in 2 days, unable to take my eyes from it, and boy did it consume me. The whole 
 time i played the game, I kept thinking to myself wow, this game is perfect .
  
  Unfortunately, that thought vanished as the credits rolled down the screen.
  
  It turns out, 
 because I didnt do some stupid side quest Kill Strelok , and because i had 300 000ru by the end 
 of the game, I got 1 of 5 alternate endings, called make me rich .
  
  Needless to say, it was pure bullocks, leaving me longing for more, a feeling which i knew would 
 not be fufilled.
  
  I would still recommend this game to anyone who likes a good FPS, but let me stress to you - DO 
 THE STRELOK QUEST!! or you will be left as I was - Unsatisfied and pissed off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PotHeel
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Stalker is the game that we all know was going to fail in its huge ambitions, or was it?
  
  Truth: It wasn't.
  
  Stalker has been one of the most enjoyable game experiences that I have 
 had in years, its quietly unassuming facade and brutal combat brought me to tears, I was crying 
 for the beauty, the beauty of the Stalker weaponry.
  
  The first mission had me frustrated, destroy 9 or so bandits with sawn-off shotguns and pistols 
 while you had only one crappy pistol and limited ammo. Fair enough I thought and so I dived in. 
 Half an hour later I was almost on the verge of snapping the disc in half because I was so annoyed...
 
  But then I learned how to fight.
  Using the shadows, being quicker than the enemy, take every advantage you can find, and it was 
 GREAT!
  STALKER should have been called survivor.
  
  The forgettable story, sometimes annoying glitches, idiotic/godlike AI, strange inventory system 
 can be forgiven for the fantastically barbarous weaponry and the Atmosphere, so thick that you 
 would sometimes be quicker swimming.
  
  Ahhh. STALKER the messy masterpiece, beautiful yet flawed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korak9
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand how anyone could give this game less than a seven. I
  
  personally think it's worth a nine. The game is expansive with a variety of
  
  game-play options. 
 The graphics are strong, and the game is very, very
  
  immersive. I feel like I'm getting cancer while playing, walking through
  
  all of the radioactive 
 ruins and anomaly's. Another aspect of the game that
  
  I like, which you don't see in enough games, is the fact that you have to figure out a lot of the 
 game on your own. You have weather, nightfall and mutants! How can someone not like this game. 
 If there is anything wrong
  
  with the game, you could say it's a computer hog, it does jump a little. The pace can be slow for 
 some people I guess, there is a lot of walking. An
  
  earlier review used the word Ambitious, I think that nails it. Try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ-Vegeta
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  What a Great game , I love it and everyone who like FPS will like this game . The game is loading 
 a lot , but that can be fixed in the next patches of the game , and there are some bugs ( 2 or 
 3) that i found during the long playing of this game , and i e-mailed them to the creators of the 
 game , I hope they willloock at my e-mail , anyway the game is very enjoyable , I bet that you 
 will like it , so the only thing that i can say is just - play this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanman31
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Stalker, I have to admit should be a little bit better for as long as it took to get out. Even 
 though there are many issues that need to be dealt with in the game, it stands out as one of many 
 games I feel are to be exciting and a must have for fps enthusiasts. I have only encounter the 
 very slow game loading time and an every once in a while glitch while playing. I have not had any 
 major issues. For a new game it is doing well. The graphics are a little old but fun none the less. 
 The sound and gameplay are really sophisticated and suspenseful. This game in my opinion is a windows 
 xp game. Windows vista being new itself cannot properly handle this game (yet) . There are many suspenseful 
 moments as well as non-stop action if you play the game open ended. Go all over the place and do 
 all the misc tasks. This I feel helps the game along, instead of just doing the main quest. I see 
 alot of bad reviews, but I see this game as a real treasure to first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magoga
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  I have known about this game for a long time and finnally it came. The innovation involved in this 
 game is mesmorizing in that the territories are big with both friendly and non-friendly characters. 
 This makes the game very interesting since you can find safety in friendly camp. The atmosphere 
 in this game is also very eirye and freaks me out from time to time. The sound is also pretty good 
 with all kinds of scary noises and gun shot sounds from distances. Being a russian, it is pretty 
 cool to have russian diologue included in tha game and some of the russian jokes, songs, and conversations 
 are actually kind of realistic. The graphics are slightly outdated, but over all are actually pretty 
 decent and are an excellent fit with the atmosphere. The biggest problem I find with this game 
 is that it is an amazing system hog. My comp isn't very new (2.6 GHz, 512 mb Ram, 128 mb NVidia 
 5600 Ultra) , but I was able to squeeze out much better performances and still have a good framerate 
 with games like Half-Life 2, Far Cry, and Call of Duty 2. I have no idea why this game runs so 
 slow. I have to turn everything down to make it run normally. I was able to get much better visuals 
 with Half-Life 2. Another problem is the long loading times between areas, then when you finnally 
 load the area, the game runs slow for several more minutes which presents another problem. After 
 entering another zone, many game character that have been killed respawn right next to where you 
 enter the area. SO while the game is loading and running slowly, you get shot up and killed and 
 can; t do anything about it. The AI overall is good in this game and it is actually quite a difficul 
 game. One problem with the AI, however, is that they will ocassionally try to shoot you through 
 a wall, although I have never actually been hit through any barrier such as a tree, wall, or fence. 
 You also accumulate money really fast and have nothing to spend it on, other that ammo or the occasional 
 good gun that rarely appears on a trader. All around this a great game and anyone who likes FPS 
 should try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hattamatta
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  this game although confusing is soo much fun it dosein't matter if u suck at it it's still alot 
 of fun I mean I'm on like 3 or forth mission and I keep dieing but I love it also it has online 
 games I was like OMG evin though the online games are like counter strike kinda I love it worth 
 buying The good: Long story so you barly ever wanna stop (this can b bad too!)
  realistic, a new idea, futeristic but also our time kinda, advanced gameplay like leaning (verry diffrent 
 from say ghost recon)
  
  The bad: online verry laggie, easy to die, no vihicles, no mods
  
  
  this game is lots of things higly addictive worth w8 just plain fun master peace and the list 
 goes on!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonziter1
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  Well, this will be the second review I have written. I feel that the players out there deserve 
 to know that this game is completely not worth your hard earned money. It locks up frequently. 
 You have to play with graphics settings in order to make it run halfway stable. The really frustrating 
 part about it is that the game would have been pretty fun if you could put some solid play time 
 in with the graphics settings up to where they NEED to be. So turn em down, then you get a patch 
 that erases your save games. Yep, they put out a patch for the game that ruins your 30+ hours of 
 saved game play. Can you say start over from the beginning? There is a supposed converter in the 
 works, but even after the game has been patched its wrought with bugs. Come on THQ, are you that 
 hard up for cash that you have to sell the sweet looking car with wheels that keep going flat. 
 The game that could have been that simply is not. Maybe in a couple more months when they rush 
 out some more patches it will work properly and I can trust that my time spent saving the game 
 won't be flushed down the toilet by a new patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  Despite starting off on a rocky experience, I am loving this game for its environment and feel. 
 I eventually solved a very frequent freeze by turning the grass quality down one notch from the 
 default setting Stalker had chosen for my hardware (2 xeon dual core chips, 2 GB RAM, ATI X1900XT) . 
 The game world is very malleable: I was seen by a military patrol fairly early in the game before 
 I had learned just how far away NPCs can see you. So rather than run away I engaged them and defeated 
 the three man patrol. Next thing I know, there is an 8 man retribution squad walking out to avenge 
 their soldier-mates. Since fighting the three had been very tough, I wisely chose to flee to the 
 stalker rookie base. And forgot all about the soldiers. Next thing I know, they are assaulting 
 the camp and the stalkers are fanning out to defend their camp. So I join in and help defeat them. 
 A lot of stalkers were killed including Wolf the fellow who had been giving me a bunch of missions 
 to learn the ropes. Well now what I thought? Yep, the game allowed what I thought was a critical 
 NPC to be killed. So I had to make do without those quests. not a big thing really but it hits 
 home that almost anything in this game can change. Later in the next zone I helped defend the garbage 
 stalkers camp only to come back later and find a roaming group of bandits had arrived and were 
 in the process of wiping out the stalkers I had earlier protected. So where you are, when you arrive 
 etc really do have an impact on what is going on in the world around you: the game just does not 
 wait with set-pieces for your arrival. Oh and quests time out too - didn't realize that right away. 
 NPC friends will often sit down after a fight around a camp fire and break out a guitar. Overheard 
 conversations are in Russian (not that I can verify they are actual conversations :-)
  
  So despite the zero-day glitches requiring a 1.001 patch and some remaining outstanding minor bugs 
 (I have not encountered all that others have described) , I am enjoying the game for it's story, 
 environment, world, atmosphere and  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andruxandd
Rating: 2.1
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  I'm so tired to write so many reviews for this game and Gamespot erased. I will write again, without 
 bad words with a language clean, still... very critical. This game deserve that! Or maybe my ratings 
 for Stalker are so annoyings for Gamespot or for moderators... Don't try to black out me! For me, 
 ALWAYS STALKER WILL BE A BAD GAME! Anyway, my review about Stalker will be a little changed because 
 Gamespot that wants. This game is a masterpieces ... of frustrating, chouse or bad-jokes. Graphics 
 are old and strange with all dynamic light and shadows sun with a circumgyration awful. I don't 
 know why this game is so hard and difficult although play on rookie level. AI is so strange, founds 
 you everywhere and hit you thru walls, buildings, trees and cars without aim and see!!! Bullets penetrate 
 any thing that exist among you and enemy (trees or walls) , hit you bad or even kill you. Any soldat 
 or enemy feel and see you from more distance if just move a little in a open-way. And... the most 
 amazing thing is why must to shooting about 30,40 bullets in one enemy, soldat???... and MAYBE... that 
 will die... or NOT and kill you after your cartouche is empty then. Got to reload but no chance... the 
 enemy who take 30bullets in stomac or head kill you after that... I wonder, they why don't laugh 
 after kill you and show you a finger... you know what i mean... Great move! Amazing thing, no? So 
 funny, i'm sure! Die and die and die and don't know what hit you or kill you! Gameplay is so pathetic 
 and sound is the same with all screams in russian language. This is the bad language, so stressed 
 and nervous thing, i don't know what they say because i'm not a polyglot ! English please!!! In 
 a few words, this game is something you can skip and choose anything to play... but no this game, 
 it's a waste of time, uninspired... a disaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breaze56
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 6, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  Ive had stalker since it came out, and im simply blown away, im glad they took 6 years 2 develop 
 this, its fine tuned. i really dont know what people are talkin about bug's and glitches in stalker, 
 i have yet 2 see a single one, and im at the npp (the end of the game) . I simply think people dont 
 have the hardware or the computer know how 2 run it correctly, so they blame it on the game or 
 the dev's, easy enough. This game in simply great, the way the game feels sucks u into the story, 
 and the sound, well theres no words to describe all the sounds this game has. If u have a X-Fi 
 card, ur in for a treat. My only negative thing about this game is the graphics seem kinda dated 
 for 2007, but im not a graphics whore like most ppl are, its the gameplay and the fun that i play 
 games for. Simply buy this game, ull love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconforce
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  It is a fun game in general with photo-realistic graphics (although explosions and smoke effects 
 are horrible) and creepy atmosphere along with clever AI to bring the world to life. But, the combat 
 is very frustrating and it has many design and technical flaws even after the patch was applied. 
 But it is a pretty fun game to play or even watch. P. S. TO ALL YOU IDIOTS WHO GAVE THIS GAME A 
 SCORE BELOW 8, YOU SHOULD GO FIND THE NEAREST BRIDGE OR TALL BUILDING AND JUMP OFF. EITHER YOUR 
 SYSTEMS BLOW OR YOU HAVE NO F U C K ING TASTE WHATSOEVER ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2G2
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Finally we get to experience this game that has been in the making for a long time. This is by 
 far the most creative first person shooter I have ever played. Side by side with Half-life franchise. 
 This game offers a creative storyline and environment that you will not forget. The action is none 
 stop and you can feel like you have been tossed into this world where your mission is to survive 
 with all the madness going on around you. There is a side mission to discover who you are, but 
 I like how the game itself did not revolve around this too much, because you have to focus on making 
 money to get your hands on the best equipment. The guns are the best elements in the game because 
 they have all their strengths and weakness'. The world has lots of detail, and you can tell by 
 the level design. It is nice not to be completely stuck into a narrow world, where there are 10 
 doors but only 1 opens. Here all 10 doors are open, and its up to you to complete your missions, 
 or just have fun and go around and do what you want to do. STALKER is a great experience, and you 
 defiantly will not forget it. Graphics are great, I had no problems with glitches or anything like 
 that. 10/10 game experience
  
  20/10 for creativity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panthers2k5
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  Right here goes i have a strong pedigree where FPS games are concerned ,I have played through both 
 half life's and most mods ,F. E. A. R, System shock 2 (by far my fave) and many more
  
  Gameplay On first glance it seems pretty good up to the point where you enter your first battle 
 with the bandits ,Then it becomes apparent that the shot detection is terrible ,Two shotgun blasts 
 at point blank range to kill someone is just not acceptable ,This game as been screaming out the 
 realism card and i'm sorry but i'm not impressed ,The enemy shoot you through the wall's ,The aiming 
 is terrible for yourself ,They see you from nowhere ,You get shot and you can't even see the enemy 
 ,There is 1 or 2 good idea's i spotted i. e when people are killed the animals tend to get drawn 
 in to the kills to eat them ,The anomalies are just annoying ,The enemy see's you before you even 
 notice them ,I'll finish there but i have load's more .
  
  Graphics I can't fault this aside from the clipping when enemies get stuck in the wall's ,Other 
 than that the game look's really cool on a powerful machine ,The area you explore is not really 
 all that big and is fenced off at certain parts ,Taking away that feeling that your stuck out in 
 the sticks ,There seem's to be anomalies placed at the edge of the game area i well .
  
  sound .
  
  Very good at times ,I had no problem at all with the sounds of the game it is very 
 atmospheric but sadly the overall experiance doesn't live up to it Value Another minus i'm afraid 
 ,The game becomes one bandit shootout after another and get's quite boring to be honest ,If the 
 shot detection was spot on this wouldn't have bothered me at all ,I wanted to explore the zone 
 going to derelect buildings and checking around but the bandits seem to always just turn the game 
 into a shootout also there isnt really any scope for exploration ,Although on first load up of 
 the game this appears to be the case .
  
  This game seem's to offer a lot at first glance but sadly it soon becomes apparent that it's just 
 another FPS going from one shootout to another ,I have been waiting for this game to come out for 
 a long time ,Now it is out it is a big dissapointment to be honest ,Rent before you buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inoperativeRS
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  There's so much potential in STALKER: Shadow of Chernobyl. It had the chance to become another 
 classic fps among SS2, HL, Halo and so on. It's really too bad GSC couldn't get it done and released 
 in a completed form, because the release version as it is right now is not only buggy, but you 
 can obviously see that corners have been cut and compromisses made in order to get the game out 
 of the gate. Which is really annoying.
  
  I can live with the bugs, my favorite game of all time, fallout, was buggy at released but they 
 were slowly ironed out by patches. But when you play stalker, you will time after time see amazing 
 potential, and time after time realize the game just ignores it and continues like a normal fps. 
 The first few hours are actually the most misleading, as during these you'll actually be able to 
 sneak into enemy bases and there's always many ways of solving a problem, exactly like in fallout. 
 However, after a certain point in the game, it completely changes pace and turns into some kind 
 of far cry clone. Mutants? Check. Special forces? Check. G36k? Check. Some parts actually felt 
 so much like far cry it could've been an expansion for it. Not only that, but the freedom to go 
 wherever you want and do whatever you feel like almost disappears totally. Luckily, there's plenty 
 of side quests are actually some joinable factions in the middle of the game, but if you want to 
 play through the main story line you'll soon realize there won't be a second chance to do the side 
 quests, instead you'll have to create a new save for that.
  
  These are problems that could have been avoided by really concentrating on making a game that really 
 is a masterpiece instead of trying to make the games environments look as close to the real thing 
 as possible and individually modelling the ballistics for every weapon (yes, they did both of those 
 things) . The whole project just became far too ambitious for it's own good, and I think the devs 
 really are to blame. They did an amazing job with the gameplay, the story (which is really interesting 
 although it too suffers from the fact that the last half of the game feels unfinished) and the 
 overall look of the game, but somewhere along the way they forgot that in order to have a true 
 masterpiece you'll need to use the games potential to the max. You don't achieve this by just doing 
 things like the ballistics modelling, which might sound cool in a press release but really doesn't 
 matter at all for the gameplay or by trying to make a perfect copy of Pripyat. You achieve by actually 
 understanding what your game needs, and stalker needs more freedom.
  
  That's not to say the game is bad by any means. The gameplay is great, the sounds are really amazing, 
 some of the places are really scary and all environments, based on real life locations or not, 
 are really well designed and look great. The movies are amazing, although cryptic and the overall 
 athmosphere is really good. Still sounds like the score should be lower considering all my complaints? 
 That's simply because Stalker really grabs you, and is a great game, which really makes the fact 
 that so much could have been done so much better stand out even more.
  
  But stalker isn't a finished game, and no patch in the world is going to fix the unfinished parts 
 I'm talking about, unless the guys at GSC are saints and basicly complete the game at their own 
 cost. You can always hope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skeez123sbc
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 3:00 am PT
Review:  So I've been reading about Stalker for the past 6 years and damn, I'll have to say it was worth 
 the wait! Now don't get me wrong, it's not a perfect game due to some minor bugs, but it gives 
 a unique experience like no other. Whether you're doing side missions for the various factions, 
 hunting mutants, exploring the vast world, or just going through the games main missions; there's 
 enough here to keep you busy for hours. The weapons in the game respond more real than any game 
 before it, which can be hard to land a clean headshot, but that much more rewarding when you do. 
 Also, the guns come in slight variantions (different ammo types, extended clips, silenced, scoped, 
 etc..) which always has you searching for an upgrade or unique weapon. A-life system works great 
 in providing a very randomized placement of mutants and stalkers, all doing there own thing. I've 
 found myself in situations where a lone stalker was fighting 3 bloodsuckers, got killed, and left 
 me to clean up, but in the end he drops a nice scoped automatic rifle, SWEET EH! Just an example 
 of the replayability of the game. My only problems with the game are the fact that it's very hard 
 and you must quicksave often. Also the physics aren't the best when stuff blows up or when enemies 
 die. Max payne 2 had better ragdolls! Also they could've added more dialogue when communicating 
 with people. And no vehicles?! That would've added a whole other dimension. Hopefully all this 
 will be addressed in Stalker 2, if they ever get around to doing a sequel. All in All, its a FPS 
 RPG, and it does a damn good job at it. LOVE THIS FRICKIN GAME!!! Big ups
  
  M. C. SkeeZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMAN-Vercetti
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 5, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  I can't say I've really been interrested in the release of Stalker, and even when it was launched, 
 I bought it out of curiosity.
  But my attitude towards the game soon changed. Stalker proved to be a fun to play, challenging 
 and mysterious game based on a serious topic, that of the disaster at the nuclear power plant at 
 Chernobyl. Starting from the initial historical explosion in April 26, 1986, the producers of the 
 game produced another nuclear event, but that is for you to find out in the game.
  Based in the year 2012, Stalker binds the old location of Chernobyl, Ukraine with new technology.
 
  The gameplay is unique. You are a stalker, someone who came to Chernobyl, ultimately called The 
 Zone , someone who will traverse rivers of pollution, that will fight mutants of radiation, that 
 will face unique anomalies or experience paranormal beings.
  Stalker also has a hidden similarity with FEAR as it combines paranormal experiences with military 
 tactics and situations.
  A striking similarity would be the military wave of soldiers that comes after the moment of paranormal.
 
  The quality of the graphics looks promising, the game uses the X-Ray engine, offering breath-taking 
 scenes, at the cost of performance and speed of course.
  You may ignore the sound at first, but if you take a headset, then you can see the diversity and 
 quality of sound. Sound also plays and important role. It can offer confirming or infirming hints 
 about your objectives.
  
  Soo, I recommend you get hold of this game, if you consider yourself a hardcore gamer.
  Having 
 played Stalker, I await other similar games with great anxiety, such as Crysis or BioShock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gordonrech
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  After such a long wait and after all the hype I am happy to say its a great game. The initial bugs 
 I encountered were very frustrating but the first patch and some graphics card updates fixed all. 
 I run vista with a NVIDIA card and can run the game on medium specs with no problem. The game play 
 is really something new to me I have played oblivion for some time and felt like I was oblivioning 
 with gun. I have not finish it yet but the side quest seem to be a bit pointless as they really 
 don't get you that much cash or cooler weapons The good
  Great gameplay. Great environment really makes you feel like in the zone.
  Graphics are a bit 
 out dated but really do the job nicely
  I love the variety of weapons mods and ammo specs gives great choice here. I spent some time just 
 shooting cans with each weapon.
  
  The Bad
  The lack of a quick transport system in the game results a lot of endless running this can be frustrating
 
  The Initial glitches were very irritating and I feel for something that has taking so long to 
 come out a n extra month or two to fix this could have helped
  The cash system seems a bit pointless as you end up having so much cash.
  The damage rate seems 
 odd that with the time spent on making a variety of weapons and ammo and then the damage that you 
 inflict seems measly. You can end up empting an entire clip or two into someone and unless you 
 get a head he just keeps coming
  
  The Ugly
  Well there is nothing Ugly about this one Would I recomendd you buy this YES its defintlay worth 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gphilli15
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 4, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Aside from the amazing look of Stalker, it is a very different and exciting game that I was addicted 
 to straight out of the box. It is visually stunning.. it blows my mind that I'm only running it 
 on medium (which was recommended for my system) and it still looks amazing. The lighting is very 
 nice and the day/night and weather cycle is great. I was a little skeptical at first knowing that 
 it wasn't a very linear game which I am used to in FPSs, but going through it I realized it is 
 similar to GTA.. hah... in that all I have to do it get missions and do them. The Cons: The AI is 
 slightly retarded and it takes a lot to kill them. The map is massive and getting to the next mission 
 isn't the funnest of tasks. It is kinda (for me at least) difficult to tell what you are supposed 
 to do and how to do it. If you run out of ammo you are basically screwed cause to get more you 
 either have to kill an enemy or go to a trader a thousand miles away. Also it is kinda buggy and 
 there are minor glitches. **Note: I have not completed the game yet, and I have been playing for 
 many many hours.** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ro_richard
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  It&acute; s a big pleasure to play and it don&acute; t have problem to patch it, so a great game, 
 the last great game that I played like this (shooter) , was F. E. A. R. which I also like it.
  
  The first thing in a good game should be the LEGEND, Chernobyl for ex, which it has to be mixed 
 up with reality, then it comes the player and the characters whom must fit in the legend, then 
 that things that innovate the game (ex submissions) , and finaly but not least I thing the design 
 and programming, and all off this combined with the pleasure to play another GOOD game.
  
  The big games developers should learn much from East Europa, the kids are hot with almost every 
 game they are sailing on the market, eg. Silent Hunter - Romania, a country from the only thing 
 that we know is Drakula :)
  
  Thanks boys, GREAT JOB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollism
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  I dont write reviews, but i just wanted to say how much ive enjoyed this game. Reading other reviews 
 of ppl giving this game 1's and 2's has annoyed me. All i can say is that this game is not for 
 newbs who just want to run and gun, you have to take your time, hide, shoot, move, and so on, not 
 run in guns blazing or you WILL get killed and this is what i luv about STALKER, its different. 
 Go and play Doom or Serous Sam if thats what you want. Ive been playing for about 20-25 hours 
 and Im up to the bar, done all the missions so far and ive really enjoyed it. My advice to anyone 
 NOT enjoying this game is to slow down, and play it in moderation. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miskal
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed Stalker I have been following this game for atleast three years and I couldnt 
 wait for it to come out. Its not fallout, but it reminds me of a first person fallout and try to 
 be as ambitious but is limited Im really looking forward to an expansion and to see what moders 
 do with this engine. The sound was alright I wish it was english but I felt emersed. The bullet 
 phyisics engine is the best on the market right now. I like the single player, its like oblivion 
 with guns but has a completely different feel to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: it009x9281
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is great in most ways (having plyed FPSs on the PC since 1996 seen a lot of changes) but 
 it does have flaws
  This game is the only game that has impressed me since Deus Ex and battlefield 2/2142
  im not 
 going to go on about other games, i found in stalker when u get to the city zone i feel at that 
 point the game is rushed cos u have to find a way to the NNP i was hoping for missions in the city 
 it was at that point i put the game off cos of a bug that keeps crashing the game so i cant progress 
 any futher
  So i wil patch it and add a balance patch in the game also i was only able to find one RPG in the 
 entire game does anybody know if there is a trader selling them? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dknutsen
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game that I would definitely recommend. It's not your average first person shooter. 
 Instead of being linear and heavily scripted, STALKER steps into relatively new territory with 
 a large, always-changing freeroaming environment. The world (weather, time of day, NPCs) changes 
 around you so the game will go on even if you are standing still. The environmental effects are 
 very well done, from lightning storms to wind. The graphics are a bit dated for these days of early 
 DX10, but still look very good if you can play in on the higher detail levels. The weapon and item 
 system is advanced for a first person shooter and very skimpy for and RPG, so it provides a good 
 mix of the two with just enought sophistication to be a challenge and little enough complication 
 to prevent huge annoyance. There are a nice variety of weapons and items (you can even get drunk 
 if you drink the vodka!) as well as artifacts which boost certain player stats and abilities. The 
 weapons ballistics are very well done and make shooting a challenge. Istead of the spray and pray 
 method so common in other shooters, STALKER requires aiming and cover. It takes a bit of patience, 
 but feels much more rewarding in the end. The AI is very well done as well. Enemies will use cover 
 and flanking tactics appropriately. Still a little buggy but has definitly improved since the first 
 patch. This game takes a little time to get used to, and the first part isn't extremely engaging, 
 but it once you get the hang of it the game becomes better and better. I would highly recommend 
 this game to any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AstraNoString
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 10:52 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a game that attempts to combine Shooter mechanics with RPG elements in an open 
 world. In the game you play as a Stalker knows as The Marked One in an area outside the Chernobyl 
 Power Plant called The Zone. As you play through the main quest of the game you can pick up side 
 quests from friends NPCs, or choose to take off and explore the world on your own.
  The game's shooting mechanics are solid. There are numerous weapons to pick up, and all of them 
 behave realistically. You will not be very accurate using your weapons from a distance, so the 
 game really forces you to get in the face of you enemies. All the human NPCs behave really well. 
 They'll find cover when fired upon, and will work together in an attempts to eliminate you. The 
 A. I. in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is by far some of the best I have seen in games. The game works really well 
 at creating a distinct and immersive atmosphere. The graphics in the game are nothing amazing, 
 but the combination of many visual effects and killer audio all work really well together to really 
 pull you into the game. While the game functions really well as a shooter, the RPG elements leave 
 much to be desired. The ability to talk with every friendly character in the game does little to 
 help the player progress in the game. Picking up side quests offers little reward for the player, 
 as the most powerful weapons and armor can be obtained from playing through the main quest. Picking 
 up side quests only offer more money and ammo. The games offers even less incentive to explore 
 most of the world. There is very little to be discovered, and the equipment hidden throughout has 
 little value.
  The shooting mechanics and atmosphere will delight any fan of a good shooter, and hours of enjoyments. 
 However, the weak presentation of roll playing elements will leave RPG fans wanting more out of 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Technekt
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 3, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  I would like to encourage creaters and developers to follow the stalker suit. Yes I know the game 
 is buggy, the graphics are outdated and the UI is kinda funky.. Details, details.. man give them 
 a break. I mean I give them alot of credit for trying something new. It's not hard to make a game 
 that follows a recipe.. I mean most FPS released have followed the same formula.. (credit to doom) 
 so it's easy for them. To make a standard FPS is easy now.. all the hard creative work has been 
 done, now all that's left is to make a world, create a story.. and use all the previous FPS for 
 reference.. so they better get the details right, cause that's all they are really doing. If you 
 wanted a polished, pre-fab game stalker aint right for you. If you appreciate an experiment stalker 
 will satisfy you.
  
  With Stalker, it seems like there was much more than details to think about. Making a story in 
 a evolving world is complex and hats off to Stalker for trying. All this talk about the inferior 
 graphics.. Damn I want to encourage games developers to make more leading-edge games with less 
 graphic demands. That way more people can enjoy the novel concepts that come from game evolution 
 without having to upgrade to the newest rig just for prettier visuals and other effects that only 
 marginally improve the game. Scalability is a great thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 3, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the box art, I was generally unimpressed. Seemed kind of generic but as I read 
 more of the previews, the game grew on me and so I snatched it up when it came out. This game succeeds 
 where many FPS' fail: replayability. STALKER is sort-of similar to Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion, minus 
 the level-up system. You will have an inventory, with all your weapons, ammo, food, anti-rad medication, 
 and artifacts and the world (which is quite large) has a primitive economy. I was taken back by 
 the sandbox gameplay since this is quite a new experience. The only other sandbox games I played 
 was Elder Scrolls III and IV. The story is interesting, especially the setting but it is kind of 
 incoherent and not cohesive enough. The graphics, though dated, are still quite good. All the weapons 
 and environments look detailed. There's not much music, but the sound effects, the howl of the 
 wind and the cries of mutants are very well done and draw you in. The shooting gameplay is challenging, 
 and features a wide assortment of guns to play with, but makes you choose carefully since you have 
 a weigt limit. Artifacts too, since they offer a positive constant effect and a negative constant 
 effect. The AI is on par with F. E. A. R., though indoors in kind acts a little wonky. Overall, this 
 is very ambitious game, and GSC has succeeded in setting out what they wanted to make. I can see 
 myself playing this game 2 years from now. Only major gripe is that another patch is needed just 
 to fix a few bugs and optimize loading times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonC_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  OK, I didn't expect much out of this project after so long developing even though I tracked it 
 since the beginning. And it came up surprisingly well done even though performance issues and bad 
 storytelling really gets in the way.
  You play as The Marked One who is found in the Chernobyl radiation zone by stalkers and brought 
 to a trader named Sidorovich, who asks you to do some jobs for him while he will try to help you 
 with your amnesia that you have after an accident in the Zone... From here starts a pretty nice 
 story where you get to visit interesting places in Chernobyl and even the Chernobyl reactor itself... 
 I was really hooked by this idea because I live in the East of Europe and I wanted to see how buildings, 
 vehicles and language will be recreated in game. And I was not dissapointed because everything 
 from cars to buildings look like their real life counterparts in Russia or like it were in USSR... 
 You can just fell the atmosphere even though the graphics engine is pretty aged and is nothing 
 compared to F. E. A. R. and Half-life 2. But I really don't have any problems with that. The sound 
 in this game is also pretty good. Nothing memorable about the soundtrack but the speech of stalkers 
 is OFF-THE-HOOK!!! You can really tell that these are real Russian people :)
  The gameplay is good also because it is based on tactical combat and not on run and gun type of 
 shooting. You really have to take cover act like a rel soldier to gain victory. Of course, there 
 are some AI glitches but I don't think that they aren't very noticeable.
  OK and now complaints about the game. Firstly, I really have to say about the performance of the 
 graphical engine which is not well finished. I played HL2, F. E. A. R. and even Oblivion with my rig 
 but I didn't notice such a performance loss in game. This should be really fixed.
  Furthermore I would like to criticize the storytelling. It is pretty boring to read all of those 
 long journal entries instead of listening or watching them get told in cutscenes.
  But all in all, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a great game that every FPS fan looking for something more open 
 ended than most of our nowadays games should try :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radx800pro
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:38 am PT
Review:  I was very very tentative to pick up this title after reading some of the user reviews but for 
 the price I took the chance. I'm very happy I decided to give it a chance! The game doesn't have 
 all the bells and whistles when it comes to the Graphics but the Sound is top notch except for 
 some of the weapons sounds. The concept is very unique which is what really drew me in.
  
  There is a rather bothersome bug that appears everytime it rains. The screen turns into a jagged 
 mess. I find that just waiting it out solves this but they relly need to fix that along some other 
 glitches here and there.
  
  The atmosphere really does a nice job of giving you the feeling that your in Chernobyl. All I can 
 say is give it a chance and excuse a few bugs here and there and let the story and atmosphere draw 
 you in. I've heard some posters bash the RPG aspects of the game but I find them a welcome addition 
 that really sets this game apart from your average run and gun formula FPS's. Also having to monitor 
 you health situation regularly is a nice touch to realism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksi_demonslayer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  this game is sort of long, single player is very fun it takes a very good comp to enjoy this game 
 but all in all if you can run it its very much worth a buy i bought a brand new compy to play this 
 game and it well worth my 1grand i spent for my new computer, the games mp seems to be in the lacking 
 cause of laggy servers and crash bugs it seems to need some fixing before it allows anyone to call 
 it fun at all. over all the game is great and has a ton of reply value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbtunaboy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  The game is damn fun. The story was very good at the beginning. The difficulty is right on... The 
 game uses 2 or 3 guns that I recognized from battlefield 2's expantion pack. And I think that 8 
 man raid that duty asks you to join in on against the 100+ man freedom base that they have in this 
 game..... the coolest and most innovating fps event I've played in a very long time.... It feels 
 like you are VOIPing with the computer.... Beautiful.
  
  But after the half way point on the way to Chernobyl (the single player map) the game starts losing 
 it's quality. And in my opinion, if the game ended before the player got to Chernobyl, it would 
 have been a better single player experience than to go through the annoying, buggy, and confusing 
 ending. (I actually ran around the entire south part of the chernobyl map at the big end fight 
 because I couldn't make the timer. The game had didn't even have boundaries, so I just walked into 
 the power plant with no resistance from the west.....) : (
  
  There is a loud russian voice yelling at you the whole time in the last area. That was the most 
 annoying thing. There were bad guys, but they seemed just as frustrated about the voice as I was, 
 and so they weren't even hard to dispatch. The game had so many things going for it, but in the 
 end, it seemed like the game was just rushed, essentially leaving out 1/3 of the game.
  
  It has 7 endings. But I didn't know that until i looked online. The game gives you no indication 
 that you should replay the game for different endings.... great - gameplay
  graphics - were mostly bland
  sounds - were somewhat reused, but guitar playing was really cool.
 
  value -It is very replayable if you can forgive the game for ending 2/3 the way thru.
  tilt - single player leaves you shaking your head, not satisfied, not disapointed, but just diserted
 
  
  That game could have easily been better than any fps has ever been..... Oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorsedge678
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 2, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay Pros: O where to begin! The game is simply awesome, it truly is. I haven't played a game 
 this fun in quite some time. The level of immersion in Stalker is quite impressive. The realism 
 in the gunfights is quite refreshing as the AI and realistic ballistics make for an intense shootout 
 every time the poo hits the fan (which happens alot :) ) . The lack of fast travel and vehicles 
 makes the game significantly longer and forces you to explore, which is a good thing if you are 
 a glass is half full kinda person. Stalker is one of the first game that actually gets better the 
 more you play it. It is awesome when you start, but it only gets better and better. The AI while 
 still retaining minor flaws, is truly impressive. GSC really did deliver on their AI promises. 
 The combat AI in Stalker actually impressed me. Many people will praise fear as having really good 
 ai, but i never noticed GOOD ai until i played stalker. The enemies are just so damned smart, there 
 are countless stories i could tell you to demonstrate how good the ai is, but you should just play 
 the game for yourself! The further you get in the game, the better equipment you'll get, which 
 is a big reason why the game just gets better and better. Stalker is also the scariest game I've 
 ever played... also something you'll have to find out for yourself! Alot of the quests are also 
 very cool. There are alot of situations that give you true choices on what you want to do and how 
 to do it. Man i could go on and on with this but i need to finish my review... PLAY THIS GAME.
 
  
  Gameplay: Stalker also does have its shortcomings. Like i said the AI does have flaws. For example 
 they will on occasion, face the wrong direction (this was rare) . They also sometimes have trouble 
 spotting you when you shoot them at long ranges, or not spotting you... just reacting in a way that 
 is normal. Stalker also has less mutants than expected, fortunately i think some were left in the 
 source code, so maybe someone could mod it in. There were also some little inconsistencies that 
 made you go i wonder why they chose to do that? . For example, the artifacts and reward system. 
 The artifacts were a bit too common, and somewhat useless in ways, but still cool. Often times 
 you would get way too much money and have nothing to spend it on. The game is also pretty hard, 
 which is a good thing... but not so much to most people... be warned. The game also didnt have enough 
 quests to be honest, but this is mostly because it was so awesome and i just never wanted it to 
 end.
  
  Graphics Pros: MY OH MY. Well Stalker is certainly an attractive game... in the mutated sort of 
 way. It has perhaps the best lighting system I've yet to seen in a game. It also ran very very 
 well. Some people would say it didn't for them, but it did for me so i cant comment on that. The 
 landscapes were rather beautiful, and the incredible detail indoors adds to how scary this game 
 is. PS, i didn't have a dual core cpu or a 7900 gt, and i ran this game very high with no troubles 
 what so ever.
  
  Graphics Cons: The character models were less than stellar. The animations and how they looked 
 kinda blocky was what put it off, even though they were pretty good still, just not so compared 
 to everything else. Regardless of how good stalker looks, it definitely shows its age in some areas.
 
  
  Sound Pros: The incredibly creepy sounds in the lab parts are just awesome. The russian is awesome. 
 The helicopters are awesome. Sound Cons: Repeating dialog isnt that cool... also some sounds sounded 
 kinda oldish? IDK, maybe you can play it and see what i mean. Value: The game is pretty long and 
 there is alot to do, and it has alot of replay value.
  
  Tilt: After all this time Stalker really came out good, definitly a must buy for all pc games and 
 all those who've waited, dont miss this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: equili3rium
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  This game grabs you from the moment you start to play but not necessarily in the right way all 
 of the time.
  It has atmosphere in spades and personally I thought the graphics were great with some very good 
 touches. The devil is in the detail after all. The lighting effects were very well done and at 
 last we have a torch that stays on as long as you dare to keep it on since the NPC's can see your 
 light just as you can see theirs. The indoor lighting is some of the best I have seen and the sound 
 is used along with it to create an aura that slowly climbs your spine and gives you the chills.
 
  The in game physics and rag doll animations are a little stiff at times and the AI tends to get 
 stuck in doorways and other places more often than it should but I can't help going back and playing 
 the game again.
  The more you play the game the more you notice little details and find secret stashes and get drawn 
 into the game world.
  You see, for all the game's flaws, it has an undeniable charm which shows that it was a labour 
 of love and should be respected for that.
  All in all, a game that although not everyone will like, everyone should at least try because it's 
 different and that's what we should be forcing all the developers to do.
  (Update)
  I have at last tried the online multiplayer part of the game and although it's all very generic 
 the maps are fun with plenty of places to ambush from.
  There seems to be a little problem with lag though, especially when the maps are full. But then 
 I didn't get the game for the online content so that doesn't bother me.
  One more point. Try the game on the hardest setting after you finish it and you will see that it 
 forces you to play the game in a different way. Lots more thinking involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downsider
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  i first saw this game at a site my buddy sent me threw MSN and all i saw was screenshots but damn!!! 
 they were pretty amazing along with a short film and instantly i was drooling. that was four years 
 ago and i forgot about S. T. A. L. K. E. R. along the road... then just 3 weeks ago he tells me dude 
 dude S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is coming out in 2 weeks check out this vid it looks SICK!!!... i watched it 
 and was still blown away but the visuals along with the AI now that i have the game there are times 
 where i think to myself... six years??? ... but then again i play games such as BF2 and CoD and 
 those games are way different from S. T. A. L. K. E. R. ... so i gave it another shot after the patch 
 came out and i must say... it made it alot smoother and now i cant stop playing it. the AI is amazing 
 and yet at times it is just outrageous but thats only becouse i think i am superman and run in 
 and think i am a god. you cant do that in this game and get away with it so tactics and planning 
 do help. along with the AI would have to be the open world to discover and you do this at your 
 own risk with tons of side missions that dont get old fast. another one would be that it is not 
 scripted well thats what the dev team said on an interview. by that they mean the mutants and the 
 humans act like they would do in real life. for example dogs or boars travle in groups and they 
 do what they need to do too survive. same thing goes with humans. they eat sleep hunt shoot kill 
 and many other things that alot of people have pointed out. another thing i almost forgot is when 
 you start to attack dogs for example... after you kill 3 or 4 the remaining dogs will run away 
 becouse they know they have no chance sadly this doesint really happen with humans but who cares 
 KILL EM ALL!!! i guess you could say this is what A-life is... once again i got that info from 
 a site called gametrailers. com while watching a video where someone was explaining the game and 
 the many features. that being said the game does have many features and the world is a breathing 
 living world with some RPG elements. for another example your invantory. you can hold many items 
 but sooner or later ull notice that you are carrying way to much and ull need to either drop some 
 things or use them. do not expect to be able to hold 9 guns either. the gameplay is solid and unique 
 in its own way delivering a very challenging experience. graphics ( (to me) ) are great sadly some 
 people do not agree and usualy those people dont have a very good RIG or those who have a very 
 VERY good RIG for example alienware are disapointed. but thats there problem and to be honest i 
 love the graphics and so does many players and for the first time ever... GAMESPOT even says they 
 are great.
  
  sound is also great and you will agree when you hear distand fire fights or someone screaming... 
 or a very spooky howl or growl or whatever the case may be. i was never good at explaining sound 
 in games but trust me and others... the sound is amazing.
  
  as for multiplayer... ... ... i am experiencing major problems... there is lag and those very annoying 
 freezes along with seeing other players flying in the air or just zipping along the surface of 
 the map... i am not sure if this is a problem that needs to be fixed or its just my internet connection 
 you may want to look up that issue difficulty can be easy and hard at times even when you are playing 
 on the easiest mode the game offers.
  
  it will take you atleast 30 min or so to get use to everything and for me it took an hour.
  
 
  the game grows on you if you give it time. ( ( and for only 39.99 you cant really go wrong ) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s development was started in early 2001. Six years later us, the gamers, finally 
 get to play this highly anticipated Shooter.
  
  Set in Chernobyl, the site of a large nuclear explosion and radioactive waste land, you are a STALKER. 
 A Stalkers purpose is to collect and cash in on artifacts from Chernobyl that each have special 
 abilities and can be worth a great deal of money. You however are more than your average Stalker. 
 You find yourself with a PDA that gives you one main objective. This is to kill a certain man named 
 Strelok.
  
  While you may eventually kill this Strelok you can explore the world and do what you please. It 
 is kind of like Oblivion the way you have free will to do what you see fit. This is a great aspect 
 of STALKER and if you do explore you can find many odd and time worthy things, such as rare artifacts 
 and some cool weapons.
  
  Speaking of weapons there are lots of them. While some are just common you can amp the level of 
 them with certain ammo types like armor piercing or if your lucky you can find upgraded guns. The 
 upgrades on these special weapons range from higher rate of fire to more damage. In addition to 
 special upgrades you can equip them with silencers and scopes you find along the way, which is 
 even cooler. The depth with the gun types is rich and they even have condition meters, so you can't 
 use the same gun throughout the whole game without it jamming constantly.
  
  Survival is key in STALKER. This is stressed to the max and is seen throughout the hellish environment 
 as mutant dogs fight bandits and corrupt militants demand a bribe to get past a key bridge. Again 
 choice comes into play in these situations. You could shoot the militants in the face and meet 
 the consequences of army helicopters or you could pay the money and be short for food or medkits. 
 The possibilities are almost endless.
  
  The environment is also a main part to the game. The overall feel of the setting of the post apocalyptic 
 land is amazingly detailed. This is shown by houses still with dinner plates on them from before 
 the blast and the many hidden stashes.
  
  While STALKER is mainly a survival shooter it does have some fun RPG elements to it. You aren't 
 able to build your characters skill persay but you do have an experience level that gives you better 
 ability and control with more advanced weapons. The inventory managment will be used constantly 
 and can determine how fast you move.
  
  I really noticed the reality feature in STALKER. Whether it be the regional body damage or the 
 health system that makes you patch yourself with a bandage when shot, the realness of the game 
 is definately noticable.
  
  As with most of the newer, better looking games STALKER suffers from long loads and high requirements 
 but still looks great for an outdated graphics engine. The only other fault is the rare, limitless 
 spawns of enemies (like at the Freedom Base) where you can actually see the bad guys appear out 
 of nowhere and run to attack you.
  
  At the end of the 20-25 hour run you will be satisfied with STALKER even if you get a bad ending 
 instead of the other 6 possible endings. The main point is that if you love shooters, have a decent 
 PC, and don't mind a good challenge then you should really check out S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaccjesus
Rating: 4.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  First off, I've played my share of FPS's. I know the standards that need to be met to have an enjoyable 
 experience. This game meets none of them. Normally I wouldn't review but I've seen enough fanboys 
 writing 9/10 reviews for this game with nothing to back it up. Some might wonder if they work for 
 the publishing company. First off: Gameplay
  Gameplay is rough at best. The game doesn't play well on most systems, especially Nvidia based 
 graphics chips. Framerate is so bad (I've tried it on 7 different computers now) , that the character 
 feels sluggish even when every graphics option is set to the lowest setting. There are more bugs 
 than I can count. Often you will complete a quest only to have the PDA continuing to bug you every 
 two minutes. Many people can't even turn on dynamic lighting because it will either cause a blurry 
 sky or a yellow sky (Nvidia cards only) . Ati cards seem to work better but still can't quite simulate 
 a smooth, free-flowing environment. Perhaps the worst game play element is the aiming. Even when 
 using iron sights aim is way off, not from kick but just plain off. Even when you hit your target 
 the hit detection doesn't always trigger. Many people have noticed that the knife doesn't always 
 hit even at close contact. AI: A lot of people are saying AI is good. I'm not sure why... I'd say 
 it's OK at times but often there are bugs in troop movements. Keep in mind much of it is pre-scripted. 
 They don't really react to your actions in this game. Not much more advanced than Half-Life if 
 you ask me.
  
  Story: I've played halfway through and there is no story. It's just more and more of kill this 
 guy, kill this wild boar, find the magic coat, return magic coat for reward. Boring. Most character 
 have exactly the same response every time you meet them, which is No nothing going on here . Boring! 
 Anomalies are easily avoidable and not very important to the game. Multiplayer: Extremely buggy 
 and due to the poor performance of most player's machines, every character skips around lifelessly 
 and instantaneously they are on top of you. Graphics: Could be good if you could use the DirectX 
 9.0 effects. Expansive views and nice job on environments. A lot of people say immersive and I 
 would agree even though execution is poor. Support: I talked to the developers and they said they're 
 working on things. I sent them tons of info. Then I get Patch 1 and it killed my game. Now no responses 
 and that guy's email was removed from website. No support forums. Most webpages in Ukranian. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadyre
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 2, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to STALKER because of the premise. The whole Chernobyl background had me 
 intrigued. When I saw the Gamespot Review I went out and bought it.
  
  It installed without a hitch on my A8N SLI/ AMD 3700+/ 2 GB Corsair/ Twin 6800GT Machine. I was 
 worried about my graphics cards but they run everything else fine so I went with them. I configured 
 the settings to their highest level first thing to test the water . Bad mistake. The first time 
 I came out of the bunker my system slowed to near 0 FPS. Turning off the Dynamic Lighting fixed 
 that. I do get stuttering but only during load areas. The Sound is great (music and ambiance) . 
 The voices don't sync with the mouths and most conversations are read only (no voices) .
  
  The AI is kinda dumb. I am amazed that these guys can take 30 hits and still survive when I get 
 hit three times and down I go. What has got me hooked is the locations. Each location is extraordinarily 
 detailed. Everything is falling down and decaying like you'd expect from a 22 year old disaster 
 zone. Plus the remnants of the old soviet Union are everywhere. From old armoured vehicles, helicopters 
 and vehicles to building with Soviet markings this game have detailed the Zone quite impressively. 
 The graphics aren't like the latest greatest but they are better than Far Cry and not as static 
 as Doom 3. The creatures had me completely fooled. I thought since the dogs ran at first they wouldn't 
 come back. Not only did the come back but they came back in a pack. The RPG elements are easily 
 managed. I hardly noticed them. The buying and selling came in handy but only really served to 
 complete assignments.
  
  What is kind of irritating is that some jobs have a time limit. If I complete an assignment I shouldn't 
 have to run back through three load screen to collect my loot. I didn't design it so I guess I 
 shouldn't complain. Besides the system requirements and some of the game elements. I am enjoying 
 this game.
  
  I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Primaroo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 2, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  As we all know, STALKER was delayed for what seemed to be an eternity.. some, myself included, thought 
 the game became vaporware. When news of its' release came out, we all started wondering how the 
 game would be like.
  
  From the beginning i had one thought about how the game should be, no scenarios no expectations, 
 no My God, i'm gonna pick up my AK, do a double backflip, climb that house like a curtain and then 
 shoot my enemy right in the between his eyes while he's trying to make a break for it !!!!! Ohhhh 
 YEAHHH!!!! .... hell no, just make it creepy and make sure it makes the player feel unsafe, since 
 we are talking about Chernobyl. The game delivered much more than that. (not sure about the double 
 backflip)
  
  Being from Romania, my country was under communist regime just like Ukraine, so i found plenty of 
 structures and vehicles that reminded me of my childhood, which made the feeling of this game immense 
 ! I could almost feel the breeze, smell the grass and the rusty buses, could nearly touch those walls 
 and i swear i saw in real life some of the in-game gates.
  
  Though the graphix can't really compete with modern-day games, they're on par with HL2's (so they're 
 good) . The game compensates in a brilliant AI, great sound and .. well.... i don't know how YOU are 
 going to feel the game, but since most of the stuff is very familiar to me, i simply feel like i'm 
 there (though i never saw a bloodsucker running amok in my childhood... nor them blind dogs.. maybe 
 i was looking in all the wrong places, what do i know ? :P ) The game's not perfect, though, it's 
 got it's number of bugs but nothing all that bad; the fact that they speak russian adds a lot to 
 the game, and even the broken-english does no harm. It would have been hilarious if the key characters 
 in Stalker have this excellent, flawless english, complete with british accent and 3 bags of tea.
 
  
  Or a bottle of whiskey and a redneck accent... whichever way u swing. I dunno. Love the russian part 
 !!! And if Red Joseph is reading this, all i have to say is Zapravenia :) ) aight.... that was fun 
 ! Cheers, homies ! KP+ 4eva muahaha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gr33d777
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R indeed its a good game, but the release took too much time, the game development 
 too, so, about 2-3 years it could join the titans wars, such as HL2 and others...
  
  1. On my Athlon 64bts 3500+ X1800XT with 1GB corsair dual channel, the game freezes almost all 
 the times i tried to play it... got me pissed a lot, but still i wanna play it.
  2. Run is kinda not real , try to jump when running and you will see, the caracter jumps much more 
 than a real human can do.
  3. Cant do ALT+TAB.
  4. Hard to hit a dog with a pistol lol... they keep running! hah
  5. The map thing isnt that 
 good, hard tofocus on the mission on the map.
  
  But well, i love FPS games, ill play it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reguile
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Stalker is a good game. Yes, bullets can go through walls, yes, there is a bug where you are trying 
 to break into freedom camp and there is a guy who shoots you through the cheap wall, yes that is 
 a bug. Yes, you can compare this to half life, seeing how there are human and monsters that tries 
 to kill you, and graphics are alike.
  I'd say this game is a mix of CoD and HL ( w/o the high tech weapons) w/ RPG survival twist .
 
  My biggest complaint is the AI and optimization (Mostly in arena) . It lags sooo much in there.
 
  AI are either retarded or god like. Such as, the split second they spot you, bam, you are getting 
 shot at. Or they can just stand there and do nothing. I also didn't know zombies could aim like 
 that!!!
  Graphics are good, not saying really uber good but good, not many people can run it on high seeing 
 the game lags.
  Sounds, just like any FPS game. Voice overs, kinda corny but eh.
  But yea this is a good game if it doesn't bug on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Answer_1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Let me say this stalker is a game you need to play if you have a decent pc you owe it to yourself 
 to get this game. Stalker is very immersive the atmosphere is awesome the lighting is awesome the 
 weapons are allot and the enemy's are fun to shoot. The last shooter i played was fear and i loved 
 it but Stalker is on a different level the more i play the game its the more i want to explore 
 the worlds and pretty much do what i want . Sometimes I would just stand there to see the environment 
 and to see if when darkness comes down if there would be any strange animals coming out lol. This 
 game does have its bug and yes it may frustrate at some point but i finished the game with little 
 hassle without using the patch and im sure future patches will be released once they are stalker 
 is going to be around for a long long time. Apart from that though the game holds up you will have 
 fun you will be blown away you will find something you like and the game is worth the buy. With 
 a little more work i think this game could of gotten a nine the story , the bugs hold it down but 
 its large environments, weapons and choices makes up for it your bound to find something nice about 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcckid0307
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  First off I haven't played through the whole game yet. I have played through most of it and for 
 the most part I'm very happy with the game. There are some quirks that made the game inexplicably 
 frustrating at times. At one point I saved my game with my flashlight on and from that point on 
 I couldn't turn on the flashlight until I reinstalled the game. A simple patch should fix the problems 
 I've run up against though. Overall I extremely enjoy Stalker. They did an excellent job with the 
 lighting as well as the voice acting. The voice acting really made me feel like I was in the USSR 
 environment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vetren_999
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is a rare type. Survival-Horror with FPS and RPG mixed in. Think of it as Half Life, 
 Diablo 2, and Resident Evil 4 mixed together.
  
  The Genre in my terms in Survival Shooter. It doessn't take many bullets to drop you. You need 
 to stay alive with bandages to stop the bleeding, which damages you over time, and need anti-rads 
 if you get radiation poisening.
  The ballistic mechanics are awesome, yet frustrating. The starting pistol is terribly inaccurate, 
 most weapons are. And the AI is smart enough to kill you, flanking and distracting. Outdoor battles 
 are highlights, but may require retries on the bigger ones. However, indoor fight might cause tremendous 
 framerate drop. For a sidedish, theres a multiplayer mode not unlike Counter-Strike. And with six 
 endings, two different factions to join, and dozens of side missions, and four diffuculty modes, 
 theres a good deal of replayability.
  
  The graphics are ok. Dynamic lighting, the best part of it, requires you to have the best system 
 for no framerate drops. The detail is great however, and the effects are passable.
  
  The sound is creepy and chilling, otherworldly ambiance keeps you on edge. And gunfire sound realistic.
 
  
  Overall, a great game. If you are skilled at first-person shooter, and your system can run it, 
 I reccomend to buy a copy.
  
  Overall, a great game, if you are skilled at First 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Just watched the credits roll in STALKER: Shadow of Chernobyl. The game for me stood up to all 
 of my expectations. The game as you may have already heard is a FPS and RPG in one, unlike the 
 usual RPGs your character doesnt gain special abilities as you progress in the game, the only 
 things you gain are new weapons, special suits, special medi-packs and artifacts.
  
  The game also has a trading system like the RPGs and the open ended feeling where you can explore 
 your surrounding and accomplish many side quests while you follow the main story/ quest. The main 
 quests take about 10 hours, and if you decide to play all the side quest it would add a good 5 
 hours in to the game.
  
  The GOOD: The story line and how it keeps you attached to the game is awesome, although the ending 
 did not fill all my expectation, the game is not one to miss out on the PC. The sound is so awesome 
 from the wild animals in the surroundings, the anomalies, the fire fights in the distance and the 
 music to put you in the mood. The graphics even though many say are not the best; I feel its pretty 
 good with the ambient and dynamic lighting affects, which is a mix of FarCry and Half Life 2. Difficulty 
 is adequate since the game supports a manual save system. The horror feeling is put into the game 
 through dark indoor environments, and lonely forest areas with spooky howls of wild animals. The 
 AI in the game is awesome they literally live their life separate from you until you show up to 
 disturb it. I would take my binoculars out and would watch the wild animals behavior in the distance. 
 The game has a system that gives you the night and day cycle (many say that a day is 7 hours) , 
 and a weather system that suddenly makes it rain, and there are areas that have affects of anomalies. 
 The replay value is brought out where you can join different factions, and the multiplayer mode.
 
  
  The BAD: The one downside are the rewards, you have to travel on foot great distances just to get 
 a reward after completing a side quest, the main quests have no time limit, but in the side quests, 
 unless you collect the reward at a given time you fail the quest. A time limit to complete the 
 quest is understandable but when it comes to collecting a reward is something the developers should 
 have thought about, so be ready to walk back great distances just to collect a reward which would 
 most of the time be cash. Cash is something you hardly run out of in the game, and if you explore 
 a bit theres all the stuff for free, from fallen allies, dead enemies, and stashes that can be 
 found.
  
  Overall I recommend the game to any PC gamer, its a must play, since Rainbow Six: Vegas this was 
 the first FPS I played and I had a lot of fun, kind of feel sad that the game is over with. The 
 game would be loved by any FPS lover and one that a RPG lover must try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrokle
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  It's not my style to write poetry so I'll be very brief:
  - starting the game: don't even think about it before applying the patch... it will crash and the 
 long loading times will give you a huge sentiment of frustration (once the patch applied, the loading 
 times won't change :-) ) ;
  - don't remember the hardware requirements but on my rig (AMD Athlon 64 3200+ OC to 2.1 Ghz, 1 
 GB RAM DDR 400 Corsair CL 2.5, HIS Radeon 1950 Pro 512 MB) even with low-medium video options and 
 1024x768 resolution the game doesn't run smoothly, the feeling the game will crash at any moment 
 is still very persistent although once I've applied the patch I had no more crashes;
  - the sound is sometimes terrible when interacting with other NPCs, their voices are hard to be 
 heard although they are speaking russian; you don't know who is speaking: the NPC you are trying 
 to interact with or other NPCs around...
  
  At the start of the game, the room down next to Wolf, was different at 2 consecutive game starts... 
 odd... (this was before applying the patch, after the patch I only started the game once) .
  
  Other than that it's nice to have multiple assignments to work on, although some of them have 
 a deadline so for your own benefit it's better to prioritize the tasks according to the deadlines.
 
  
  The enemies AI is impressive (despite the fact the human opponents are not able to climb ladders 
 to get on your back) : noisy aggressive mutants get afraid once one of them is killed or hit pretty 
 hard and start fleeing from you, human enemies use the environment for cover.
  
  Pistols are quite subpowered imo and don't do much damage if you hit the body from some distance 
 despite the fact the enemies are not wearing bulletprof equipment.
  
  After a dozen of missions it became mundane and a hard feeling of deja vu stopped me from playing 
 any more. Maybe the fact it didn't run smoothly contributed to that too. It does not have that 
 spark other shooters had and made me playing till the end (I talking here about HL2, Chronicles 
 of Riddick, UT2004, FEAR, CoD2, FarCry, BF2) .
  
  As you see, I have a limited experience with this game. For an ampler view read rewiews from someone 
 which actually finished the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigolon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  Having waited 4 years to get my hands on this game, the past few days have been filled with playing 
 through it. When I first started playing I thought, looks like half-life 2... and plays like a mixture 
 of several games . I thought the game wasn't as fun as it could be and that it was really missing 
 a lot. It wasn't far into the game before I was glued to it, forgetting everything else.
  
  First, I want to start by saying that any review that doesn't begin by talking about one of the 
 most impressive features, not only in this game but in any game, is the AI. The typical exploit/tricks 
 of sitting on the other side of narrow passage way and expecting the boneheaded enemies to funnel 
 through to meet your powerful shotgun doesn't work here. Neither does the slow and steady sit and 
 camp, picking off an enemy one at a time and not worrying about anything. When you're playing, 
 you have to be aware of everything around you. The second you encounter an enemy and a gunfight 
 starts, you have to watch their friends and watch your back. The way in which they flank, provide 
 cover as each other advance, and take cover to reload gives you a rather realistic feeling of fighting 
 someone who might actually not be a bot. I've also not seen a single instance of poor pathfinding, 
 although I'm sure it will happen. I also can't stress the joy of watching the wild dogs run about, 
 dragging the bodies of dead animals around, eating them, and chasing one another aggressively.
 
  
  Secondly, the graphics- while a lot of people have dogged the game for graphics and not being cutting 
 edge, I think its important to remind people that gameplay is far more valuable. I'm not advocating 
 using the doom95 engine to make a new game, far from it, but having a solid playing game that is 
 a blast is far more important to me, and in that regard they accomplished it very well. The graphics 
 are actually pretty well done, some gun models are a bit weak, but others are spot on and look 
 wonderful. The environment is beautiful. The shadows look good and at times it goes from dark to 
 well lite, giving you a full view of the breadth of the game's imagination. The camps of soldiers 
 are gritty and the world is beaten down. The thought, I live in a radiation heavy zone is constantly 
 on your mind, as is the danger about you. When I walked through some of the camps, into the fortified 
 cities, and out into the wilderness I felt a flash of what fallout would have looked like and felt 
 like had it been a FPS. The element of character building is there, and although its not an RPG, 
 it would be only fair to say that you feel a definite role you're playing. When you stand over 
 someone, withering in pain from you filling them with lead, and listen to them plead for their 
 life and moan... you have a real feeling of being there. When you bring up your pistol to end their 
 life, its a strange feeling you get. Its that feeling that this game provides you at all times- 
 not exactly a good one, but a true experience. When you walk past a campfire and see soldiers singing 
 and drinking vodka, you can't help but think, i hate this place.. its so miserable . The game, 
 quite honestly, is worth playing just to get a feel for the environment and look at how things 
 are.
  
  One of the most interesting things in the game is the way in which so many options are open. The 
 inventory system is amazing, leaving you to worry about weight and take into account what guns 
 you have with you and how much ammo you're carrying for them. Not only that, but numerous times 
 i've pulled off the scope or grenade launcher from a gun, attaching it to a gun in better condition 
 that is less prone to jam. Dealing with being sound level when sneaking into a camp with a silenced 
 pistol is an involving process- the wrong step and you brush into a nearby bush and people hear 
 it. The addition of the stamina bar, the non-obtrusive hunger factor, the ability to lean, and 
 of course my favorite- the two types of crouch.
  
  In short, the game went to accomplish a lot. It didn't succeed everywhere. It was not and is not 
 the graphical king of FPS games that it was originally slated to be. It is not a true roleplaying 
 game that it was originally thought and designed to be. What it is, is a game where the AI is great, 
 where the environments are convincing and surreal, and where you have a chance to experience something 
 different and love or hate it. The game provides opportunities as well as numerous new and innovative 
 gameplay ideas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  When THQ first billed S. T. A. L. K. E. R. SOC (a title that's too long) as the earth taking revenge 
 in 2012 for the horror of Chernobyl, I thought they meant the release date! Anyway......... thank 
 GSCGW that S. T. A. L. K. E. R. landed on our PCs before then. Was it worth the wait?  
 a bleak destroyed landscape, tremendous ambient sound, competing groups of sometimes desperate 
 people with disparate goals, aggressive mutants, changing weather and day/night cycles and you've 
 got a great formula for a hybrid FPS/RPG right? Like I said................ almost , don't forget 
 to add grossly underpowered weapons whose shot dispersion is way to large (despite the claim to 
 a realistic weapons model) , a laughably large inventory limit (trying strapping on 50 kilos/110lbs 
 and then running with it) , and too many bugs for a game that was in development as long as S. T. A. L. K. E. R 
 . (though to GSCGW's credit, a patch was quickly issued to correct many issues) . One weapons feature 
 that is very welcome, is the provision of multiple ammunition types for some weapons. Giving the 
 player a cartridge choice for the type of enemy they're engaging. Some of the in game dialogue 
 is in Russian or Ukrainian, which is an excellent touch, that's ruined through other dialogues 
 with NPCs in written English and badly accented English voice overs. The excellent quality DX 9c 
 graphics have fallen victim to the horrendously long dev time, and the release of DX10/ Windows 
 Vista eye candy in the next gen games. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. isn't nearly as freeform as I imagined either 
 (which may be more my fault for assuming it would be different) . The main storyline is quite scripted 
 to complete the main mission. You can extensively explore the S. T. A. L. K. E. R. world, to find stashes 
 (all too frequently empty ---I guess the other S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s were there first) , and goodies 
 such as med kits, weapons accessories, and other bits and pieces of game effluvia. I find the FPS/RPG 
 game mechanism of recovering health and game items stashed willy nilly about the game to be a poorly 
 thought out technique for providing the player with in game items they'll need. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 does some of this well, like finding artifacts near the anomlolies that generate them, or taking 
 them off dead NPCs, and being able to buy items from the in game stores. Then it falls prey to 
 the time honored game tradition of stashing goodies in attics, basements, under stairways, and 
 other nonsense locations. Note to all Devs: Put that stuff in an armory, infirmary, messhall, etc, 
 or other logical location, then let the player figure out how to get to it to re-equip themselves. 
 Thank you!!! Flanker's take (based largely on the unrealistic weapons/ammunition modeling) : An 
 8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: au25
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a first person survival game that reminds falout and boiling point! You as a 
 stalker you have tosurvive throuth the zone og chernobyl, althouth you dont remember a think (suffering 
 from amnisia, you have only one objecyive kill sterlok , and you dont know who he is? (actually 
 you wont find out anyway, because the memories you acquire in the game are only impressive cutscenes 
 and it has the worst ending ever seen in a game! (story? deffently not metal gear)
  The alone in the zone idea sounds good but there really not much to buy and sell (only 3: one trade 
 with no goods, one barman with average, and one scientist with extras!) Unlike the game developers 
 said before 5 years the zone is not huge, also it is split in levels and loadscreens, even like 
 that you cant go whereever you want like postal 2 ! For example the zone is barricated around so 
 you can leave and ecxept that to move to the next level you have to pass throuth spawn point which 
 are displayed in the map as circles, now the distance between those 2 circles (level 1to level2) 
 is more than average! for those 2 reasons tha game map ias even smaller, oh also keep in mind that 
 you cant go freely where ever you want because the game is plit in levels so you have ot move to 
 the next oneto continue (one way.. well perhaps 2 way but is heavilly guarded anyway) you can carrry 
 only 50 kg (nut much so you have to go all the way back 1-2 levels to sell them, also keep in mind 
 that only the scientist will buy your monster parts !)
  Towns of S. T. A. L. K. E. R.
  Only 1, actually 2 because 1 is chernobyl NPP and the ather, just an area to move throuth the next 
 map (i told you!)
  Graphics: Oldie graphics that remind me cod1 or cod2, but the inside areas look like fear or condemdned: criminal 
 origins! (if you lower the graphics in static lighting mode it remind me the boiling point e. g 
 the weapon models!)
  however you need a shader model 2 card!
  
  weapons, skills, armors and upgrades and Gameplay:
  Actually the are no upgrades you just have 
 to FIND better armors if you want to survive! the weapons are very realistic the miss all the time 
 the graphs are really detailed but it gets very annoiyng because your enemies are very accurate 
 and they shoout amzingly fast unlikely you got to play very realistic, e. g. YOU THEY die easily 
 they dont miss all the time they dont weapons jam deffebtly not Really realistic but extremly ad 
 for singeplay (you got to use stimpack all the time) The multiplayer is still bad because you only 
 play in dethmatch and not freeplay in the map! ecxept that the players dont die easily and are 
 not very accurate something like combining call of duty and unreal tournament, but not so good! 
 (in the single play you cant hit SH#T (excuse the bad language but you are even more acurrate without 
 aming with the iron shaft (aim down the sight, like cod! one the outher hand oyur enemies are extremely 
 accurate very fast moving all the time and the dont die easily ,also according these parameters 
 they kill you easilly!
  Now the gameplay is awful and pathetic and full of bugs hust like boiling point (e. g the enemies 
 dissapear as you kill them stuck in the walls or in the fire, SEE YOU AND SHOOT FROM WITHIN WALLS 
 WHILE THE ARE INSIDE A BUILDING! So bullets pentatrate the walls and hit you without the enemy 
 even aim?) Also many times the weapon stuck in the midle of the battle so you got to reload plus 
 that half clip is one kill! Pathetic gameplay that you got to get better weapons and armor all 
 the time without skills and full of bugs!
  
  Sound: Well not much but better that the res of the gam, althouth it is real difficult to understand 
 the ukranian-russian accent!
  
  Value: after 5-6 years of development, well not much i think!
  
  My believs: it cuks it is bad 
 awful gameplay bad graphics no story doesnt worth the wait! (actually it doesnt worth completing 
 the game, worst ending ever!)
  
  Note: Learnig courve: (It will take some time to find ou how do you actually aim) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prophet1980
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  Ive been looking forward to this game for months. Its finally here and amazingly it feels unfinished. 
 How can a game this long in development feel so unpolished and have so many bugs. Im dissapointed. 
 Being a huge FPS fan and having played the best and worst of the genre, currently this sits in 
 the middle of my list.
  
  Im using the first patch which corrected alot of problems.
  The graphics are pretty awful but to be fair if you have the power to turn on the dynamic lighting 
 they dont look too bad. Performance wise, its not so good either. No matter what setting i put 
 the game on (even at 640x480) the game stuttered at points, not because of the graphical power 
 but because of the background memory that is being used. Its a real system hog even with 2GB of 
 ram! The character models are bloody terrible, they spin around on the spot without moving their 
 feet and look very generic and samey.
  
  I read that people found this game too hard to start with. I didnt seem to have that trouble and 
 the early missions were nice and simple, go there, kill that, come back, reward etc but unfortunately 
 it does not stray too far away from this formula. The NPC's act differently towards you depending 
 on your standing with their faction which is a nice effect and reminded me alot of Oblivion. As 
 you move throuh the missions you explore more of the zone and really this is the games strong point. 
 The environments are great and as you come accross different outposts and areas you will find yourself 
 just standing and looking at them. The underground dungeon type environments have a great feel 
 to them, very dark and eerie although i never found the game to be scary at all. The story was 
 boring. Interface is clunky but functional.
  
  The free roaming nature of this game is obviously its strongest point and its the first FPS to 
 attempt it well since Dues Ex. Unfortunately performance issues and some damn ugly animation and 
 AI put a downer on things. Hopefully this game will only get better with patches but right now, 
 average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truemattyz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  this game was great i really enjoy it i am cuurently at chenobyl npp .... it has been real fun 
 and i took a week of work to play it. i am glad it is out now my only critisiams is i wish i could 
 hear some of the jokes the russians say and i wsih tem damn blips of stash would disapear after 
 i have taken the goodies.
  
  for ppl who are going to play this here are my personal tips...
  
  follow the story.... Pay 
 attention USE THE BLUE STASH BOXES FOR YOUR STUFF (INCLUDING ART|IFSCTS) sell things as npcs like 
 this..
  
  and sell too ppl at main posts so they help to keeep them alive i. e in garbage erea at outpost 
 sell alot of + rapture objects)
  
  when you get a stash blip entry come up make sure you TAKE ALL as other wise the blip will stay 
 (it might stay anyway but this slims the chances) dont press * it sppeds up time.
  
  dont take too many quests on at once..
  
  remeber there are some intersting artefacts everywhere 
 (i like garbage for this) take time out and be freeform..... but remeber there is a time limit....
 
  
  dont stress about duty.... after you do bar quests you get the opertunity to use duty (ie alowed 
 entry just go back there) . make your desiisons wisely....
  
  i hope this can help ppl as it took me some time to get this write there are errors in stalker 
 so ..... make the most of it as these are minor errors oh and dont join duty or fredoom you need 
 them both till you turn of something later on in game ! you will know what i meen..
  
  stalker is great and it is definatly a cross between some great fps and oblivion (i. e in respects 
 of story) freeform rpg-fps type i loved it and i am sure i will still be playing it next week ... 
 oh cover YOUR EYES NOW as i have a question to ask ................ (IF you havent played coveryour 
 eyes . ) ifound a moniloth flash drive with wierd key and a moniloth jacket i havnet found were 
 the key goes to but i know the jacket is usefull as npcs dont shoot inside walls when i wear it 
 ... ii hope you guys enjoy the game as much as me ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooseisback
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. The graphics are good. The guns feel like guns and the AI are 
 realistic. The story keeps you interested for some time but the action is what really sells the 
 game. Some of the firefights are soo intense that they will go on for 5-10 minutes. Half of the 
 time that I am playing I am fearing thats some monster will jump around a corner and kill me. The 
 amount of tension is great and it will keep you interested for a long time. If you don't own this 
 game you are a baaad person. The game is amazing the only place it slips up on a little is the 
 sound. The sound is good but nothing special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfx69
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  After waiting so many years for this game to come to completion, I was equally apprehensive and 
 exhilarated. I was not disappointed to say the least.
  
  If you like games like DX, Invisible War, Oblivion, NOLF... this one should appeal to you. With 
 game developers nowadays seeming to churn out games that will please the corporate owners money 
 making motives, this one's obviously created by artists and programmers who do it for the love 
 of it, rather than hey, give em a cheese burger, not filet mignon... cheese sells! .
  
  The engine is quite pretty, with amazing amounts of detail. The weather effects and time of day 
 effects are also stunning and create immersion that I haven't experienced in any game, pc or otherwise. 
 The radiant AI system really makes a living world that you feel a part of and significanly improves 
 the immersion. Am I saying immersion a lot? Well, you get the picture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigTime102
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Immersive, atmospheric, I dont know what the story is about I cant be bothered to read the text, 
 sorry If i have to TRY that hard its not entertainment, and last i checked I dont pay to work, 
 i get paid. I honestly feel ripped off wasting my time reading through a ton of text just to be 
 basically told to go to x and kill or retrieve y. That being said this game has some nice graphics, 
 pretty impressive considering the size of the world, lots of detail, sure its not up to par with 
 other games but other games wouldnt run at all if they had the size of a map like you see in this 
 game. Graphics might not be great but it works, artistic touch is there.
  
  Now the gameplay, sorry but if you like shooting things in games this game doesnt do a good job. 
 From moving to shooting to impact its just wrong, my pistol feels like a pea shooter and when it 
 hits something there isnt much going on. Sometimes theres isnt even any dust kicking up after you 
 fired at something, seems like you didnt fire anything at all, and the AI dont even react to getting 
 hit, I didnt know I was hittin them until they fell over. I have my settings maxed out btw so I 
 dont think im missing out on any effects.. That just kills any enjoyment i have with shooting games, 
 which is the pleasure i get from destroying things. Not good, so far the only thing that keeps 
 me playing is the exploring and atmosphere. The game is too difficult, and I consider myself above 
 average FPS palyer, ive won all kinds of tournaments from quake3-1 to duke3d and doom2,, FPS's 
 are my speciality , but if I wanted a challenge i'd play against human opponents not cheating AI 
 robots. I get absolutely 0 satisfaction from figuring out pre programmed AI but thats just me..
 
  
  I wouldnt buy it, but right now theres nothing else in this genre so..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majkel667
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R is a really solid game. It hast the stuff that Half Life 2 was lacking. Despite the 
 fact that the graphic engine is pretty old, the game looks really nice even in the DX8 mode. But 
 this is not about looks anyway. Its all about the ambient, and the life that The Zone lives around 
 your character. The sounds make the other 50% of the game. They fill out the world perfectly. And 
 the game is becoming better and better the further you get. Its fun getting all the rifles and 
 pistols and artifacts. Modifying your gun is fun. Scope, silencer anyone? Click, Click! There you 
 go! The game is just rock solid! Its like combining Half Life 2 and Silent Hill. The game can 
 scare a s*%t out of you. Im really starting to think its better then HL2. Its just isnt that 
 linear. Just buy it and get the feeling. Its cheap too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  i have been playing stalker for about 10 days now. this game is an innovative approach to gaming. 
 it is a combination of fps and rpg type games. most of the action in the game is shooting and stuff 
 like that. you have to be careful about radiation and anomalies as well. there is a huge colllection 
 of weapons in the game. you have an inventory to keep track of all the stuff you have collected. 
 at the beginning of the game you are intrduced to the trader. he is kinda like your boss who gives 
 you work to do. he will send you to do various tasks and your objective will show up on your pda. 
 the pda is very useful. it will show you what you have to do and also has a map. there is even 
 a guitar player in the game! i have found this game to be alot of fun. it is very similiar to half 
 life 2 but there's more to it. with your pda and inventory, you can do alot of stuff that your 
 couldn't do in half life 2. it has been said in other reviews that this game suffers from technical 
 difficutlies. these are minor and do not make the game bad or anything. i am sure there will be 
 patches to fix any problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  The game is a must-have for FPS fans, especially those who like a dose of realism combined with 
 some mild RPG features. In a way its like Half Life 2 mixed with a stripped down version of Oblivion. 
 Obviously, the FPS part dominates this game and the main quest is a pretty straight-forward deal 
  shoot first and loot later so to speak.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10. Its hard to find a better shooter than this one. Gameplay is exciting and addictive 
 and once you start this game and figure out inventory, PDA, and other minor things you wont even 
 notice that you are playing it for hours without stopping. Weapons realism and ballistics are great 
 from recoil and accuracy to gradual deterioration of their performance over a period of usage time. 
 Bots AI is also one of the best around. As the main character, you also need to regularly eat and 
 can carry only so much weight before you need to dump or sell something from your inventory (similar 
 to Oblivion in that respect) . Overall, very neat and nicely implemented.
  
  GRAPHICS: 10. The level of detail and the artistic impression this game oozes with is simply impressive. 
 Dont be fooled by phrases like, aging/dated graphics engine since these phrases have very little 
 to do with this game and are simply parroted from one reviewer to another. However, you do need 
 an upper end machine with a high-end graphics card for this game to deliver its best.
  
  SOUND: 10. Just as it should be  battle/firefight sounds ultra-realistic, while the background 
 music almost unnoticeable due to being immersed into this game.
  
  VALUE: 9. Most new games are $10 bucks more and offer much less (or none) re-playability.
  
 
  NEGATIVES: Before the first patch, the game was just about right in terms of its difficulty. After 
 the patch, the difficulty level went up to somewhere in-between hard and very hard. Even the novice 
 level is pretty hard in many places throughout the game. The pricing system totally changed making 
 weapons and things much more unaffordable. After the patch, protective gear became almost worthless 
 in terms of durability and within a few turns the damage inflicted by the enemy is frustratingly 
 high even if you are careful, patient, and use cover routinely. Basically, this change introduced 
 by this patch forces you to ESC and save game almost every minute in order not to lose the progress 
 already made. The patch also introduced bugs to Win XP that were previously present only in Win 
 Vista (crash to desktop, sudden freeze, etc.) . Overall, it seems that the original v.1 was much 
 better in terms of stability on Win XP systems.
  
  MINOR ANNOYANCES: The inventory system is a bit clumsy and you cant trigger it just anywhere since 
 the game doesnt stop while you are checking goodies in your backpack.
  
  WISHLIST: It would be a neat feature to add a co-op into MP in which you could go with one or more 
 of your buddies and fight those pesky bots. Also, maybe more advanced weapons could appear much 
 earlier in the game or at least some of their components (scope, nade launcher, etc.) .
  
  OVERALL: Must have! One of the best shooters ever and on par with Half Life 2, Far Cry, etc., topped 
 with some great open-ended scenarios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChesterCheeto
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  You can say its like another version of the game Redneck Rampage but with more twists and turns 
 almost finished with the game, soo far soo good. i love the AI in the game shows that they aren't 
 lacking in fairness too. but somethings get a little annoying, like with the patch it becomes a 
 actual man made hell couple shots your down on novice. but other then that the game is enjoyable...... 
 but id hoped too have couple of easter eggs in the game.. its too serious..... not its bad to be 
 serious its just sometimes a gamer such as myself feels like doing something. LIKE! easter eggs. 
 ex. Halo2 theres the face in that winter map. lol thats funny.... Iespecially the background story 
 i love it. how its real. GJ THQ
  
  Cheeto :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piirimehike
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  From audio and visual point of view the game is a bit old. The bug-free configuration makes it 
 look like Half-Life 2 on many PC's. Nevertheless the graphics are really solid and the ambience 
 is sort of eye-candy-ish, but it is still old. All the characters and beasts look even older than 
 the landscape. The dogs seem to be from Doom, not even Doom 3 but from something older. The characters 
 are downward ugly. Maybe all the people are supposed to be ugly - who knows. The lighting is pretty 
 good. even if you are not able to get the dynamic lighting to work, because of crashes, the lighting 
 makes the game really challenging. People wear camouflaged suits that are really camouflaged and 
 not only in the dark. Maybe it is not meant to be so, but sometimes it is really hard to spot an 
 enemy bandit even when outside. this ads a bit caution to the game and when playing with Master 
 difficulty the caution is more than welcome. Screen effects like radiation sparkles and night vision 
 goggles are the nicest part of the visuals. The sounds are solid too, but lack some touches: there 
 doesn't seem to be any room acoustics and sometimes the sounds of brain boiling make your own brain 
 boil too. It's a good thing from the reality point of view but your speakers or headphones won't 
 appreciate it. The conversations sound dynamic and encouraging. Some of your 'hud' sounds are half-baked. 
 There are some beeps to indicate radiation and some for the thermal radar thingy but it takes too 
 much effort to get any useful information from them. The hud on the other hand is very informative. 
 You get all the information you need without popping up the PDA screen and it is not taking too 
 much room on the screen. Too bad that the hud is not well introduced in the game and it is possible 
 that you play through the game without even knowing 'what that blue bar is for'. Sometimes it is 
 hard to understand the concept of the game. You might have to read the conversations through two 
 times and check your PDA regularly to even know what is going on. Thinking can save you from many 
 gunfights but the information about things is not so easy to recover even from your PDA and sometimes 
 you might curse the PDA and go through hard enemy lines just to discover that you cannot continue 
 because of a emitter you have to deal with and to deal with you have to go a long way back and 
 if you have dealt with this emitter you have to deal with the enemy lines again. So information 
 is really crucial for healthy gameplay. The fact that the information center - your PDA - is not 
 always working like it is supposed to can make you really mad. The PDA is not user-friendly at 
 all and it is even worse when the missions system fails and anomalies start to happen in your PDA: 
 missions you have not even taken will be marked as failed, some missions restart themselves, sometimes 
 the mission markers are on wrong spots and the gameplay may be disrupted forever giving you only 
 the choice to start a new game.
  
  The weapons system is a thing to love for ever and ever. The realistic different ammo system can 
 be a real pain, but you won't find any other games with this kind of a high weapons-strategy support. 
 It adds a really good touch to the RPG part of the game. Some say it is really frustrating to find 
 a cool weapon and find no ammo for it, but really there are no exotic enough weapons that won't 
 find their ammo at least in the middle of the main quest line. The only weapon choice harassment 
 is in the beginning of the game when you are stuck with some silly handguns and saw-off shotguns. 
 But when you cross the railroad, you are already in a world with different machine guns. The weapons 
 ballistics is another great thing about the game but sometimes the weapon shoots just ridiculously. 
 For example, there is a gun that has the word 'sniper' in its name, but its long range accuracy 
 is not better than a handguns. You may test all the weapons yourself to find this 'sniper' I am 
 talking about. Maybe it is named sniper only because of its scope - who knows. Generally, the ridiculous 
 accuracy even adds a bit to the game. The replay value of the game can vary: it is a RPG and they 
 say that you have many choices to make, but the choices are very shallow and they don't really 
 add anything to the replay value. Only if you choose to be everyones enemy, but in such a combat 
 system - it is not recommended. The only two things that bring you back to the game are weapons 
 and the endings, but if you didn't like the game in the first place, there is not much of a chance 
 you will be back for more. When you are first having trouble to seek the enemy an then having trouble 
 shooting him, the game becomes really hard to play and with this game you might say out loud: The 
 harder - the better. because with this game you seek for a simulation not for brain-free fun. You 
 want to be in Chernobyl, to experience the radioactivity and to feel what it is like to live in 
 a piece of world where you cannot shoot as accurately as you would in a computer game. If you want 
 some brain-free fun and don't like bugs, STALKER - Shadow of Chernobyl is not for you. The game 
 really puts you in a position where you will pray that there will not be any enemy troops (and 
 please no mutants!!!) ahead and if this is the kind of simulation you need - STALKER is for you. 
 If you want some brain-free fun and don't like major/minor bugs, STALKER - Shadow of Chernobyl 
 is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is finally here and it was worth the wait. I mean the reviews do it justice it is an 
 awesome experience to behold. Believe all the hype about the immersion and the huge detail that 
 went into this fun game. It is an atmospheric piece that terrifies you and haunts you every time 
 you enter its world of mutated beasts and mercenaries-welcome to the world of the STALKER!
  
  I got it the other day after it just came out and I have been happy to play this sucker, it 
 really is scary piece of art! From the packs of hungry blind dogs to the thrill of hiding from 
 sight out of bandits or soldiers this game drops you there! I was annoyed by the fact the camera 
 'bobs" too much and I suffer from Vertigo so that stuff is not good. Also, not a resource hog at 
 all this game runs great but ready to pay if you want to get a load of that dynamic lighting but 
 it looks beautiful
  
  (FYI on April 25th 2007 this game crashed and now it will not run! I am beyond pissed..
  
  
 
  (UPDATE Sept 29th, 2008-This game rocks the socks on my new PC-A killer quad-core 3.20 running 
 Vista) ZERO problems now!
  
  
  "Good hunting Stalker!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: probester
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl has to be one of the more unique first person shooters to be 
 released on the market. The game combines the ideas of a traditional first person shooter, with 
 a horror survival aspect, as well as some RPG roots. After a long period of waiting, will gamers 
 be pleased to finally be able to explore The Zone ?
  
  Gameplay
  -------------
  While not entirely new, S. T. A. L. K. E. R takes concepts from many different types of games and combines 
 them, producing a unique experience in spite of the origin of these ideas. The gameplay is very 
 RPG-styled. You travel around and talk to people for information, usually setting you on your next 
 main story quest. There are many people who will give you main story quests, as well as side missions. 
 It is up to the player whether or not to undertake these side missions. In fact, the main story 
 missions can be put off until the player wishes to start them. The player has the freedom to wander 
 about the environment and explore, though this is more dangerous then it is in most shooters and 
 RPGs.
  
  You can earn money by doing both main and side quests, and you can use this money to purchase supplies 
 and weapons. You can also bring in materials found and sell them to various dealers of merchandise. 
 Some characters will also trade items with you, usually for money. Artifacts are objects found 
 in and around the zone that have special powers, sometimes with a negative impact on the user as 
 well. These can be sold for quite a high sum, or kept for personal use by the player.
  
  The player can try to obtain the top stalker rank. Names of top stalkers are listed in the player's 
 PDA, which acts as the in-game objective menu, as well as allowing the user to access PDAs found 
 off of dead bodies.
  
  The main storyline revolves around the nameless player character, known simply as The Marked One 
 . The player travels throughout the zone trying to learn of his past through various means, as 
 well as helping shrewed businessmen and other stalkers achieve their own personal agendas.
  
  Controls
  ------------
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl controls like many other first 
 person shooters on the market. W, A, S and D to move forward, left, right, and back, respectively. 
 The player can jump by pressing the space bar. Shooting is done through press the left click button 
 on the mouse. Holding the right click in will make the player look down the sights of most guns, 
 or look down the scope in certain weapons. Weapons are chosen either with the wheel mouse, or 1-8 
 on the keyboard. 9 and 0 control type of fire on guns with multiple fire modes. The Y button will 
 allow the player to change between various types of ammunitions which can be found for firearms. 
 Reloading of the firearms is done by pressing the R button. The L button turns the flashlight on 
 or off. Control makes the player crouch. Holding down the shift key will make the player walk instead 
 of run. The P button is used to access the PDA menu. The I button brings up the inventory of the 
 player. The F button is used to interact with objects and people. This control set up is excellent, 
 with the exception of the fire mode change buttons. These are fire way from any of the movement 
 keys. This means that the player will usually have to take his/her hands off of either the movement 
 keys or the mouse to change fire modes. Fire modes need to be changed often during combat, and 
 taking one's hands off the fire or movement keys is certainly very dangerous.
  
  Visual
  ---------
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R boasts one of the most impressive array of graphics as of late. Lighting 
 and shadows in this game are extremely well used. Note that even extremely high end PCs can sometimes 
 not handle this game while on max settings. While this is not a massive downgrade, the lighting 
 on outdoor environments certainly takes on a much darker feel. There are minor graphical issues 
 with rain in the game, but most of these should be fixed in the patch.
  
  Audio
  ---------
  The sound effects in this game are extremely enjoyable. Once the player has access 
 to a variety of weapons, some may find it worthwhile to waste a bullet or two just to hear the 
 amazing sound effects. The sounds are loud and satisfying, to say the least. While the human NPCs 
 have decidedly dull voices, the wildlife and mutants have amazing sounds. The mutants in particular 
 are especially disturbing.
  
  Replayablility
  -----------------
  This game could be played for quite a long time. The main quest should take the average player 
 7 hours to complete. There are also many artifacts to discover and collect. Numerous side quests 
 are available from many characters to perform. It may also be worthwhile to spend the many hours 
 required to explore most, if not all of the map due to the diversity, surprises, and loot that 
 you are bound to find.
  
  Multiplayer
  --------------
  Sadly, this is where S. T. A. L. K. E. R falls short. The multiplayer modes consist of artifact hunt, 
 team play and free for all. The hunt is basically like the generic Capture The (Bag, Flag, Computer, 
 Briefcase) mode seen in many other first person shooters. The other two are kill-fests for players 
 to compete with and against each other. A money system is included in the multiplayer mode, but 
 this is also nothing new. Final Word
  ---------------
  This is an excellent game, especially if you are into first person shooters or nno-traditional 
 RPGs. The multiplayer is not much different from other first person shooters, but the single player 
 is where this game really shines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noda_90
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Like every one else, have been waiting for this game since 2004. Well i played it, it is worth 
 the wait.
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R is the best game by far the succeed in mixing modern FPS with RPG elements which 
 results in an extremely unique gameplay u haven't experienced before.
  Graphics are also amazing if u played at the highest settings, superb textures, lighting and environments.
 
  Voice acting is also pretty cool, i just like to hear the russian accent. The game offers alot 
 of well-designed quests that lets u feel u are doing some thing here, the game is also a bit hard 
 for beginners in FPS games.
  And i didn't see a BUG in the game, dunno what's wrong with all people saying that the game has 
 alot of bugs, well, they just don't understand they have to change their crappy rigs.
  In the end, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a must-have game for FPS/RPG fans, even newcomers will love this 
 game!
  
  Oh, did i mention the game is also creepy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDisciple90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  The excruciatingly long time people have been waiting for this game was not in vein. This excellent 
 game grips you in almost all the right places, the downfalls of the game are the lack of instructions 
 in the beginning, though not exceptionally difficult to find out a little more direction would 
 have been nice, a few bugs that you probably will only notice once or twice unless you are looking 
 for them, animations for humans are iffy but once you get used to them not bad, ragdoll physics 
 seem a bit outdated and unrealistic, and other than that the game is fantastic. The graphics are 
 outstanding if you have a good computer, and at first may seem dated, but they do indeed grow on 
 you as you begin to appreciate how much care they took to replicate the Zone, watching a video 
 or looking at pictures from the real life area give you a very strong sense of deja vu, everyone 
 knows at this point that the atmosphere in the game is basically unsurpassed. Gun sounds could 
 have been better by adding some environmental effects to them (i. e. echoing and such) but at there 
 base are of no less quality than any other game. My personal opinion on the game is that it is 
 more depressing than creepy as you wander through the desolate remains of a once bustling area. 
 You truly get absorbed into the world, sometimes just taking the time to sit by the campfire listening 
 to fellow stalkers play music and share stories while the rain beats on the roof of a warehouse 
 in which time had taken its toll. At its heart it is a great game that should not be missed, for 
 any reason, and with its cheap $40 price tag there is no reason that it shouldn't be in any avid 
 PC gamers collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k-bar2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 30, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Game play -
  
  So far, I've found STALKER to be incredibly immersing, more than any game I have ever played, the 
 dull grim atmosphere of the irradiated wasteland with horrid mutants and military soldiers that 
 WILL not hesitate to put a bullet in your head if you look at them in the wrong way.
  
  When I started playing the game I was amazed of how the A-Life system actually works, I spent quite 
 a lot of time following this one particular Boar going about it's daily duties (I didn't stop to 
 ask it what sex it was) first of all, it chased a blind dog around the fields for a few minutes 
 and then killed with ease and then ate a little bit of its poor victim, then the Boar decided to 
 lie down to sleep off some of his meal, I left him be, and continued. I then arrived at a mission 
 'point' (The guy at the start had given me this mission beforehand) where I had to help a group 
 of Stalkers clean out a barn full of Bandits, I thought to myself pfft, this will be easy I clearly 
 thought wrong, I didn't tactically assess the situation, I continued on with the group and we stop 
 at the outermost wall and then I charge in trying to be the hero, the Bandits were no where to 
 be seen... they were hiding, I noticed my Teammates shouting something and a couple of quick gunshots 
 and everything went silent, I went back to their position and they were all dead, turns out the 
 jammy people decided to sneak away and take out our guys with no resistance, I saw one and he ran 
 away to take cover behind a box, this was a lure... when I got there another guy came out from a 
 door way and unloaded two cartridges of buckshot into my face, damnit... very good example of how 
 good the AI is.
  
  The amount of exploration in this game is good, I just enjoyed exploring around the areas in-between 
 missions and finding dead Stalkers and stealing their weapons, the areas are large and are incredibly 
 fun to explore, from the Cordon to the horrid place itself, Reactor number 4 - Chernobyl Nuclear 
 Power Plant. Graphics - Some say this game has 'dated' graphics, and they are correct in some ways, 
 what this game lacks in graphical prowess it more than makes up for in detail, every area is detailed 
 down to each beam in a building from the team's visits to the Zone area. The lighting in this game 
 is astonishing, each object has its own real time shadow, it doesn't really show outdoors but indoors... the 
 area is beautiful e. g. When you shine your torch on a mesh plate... it will show on the invisible 
 bloodsucker that is about to gut you a nice one.
  
  Conclusion - I found this game incredibly fun to play, from the large playing areas, Amazing AI, 
 large arsenal of weaponry and a good story, BUY THIS NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazzy102
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Well first of all i will say one thing.... for all of you guys that have waited so long for this 
 game to come out (just like me) and hoped they didnt waste their time waiting for it... well you 
 did a good thing... because the games looks, sounds and plays awesome... first of all the zone is 
 the exact replica of the real zone... i've seen pictures and the map of the real zone.. and wow.. 
 this guys really did a good job.... anyway ... its plain fun just to go around and explore the zone... 
 see al the buildings, animals, and creatures that populate the area....... the mutants or what you 
 want to call them.. are really ugly.. but in a good way.. i mean they are freaky and some are even 
 scary.... plus with the A-life system.. they eat sleep and act like real living creatures... its 
 really awesome... some time when you kill an enemy you will see some creatures coming out and eating 
 the dead bodies.... plus they will decide if its safe enough to fight you. based on you weapons... 
 and your skills.... even stalkers and other humans look impressive.... they will sleep eat and hunt 
 for artifacts.... its really cool.. it feels like you are part of a real world.... not like many other 
 fps or other games that it feels like you are playing alone... in STALKER it kind of feels like 
 you are playing on a multyplayer game..... there is a really large varaiety of weapons you can choose..... 
 all of them look great.. and sound ok.... yeah i know one of the things i dont really like is the 
 sound of most weapons.. even though some sound really good.. oh be careful there arent many amunitions 
 around the area......... one of the really cool looking things is the lighting and the weather..... when 
 its raining it looks really good..... too bad you need a powerful machine to really apreciate the 
 game..... there are a few bugs but dont worry a patch just came out to solve some problems... some 
 bugs... problems with vista and MP problems... and there are more patches coming out soon.... the 
 story isnt that great like many fps games...... the rpg part is really cool... it feels kind of like 
 oblivion.... if you know what i mean.... you can buy upgrades for your weapons..... armors... and 
 more stuff... there are 7 endings... aint gonna tell you them...... at the beggining of the game 
 i was kind of sad that they took out the vehicles.. but dont worry its actually better because 
 with a vehicle a 30 sqkm area isn't that big... you know what i mean?? anyway this game is overall 
 great (for me awesome) i think it i did a good thing to wait 5 years for it^^ hope you agree with 
 me.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarTaiE
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Well, stalker is one of the best first shooters i have ever played.
  I haven't played many, only games that were recommended by friends or websites such as this.
 
  
  I really enjoyed playing the game. although i haven't finished it yet.
  The storyline is interesting, although sometimes you don't know what you are supposed to do. although 
 the game's great and such, the gameplay gets repetitive after being inside lab X18 (don't ask) as 
 you just keep shooting mutants all the time and just need to keep cleaning research labs.
  
  One thing the game does best is scare you half to death. I mean you are walking in an abandoned 
 house, everything's quiet and suddenly you hear a bark (no, not like a puddle) and turn around to 
 see a pack of dogs jumping and tearing you apart. (same thing when you are in a dark lab and a mutant 
 starts hitting you) . In my opinion, this is the best part of the game, the atmosphere in the game 
 is excellent and you really feel like you are in the disaster zone of Chernobyl (everyone talks 
 Russian too) .
  
  SO, what did we learn here today? S. T. A. L. K. E. R is a great game, you have to get it and it will 
 stay an excellent game in many years to come.
  BTW: i did not sense any of the bugs that were discussed in the official review of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simmo303
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  Avoid Vista! No trouble with XP. The huge free-roam arena is terrific with excellent graphic and 
 sound effects. The terrain, flora and fauna are well realised and draw you into the world. A good 
 sound system, particularly a capable Sub-woofer, is important as it's adds to the atmosphere. Probably 
 the best game yet. (and I've played them all) . The fusion of FPS, Strategy and Adventure highly 
 effective addictive. 'Must buy' is a cliche but it's totally justified here. The graphics are not 
 as brilliant and shiny as F. E. A. R. but that is fair enough as this is set in a far more bleak situation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RussianYulia17
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 30, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  The game is INTENSE, Powerfully gripping storyline, and the details in the environment, from the 
 grass and trees that shake when a sudden gust of wind kicks up, to the sounds of packs of mutant 
 dogs barking and howling in the distance, it is impressive. A game you HAVE to pick up. also This 
 game is huge, just the amount of terrain one must cross is vast, plus you can't just sprint through 
 the whole land, you have to stop and fight your way through. I love the living world feel, day 
 and night cycles, weather cycles and more it's very scary in 5.1 surround. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arc_salvo
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  When I heard that Stalker was going to be an open-ended FPS with rpg elements, I was really excited. 
 I thought the game would be revolutionary! Now that the game's arrived, with its steep system requirements, 
 muddy-looking graphics, scores of bugs, obvious lack of polish and a lack of any real fun factor...
 
  
  ... I've got to say that I'm -quite- disappointed.
  
  The experience of playing the game leaves a lot to be desired, with an unintuitive control scheme, 
 a somewhat confusing GUI, graphics that don't really impress despite being technically proficient 
 (and are nowhere close to the quality in Half-Life 2, despite the official Gamespot review) and 
 the act of moving and shooting is very unfun to put it simply. Movement and aiming feels too loose, 
 and shooting just doesn't have a sense of real impact. The action really feels rather humdrum compared 
 to any other serious shooter out there, and the character you control doesn't feel the least bit 
 powerful.
  
  To top it off, the storyline isn't all too interesting or clear, and the Roleplaying elements simply 
 boil down to doing repetitive random missions that give you cash rewards that you don't really 
 need. NPC's aren't very interesting or fleshed out, and it's not very satisfying to interact with 
 them if you're a Real Roleplayer type (like I am) , and most of the dialogue in this game is actually 
 untranslated from the native Russian, without even English subtitles to give you an idea of what 
 going on.
  
  Given that this -IS- supposed to be an FPS-RPG hybrid and one that's been in development for years 
 to boot, I find this situation to be completely unacceptable, and it pretty much totally kills 
 a large amount of the immersion that could have been had from being able to understand what people 
 around you were saying. Plus, there is no leveling up in this game. Aside from getting better equipment, 
 there aren't any stat-building RPG-elements in this game to speak of.
  
  The thing that adds insult to injury however is the incredible difficulty level. I won't say that 
 I'm the best FPS player in the world, but I've pretty much played and finished every major FPS 
 out there on Medium and Hard difficulties, and after reading other reviews that said that the Easy 
 difficulty in this game was equivalent to the Insane ones in other games, I started this game on 
 the Rookie difficulty setting thinking it wouldn't be all -that- bad, but it turned out that I 
 was dead wrong. This game's difficulty is brutal even on the lowest setting. I have no idea -what- 
 the game designers were thinking when they designed it that way.
  
  All in all, although I'm the rare gamer that is both an avid FPS -and- CRPG fan, I have to say 
 that in both departments, Stalker falls quite short. It's very unsatisfying to play and control 
 as an FPS, and too hard to boot, and as an RPG it's too shallow, has little to no immersion/storyline 
 factor (especially since most of the dialogue is untranslated) , has no character levelup features, 
 and is MUCH too hard for the RPG player with slow reflexes that normally wouldn't play FPS-es. 
 Hell, like I've said, it's too hard even for most FPS fans!
  
  THQ and Game World really should have spent at -least- a few months polishing up this game, adding 
 things like subtitles for the Russian Dialogue (or full English Voiceover, really, which is the 
 norm these days) bug fixes, numerous performance optimizations (I'm shocked at how poor this game 
 looks and runs with my new ATI X1650 Pro given how well every other game I've played recently including 
 FEAR, Neverwinter Nights 2, and Doom 3 ran on my Geforce 6600GT) , and tweaks to the controls to 
 make them more precise at a bare minimum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exclusiveburner
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  One thing I must say first, this game didnt really intrest me much at first, the story didnt drive 
 you to wanna play the game and at first I had my doubts but after playing for an hour just getting 
 used to the game I restarted a new game and since then had an amazing experience. I've had no crashes 
 to desktop whatsoever, I've seen complaints of minor bugs, but the only bugs i've experienced were 
 3-5 enemies who didnt really respond to my shooting which is minor.
  
  Graphically this game is better then most, people need to realize your not playing in a sunny paradise, 
 your playing in a nuclear waste zone gone terribly wrong. It's a dark, cloudy atmosphere full with 
 creatures of all sorts and many different factions of Stalkers (basically people who explore the 
 zone for there own reasons) . Guns look absolutely amazing (better then any game to date) except 
 for the first weapons you recieve however which look slightly dull. The weather looks great along 
 with explosions, character models are pretty sweet aswell.
  
  Sounds are great, and the atmosphere feels very real, it makes you feel like your in the zone itself. 
 If the howling screams of the dogs dont suck you in surely the backround sounds of cars crashing 
 people screaming and shooting will. Sum weapons could use improvement because sum should sound 
 more powerful, like the Desert Eagle for example, it sounds more like a Glock. I have one problem 
 with alot of the sounds being in Russian like towards the end of the game this guy speaks over 
 the loudspeaker for about 10 solid minutes in Russian and you cant understand one part of it.
 
  
  Gameplay wise this games up to par, enemy's are smarter then basically any game in its class, sum 
 will run away seek cover while others will try and ambush you or provide cover to sneak attack 
 you. The lack of hit detection sumtimes eats at you but a headshot always clears that up. Theres 
 only a few RPG elements in this game like searching any body for information/items and finding 
 hidden items and rare items in sum very unique places.
  
  The game itself is pretty tough, it should give you more information on the zone before just sticking 
 you in it. Its a hard game playing on anything other then Novice, starting on anything else isnt 
 recommended. All and all this game is in a genre of its own, soon another game will copy this games 
 main features and more then likely be more popular and get better ratings.
  
  I havent sunk into the online play yet so consider rating of just the single player experience.
 
  
  Overall I give it an 8.7, amazing graphics, great gameplay and the sounds are great despite the 
 Russian voices where in sum parts of the game they should clearly be American. People compare this 
 to Half Life 2 but HL2 only beats it in the story department. I'm told the online is very similiar 
 to Counter Strke.... and thats a good thing. Also stay focused on the modding community which is 
 already hard at work providing sum improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richteralan
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 29, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  For here I'll say something not so good about this game.
  
  AI enemies are super human from following aspects:
  
  1. They are not affected by radiation.
 
  2. They can see through walls. If you shoot them from few hundreds meters away, they immediately 
 know your position and start to shoot at you.
  3. They turn 180 degrees of their body and immediately can make a head shot.
  4. They move slowly.
 
  5. They can appear from nowhere. Or just appear behind you. And they keep appearing (airborne troops 
 maybe) .
  6. Their aiming is deadly, even while you are moving.
  7. They know how to kill a human fast. They know how to kill a full health player with only 3 pistol 
 shots while both are moving.
  8. They can be either enemy or neutral or friend. Depend on your software's mood today.
  9. They 
 know how to make firing cone of their rifles smaller.
  
  This game is great. Close to Oblivion but in a modern setting. The game play is nice but unfortunately 
 crippled by points above which makes it not that immersive.
  
  I believe the random respawn of enemies can help the game play not that tedius or repetitive. But 
 the random respawn needs to MAKE SENSE. You cannot respawn enemy into player's back, or into a 
 room a player just cleared... etc.
  
  The patch didn't really solve all these problems. Everything feels the same.
  
  Unless future 
 patch improve both AI and video performance, this game is not recommended unless you have plenty 
 of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simba20061
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 29, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I must admit the Hype over this game for the past few years has been incredible, much like any 
 other new style game, but in all honesty it still seems like it was rushed.... Now i know some 
 of you may laugh at this but consider some of the annoying bugs, like certain missions once completed 
 still actually being active, also the lack of any faster movement either vehicles, horses, anything 
 that would make the hours of exploring such a huge map slightly more enjoyable ( would've been 
 fun to mow down some spetsnaz or bandits in a contaminated jeep LOL) Overall i think the game is 
 awesome, but like many of my fellow gamers who will have played so many varieties of games, S. T. A. L. K. E. R 
 has left me hoping that the superb modding community will get busy and add some extra stuff.. cant 
 wait for the mods... OH and one other thing... WHERE CAN I GET A STALKER SUIT THAT CHANGES VISIBILITY 
 LIKE THE BLOODSUCKERS. THAT WOULD BE ANOTHER COOL ADDITION.. BUT ONCE AGAIN KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK 
 DEVELOPERS AND LETS HOPE CRYSIS BLOWS US ALL AWAY... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is ultimately fun, but it's very far from ultimate fun due to countless shortcomings. 
 (detailed review) S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is special for many reasons. It is easily the pinnacle of today's 
 Eastern European gaming industry, which is not that big. It also had some interesting features, 
 which when released on the net together with screenshots of the game, excited many gamers. Their 
 excitement would cool off ten times over before the game actually got released a couple of years 
 after its originally planned deadline. But in 2007 the heavens opened up and we got blessed with 
 S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl. What has come out of the six years of development?
  
  STORY
  
  In 2012 the still somewhat radioactive territory around the Chernobyl Nuclear Power 
 Plant is densely populated, this time by the military and volunteers who arrived at the site because 
 of certain recent developments. Apparently, the territory started producing anomalies, which in 
 term started producing extraordinary artifacts with extraordinary qualities, and these artifacts 
 have become of great value. Unfortunately, on this territory, known as The Zone, quite a few mutants 
 have started to make life for anyone venturing into the place very difficult. Aside from the mutants, 
 the many people with contradicting goals, stuffed into such a small area, were bound to start conflicting, 
 thus making the Zone all the more hostile. In this time and place a man gets rescued after a car 
 crash, only to wake up with amnesia and a strange mission. His story will be yours to develop. 
 All in all, this is an interesting plot. No other game comes to mind that has dealt with the Chernobyls 
 aftermath, even though its the most original source for all the scary myths created or exploited 
 by movies that dealt with Radiation.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  1. Overview
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. consists of several separately loaded levels that together form a single large map. 
 Each of the smaller maps is fairly large and somewhat square, thus leaving space for exploring 
 and maneuvering. New territories become accessible as the main quest progresses. These somber locations 
 are inhabited by members of different factions as well as mutant monsters. Of course, since many 
 of the factions have highly contradicting goals, armed conflict with some of them becomes unavoidable. 
 The player can become friends or enemies with some of these factions. Actually, out of the five 
 or six factions roaming around the Zone, only a couple are able to change their stance towards 
 the player. This is one of the first hits to the highly advertised freedom of choice and action. 
 It will most definitely not be the last.
  
  The player can accept different missions from several characters. These missions range from assassinations 
 to treasure hunting; most of these, however, feel quite repetitive. Repetitive on its own wouldnt 
 be such a problem if many of them werent also broken. Certain already completed quests will appear 
 as active missions again, even though the player never accepted to repeat these. Failure to act 
 these missions out will, subsequently, result in the missions failure, which is very depressing. 
 At one point the objective wasnt located where it was reported to be. Instead, a marker was added 
 in a place where it wasnt supposed to be, and no, it wasnt there either. What a mess...
  
  The player can also go treasure hunting for different objects scattered around the Zone, to 
 later sell the goodies to one of the traders. Stalkers you come across as well as dead bodies leave 
 clues to hideaways with hidden items. Although some things are very hard to get a hold of, in general, 
 there's no shortage of objects that can be used or sold.
  
  Over the course of the game, the player can earn quite a lot of rubles (Russian currency) . These, 
 however, are rarely given any worth, as most of the things that can be bought can also be found 
 for free, while other things that the player would want to buy are never available for sale. In 
 fact, there's at least one ending of the game that punishes a rich player (ironic as it is hard 
 not to become rich) . Thus we see that this potenitally interesting reward system is not well implicated.
 
  
  Finally, theres the main quest, which depending on the players actions, can be ended in several 
 ways. Only a couple of endings can be called positive. Freedom of choice is nice, but here too, 
 the game managed to mess up. The first problem is that there arent many clues to indicate an alternative 
 path. The second, and more important problem, is that different endings create massive differences 
 in gameplay. So massive, in fact, that there can be an extra several hours of playing between two 
 endings. Thats a lot considering that the main quest only takes an average of ten hours. Many 
 of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. players have given angry reactions on forums after finishing the game because 
 it ended very abruptly and negatively, without providing any answers to the main quests main questions. 
 It was the careless way these people played their game that brought them to this ending, but it 
 is still the developers fault as they didnt see the obvious donts in building such a game.
 
  
  Another such don't is a sandbox game (a game with non-linear gameplay) , without an open end. Beyond 
 a particular point in S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s plot, it becomes very hard to turn back from the main quest 
 to go exploring or do side quests. In fact, beyond a certain point it's impossible. And once you 
 reach an ending, the game goes back to the main menu. There goes your Ah, I'll leave this here 
 and come back for it later .
  
  Nonetheless, the way to the end of the main quest is really gripping. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is definitely 
 not an empty-shelled shooter or a go-there-and-back role-playing game, but an interesting combination 
 of different types of scripting, environments, interesting foes, sound and visuals, all of which 
 together keep you in your chair to see the end of it all.
  
  2. Enemies
  
  As the game advances, a variety of enemies will get in the players way. These consist of human 
 enemies, mutant monsters and something in between. The enemies, in particular the mutants, are 
 fairly original in both looks and behavior. Some of these use optic camouflage while others attack 
 your mind.
  
  Enemy AI is somewhat controversial. When the player is discovered by an enemy group, the group 
 will open fire and tactically advance towards their target, while communicating amongst themselves 
 and using the available cover, retreating to it if they have to reload or run away from a grenade: 
 quality behavior so far, but now the coin turns. AI characters seem to carry grenades, yet they 
 never use them. Also, once the player is spotted up close, the enemies seem to turn into cyborgs 
 with super fast reflexes, as theyll start shooting the very millisecond they appear in a doorway, 
 managing to hit you before they disappear the next second. Then again, at other times, they'll 
 get a change of heart in the midst of battle, as theyll come out of their cover and not shoot 
 at all, even though the player might be only feet away. And yet at other moments, they seem to 
 be so aggressive that, without even having seen their target yet, they start shooting at the wall 
 that separates them and the player.
  
  3. Weapons and gear
  
  Quite a large selection of weapons and gear is available to the player to help in such a hostile 
 environment. Different suits of armor protect differently from each hazard of the Zone. From sniper 
 rifles to grenade launchers to automatic rifles with modifications, theres plenty of weapons to 
 choose fromtheoretically. Practically however, many of the players who have finished the game 
 would probably raise their eyebrows in astonishment if they were told about all of the weapons 
 or items they missed. Developers failed to take full advantage of their own creations, as some 
 of the things are too hard to attain. Because the starting player has little internal way of knowing 
 about these more rare weapons, he wouldnt even know what to look for, let alone where. When (often 
 by chance) the player finds a rare weapon or a modification for a weapon, no guarantees are given 
 that he will actually find the ammunition for it, and so one might end up with an M203 grenade 
 launcher under his rifle the only purpose of which is to obstruct a large part of the player's 
 view. This sad situation is amplified by the fact that weapons wear down. Its a realistic concept, 
 however theres no way of repairing things (even though there are characters who claim to be repairmen 
 and theres equipment apparently used for such repairs) . Unique hard-to-get weapons that get damaged 
 but are unreparable... genious.
  
  4. Realism
  
  Realism, much like everything else, is a double edged sword in STALKER. On one side, youve got 
 advanced ballistics where bullets from different rifles fall at a different rate and a different 
 speed and even seem to bounce of the ground. These ballistics were highly talked about by both 
 the developers and the players. On the other side, the fall rate of some weapons feels a bit over 
 exaggerated. VSS Vintorez, a short-range sniper rifle, is said to have an effective range of about 
 400 meters, yet in the game it becomes difficult to hit a target beyond just 50. On one side, theres 
 a good physical damage model. A single shot to the head generally causes death, and near-death 
 AI can get incapacitated, crawling up in a ball on the ground in pain. On the other hand, most 
 AI wear some kind of magical armor that allows them to withstand half a clip of bullets to the 
 chest and function perfectly until that last shot that takes them down, sometimes in an over-exaggerated 
 back-flip manner. One of the available weapons, the AK-74 rifle, is known for not jamming and for 
 its robust construction, yet in the game it wears down just like the highly intricate counterparts. 
 The list of such inconsitencies is endless.
  
  5. Dynamic world
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is hyped to be a dynamic world. One of the most talked about features of the game 
 is the dynamic system which replaces the losses of the fighting groups with reinforcements. It 
 was so eagerly talked about (and even used as an excuse for the delay in the game's release) that 
 its easy to forget that randomly respawning AI that run to a location to replace losses is nothing 
 new in a game. Nevertheless, the world as a whole in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. does have a dynamic feel to 
 it. Not just the AI but also the artifacts spawn more or less randomly. While some AI spawn in 
 the same spot, the player might come across a new monster in a spot that was clear just minutes 
 ago. Theres a night and day change, and during the night the surface has more monsters but less 
 guards, many of whom go to sleep. AI characters do more than that. Characters (who all have their 
 own names and aliases, by the way) eat, play music, talk to themselves and others. The world around 
 you does seem to have some life of its own, where you feel like a part rather than the center.
 
  
  VISUALS
  
  At the time of its initially planned release, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. looked pretty good. It wasn't revolutionary, 
 but it attracted the eye. Time has passed and the game wasnt coming out. The world moved on with 
 games like Elder Scrolls Oblivion and Advanced Warfighter stealing the show. Now, a couple of years 
 later, is the game still up to date with its graphics? Yes and no. The no part, again, is mostly 
 to blame on the manner of implication of whats available, but so is the yes part.
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. can look good. It features some good dynamic lighting that, when combined with the 
 detail of textures and special effects, is more than capable of creating eye candy. It was enjoyable. for 
 a whole of seven seconds. After those several seconds of the PC trying to turn the appearing on-screen 
 slide shots into a motion picture, the game froze up and restarting the system was the only way 
 to continue. The second try wasn't much more succeful. The only way to solve the slide-show-then-freeze 
 problem was to turn the dynamic lighting off completely. This, in an instant, enabled the system 
 to run the game with all other graphical options on maximum without much hassle. The eye candy, 
 however, was largely lost, and the game now looked like it wouldve been called very pretty in 
 the year 2002 or even 2004 but not in 2007. Even so, the game's visuals cant by any means be called 
 bad, even without the dynamic lighting.
  
  Its not the size that matters, but the way you use it. Most importantly, its not the quality 
 of the textures that make the S. T. A. L. K. E. R. s visuals shine but the way those visuals are used. 
 The Zones grim character is well depicted through frequent rains, thunderstorms (with extra lightning) , 
 trash, ruined civil property, and countless special effects like the grass that waves in the wind 
 at different speeds. This grimness is in contrast to the feeling you get when taking a sit with 
 a few other stalkers who are telling jokes by the camp fire. In abandoned laboratories theres 
 a lot of attention to detail: dirty warning signs, steaming pipes with weird stuff sticking out 
 of other weird stuff. This together with a good integration of other aspects of the game ensures 
 that S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is interesting to look at.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound is the main pillar for the impress tactics of the game, and it's perhaps the most taken 
 advantage of feature. The wind howling through the valley, the Geiger sensor (senses radioactivity 
 levels) going crazy and a roar given off by one or another unseen beast are enough to keep your 
 mouth half open and your feet tightened at all times. Voice work is relatively well done, although 
 the voice acting in the cut scenes for the main quest does sound rather cheesy. Characters tell 
 stories by the fire and curse in a range of voices, some with Russian and others with Ukrainian 
 accents. I tested the Russian version of the game and thus I never got to enjoy the accents of 
 the English voice-overs for the main quest.
  
  PERFORMANCE
  
  As stated in the VISUALS section of this review, graphic issues brought a more than capable system 
 to a halt. Apparently, many other players were having one or another performance related problem. 
 Many issues resided around the Windows Vista operating system, but this varied a lot from person 
 to person. The lucky ones got away with an occasional crash or a freeze up. Others werent so lucky. 
 Oftentimes, a manual shutdown of the game, or even the whole PC, is the only option. That's highly 
 annoying if it happens every five minutes. While the game was running without the dynamic lighting, 
 however, it was running fairly fast, suggesting that medium-end machines can handle the game too.
 
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. has basic multi-player support. It features three types: deathmatch, team deathmatch 
 and artifact hunt, the last one being much like Capture the flag type in other games. The mp is 
 nothing fancy, but it satisfies the basic need of any first-person-shooter for such a mode. The 
 presence of anomalies and artifacts make it just a little bit special.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Its as hard not to feel proud for the Ukranian game developer as it is hard not to notice enough 
 small holes in this game to be able to drain cooked pasta. The freedom of action isnt nearly as 
 good as its been advertised to be. The game has an overly unpolished and unclear feel to it, as 
 if the project was too much for the developers to completely grasp and keep under control throughout 
 the whole time (rumour has it that the game was downsized for the release) . Nevertheless, theres 
 got to be some reason for all the high review scores that the community on average has given to 
 S. T. A. L. K. E. R. and there is. Even though the game has countless performance flaws, false promises 
 and other frustrating issues, its still an enormously interesting game to play for those who are 
 able to. It has a strong character, and its too bad that its full potential was never awakened.
 
  
  RELATED GAMES
  
  STALKER is a mix of genres and reminds several games, most of all the latest of the Elder Scrolls 
 role-playing game series: Oblivion. The environments, action and the plot bring to mind the first-person 
 shooter Half Life 2, while multi-ending gameplay and factions bring back memories of Deus Ex 2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gollumblade
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 29, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  There is not many games that have combined two completely different genres and done a good job, 
 bearing that in mind i was not expecting much when i first loaded up stalker. Unlike alot of people 
 i have not been following this game for 5 years. I only really heard about it a few weeks before 
 it came out, so I did not know what to expect. I liked the opening movie and was stunned by the 
 quality of the graphics when i first started to roam around the landscape. The control system is 
 simple enough and there is a handy PDA system which has a diary and a mission list so you always 
 know what you are supposed to be doing. There is alot of side missions to keep you occupied and 
 alot of fun to be had by yourself.
  
  There is an interesting storyline with some shocking plot twists which keeps you interested to 
 the dramatic ending. There is all a leaderboard and a couple of factions which can be joined. So 
 all in all theres plenty off stuff to be getting on with and hours of good quality game play.
 
  
  Due to the rush of the release alot of the dialogue is not voiced and there is a alot of reading 
 to do. The main storyline text has been voiced but alot of npc's are quite. Other then that the 
 sound effect are good. Gun blasts and explosions all sound realistic and some very scary ambient 
 sounds that will send chills up your spine when walking through the forests at night.
  
  I can understand some peoples dissapointment after waiting 5 years for S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of 
 Chernobyl, but still, it is a game defintely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a8qlsypp
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Okay, Bethesda Softworks made their title Oblivion in a miracleously short campgain of development, 
 to be exact, four years as they came up with a world forged with so much loving and grace, they 
 created one of the best titles in the gaming indusrty. written above isn't only mine objective 
 opinion, i'm sure that there are much many who'll support my words.
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.:
  Far beyond us, in a year of 1979 by Aleksandr Kajdanovsky not so known movie director, announces 
 his sci-fi misterious thriller called Stalker . I'd like to write short synopsis plot: So, near 
 a gray and unnamed city is the Zone, an alien place guarded by barbed wire and soldiers. Over his 
 wife's numerous objections, a man rises in the dead of night: he's a stalker, one of a handful 
 who have the mental gifts (and who risk imprisonment) to lead people into the Zone to the Room, 
 a place where one's secret hopes come true. That night, he takes two people into the Zone: a popular 
 writer who is burned out, cynical, and questioning his genius; and a quiet scientist more concerned 
 about his knapsack than the journey. In the deserted Zone, the approach to the Room must be indirect. 
 As they draw near, the rules seem to change and the stalker faces a crisis.
  
  -Afterwards, in a past not so distant I've got the book as my birthday gift that carried the name 
  &amp;#1085;&amp;#1072;  
 (as for Russian transcription that vould be: Picnic on the curb) . Red Schuhart is a stalker, one 
 of those strange misfits compelled to venture illegally into the Zone and collect the strange artefacts 
 that the alien visitors left scattered there. His whole life, even the nature of his daughter, 
 is determined by the Zone. it intrigued me.
  
  -The second book I've come up with was Roadside Picnic / Tale of the Troika where Earth experiences 
 a brief visit from aliens who leave unusual litter. Tale of the Troika; In this satirical farce 
 set in the distant future, the world is divided into innumerable floors, connected by elevators 
 that never work. No one knows much about the mysterious happenings above the thirteenth floor. 
 Then two scientists are sent to the 76th floor. Here the Troika, a ruling triumvirate of 4 men, 
 has reportedly seized power.
  that was the third time in my life I read about the ZONE.
  My countrymen SHAI mantioned it before me!
  
  As young as I were, I red the books which created 
 a wolrd of blury images in my mind which set there for some period until iI saw the first screen 
 of Shadow of Chernobyl and it amazed me. Used it for desktop background in fact for six years. 
 It was a dream come true. The ZONE had its form and it realy existed virtualy.
  
  Development team of GSC Game World has my grattitude, my honest regads following the reconstruction 
 of the immaginary wolrd with all its attributes which now, you kids, can look at, feel it, sense 
 it, ENJOY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 29, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  In short :
  
  Good :
  
  - A. I isn't perfect, but usually displays nice array of flanking and shooting from cover.
  - 
 Atmosphere is astonishing, as long as you have set your mind into proper state. Running around 
 with your normal FPS-style just ruins the mood.
  - Weapons. Albeit named differently, they're still real. They have good sounds, too.
  - Weapon 
 accurate isn't dead-on but there is still point on shooting the head.
  - There's still some left of the A. I that was supposed to make other stalkers etc. to have a life 
 of their own. Not much, but some.
  
  Bad :
  
  - Doesn't understand mouses with more than three buttons.
  - No prone-position
  - Would have 
 loved to see more time in zones like Pripyat.
  - Glitches in A. I, for example guys walking to anomaly and dying in it. Few times soldiers just 
 went to a line and kept aiming where I was 5 minutes ago, side by side. Some passive NPC bugs towards 
 the end indoors.
  
  It's far in some ways from what we originally were expecting, but since it's been told around the 
 net that it's been scaled down, I'm surprised that it came out this good. Great game with a great 
 setting and some originality in FPS games.
  
  The longer story :
  
  Right, so, around 6 years ago S. T. A. L. K. E. R was supposed to be a game, where you would be one of 
 the Stalkers, who hunt for artifacts in a 30 square-mile area around&amp; nearby Chernobyl and Pripyat. 
 Other NPC's (stalkers, military etc) were supposed to have their own agenda's and routines and 
 they'd be close to human-like when it came to A. I. Some monsters were supposed to only come outside 
 at night etc. It was even possible that other Stalkers could have completed the game before you 
 did. Vehicles were supposed to be driveable, even if there wasn't loads of gas around. There was 
 also someone holding the keys to the only helicopter in the area. But who and where?
  Sadly, that never happened. But seriously, after they announced that they're making some downscaling, 
 who was actually waiting such an elaborate programming would stay? I wasn't holding my breath, 
 especially after some video where I saw some guys shooting a clip of 5.45's in a guy, who didn't 
 even flinch nor die. Later I found out that this guy was an amateur and obviously had no clue how 
 to play.
  
  The playing area was heavily scaled down, and it got divided into areas, which they falsely called 
 as levels , which made it sound like this would be another we've-seen-all-this-before kind of FPS. 
 But no, they're just area's. They are relatively large, but they're not huge, and sadly the most 
 interesting zone, Pripyat, won't come to you until the end, and you cannot go back from there.
 
  To gain access to some area's, you need to do something first, usually it's more or less involved 
 to a quest. This is quite fine to me, at least it keeps some level of sanity in it, so you won't 
 be having the best weapons in the beginning and so on.
  
  One thing that S. T. A. L. K. E. R takes different compared to other FPS', is that you now have an inventory. 
 This is a fine thing, 'cause only thing limiting your supplies carried is the weight limit, and 
 not the item limit per item. Even while some people have complained that the weight limit is indeed 
 too limiting, I'd say it's good as it is, since I was still carrying 4 rifle's in the end with 
 20 medkits, couple artifacts, some anti-radiation equipment and about 500 rounds of ammunition. 
 Besides, stuff drop off of every kill you make, so you get replenished pretty much along the way 
 all the time, and eventually you've left 75% of the stuff behind anyway.
  
  Combat in S. T. A. L. K. E. R is rather fun. The weapons range from pistol to SMG, assault rifles and 
 sniper rifle's, spiced with couple shotguns and an RPG. Couple of rifles have also versions with 
 grenade-launchers etc, some are coupled with a silencer. I haven't found a way to modify weapons 
 with anything else than a scope, so the one's with silencer's and launchers you had to find or 
 loot. Also some other modified weapons are available of the normal one's, to spice up the already 
 hefty catalogue for an FPS game. Of course, more different weapons would have been fun, but there's 
 already a dilemma with variety to me, so I'm fine with the current set.
  Shooting is mostly done via ironsights, and I'm glad that it only narrows the area where the bullets 
 hit, instead of being dead-on from long ranges. This makes some point later on to have some sniper 
 rifle's, when they actually make a difference. Of course, it does get a bit annoying occasionally, 
 but it works for me just fine.
  
  Combat A. I is one of the best I've seen so far, if not the best. Sadly opponents won't throw grenades, 
 but they have reasonably good sense in combat tactics, so they often stay in cover and/or try to 
 flank. Funny thing is that you can do the same to them - vanish behind cover and if you can stay 
 behind covers and sneaking, you can get around'em to flank, while they're still thinking you're 
 behind the cover if they haven't seen you.
  Mutants and animals are more or less straight-forward type of attackers, mostly since they don't 
 have weapons, naturally. I was very reluctant about the game when I read that it would be having 
 mutants etc, since we've seen'em way too much in other games, but thankfully S. T. A. L. K. E. R doesn't 
 overuse them. But when one crosses on your path, they're usually tougher than humanoids, but still 
 very doable.
  
  There's some scripted events, and some things just happen because of the programmed routine. By 
 scripted events I meant that some thing has been set ready when you enter the area (say, stalkers 
 defending position from bandits etc) , but after that it's completely non-programmed what will happen, 
 everything happens is done via their own A. I. I'd compare it to Operation Flashpoint, since the 
 occasional problems and glitches are the same kind. For example, in a fight where bandits attack 
 stalker-inhabited scrapyard, you're called to help to defend it. But, if the quest-giver guy gets 
 killed, quest failed. Doesn't effect anything in a bad way usually, but I loaded latest quicksave 
 and tried again. Still, it is fun to see that stuff doesn't happen everytime the same way and it 
 is more improvised.
  
  Graphic-wise, if you can get full dynamic lighting on, the game looks great. It isn't overly flashy 
 due the setting of rusting old buildings and wasteland, but all kind of effects are top-notch. 
 Animation is nice as well, nothing to complain about that either. Additionally, I think the plot-video's 
 are excellent, some of the best animation I've seen to date and some of the most realistically 
 looking people in it, too.
  There isn't any music to note. However, all the sounds are excellent. Outdoors you're mostly hearing 
 just wind, ambient nature/NPC sounds (like howling, gunfire in the distance, etc) and your geiger-counter 
 &amp; anomaly-counter if you're close to those, but indoors, it's a whole new story. Clangs, howls, 
 stretching pipes... all kind of weird and rather scary noises fill your mind when you dwelve underground. 
 This, if anything, creates atmosphere like nothing before.
  
  I can't really figure out a whole lot to complain about the game. Others have complained about 
 bugs, but I've only countered one that makes some weird texture-flashes when it rains, and that 
 only happened like, twice in the whole time. Quicksaves worked fine for me, so did dynamic lighting, 
 even while my comp is far from being a top-notch for games.
  Of course the game isn't nowhere what we thought it would be like 5-6 years ago, but I'm still 
 glad it didn't become another Duke Nukem Forever, which wasn't all that far afterall. The playing 
 area is smaller, yes, and this is the fact that saddens me the most. A. I was scaled down a bit 
 and vehicles were ditched, yes, but I think this was a given when the area got downscaled too, 
 since it would have been stupid to drive cars around in there now, and stalkers etc. still have 
 some of that routine left they were promised.
  
  But if you think the game as what it is today and not what it could/should have been, you still 
 have one of the best FPS' in here. It has innovative stuff, different setting compared to most 
 FPS-games, it's less-action-more-suspense kind of shooter with best atmosphere, it has one of the 
 best (if not the best) A. I that shooters have to date. As many have said, yes, it is like Oblivion 
 in setting of Fallout, more or less.
  
  Seriously, great game, don't pass this without trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EldarLord123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  OK, so many people are saying that the quests are a bit freaky and so is the bugginess but WHO 
 CARES!!! The new patch should help with that and the gameplay looks soooooooooo good! Seriously, 
 who wouldn't want to quickly assemble a sniper by taking a scope of another gun and attach it to 
 an assualt rifle then snipe what ever u want! (although the AI is pretty clever and taking cover) 
 I WANT IT NOW!!! I admit, it should be better for Vista but what do u expect for a game that has 
 been in development for bout 5 years! That just makes the graphics seem even better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cycoknob
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 29, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  First of, don't get fooled by the reviews that says bad gameplay. why:
  becourse the gameplay is exactly whats good about this game. how ever the classical mistake that 
 people make would be to play this game as if it was an arcade first person shooter. the way this 
 game should be played is more like a role playing game. figuring out how to solve the situations 
 you may end up in. patience is a must! you will need to move forward slow and carefully and as 
 the game reads realistic bullet ballistics don't expect to hit anything without practice but after 
 getting used to the weapons they become quite deadly. also its important to aim for vital points 
 on your opponents , head and chest! shooting them in the foot wont do much damage. take note the 
 guy beneath this review claims he has to shoot them 50 times.. hehe thats properly do to the fact 
 that 40 of his bullets are just hitting air! you can kill the opponent with one shot to the head 
 or 2 some times 3 shots to the chest.
  The game has a very good plot and has so much atmosphere.
  its a really well thought out game 
 idea. and the game is despite the technical hiccups really enjoyable!
  now to the score.
  Gameplay: 8.0
  the gameplay is really good but i could really have used a teleport function or 
 cars or something.. that could transport me back and forth there is to much walking in the game.. 
 and there is no Co-op multiplayer function.
  Graphics: 8.0
  well the graphics engine is not that impressive but the scenery and atmosphere is amazing! the 
 lighting is also some of the best i have seen so far, both indoor and outdoor!
  Sound: 9.0
  i Decided to give the sound 9 becourse the sound is just awesome, i would have given the sound 
 10 but i think the sound has some distance issues when it comes to voices. people that are like 
 50 meters away sound like they are just behind you. Value 6.0
  again it has no Co-op and the game is rather short.
  
  the tilt i made becourse of all the 
 I CANT HIT ANYTHING reviews... Go play some counter strike and leave this game to the matures. 
 Hope you found this review usefull.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drentzter
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 29, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  I just dont get it! why has this game got such high reviews? The graphics are excellent but the 
 gameplay is utter crap. To kill an enemy you need to shoot him like 50 times. No joke, 50 bullets 
 per enemy! and ammo is scarse which makes it really difficult. The story is long and boring and 
 totally confusing that you lose interest in following it straight away. The enemy AI is terrible 
 too. Somehow, they know how to see you through trees and can shoot you while you're hiding from 
 them. I know most of us have been looking forward to this game for a long time but please, dont 
 pretend to like this game and say that it is good. I dont see how anyone could possibly like it. 
 I think anyone who says they do like it are fooling themselves. It sucks really bad. Please dont 
 waste your money like I did, it's not woth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeyondZork
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  HERE IS WHAT I WROTE AT FIRST. 3/27
  
  Well, all I can say is that I've played pretty much every RPG out there, and pretty much every 
 shooter out there. The one necessary ingredient for an RPG is content; the one necessary ingredient 
 for a shooter is gameplay. Unfortunately, STALKER seems stretched in two directions, and fails 
 to deliver either of these main elements successfully.
  
  STALKER is SUCH an ambitious design concept. I remember when I first added the title to my games, 
 and eagerly digested every update, preview and screenshot. The thought of an open-ended gameworld, 
 like Oblivion, but designed for a tactical shooter game, is SO AWESOME. This game definately has 
 the scope, vision, and game design to truly be outstanding.
  
  Unfortunately, it just simply drops the ball. It's kind of a pain in the ass to play. The controls 
 are awkward, the interface is clunky, the inventory and ammo management is a mess, and basically 
 you'll find yourself spending more time trying to fiddle with the controls than atctually enjoying 
 the game.
  
  This game feels like a cheap version of Far Cry mixed with a half-assed attempt at an open ended 
 world like Oblivion. Get the picture? It does neither extremely well -- the shooting is so-so, 
 and frankly I'm appalled at GameSpots gushing over the game's ballistic modelling -- this is not 
 a smooth, streamlined shooter. It is odd and unintuitive, and while of course there are occaisional 
 good moments, despite the open-ended design it still feels cookie cutter.
  
  The graphics are dated, which i don't even care about and wouldn't affect my rating of the game, 
 other than the carbon copy NPCs which all look alike.
  
  The sound is annoying. They use repetive effects, and if you sit still for 5 minutes you'll hear 
 the same friggin bird calls and animal grunts over and over and over.
  
  Man. I SO wanted to like this game. I looked forward to it for so long. But it's just not a good 
 game. The design is so awesome, yet the actual playing of the game itself is frustrating and cumbersome. 
 There are so many aspects to the game which -- despite years of delays -- are still unpolished 
 and rough. From picking up 40 different pistols, and having to sort through them to get the ammo 
 and dropping the other 39, to having to deal with the most annoying PDA device EVER, with a map 
 that refuses to focus or scroll when you want it to, to quickloading in the middle of a firefight 
 only to find yourself holding a pair of binoculars instead of that AK-47 you were just blasting 
 away with -- the game is just a pain in the ass and, well, kind of a headache actually. Too bad. 
 If you take a shooter with the quality of Far Cry or Half-Life 2, and add the open-ended nature 
 of Gothic or Oblivion, THEN YOU'LL HAVE THE GREATEST GAME EVER!!!
  
  Unfortunately, this game is basically a half-assed version of each, which adds up to, at best, 
 a mediocre game that you won't be missing if you don't play.
  
  HERE IS WHAT I SAY NOW:
  
  Well, all I can say is that I'm guilty of speaking too quickly. This game really grows on you, 
 and I didn't give it a chance.
  
  After updating my vid drivers, the game looks much better.
  
  After playing for 8 or so additional 
 hours, the game has suddenly become SO MUCH more immersive. I'm really glad I gave it an additional 
 chance. It still has it's shortcomings -- menu interface, controls, no prone, awkward inventory 
 management, bugs, CTDs -- these problems are, remarkably, overshadowed by a deeper and deeper immersive 
 experience.
  
  I think in part this game suffers because it doesn't introduce you with a bang -- it kind of dumps 
 you in the middle of nowhere. It seems like the actual intro to the game's many facets doesn't 
 come until 8-10 hours of gameplay. Once you do reach the point in the game where everything comes 
 together, it is really rewarding.
  
  I've bumped it up to a 7.9, and can definately reccommend it. Just make sure you stick with it 
 for a few days, it gets better and better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentArcher
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  When I First got stalker I was pretty excited, getting bored of my current collection of FPS/RTS 
 games; wanting to try something new. (Counter-Strike Source especially) I quickly installed the 
 game and at first was not impressed at all! kind of let down actually. I was kind of mad actually, 
 the graphics were very dated. (Gamespot's Screenies do no justice on how a game really plays, and 
 there videos are much to small, hence im a paying subscribing member and they are yet to small 
 IGN has gameplay videos a 640x480 which is a decent viewing screen, and It looked very nice) Anyways 
 enough of my rant about IGN vs GS. The game goes as follows IMO:
  
  The Graphics: The Games lighting affects are some of the best I've seen in my entire life of gaming. 
 They are just so well done, its absolutely amazing. When your outside the dynamic weather affects 
 are also very nice, it could be dark and cloudy/raining in some parts of the zone, and then in 
 others really bright and vivid like a nice spring/summer day. Inside the factories the shadows 
 that are casted by your flashlight are also mind blowing, never seen anything illustrated so well 
 in a game before.
  
  Realism: The weapons are the game are very well done; they feel very real. If you pick up a crap 
 weapon, its going to fire/jam and not be very accurate at all; hence the AKm 742u or the Viper 
 5. They are only going to be so accurate within a few meters or so, after that might as well throw 
 it at your enemy's. If you pick up a good weapon, G36, AK 74, and the M4 equivalent in the game 
 you'll be in decent shape, as those weapons come with scopes some of them detachable some not. 
 Headshots in the game are extreamely crucial to your survival, make'em COUNT! Different ammo types 
 also help make the accuracy of your weapon differ. AI: The reason I gave the AI its own section 
 is because it deserves it. The AI in this game is unprecedented. Ill be sitting behind a tree trying 
 to kill some enemies (suppose a group of bandits) leaning to the right, and constantly having to 
 check my left and behind myself to make sure that I don't get flanked. It happens most of the time 
 unfortunately; no matter because I still end up killing them. I love the fact that the AI fight 
 each other, you could be running around the zone doing a little quest and see a group of stalkers 
 duking it out with some bandits or spetsnaz and kickin ass and taking names! vice versa, sometimes 
 the bandits/spetsnaz or whoever win too. Gameplay: The gameplay was decent, there are certain parts 
 of the zone you just hate returning to, because of constant LAG/Stuttering issue's (Note that it 
 has been significantly reduced with the new v1.0001 patch that has been released) I remember in 
 some parts of the game were incredibly unbearable due to lag stutters, but now they are just minor 
 and minute and rather petty annoyances, in fact for the most part it runs pretty Smooth. The Controls 
 feel as if they were mapped out very poorly, I often find myself hitting F for flashlight instead 
 of L, imo I think all FPS games should be mapped out the same in order to prevent confusion and 
 fumbling around of the keys. Sound: The sound is pretty damn accurate. The weapons don't sound 
 cheesy like they do in COD2, grenade explosions are the best I've heard in a FPS game. In some 
 places there are cats meowing and stuff, and I cant tell if thats just that cats in my neighborhood 
 or if its just the game (yeah I have some pretty hardcore cat fights up in this bizzatch) The creatures 
 also don't sound ridiculous either they sound scary and rather intimidating. When you in the underground 
 facilities you hear the occasional pipes and things behind dropped or disturbed, sounds pretty 
 realistic. The broken Russian/English is perfect, wouldn't have it any other way, it would just 
 pull away from the realism if it wasn't the way it is. Value: The Game has 7 different endings, 
 enough said. No but really, it has a decent online half to it that is worth trying, my ISP is total 
 garbage so unfortunately i haven't really had the pleasure of really immersing myself to it. Depending 
 on how you play the singleplayer campaign you will get a different ending based on your actions. 
 I Myself have gotten 1 of the endings (One of the fake 5 endings) it was pretty nice. The game 
 is reasonably priced also... $10.00US cheaper that your average PC game being $39.99. You get a 
 lot for what you pay for.
  
  Overall I can't put the game down, its very fun, and at times addictive. It could be better, but 
 its good enough, and I hope is sparks some more games like this in the genre. -SA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whadzen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, so I thought I was going to play the next FPS just like everything else. I just came off 
 Prey (easy) , which you run and gun. You won't get far gunning and running in this game. I feel 
 the AI is hard to deal with. You have to really strategize every move. Very unique game with an 
 immersive enviroment. After tweaking the files with help found in the forums, the game runs great 
 in my aging rig (P4 3.0 HT, 1gig ram, nvidia7800 agp) . Graphics are very good. The enviroments 
 remind me a little bit of Oblivion (not as gorgeous, of course) .
  Guns are realistic. Don't expect to run over corpses and nicely pick up ammo and stuff. This is 
 very realistic and makes the game hard. Guns deteriorate over time, ammo is not in abundance, so 
 again, you have to strategize how to deal with enemies in different situations. You have to think 
 about what you are picking up and trading. There ain't no health box on the wall in the next room 
 to patch up...
  
  I believe this game takes a lot of thinking and behaves very realistic for a FPS game. This is 
 not a console like thing that you pick up and start shooting unchallenged. And that's what makes 
 this game great. Finally, a bit of a challenge for us. Buy it, but expect some frustration at the 
 beginning until you get used to the different gameplay on display here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliquarto
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I can't say enough for S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl . The game just blows me away everytime 
 I play it (literally) . I'm still suprised why gamespot still employs half their staff to review 
 games. This whole the weapons are inaccurate stuff bothers me. Watching how horrible the reviewer 
 is at an fps game ( constantly running around with the flashlight turned on in night fights ) made 
 me sick . Bugs? Never encountered a single one! No sidequests, no driver issues, no hardware issues, 
 NONE. I guess if you think S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s engine is dated you need to go back to Half-Life 2 
 lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wamzip
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was so hyped for the majority of the past decade you'de expect it to be the best thing 
 since sonic but it isn't. That doesn't mean it isn't a good game though. If I hadn't bought into 
 all that hype I'd have simply played the game with no expectations and been very impressed. The 
 game is a cross between a 1st person shooter and an RPG in the sense that it's played from a 1st 
 person perspective but rather than having linear gameplay there is an open ended 'free roaming' 
 quest system. I put 'free roaming' in quotation marks because it's not as free roaming as I'd hoped. 
 The playing area is split into zones (about 12 in all) . You are free to move from zone to zone 
 at any time with a fairly short load inbetween but this isn't as free roaming as games like San 
 Andreas and Just cause. This disappointed me somewhat as I enjoy the freedom these games give you. 
 The story is pretty good. IT's told through a series of CGI cutseens and information presented 
 to you via PDA. It has dark overtones and a good bit of mystery behind it which does a good job 
 of drawing you in and keeping you playing. It also has multiple endings which I think are always 
 a plus and should be included in more games. My only gripe with the story is the old RPG cliche 
 of 'I have Amnesia, I must find out who I am e. t. c e. t. c.' - total rubbish. I've not long ago played 
 2 'knights of the old republics' both driven by the old faithfull amnesia. Graphics are slightly 
 dated but not offensively so. Character animations are pretty good and there are some nice efffects 
 to go with the anomalies (radiation related things that are scattered around the zone that have 
 to be avoided and drive the story line) . The foliage and grass is all well animated with one exception. 
 In high wind the fluttering of the grass seems to turn into a high frequency vibration/flashing. 
 I'm not sure if this is crap effect, bug or problem with my graphics card/drivers. Physics aren't 
 bad with some pretty good ragdoll if that's what gets you going (I know it works for me) .
  
  Gameplay is all well done with firefights being pretty intense. It feels like people take way 
 to many hits to kill at first but you'll soon get the hang of fireing in short accurate bursts 
 and you'll soon be gunning down large groups of bandits with easy (which is very satisfying) . Not 
 all enemies are human though so there'll be some frantic monster blasting as well. This is fairly 
 run of the mill, by the books monster blasting though and doesn't offer anything new. Overall, 
 I'm pleased I played the game through to the end. IT was a fun ride, probably took about 15 hours 
 (with a few of the side quests) . I'd recommend it to anyone looking for something new. One user 
 review on here claimed the game was unusably buggy which wasn't what I found. Yes there are a few 
 bugs, nothing that gets in the way of the game though. I had 2 crashes at the same point both times. 
 I simply avoided that point in the game and had no other troubles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galenti
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  It's strange in a way that this is the best FPS since Half Life 2, because they are polar opposites 
 in the FPS world. One is linear and packed with orchestrated, super polished events, the other 
 is a open ended world filled with fabulous detail and unexpected thrills and adventures. Stalker 
 does have it's share of bugs and short comings, but they can hardly be held against it, considering 
 the scope and detail they were aiming for, and achieved.
  
  Oblivion can be cited for it's tremendous world and polish of gameplay, while faulted for it's 
 lack of atmosphere and personality. Stalker has these in spades. It's incredible just how worn 
 and lived in this expansive setting feels. Oblivion is a gorgeous land that looks like everyone 
 moved into a year earlier. In Stalker, you really feel like you've walked into the middle of a 
 land filled with history.
  
  I hope this game is a huge success, because it really deserves it, and even as is, is totally worth 
 playing and working around it's flaws. Though I can bet if it is a hit, we can expect all these 
 mild annoyances to be worked out and then we'll have truly one of the most fantastically engrossing 
 and ambitious FPS ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarbandu
Rating: 1.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Hasnt anyone wondered why PC Gamer magazine, home of the WORLD EXCLUSIVE FIRST REVIEW !, hasnt 
 uttered a peep about this game ? Could it be their advance copy was so riddled with bugs and unplayable 
 that the editor decided not to run the expected glowing review those first reviews seem to always 
 generate ?
  
  After reading the mixed reviews here, I thought it best to wait till the price dropped ($30 at 
 Circuit City) and a patch (~ 4 MB) came out. Of course, the patch wipes out any previously saved 
 games. so if youre half-way thru Stalker you have a dilemma.
  
  I installed the game and the patch on my Athlon 3700+ (2.2 Ghz) , with 2 MB RAM and a GeForce 6800. 
 I selected 1024 x 768 resolution. Updated my Audigy and nVidia drivers.
  
  Sixty seconds into the game I crashed to the desktop. Rebooted, restarted, and lowered the games 
 graphics quality slider from medium to low. Restarted; not much of a change in graphics. Then 
 THREE more crashes to the desktop within the first 10 minutes of playing. !
  
  There is no other way to regard this game, than as betaware rushed out to earn some cash for THQ 
 as fast as possible before word gets around that STALKER is a joke. The game needs at least another 
 3 months of dev time before it should be released to the paying public.
  
  If you are utterly obsessed with playing this game no matter what, if watching CHKDSK is OK with 
 you, if staring at your BIOS is fine with you, if framerate drops and all the other host of problems 
 detailed in the other reviews doesnt bother you, then, yes, buy STALKER. Otherwise, stay away 
 from this game even if another 50 MB worth of patches are rushed out in the next few weeks. Save 
 your money ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostDog007
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  (Sorry if I'll have English mistakes, I'm not from USA or UK)
  We've waited for six years, and finally the most expected video-game ever (probably) , is out in 
 stores, but is the game good?
  Well, I can give you one certain answer - YES - it is good.
  
  The game starts with a cutscene... It's not really understandable, not only the cutscene, but 
 the whole plot of the game.
  Sure, you perform missions, you gather weapons, but what's the deal? What is really you're target, 
 you're main objective?
  Not clear...
  
  The gameplay, is, probably, the best thing in the game.
  It is highly addictive, and when I started 
 to play the game, I was caught playing the game for about nine hours in a row - I couldn't stop.
 
  The main goal in the game is to kill other STALKERs and gather equipment.
  There is also an inventory, with a weight limit (Which is quite annoying) , so you're gonna want 
 to choose carefully what you'll take with you and to leave behind.
  When speaking about weapons - STALKER has a huge amount of them; There are pistols, sub-machine-guns, 
 assault-rifles, sniper-rifles, shotguns, grenades, rocket launchers, and the list goes on and on... 
 Too bad you can't carry more than about three-four weapons at a time.
  The world in the game is also huge, and full of life - not only humans, but also mutants.
  The 
 mutants are very dangerous, depending on what mutant is it.
  No matter what you'll do, there will always be something happening in the world of the game, so 
 you can kill everyone in one area in the game, and come back after a while, and you'll see new 
 dead bodies, and that's because things are still happening after you leave.
  You can play the game many times, because there is much to do, and the game is really fun (And 
 also because the game is pretty long) .
  
  In 2002, STALKER was considered as the game with the best graphics ever.
  Well, today it's not 
 the best looking game in the market, but the graphics are most definitely making the world of the 
 game really believable and enjoyable to watch.
  The problems with the graphics are the crazy system requirements.
  In order to play the game 
 with the best graphics, you'll need one hell of a monster, because the game is really heavy.
  There are also many bugs, most of them are ignorable, but there are a few bugs that can't let you 
 complete certain missions in the game, and that's annoying.
  
  The sound of the game is also pretty good.
  Most of the weapons in the game don't have a believable 
 sound, but on the other side, the shotguns and some assault-rifles have incredible sounds, especially 
 the sawed-off shotgun - you shoot someone and the sound of the shot is really incredible.
  The voice acting of the game is solid, because most of the characters in the game speak Russian, 
 and it could've been a good idea to translate what they're saying... And if someone does speak 
 English, he speaks in a Russian accent, and it's still hard to understand.
  
  Well, STALKER is not what we've expected for, but it delivers an interesting gameplay and many 
 hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merlin19783
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 28, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  If you combined Half Life 2, Crysis, Deux Ex and Oblivion what would you get? Well this seems to 
 be damn close. The aforementioned games are some of my favourite games off all time and so as you 
 can probably guess I'm thrilled to be playing such a hybrid.
  
  When I first read about the stalker concept I knew if done properly they would have a classic on 
 their hands. From the very start you feel alone, lost, under threat and disorientated. Considering 
 the engine is four years old it looks stunning. The near perfect sky, the rusting metal remains 
 everywhere, deserted buildings and stark but somewhat beautiful landscape... well it's just breathtaking 
 to be honest. The lighting effects are also worth raving about, the way when lightning flashes 
 through ruined buildings and your flashlight casts shadows over the dark world. Most (but not all 
 objects) respond well to physics, such as chairs and barrels getting shot over in fire fights. 
 Some of the best moments so far have been when I've been pinned down behind a tree or rusting vehicle 
 and bullets are ricocheting off everything, just leaning out taking a few well aimed shots then 
 ducking behind your cover to reload. Or even better luring the local wildlife into the many anomalies 
 that have various unpleasant ( and usually fatal) effects on living things.
  
  The enemy AI is also superb, they really do try everything to get you, from flanking your position 
 to quietly creeping up on you from around corners. There's some very nice touches too, such as 
 the way men crouch and duck to use cover and the head lamps some use when in the dark.
  
  The inventory is not perfect I have to say. They really should have put a radiation meter on the 
 main hud. I also don't like the way everything goes in one block and always moves itself when you 
 leave the inventory. The autosave does not work either. The PDA is a nice touch and the map/task 
 finder all work but again could be better. The game also slows down from time to time for around 
 2 seconds but this is hardly noticable. If I was asked what is missing from this almost perfect 
 game I would say a more RPG like progression such as a customisable skills tree, ideally like the 
 ones found in Oblivion or Deux Ex, but again these are only minor wants.
  
  In summary this is a rich detailed world that is just crammed full of atmosphere. Well worth the 
 wait and I'm sure THQ will do it justice and release a patch that clears up the few bugs that I 
 have noticed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectralmerc
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  Well, so it finally arrived. 7 years in the making, this game has been on development enough time 
 for three generations of DirectX to come out. The expectative it created on me was certainly a 
 lot, and when I first started the game, it welcomed me with some things that someone without so 
 much urge to play it might get driven away immediately.
  
  So, thats why I beg all of you. Give S. T. A. L. K. E. R. a second chance. Is an amazing game, with a 
 very solid structure and an incredible atmosphere.
  
  Lets get rid of the bugs first. My system is a Pentium IV 3.0 GHZ with 1.5 GB RAM DDR400, and a 
 GeForce 7300LE. It seems Stalker doesnt like my card, and as such, the only way I can play without 
 gettin terrible graphic artifacts is on windowed mode. At first I was deeply aggravated. Then I 
 decided to give it a shot.
  
  Well, graphics even on low res are impressive. The fact that the sun is finally taken as a dynamic 
 light source makes the outdoor environments a beautiful sight to see. The bleak colors and gray 
 skies truly immerse you into the oppresive feeling of a long forsaken area, left to rot in oblivion. 
 You cant help but feel that even nature is a survivor there, and that feeling is something you 
 wont get in any other game.
  
  But after the first glance, well, framerates drop. The X-Ray engine is incredibly taxing on any 
 machine, but given the fact that all shadows are dynamic, all textures have parallax mapping and 
 all light sources are dynamic, well, you understand why. So I wasnt really bothered by having to 
 lower the details to the point of having to play using the DX8 renderer.
  
  And even so, the game is stunning. Maybe you wont get the dynamic light effects from before, but 
 the textures still look pretty crisp at 1280x1024, and the environment retains 90% of its capacity 
 to overwhelm. The grass sways with the wind, the weather changes randomly and night follows day 
 (which can make for some VERY hairy situations) .
  
  The story has you as the Marked One, an amnesic Stalker (scavengers that dwell in The Zone, which 
 comprehends the area around Chernobyl) who after being rescued has the mission to find a Strelok 
 guy, a Stalker that supposedly made it to the center of The Zone. The legend says that in the center 
 of The Zone there is a Monolith, the Wish Granter. If someone makes a wish there, it will allegedly 
 come true, at the expense of the expansion of The Zone. And so, begins your quest for Strelok and 
 your memory.
  
  As for gameplay, this game is an outstanding merging of RPG and FPS. The inventory system is a 
 lot like Diablo's, with a grid that limits the size of things to carry, and an added weight variable 
 stops you from carrying more weapons than a dreadnought, forcing you to make choices about the 
 weapons you want to take with you. These weapons can be upgraded with silencers and scopes, which 
 can lenghten the life of a weapon. There are also artifacts, product of the different anomalies 
 that plague The Zone, which provide bonuses like enhanced resistance to bullets or other dangers. 
 You can equip 5 of this artifacts at any given time, but most of them have a weak point. For example, 
 the Meat Chunk artifact gives you +200% health, but lowers your resistance to slashing damage and 
 raises your radioactivity meter. This radioactive meter will rise whenever you are close to a dangerous 
 radiation zone, and will increase for the time you remain there. If the bar gets too high, oull 
 start losing health very fast. To fix this, zip up some vodka (which can make you dizzy) or use 
 Antirad medicines. This will lower the bar and stop the health from decreasing.
  
  The only peeve I have with this inventory system is that is a bit cumbersome to loot enemies. You 
 have tosearch their bodies, grab what you need and then exit the inventory. This can be quite a 
 problem on heated skirmishes, which abound on the game. However, the bodies stay forever and are 
 shown on the radar, meaning that you can always loot them later if you wish.
  
  And speaking of skirmishes, the AI is fantastic. It alwats looks for cover, tries to lure you to 
 places where there are more enemies and is constantly attempting to flank you. Some minor quirks 
 pop out here and there, like a stuck enemy or a bandit who just stands there shooting. However, 
 these are very rare, and can hardly be taken in count.
  
  The ballistic system is incredibly realistic. If you thought CS was hard, well, this will be a 
 lot harder (duh...) . The bullets are affected by wind (which you can see direction by the way leaves 
 move) gravity and weapon condition. If you shoot too fast the weapon may jam, forcing you to reload. 
 You can use your iron sights to aim, simething very recommendable, given the increased accuracy. 
 Firing in bursts is a must, and ammo is quite scarce. You can buy ammo and weapons from traders, 
 but traders are far in between. However, when you reach one, the supply youll get from them will 
 do just fine.
  
  The game has a very interesting betiary to shoot at. Apart from the usual bandits, mercs and soldiers, 
 there are mutated animals like dogs and boars, with very like-like pack behaviour. Other creepy 
 crawlies include Lurkers (an invisible creature that can only be seen when it attacks) Snorks (mutated 
 Stalkers who are now more beast thatn human) Zombies (no comments) and weirder things that youll 
 have to see for yourselves.
  
  The sound aspect is just outstanding. You can listen to the wind hissing through the trees, the 
 leaves moving on the trees, far screams from distant battles, howls of unspeakable anomalies and 
 a constant yet almost unnoticed music ambients the levels incredibly well.
  
  And oh, the levels.... ALl of them are very open ended, and you can walk around them as you like. 
 True, they only have one entrance and one exit, but the sheer size makes the exploring something 
 quite interesting. Most enemies will drop a stash directions note when looted, which can give you 
 access to extra ammo or weapons, if you have the guts to search for them.
  
  And even with all the space, is hard to get lost. A very nice map points you on the general direction 
 of your next task, and with the push of a button you can have acces to a PDA way more effective 
 thatn Doom 3's, since it not only shows you the map of the place you are in, but it also lists 
 all the tasks and side quests (more on the side quests later) and gives you info about local folklore, 
 freaks you encounter and items you gather.
  
  About the side quests, well, there are PLENTY of them. You are free to do them whenever you feel 
 like it, on the order you wish. However, I found many of them were broken, forcing a restart of 
 the game to make them work properly.
  
  Another quirk is the saving system. Nothing weird about it, just the fact that if you have a username 
 with spaces on it, it will not load games. Youll have to rename the file on the saves directory 
 in order to load it again.
  
  But all in all, this a game that has so many interesting features that despite all the bugs and 
 all the quirks, can stand out as unique in the genre, and had it been more polished on the coding 
 department, it would have been a serious contendor to the FPS crown worn by HL2.
  
  A very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisfairc16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  STALKER is an atmospheric peice that pays tribute to the classic novella 'Roadside Picnic' DOH 
 !! you need to wake up this is no way related to that book . if you had read the book instead of 
 what other people have said about the game then you would know that . !!
  
  Anyway with my lil rant over i can start to talk about the game . i was reading another review 
 b4 and it said he threw up a lil - this game is ugly . now lets say the engine is abit outdated 
 and the graphics do look a lil worn , you still cant ignore the fact that it is one of the most 
 detailed games in a very long time . everything in this game has a texture ., its all there. it 
 is dark , gritty and very atmospheric . if you didnt play during the day and with the lights on 
 you would know ., The Graphics aint what make this game anyway . its the immersive gameplay . the 
 engrousing storyline . and the truely impressive ai . oh and for the people whos systems could 
 and did play with the dynamic lighting on (was hot !)
  
  Anyway what it all boils down to is this . there is a lot of technical issues with this game . 
 some of which wer fixed in the 1.1 patch ., for vista players this was very frustrating . but when 
 these have been fully fixed you will see the heart of this game . and its a very wonderfull thing 
 . FPS mixed with the RPG gameplay . (tbh i forgot sometimes i was playing a FPS) amazing lighting 
 Atmosphere and Emersion . Dahh you know what just play the game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skobic
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  After patch dissapointments (savegames) and SP shortness I'm giving it 7.0...
  Engine eats away your PC and its not exactly eyecandy (I was able tu run it smoothly on extra high 
 on my rig, but alot of my friends didnt reach high) .
  Lets face it - this game was turbo hyped and it didnt turn out to be turbohype worthy!
  If it 
 was only a finished product i might have agreed with gamespot on their hype-led 8.5 :)
  
  The games atmosphere and gameplay really rock and I'm kinda sorry to see these shortcomings in 
 other areas - if it werent for them I would love this game till the end of time. It kinda makes 
 me sad to see all this potential only halfway exploited : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basersx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 28, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good but far from perfect. The reason it's so good is really just for one reason, 
 the environment! And I have always bee an environment guy anyway. I would rather have a fantastic 
 environment over story or game play. And the Chernobyl setting is fantastic!
  
  I think STALKER's environment is an A+, one of the best games I have ever played in that regard. 
 Right up there with Oblivion and way better than both FEAR and HL2. It does such a good job of 
 putting you in the irradiated creepy world of Chernobyl its almost depressing to play. The insides 
 of buildings and underground worlds are especially depressing and creepy. This is the kind of game 
 that if you play to long you will have to stop just to take a break for such an awful world! And 
 thats a real compliment to the game because I know of no other that does that this well!!
  
  STALKER's game play is not an A+ though. I would give it a B, maybe even a B-. FEAR and HL2 
 have much better game play, weapons, etc than stalker.
  
  STALKER's story is also only a B- because most of the time I really don't even know why I'm doing 
 what I'm doing and having to read all the interactions is annoying and cheap feeling. They should 
 have used voice actors.
  
  The interface, PDA, mission layout, and as mentioned character interactions only gets a C from 
 me.
  
  The whole RPG element I think is a waist. Buying, selling, trading goods. Using bones and other 
 weird stuff to protect you a little bit. I hate this part of the game and don't think its ads anything 
 to it. I would much rather have those whole parts of the game taken away and replaced with drivable 
 vehicles (especially one of the many helicopters you see over and over!!) and better game play 
 / weapon action, and voice actor interaction and not text. If they would not have spent so much 
 time on that RPG element the game would probably be a lot better. IMO
  
  In the end I am going to give it a 8.3. This game has one of the best environments of any game 
 ever made but has average to below average game play, below average interface and character interaction, 
 no drivable vehicles, and a lot of bugs. Plus at times the maps can be horrible confusing where 
 you spend 30 mins just trying to find the right body to search to find a code to open a door. And 
 sometimes the bugs make this not even possible because a door will get stuck on a discarded hand 
 gun, etc.
  
  It's too bad because with a little more work this game could have been one of the best games of 
 all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amakusa80
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  Well ill make this short, since there are plenty reviews of this game out there. What i must point 
 out is that this game has by far one of the most atmospheric tones i have played in. Its dark and 
 gritty, and it gives you that somewhat of a lonely vulnerable feeling, you wont feel like the marine 
 from doom blasting everything that moves. Since the whole experience is mixed with RPG like features 
 it makes you feel more immersed in to the world then other FPS games. The story is bit weird, as 
 well as the characters you interact with, trampled by really bad voiceovers, and that made me skip 
 lot of interactions just so i could get back in to exploring and fighting. I know i wont finish 
 this game, since i have little free time, and it ain't that good to waste that time on this game, 
 but ill give it a 9 just for being different and enjoyable. And that may be the thing that sells 
 it.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laureanSL
Rating: 1.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This Russian game (and that says it pretty much all) is best served without any prior knowledge 
 of it or its ALLEGED features. If you see it that way than it's probably better than nothing. Not 
 a RPG, whatever elements pertaining to the genre are thrown over the top and clearly don't blend 
 in with the rest of the game.
  E. g. trade and money, food, idiotic and broken quest system.
  
  It's a contained world or whatever 
 is left after the 1986 explosion, although levels or maps is a better term for it. The quest system 
 is absolutely idiotic with strong reminiscences of Pavlov's dog experiment. Guess who do you get 
 to play ... ? Not to mention that this so called quests get reassigned on and on every time you 
 get to pass through the same map. Not that task failed or the ranking system would mean anything.
 
  
  The A. I. is disappointing at least but it does excel at seeing you even from a great distance through 
 a crack in the wall.
  
  The so called realistic ballistics and accuracy of the weapons is appalling but seems to work wonders 
 in the hand of the rookie enemies which by the way can even move while shooting and still hit you 
 with a high degree of consistency.
  
  Of course you must consider yourself lucky because sometimes the enemies gun barrel sticks through 
 a solid wall and well... you never know what hit you. The game features a noise and a spotting 
 detection level, so that might explain why sometimes the enemies are homing on you like a laser 
 guided missile. But in friendly bases after you murder someone the only explanation is that the 
 A. I. knows where you are at all times.
  
  As for the weapons ...
  
  A wide range of weapons or skins whatever you want to call them. One in particular stands out - 
 the GP 37.
  
  I found it odd that a shorter barrel automatic GP 37 (even if of german design) has better accuracy 
 than the sniper rifles. So you're probably asking yourself what is the advantage of using a sniper 
 rifle in this game? Aaaa... the scope, you're able to zoom further with a sniper rifle. Only used 
 them 3 times in the game. The story is pretty transparent in regards to who this Strelok fella 
 is and retarded at best, their motives revealed to you in the end are childish and hilarious. And 
 why would you call some homeless retards (scavenging for so called artifacts) Stalkers beats me. 
 Every kid wants to be a stalker and Sidorovich keeps calling you that... so it must be for marketing 
 reasons.
  
  Open ended my ... If entering a different room at the end, being presented with the consequences 
 of your door choice after which the game shows you the credits can be labeled as open ended than 
 Deus Ex must've passed unnoticed.
  
  Odds are that by the time of reaching the Chernobyl area you will have run out of patience and 
 you will be passing enemies by just to end the game. As if till here wasn't crappy enough in the 
 Secret lab ending part some voice keeps spamming you from 5 to 5 meters in Russian: your life is 
 going to end soon and crap like that... Whatever I left out of this review must've passed unnotices 
 because it was not annoying enough or it was average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 2:36 am PT
Review:  Russians made this.... ahh ok maybe thats a BIT too harsh... they are human too... right?....*eerie 
 silence*... ok moving on!
  
  Ok this game first needs RAM! And alot of it, so please dont cry your eyes out if you dont have 
 a good graphics card or alot of RAM... its like trying to play Gothic III with no arms and with 
 a 64mb RAM computer.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Open ended. That was the main keyword for this game. Lets break down what open ended is:
  
 
  Open ended is Oblivion (unfortunatly) . Open Ended is Fallout 2. Open Ended is Hungry Hungry Hippos 
 when you invite your senile Aunt to play it with you or when your very very high on your favourite 
 preferred substance.
  
  To be honest, Open Ended is NOT when you allow the player to run to an ruined building, kill people 
 there and then phone your friends and say:
  
  YO! Guess what i discovered THEN subsequently killed without asking it any questions! 
  
  Also, 
 Open Ended is not linear tasks like: See that man? Yea, hes a stalker. Kill him. - Pathetic.
  
  Honestly, all the quests are: Hey, i went down to that bridge yea? And i found an EVIL POTS 
 AND PANS ROBOT! So... please kill it ok? 
  
  But what happens if its an intelligent pots and pans robot? What if it can feel and will tell you 
 its story of why its there? That would possibly captivate my interest... sadly no... you go there 
 and the robot is like:
  
  GRR! GRR! MUST! CRUSH! CAPATILISM! 
  
  (ok ok, i'll stop the Simpsons and Family Guy qoutes here..)
  
  The only good point about the 
 gameplay is the weapons. I LOVE realism added to games with weaponary, and the weapons are a ton 
 of fun and you actually need to use at least SOME skill to point, aim and fire the damn things. 
 - its very satisying once mastered i promise you.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Now... heres a dodgy sector. This can range from.... ugly... fugly... to quite nice. Mostly fugly. 
 Its running on an elder type of graphical engine mind but its got its moments of really nice graphics 
 which still impress!
  
  The anomalies are nice to glare at... the characters.... no.. not at all. The weapon design is o-k... the 
 weather is quite nice at times.
  
  Sound:
  
  Here is where the game wins. The music is EXCELLENT. WAY better than the over-achieving scum which 
 is writing most of the music most gamer's are forced to listen to nowadays.
  
  The composition is beutifully written but most importantly, original! It makes you really get into 
 the game and paints a whole wealth of atmosphere... HOWEVER... the soundtrack appearance is MASSIVELY 
 inconsistant... theres practically no music play throughout walking about the zone ... shame that.
 
  
  Monster and gun sounds are ok. Some monster sounds are so increadibly bad. In the multiplayer your 
 boot sounds sound really over-exagerrated.
  
  Value:
  
  This is quite a unique game mind. It tries to combine an operation: flashpoint type combat system 
 in a sense with a Deus Ex type RPG item management etc. Also it blends some horror aspects to the 
 game making it quite tense.
  
  You have to realise this is one of these games that done come by that often. You're going to get 
 more trivial games like Resistance: Fall of Man and Halo before you get anything this original 
 again in concept at least.
  
  I think what they did was very good all-in-all. Sure it has its flaws, but its major flaw was its 
 Press Release department. It was false advertising at its best! - Saying a game is open ended is 
 one thing, proving it is another.
  
  However the game was fun... i enjoyed it... though i can definetly say some people will find this 
 boring in parts. Also mutants DONT pop up THAT often... its strange that. Quests are so boring you'll 
 just do the main quest.
  
  The music is wonderful, though its not alot of it, but the atmosphere still remains till the very 
 end of the game... and thats something that was wonderfully pulled off... but by sheer luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pot-noodle
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Dear GameSpot. Please, if your going to type a review of a game that people are so eager to wait 
 for, then at least do it, AFTER you have completed it.
  
  This game is neither Open ended. Nor worth the wait.
  
  I completed this game, twice, because 
 i heard rumours that it was open ended. its not, it plays one of 7 endings. and every time it gives 
 you the end credits, then dumps you back to the main menu, with no option to carry on playing.
 
  
  The web site boast of a open world to explore, yet the game channels you into following the main 
 story line, to get the player to open up the rest of the game. Even if you do side quests, the 
 need to do the main quest to open up some of the northern areas of the map, is a must if you wish 
 to continue.
  
  The main attraction, chernobyl. is just a end game item, and you don't even get the freedom to 
 explore it properly. Same with some of the better weapons, they only appear at the end of the game, 
 and thus are useless.
  
  Some missions even request that you find certain, experimental items. (basically suits of amour 
 or guns, that have been enhanced in some way) so you hand it over willingly to see if you get something 
 good from completing the mission, only to realise that you would of been better off, just keeping 
 the item and failing the mission.
  
  The game has RPG elements that are not implemented properly. money you acquire is virtually useless, 
 as every thing that is sold buy a trader, can be looted along the way, and takes less time than 
 trying to get the money up to buy said item from stores. (if you use the new patch) .
  
  Player damage and accuracy is also a bit of a let down, using almost 30 rounds and some times more, 
 to take down an enemy if you go for anything but the head. is rather frustrating and gets old quick.
 
  
  Game economy is also just bolted on for aesthetic purposes. as the only thing most other stalkers 
 sell is health and bandages. and the inability to sell other stalkers weapons and amour, leaves 
 a bitter taste when you want to trade with a NPC.
  
  The A-Life A. I system that stalker boasts, is also another let down. after the world was introduced 
 to Oblivion's A. I wild life, Stalkers feels like a lost puppy that's not sure what is going on. 
 Stalkers in the field doing every day things is something only the DEVS must have. as I've yet 
 to see it in action in the game its self. Don't get me wrong, there are other stalkers there, but 
 they are just NPC's found in designated areas, and they never wonder too far from the confines 
 of a out post / base / campfire.
  
  The game is a very big let down. if you read about the game from the Journalistic community, they 
 make it sound like Oblivion with guns. yet what we get is a FPS with RPG elements nailed on, that 
 left the game down.
  
  The graphics are nice if you can get it running smooth. yet its a gamble, even with a mighty 8800GTX, 
 Soon as you add full dynamic lighting, it chugs like a mule on vodka. yet turn the eye candy off 
 to get a good frame rate, and you can tell its a 5 year old game. The game was sprung to gold statues 
 with out much notice and really got peoples hopes up. me personally wish they had just taken more 
 time and care. this could of been a right gem of a game, yet all its ended up being is a second 
 rate shooter with some creepy feelings thrown in. a dash of RPG and a hope you all like it rush 
 out of the door.
  
  If you are after a shooter to pass you by till you get Crysis, then id say take a look, But be 
 warned. there are bugs. and lots of them. its a frustrating game at times. with some quirky A. I 
 and a bit of poor coding here and there.
  
  How this got passed BETA stage is beyond me. Let me explain my scoring for this game.
  
  The 
 difficulty is hard. even on the easy setting, you can get nailed by a bandit waring worse amour 
 than you firing a weaker weapon, that can take you out at a greater range with less shots than 
 you can.
  
  Time spent playing to date
  
  20 to 40 hours, its probably more, i was hoping to find the open ended game play part, yet after 
 seeing me and my friends get all 7 endings between us. and no open ended ending in site. things 
 started to look bleak
  
  Learning curve.
  
  Its about 30 to 60 minutes. depending on how well you get on with the lack of accuracy from the 
 starting weapons. (don't get me wrong, the inaccuracy carries on to the end game weapons too. but 
 by that point you should have a sniper rifle which can make a bit of difference)
  
  Classifications.
  
  Don't believe the hype. this game is not the next best thing to happen 
 to PC gaming Attributes
  
  Game-play, rated as 4, this is because, the game is far more FPS than it is RPG. and starts to 
 get very repetitive and quite fast. its also very frustrating early on, which is never a good sign.
 
  
  Graphics, rated as 6. where is the point in having dynamic light setting, when all it does is make 
 your system work double shifts. there are older games that do the same thing with lighting yet 
 run fluid. there is no excuse for this lack of optimisation. even with the size of the levels. 
 this still is not optimised enough to warrant anything above a 6. soon as you take it down to Static 
 lighting, you can tell the game was originally designed for direct x 8 and not 9.
  
  Sound. rated as 6, again, not perfect. its been found that a key dll file to do with EAX is shipped 
 with the game, and the game ends up, unable to do 5.1 and 7.1 surround.
  
  Value. rated as 4, the game feels too much like its still in BETA phase. and although its nice 
 to have it finally here. id of still. prefer not to of payed to beta test a game.
  
  My tilt. rated 4.
  
  The game is a disappointment. its reasonable shooter, but more thought 
 should have gone into the RPG elements. i just wish they would hurry up and release the SDK for 
 it. and let the Mods roll. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wardrop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This game has been in development for 6 years and it was worth all the wait.
  Sure the game has its Ive just been released bugs but the game is very much playable. With the 
 latest patch fixing 68 problems gives a feeling that the developers are serious about getting the 
 other issues squared fast.
  
  Game play is second to none. The AI in the game is NOT stupid. Not even close. They will kill you 
 if you cross them wrong. Weapons feel like they should. Types of ammo react to objects and armor 
 with surprising accuracy. Its up to you to pick the correct combination for the job. Don't thing 
 you can hide behind that wood box or tin can, you'll get feed a butt full of lead or buck shot 
 very quick.
  
  Factions play a serious role in the game, its up to you to figure out how your going to allow them 
 to effect your time in game. Love your neighbor or he might just kill you.
  
  Sounds are exciting and the music allows you to be pulled in that much more.
  
  The game has 
 8 different endings so re-playability is very high. the life sim system does work well to guarantee 
 a new experience each time you play the game.
  
  If you loved HL2 your going to really love S. T. A. L. K. E. R. even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redangelus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  (normal gamer view)
  For a normal gamer this game will bring many6 satisfying hoursa of great fun in the wolrd of stalker. 
 Everything seems to be alive the felling of the wolrd is great and the dinamics of each combat 
 is absolutely great. The grapihcs takes the eyes at first sight and keeps them in wonderland while 
 you play. RPG elements give life to you character and force you to have some sort of tactic when 
 fighting. It is to mentione that the game is not easy and it takes takeing use to not killing oponets 
 rambo style.
  
  (fanatik gamer view)
  All in all an above averege game, fun and worth playing. But if you are exerienced in the wolrd 
 of gameiong you will find nothing more but a deux ex clone wiht fallout look and fell. Even the 
 weapons resemble those of fallout in a way not to mention the world. alive system and ai are both 
 under any standard, if playing non-conformist way (hide, run, wait for the npc to follow you) you 
 can easilly trick the computer and win a fight with 10 machine gunner using only thee normal standard 
 pistol. The wrold always changes and some elements may look nice but after a while of going back 
 and fourth on the map the alive system goes crazy and send a lot of badits after you. The story 
 is far from at least onest (it actually s**ks) and it does not make you enter the character. The 
 sound is great ! The dialogs are fade and impersonal. The missions are lame and offer mostly money 
 rewords. NOT so original artefact system. Incredible amumnt of bugs both in logics and gameplay. 
 The good / original element don't work well the other are copied or ill implememented.
  If you have player a lot of games (finished the clasics) you will find this game most disapointing. 
 It can be finishedin 7 hours !!!!! (i waited for this game for so long only to find a lot of bugs 
 and bad gameplay and i finish it 7 hours... this is not a good game!!!!!!! - personal opinion) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterTae
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Many things have been said about the game, good things, bad things, but many somehow people forget 
 something: what kind of machine did you played the game? The game sucks? Bad sound? Bad graphics? 
 Well, maybe it is your computer that sucks.
  
  I dont have a killer machine but i can play almost maximum with some stops when the game accesses 
 the Hard drive but I can play it well.
  
  The graphics are not bad, they could have been better, but they are immersive, you can play it 
 and feel like you are there.
  
  The sound effects are really good, when you walking through the forests hearing screams and dogs 
 barking, and the wind, really cool. Weapon sounds are also very good.
  
  Gameplay, well, at the begining its hard to aim and kill, and thats why some un-offiicial patches 
 have been released, but no real problems at all, just need to get used.
  
  If you want a mistery game, a giant world filled with creatures and unknow, this is a good game. 
 But if you want really to apreciate this game, wait until more patches come. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastercleft
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  STALKER is a game that you will not find very often. It has many things that were done so right 
 and things that could have been so much better. Overall my expeirence with STALKER.. so far has 
 been extremly well and i am enjoying every minute of it.
  
  Graphics: the games graphics are not bad at all. IF the game is being run on a high rig then teh 
 game looks decently good and not too outdated. the textures are utterly amazing, and there are 
 littlke to no low res textures
  
  AI: the AI is pretty amazing but not as good as i thought. When it came to indoors they fealt stupider 
 and like they didn't know what to do. when in the open ended ares the ai is much smarter and acts 
 liek a real person. they fight mroe then just you and use tactics that are very realistic. I even 
 found a few lay on teh ground to play dead when they were actually alive.
  
  Levels/areas- the game is not as open eneded as oblivion but reminds me of fable its is broken 
 up into different ares that you can go to when ever, but (unfortunatly) some can only be accessed 
 throughs tory missions. but each area is able to be explored how ever you want
  
  Sound- one of teh ebst aspects of the game teh weapons music and voices are excellently- ven though 
 most voices are in russian.
  
  Overall- The game is is pretty amazing and is a very novelistic type adventure but it could have 
 been so much more. but it is still one the better FPS's on the market 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marshaal
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  When I heard about it first time I thought that it's another simple builded shotting game where 
 monsters attacks you in linear levels like in Doom 3 or Quake 4. But S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is bigger than 
 that. It has its own big world which is full of live and where you can go everywhere you want in 
 the beginnig of the game. It's also a kind of rpg game because of its beutifly desined inventory 
 and countles number of quests (there are lot to do besides comletting the main plot) . Graphics 
 ? hmm... It's well done i guess, but you can only enjoy it fully when you have 1,5 GB of system 
 memory. The thing which i like the most is physics. Ofcourse designers didn't forget about ragdoll 
 effect :) Shortly taken Stalker is something new and original and I very like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelly_mrt
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  Worth the wait? I'm not 100% convinced, but then I only heard about this a couple of years ago, 
 rather than six or so, so its not got that Duke Nukem dukieness about it for me. However, a few 
 bugs aside, its a great game and really rewards a little persistence for the first hour or two. 
 Admittedly I found the initial experience more than a little frustrating, but this was down to 
 getting into the swing of things and not at all related to bugginess. Regarding the bad bits: It 
 can take an age to leg-it through zones to get rewards for complete missions. Some missions won't 
 complete despite having completed them (has no effect on the game afaict) . The map's a bit stuffed, 
 but navigation is not a problem. Traders rarely have much worthwhile, beyond the basics. Some side-missions 
 are ambiguously defined to say the least. And it does need a preliminary patch, but still a damn 
 sight better than some recent releases (*cough* SCDA *cough*) . Oh and goodies won't be found where 
 they should, unless you've read someone's pda telling you that they're there (particularly annoying!!) 
 Also, the inventory management can be a little tedious at times - more of a niggle than a real 
 problem.
  
  Once past that acclimatisation though, I couldn't stop myself. Just one more mission, one more 
 exploration, and rather than scouting past groups of bandits larger than two, I was wading in against 
 random patrols of six or more and enjoying fire-fights that could last up to 10 minutes.
  
  The combat AI is excellent. They will try to pin and flank you. One of the best experiences of 
 this I had was in the Garbage Zone, where I was clearing an area of badz. I glanced to my left 
 under heavy fire, and saw a sneaky bandit sneaking towards me, in mid-panic I turned to fire when 
 he was swept up into an anomaly and hung suspended 20ft in the air before snuffin' it and dropping 
 to the ground. Fire-fights rule in this game.
  
  Anomalies 1, Badz 0.
  
  Money and ammo are scarce initially, but that soon passes - in fact money in particular quickly 
 becomes irrelevant. Artifacts are hard to find at the beginning, and there are some bugs related 
 to them where they do the opposite of what it says on the tin. But I expect patching to correct 
 this.
  
  Some of the combat is particularly difficult, but quicksave quickly saves the day, and you may 
 find yourself hitting it a lot under duress. Use caution though, quicksave in a pickle and you're, 
 well, you know... To summarise, its a cleverly thought-out and challenging game, but extremely 
 enjoyable and horribly addictive. Can't recommend this one enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puckswack12
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 27, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Stalker has been coming out for the last few years, and now that it's finally out. It's getting 
 all sorts of different reactions. Some people say it's the next best thing while some people said 
 they could have made better crap sitting on the toilet. Whatever your reaction to the game is, 
 I'm not going to get personal about it. I'm going to tell you what the game has, lacks, and is. 
 You start off as a man who is clinging to life by the fingers. You are brought in by a Stalker 
 who finds you on the side of the road. without any kind of reasoning or cinamatics at all, you 
 set out to find and kill this man. I don't get it, and you shouldn't either. If there is a story 
 line, then it's told in confusing unrendered cut scenes that do little more than waste time. The 
 game is a lot like an rpg, where you take on quests, explore an open world, battle creatures and 
 loot their bodies. Only there really isn't any RPG elements in this game. You don't go up in levels, 
 gain XP or anything like that. The only upgradable thing is this game is the weapons, which you 
 will just find on dead bodies or you could buy and a series of items called artifacts that have 
 diferent effects on you. You wear these artifacts like clothing, but they don't really add much 
 to the games depth at all.
  
  The shooting elements are solid. The guns sound amazing. In fact, the best part about this game 
 is it's sound effects and quality. You can hear the battle going on a mile away, and it will sound 
 muffled and echoed just like you'd expect it to. If you don't play this game with a loud, loud 
 volume setting then honestly; Don't play it. It's not worth it.
  
  Other than the sound, another noticably good part of this game is in it's AI. You'll witness a 
 pack of dogs dragging a corpse down the road, a corpse that you put there just minutes before. 
 The human enemies have decent AI, nothing special. Really, it's just fun to watch the packs of 
 dogs running around in the wilderness. Once you go indoors, however, the AI suddenly crashes and 
 they don't know what the hell they are doing.
  
  Graphics for this game were considered outdated years ago. Imagine Half-life 2 on low. Thats Stalker. 
 Even the scenery reminds me of HL2, the gloomy sky, dead trees and marshes. It's nothing to see 
 really. Value is a bit hard to describe. There's really not a lot to this game when you think about 
 it. Theres a handfull of different objects and items that do the exact same thing. Example: You 
 need to eat every day or so in this game, theres a numbe of items to help you out here; canned 
 food, bread, sausage etc... The only different part of them is what they look like and their name. 
 They all do the same exact thing, weight the same, and I bet they even taste the same. Imagine 
 that with pretty much every group of items in the game.
  
  Gameplay. It's fun. Don't get me wrong. I enjoyed playing it. But trust me when I say you will 
 get bored of playing it way before you beat it. Theres around 10-20 hours of gameplay here, but 
 the story will take around 30 to complete. Understand. It loses it's pizzaz after a short while 
 and you'll either put it away or start from the beginning.
  
  All and all it's a decent game, it's fun and interesting. I can't help but imagine how much better 
 this game could have been, though. It reminds me of Morrowind: good ideas and awsome game really, 
 what morrowind lacks, oblivion picks up. Does that make sense? I can only hope stalker 2 does the 
 same. Thanks for your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambamatic
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  After playing this game for about 25-30 hours, there was something that was nagging me the entire 
 time... something that was curiously familiar, but that I couldn't put my finger on. Then, it hit 
 me...
  
  Gothic. Imagine Gothic II, but in a nuke zone with rifles, and that is what this game is. Now, 
 I definately applaud the developers on several levels... the concept of the game is very nice, and 
 WE NEED MORE FPS THAT ARE ROLE PLAY BASED, AND NOT LINEAR ACTION, so i give them props for that 
 as well. However, there are many flaws and bugs that just make it, in my opinion, a let down. First 
 of all, it is a resource hog. That, I don't mind... I run an FX 53 OC'd to 2.8 with 2 GHZ of Corsair 
 XMS RAM and a 7800 ACS KO 3 256 mb card on 15k SCSI drives, so my rig can handle it. However, the 
 graphics, as the gamespot review have pointed out, are dated by several years. If you're going 
 to use that much power, I want the visual bang to go with it, and I can't help but feel, while 
 playing this, that it's GOTHIC II with rifles.
  
  MAJOR bugs with the missions and jobs... some just disappear, others get reinstated after you've 
 already completed them, etc. Additionally, many of the quests are just stupid and unsatisfying. 
 Many others have quipped about them here.... UNACCEPTABLE NUMBER OF FLAWS IN THE QUEST STRUCTURE.
 
  
  The controls are very basic and not optimized for good gameplay. In a game of this caliber, especially 
 with so much emphasis on the shooter end of it IT IS UNACCEPTABLE TO HAVE:
  
  1. NO PRONE POSITION CONTROL!! Are you kidding me?
  
  2. No toggle low crouch control.... to 
 low crouch you need to crouch, and then crouch again, and you cant toggle it. So not only can you 
 not go prone, you can't really effectively use the low crouch, either.
  
  3. The pda map controls are buggy and not really set up well. You get mission markers for guys 
 and things that aren't there, and exhaustive searches turn up very little. It just takes too long 
 to effectively navigate the PDA and there are NO HOTKEY ASSIGNMENTS TO LINK TO PDA AND OTHER ACTIONS 
 THAT WOULD MAKE LIFE EASIER. 4. The gamespot review pointed out the realistic nature of the shooter 
 physics. I disagree in that I find that the physics are, more or less, terrible. Full on flush 
 head shots don't kill opponents, even when they register as hits. 2 or 3 Point blank shotgun blasts 
 to the head of wild dogs just get you mauled and dead. You can unload an entire clip into an enemy's 
 face when he's 3 meters in front of you, and he's still going to kill you (and be firing at you 
 the entire time) . 5. The whole anomoly concept is good in general, but they have wasted the potential 
 of it, and it ends up, after a while just feeling like a cheap trick, rather than an actual, strategic, 
 realistic feature of the game. All in all, very disappointing.... If I had released a game like 
 this with my name on it, I would be ashamed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorondo-
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  Stalker is a first person shooter and role playing game created by GSC game world and now, after 
 the very long wait it is finally here. Many people have been waiting for Stalker for a long time, 
 since it's original announced release was in 2004 some people thought it would never been finished. 
 Now it's here and was it worth the wait? Absolutly and it's not just another fps game or rpg it's 
 both fused together to create a free roaming seamless action rpg game. Stalker literally is a virtual 
 living world. Every living has it's own agenda, the enemies won't just wait for you to come to 
 them to fight you. The animals will hunt each other and you will quite often see a mass of soldiers 
 from oppisite factions fighting for greater power. This is a very unique game thanks to it's A-life 
 system that creates a living breathing virtual world that you can explore and react to in different 
 ways each play through. I must say that the graphics are not up to date to todays fps games but 
 the artistic presination is amazing and you will wonder how they could get this many objects on 
 screen at one time. The lighting in this game is incredibly realistic and looks absolutly fanastic, 
 unfortunetly you will have to have an incredibly powerful graphics card to have it not studder 
 at all while playing unles you turn it down to Static lighting. There is a large array of weapons 
 including pistols, shotguns, machine guns, assualt rifles and explosives and several ammo typed 
 for most of them. This game has the most realistic gun batles in any game, because every bullet 
 has a trajectory, getting effected by gravity, wind, you'r position and of course the accuracy 
 of the gun. This is a long game for an fps and should keep you busy and it will probobly take you 
 atleast 40 hours for the first play through. This game also has a lot of value considering the 
 7 possible endings and the living world that will react to you in different ways. Overall, Stalker 
 is a superb game that will really change the way you think about first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbeau
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  A game that combines the free-roaming goodness of Oblivion with the FPS action and fear factor 
 of F. E. A. R
  
  The AI is very challenging, especially in the open with room to maneuver. The Atmosphere of the 
 game has been well captured, and at certain points can be very effective at scarring the pants 
 off the gamer.
  
  Overall the game-play has been well done, and the story has been mostly left up to the player to 
 discover, which i think suits this type of game very well. The A-life is this games biggest plus, 
 it means that no-one and no animal is ever found in the same place twice. it also gives the AI 
 to rapidly react to different situations that it is put it, by you or itself. This must have been 
 a monster task to perform, but they have done it well as it ensures that no game is ever the same. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupaTrupa
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to like STALKER, I really did, and maybe I will some day if they put out a miracle patch 
 or two, but for now I am completely astounded by the high reviews and complete ignorance of the 
 game's Beta stage upon release, despite it's lengthy dev time.
  
  The game is horribly optimized, requiring me to lower the settings to medium and not even run dynamic 
 lighting at all, just to get a truly playable frame rate. And even as things are, firefights, certain 
 indoor areas, and in-game zone loads, all create a continually choppy experience. I run it on a 
 Nvidia 7800 O/C 256MB AGP card and a P4 2.4 with 1 GB of RAM, and Windows XP home, with the latest 
 Nvidia drivers as of the date of this review.
  
  I can pretty much max out all current games on the market otherwise, clearly a flaw in STALKER's 
 release state, from my point of view.
  
  The quests and log/map are completely bugged. Back track to get a reward from an NPC in another 
 zone, when you return, a quest you just finished in that previous zone you were in, re-activates 
 and causes you to mow down all the respawned enemies and try to complete it all over again. Now 
 I don't know if this actually affects the ability to proceed in the game ultimately, but who cares? 
 It's an obvious bug and problem with the game. It's so blatantly obvious to everyone, along with 
 the quests not updating or going away in general, that it creates a confusing, headache-inducing 
 bore fest of repetition, and mind-numbing corpse looting for ammo and health packs/food. My adivce 
 - don't even bother going back for rewards unless they are necessary. The rewards, ecspecially 
 early on, are quite useless (money) . And while choosing a side later on is nice, the reputation 
 points seem pretty useless as well. Purely cosmetic. Buying items from an NPC is a rare situation. 
 Selling is done for kicks and to unload your inventory. $ just isn't an issue, so why bother? So 
 some people are giving this a 10 in user reviews here??? Wow.
  
  Ok so I gave the game a 6+ for a reason, one is that the game is still not patched at all yet, 
 and may offer a different experience altogether with some fine tuning for video cards, and major 
 fixes in the AI and zone/level routines and mission system. The game has promise and it's moments. 
 The firefights can be genuinely challenging and fun. The AI is interesting and fairly advanced. 
 But it's also quirky, and the enemies constantly respawn, which is not only a major pain, but a 
 big drawback to the enjoyment of it. And it seems twice as many of them show up in some cases. 
 Maybe it's a save game issue, I don't know, it's a bug when you finish a quest, then it reappears 
 later again when you enter that zone, then the game shows that you failed it due to not acting 
 in time.
  
  I also love how you are warned of the soldiers being trigger happy and to not get in their way 
 early on. Well, you can't even come within 200 yards of them!!! They start shooting at you immediately 
 if you are in their sight, and are holding a weapon.
  
  But back to the uh, good part, it's creepy, the graphics are nice when they can be turned up, the 
 lighting is excellent at times, the AI is quite good, and the inventory/mission/level problems 
 could all potentially be patched at some point. At least I can only hope.
  
  Because as the game stands, it's not acceptable, and I am scratching my head over the 10's and 
 even 8.5's given to this game by users and Gspot.
  
  I wasn't aware that PC gaming enthusiasts' had lowered their standards this far. Because the bugs 
 are not things they could've missed, and obviously knew about, and severely impact the enjoyment 
 of the game.
  
  Why that deserves praise eludes me still. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sahoman
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I played a lot of games until today but i never feel the atmosphare this real before. This is the 
 first thing i can tell about this game. Game environments and wheather effects really feels like, 
 well, radiated :) Dark clouds above you and thunders are amazing and gives you creeps. Randomly 
 encounterd enemy groups and continues gun fights makes you uncomfortable and this is a good thing 
 for the exitiment element of the game. But of course there are problems and annoying parts of this 
 game too. Maybe first problem is specific to my comp. but game crashes sometimes. This is a area 
 loading problem while advancing to a new area on the game (i've got 1 Gb RAM) . Second is about 
 an autosave problem which allways loads one of my earlier saved game as autosaved game. Another 
 thing i encountered is about quests. They say that story is not progressing linear but it's just 
 look like it but linear. Just some secondary quests available but the main quests is linear like 
 usual. Nothing special about it. Besides don't expect secondry quests spereded to map like oblivion. 
 At the end, game is funny and worth playing. There are currently no FPS games available to compete 
 with this game nowadays and if you miss playing a good FPS buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Well, we waited, and waited, and now STALKER is here. Is it too late? In all honesty, no. STALKER 
 still stands head and shoulders above the pack.
  
  It's not perfect; the side-mission time limits combined with the ludicrous distances needed to 
 collect rewards is more than a bit of a pain - The stuttering load times can be annoying - your 
 weapons seem to be pathetically underpowered - the script can be somewhat lame - it's much more 
 linear than expected - and, for a horror themed game, there seems to be a lack of blood and gore.
 
  
  Now, that's over with, on to what STALKER does well. Firstly, graphics; I don't really agree with 
 those saying the engine's that dated - it looks really damned impressive on my machine, far more 
 so than the horrendously performing ArmA - not only are the graphics technically great, but they 
 have an artistic, colour coordinated feel, that greatly enhances the mood of the game. Sound, also, 
 is great - dogs barking in the distance, the wind, the Geiger counter. It all builds a formidable 
 atmosphere. Combine this with the game being difficult (but not too so) , and the mean monsters 
 don't jump out at you in the first few levels (you'll mainly be fighting bandits and mutant pigs 
 &amp; dogs for a while) all makes this game the creepiest thing I've played; neither Doom 3 or 
 FEAR creeped me out a fraction this is doing!
  
  Apart from the previous misgivings, gameplay is fun - firefights are quickly deadly if you're careless 
 - this is closer to Far Cry than Doom 3, the man who just shoots and doesn't use cover is a man 
 destined to not live long at all. Deus Ex's inventory system makes a welcome return (although could 
 be slightly better implemented, truth be told) . The description of Far Cry meets Oblivion meets 
 Deus Ex meets a particularly vivid nightmare are apt.
  
  This looks to be a big game, by today's meagre standards, at least; the only issue is that the 
 zone is a long strip of land going north, which is quite thin in places meaning the game often 
 feels quite linear (apart from the aforementioned marathons to get a reward 2 zones away in time 
 - this is, by a long margin, the game's most irritating quirk) .
  
  Sure tha game has a few bugs, but that's really only to be expected with such an RPG orientated 
 game - I've encountered nothing as severe as Oblivion's worst glitches.
  
  Overall, was it worth the wait? Yes. Is it a bona fide classic? I'd say yes. Is it amongst the 
 best games out there? I'd say so - not THE best, but amongst the best. Easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AshleySimmonds
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  I feel that this game is a Little like Albert Einstein. Its genius, but flawed. I first heard this 
 game years ago. My first encounter with it was in a trailer on Full spectrum Warrior then a magazine 
 a few months later. I first thought WOW. A game where you have to sleep, eat, drink and survive 
 sounded cool. I then started to follow it. Now 3 or 4 years on I've got it.
  
  The opening cut scene is not the best I've seen, and can also make the game confusing to some. 
 However i will slightly contradict my self and say, its perfect. I began to wonder why i was at 
 the crash scene. Everyone but the driver was dead and i cant have been the driver. It really sets 
 you up for the game.
  
  The worst thing about this game is they have taken out the sleep function in the game. Nights can 
 get very boring as you dont want to go out, and its too dark to see so you just sit around doing 
 nothing for half an hour. Hopefully a patch or a mod will bring this back
  
  Game play:
  
  I read a review on here that made me a bit mad. It said that this game is impossible with out 
 cheats. personally i have been looking for a game thats hard. And this game is. The AI is so perfect. 
 I was doing one perticullar side mission where i had to kill a fellow Stalker. I traced him to 
 where he was and he had met up with 2 other stalker. I had also just got a new gun so i wanted 
 to try it out. I shot at my target and he and the others got up and took cover, then started to 
 return fire. The fire fight that followed went on for about 20 minuets ( I was playing on Stalker 
 level) I used many medi-kit's and bandages. And all throughout the AI were trying to out do me. 
 They were flanking me, taking cover when reloading, it was the most amazing small fight i have 
 ever had on a game. The animal mutants are amazing. A pack of dogs attacked me and i shot a few 
 of them, and broke the pack up the rest ran away. Sometimes you can stand right next to a dog, 
 and it won't touch you. Another time it might kill you, its amazing. When a stalker dies, an animal 
 will eat the body. It has to, quite literately, be seen to believe.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Yeah. well. You've heard people saying there out of date. This is true. Peoples faces don't look 
 right. There are also some annoying glitches. For instance when it rains i get some weird visuals. 
 However, they are still amazing. The wood textures are WOW. Rain bounces of the ground, or old 
 cars. Houses are thrown into pitch black at night and when lit up by your touch shadows are thrown 
 everywhere. The game looks amazing on all levels of detail I've played at. I would recommend pulling 
 the grass density up though as the grass is a great place to hide. I would also recommend putting 
 Sun shadow on if playing on Full dynamic Lighting (FDL) . The lightning in this game is, just ddg 
 (Drop dead gorgeous) If you have FDL on when theres a lightning flash a shadows will be everywhere. 
 I walking down the road towards a bridge when there was a lightning flash. A tree shadow was cast 
 right in front of me. Never have i jumped in my chair turned around and shot at a tree. Also i 
 was staying in a hanger and at sunset i was looking up at the broken roof, and it was amazing. 
 Another you have to see to believe. Sound:
  
  This can be described in one word. FANTASTIC. But as you can see from the rest of my review, i 
 wont leave it at one word. There is sound everywhere. The guns are brilliant sounding. However 
 the pistol isn't : (. Nor is the Voice overs. But that doesn't matter. Its so atmospheric. Theres 
 constant worry. You can walk along and a bark of a dog can scare you. In the night i mentioned 
 earlier in the hanger i was watching over a group of bandits to make sure they don't attack, i 
 heard a distant scream. It's things like that which make you don't want to go out at night in this 
 game. Its just awsome.
  
  Value:
  
  If this means value for money. Of course it is.
  
  Tilt:
  
  It took me about 2 hours to really learn how to play. However each of the guns 
 are totally unique and awesomely accurate. It may take 10 mins to learn each gun.
  
  Overall:
  
  This game rocks. It may have a few bugs, but there not dreadful. The AI and the 
 sound make this game. The Graphics and Gameplay make it even better.
  
  Score breakdown:
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Pretty dam good, but not being able to sleep
  
  Graphics:
  
  
 8/10
  
  Loses on faces and glitches
  
  Sound:
  
  9/10
  
  VO's and Pistol bring this down
  
  Value:
  
  10/10
  
  Its a great game worth the money
 
  
  Tilt:
  
  10/10
  
  It takes a while to learn, and each gun adds to that. Also it will have immense replayability 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  The game seems to have mixed FPS with RPG and though theres not the levels many annoying RPG's 
 have theres the same basic layout. You have a inventory and can loot people for stuff and buy stuff 
 off of vendors + you seem to have a lage outside world like Oblivion... only less bland. Then you'll 
 find yourself going into instances which are scary as hell lol, alot of ghosts and zombies which 
 in the ghost labs just scared me to HELL.
  
  There are some downpoints however you can't sell your stuff to vendors for cash and anwyays if 
 you could cash seems not needed seeing as you loot everything. The side quests are also pointless 
 and just not fun, theyll often poune themselves on you without you knowing and you'll end up killing 
 someone needed and that bugs the quest and it's stuck in your tas list for ever with waypoints 
 being annoying.
  
  There're too many bugs in this game that just make it unfun afterawhile however the atmosphere 
 and style of the game + how scary it is and the amazing setting just makes up for it for me. The 
 main story is also not very good and you can often get lost and just overall it's just not good 
 lol. Theres nothing epic that happens and just feels more like a link quest on a MMORPG. However 
 you do see amazing sights and scary places and whent he main story finishes you just feel like 
 you want MORE and t have a HL like story but in Chernobyl.
  
  The loss of vehicles also has a bad impact on me and i'd love to drive about, i'm sure a modder 
 will put them in but it's a shame not having them in the main game from release.
  
  The Multiplayer is just crap lagy and buggy and the hitboxes are all voer the place, its unoptimized 
 and poor don't buy it for multiplayer.
  
  Th Graphics are just AMAZINGLY detailed IMO and great art style and captures it perfectly. They 
 are getting dated but the detail just hides that and it's the best looking FPS soo far + sooo scary 
 and amazing lighting. The weather effects/cycle and day and nigth cycle is also great.
  
  The sounds are great too and so is the music, i can't really fault it.
  
  Overall it's a fantastic 
 game but has faults that after this long in development you don't expect in a game which are a 
 let down. The guns to fire just feel amazing and havn't been impressed by guns in a game this much 
 since CS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: givemethepatch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  Typically, the amateur review of a first person shooter begins by listing the pedigree of games 
 that the reviewer has played in the past in a brazen attempt to bolster their credibility. Im 
 going to skip that part, because that era is over. There is a new benchmark, and youre reading 
 the review of it. The promise that entered the genre (but ultimately failed) with Boiling Point: 
 Road to Hell  the open ended shooter with a player-driven story arc and unforgiving AI  has, 
 by all impressions, been fulfilled by S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Ignoring the immediate interface issues as 
 secondary, the game itself is a genius interpretation of the first person shooter. Death is half 
 a step away on even the most forgiving difficulty levels for all but the most practiced twitch 
 gamer (as it should be) , and on higher difficulty settings, STALKER blows away the player who does 
 not recon and plan well in advance, and does it with reckless abandon. This is not a game for the 
 easily frustrated and it goes well beyond the borders of a tactical shooter, no matter what other 
 categories it may fit into. All of that praise comes in spite of an interface and inventory system 
 that is outdated and outdone by several games on the market for quite a while. If this is a product 
 of the developers intentions for making a game of frenetic action followed by desperate attempts 
 to find solace to heal up, or just a lack of foresight born of a seven year development cycle, 
 the end result is the same  the interface and shortcuts are clunky at best, and downright annoying 
 at worst. This user, and I suspect many others, immediately remapped all interface keys to be reachable 
 with the left hand  turning on the flashlight by taking your hand off the mouse? Are you insane? 
 The mouse-click action interface once into a conversation is old, and really conversation options 
 should have been mapped to the numeric keys across the top of the keyboard so as to speed through 
 the useless go ask someone else replies. As well, the right-click/click option inside the inventory 
 screen delays vital use of items in a firefight. Again, if this was to force firefights to be about 
 skill &amp; luck rather than a test of who had the most chunks of bread &amp; healthpacks, or if 
 it was just a design oversight, the end result is still a number of wouldnt-have-died moments, 
 save for not being able to reach the vodka  oh, how art does imitate life. Despite the gameplay 
 flaws, STALKER ranks easily amongst the groundbreaking titles in the FPS genre in their respective 
 eras and matches the enjoyment of Halflife/Halflife 2, a benchmark that is sufficient to recommend 
 it to people who buy only one title every four to five months. Tested on a P4 3.0ghz w/ 2gigs of 
 ram and a Nvidia 6800 256meg video card, the game was not satisfactorily playable at medium settings; 
 I strongly suggest meeting or exceeding the recommended system requirements. I shudder to think 
 of how badly it would play on the minimum requirements. However, to the games credit, even with 
 all settings turned to the lowest possible values, it still looks quite good. This game makes a 
 strong argument for upgrading your machine, versus missing out on what one can assume will be incredible 
 visuals on the highest settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcrossblue
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  I can say this, as soon as i got into the game, is like i was playing Fallout all-over again.... well, 
 in a FPS way. But that didnt feel wrong, i mean, if anyone played Fallout, and enjoyed that old 
 game, will feel much like how i feel, [this game is amazing!!] . As for me, i was playing Oblivion (which 
 is another nicely done game) , i feel like this 2 games are just what we game players are waiting 
 for. For this game has The very nice light effect and the same as F. E. A. R. AI (or, more better than 
 F. E. A. R.) . and the control are pretty friendly, well, the only thing i feel not good is the quick 
 save and load are too close to each other... (F6 and F7, now that is not too good for any quick 
 hand not think player) . and the graphics... well, i hate the grass in the game, and everything else 
 is very nice, not sooo nich like Oblivion but is good enough for a game like this one. I also feel 
 that the game is pretty easy if u play it really carefully, but to even all the effect and game 
 play, putting this game as hard is fair enough. But i am sure most player feel the pain of the 
 grass when an enemy hide behind of it, and that is where it is hard.
  
  In the end, for a Fallout Fan like me, to play this game, i really feel thankful for the team did 
 a god blessing good job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreddlock907
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  One thing that has to be said beforehand about gameplay in STALKER is the atmosphere which the 
 player is unable to escape - this being a good thing though. The player is a nameless stalker that 
 is found half-dead in the zone, an area surrounding the NPP of chernobyl that has been contaminated 
 after a fictional nuclear accident in the year 1989.
  The area is swarming with mutated animals, bandits, soldiers and other stalkers that are looking 
 for rare artifacts such as yourself. These NPCs interact with each other, meaning you could lure 
 mutants to a military outpost and quickly run away and the result will be both groups battling 
 it out with each other. You can then have a go at the weaker group and finish them off easily. 
 Tactics such as this one, shouldn't be seen as cowardly, but rather as survival methods - the game 
 is quite tough as far as difficulty is concerned.
  All of these NPCs are very believable in their design and work very well with the story. Even the 
 mutants are believable, meaning they aren't tentacled green blobs floating above the ground and 
 spitting death skulls, but rather look like deformed farmland animals - which they are.
  Within the zone lie derelict vehicles, broken roads, old research areas and empty villages and 
 cities. These cities and villages are often the base of one of the factions or swarming with mutants.
 
  The AI is clever, with enemies using cover , regrouping to team up on you and fleeing if they 
 feel they don't have a chance. What should be mentioned is the system of factions giving you trust 
 or attacking you on sight. NPCs remember how you treated them and will see you as an enemy of friend 
 from then on.
  The only flaw that the gameplay has in my eyes, is enemies taking several hits and living on - 
 not reacting to shots to the arms or legs in any way. This might have been ok in older games, however 
 in modern games I would like to be able to disarm enemies or slow them down by aimed fire.
  
  Graphics 10/10 
  Although quite dated the graphics can only be described as stunning. Now 
 you don't get fancy effects or Unreal 3 technology, what you get is far better: incredible amounts 
 of atmospheric details. You can go explore each and every cellar or the smallest house in the tiniest 
 village and still find a nice detail such as a poster or a bed and dirty mattress inside. You get 
 the feeling that whatever place you happen upon in the game has a meaning and be it only to add 
 to the atmosphere or a nuclear wasteland.
  The animations of the characters and animals are well done, aswell as the textures having amazing 
 detail.
  The landscape is believable, with small wooded areas, villages and other places scattered believably 
 around. If you get to a high vantage point and take a look around - and combine this with the changing 
 weather and time effects - you get a truly amazing and breathtaking outlook.
  What you should make sure to have is a high end system so you can enjoy all settings on full, which 
 will make for an awesome gaming experience in any case.
  
  Sound 10/10 
  The sounds in the game are very good, weather effects, equipment sounds and animal noises work 
 very well. The distant crack of fire arms and the growl of mutants behind you in an unlit corridor 
 give you the shivers like nothing you experienced before.
  Most characters speak a ukranian accented english, which further pushes the atmosphere - imagine 
 a fat trader in deepest ukrania speaking like your typical texas hotshot - doesn't work, does it?
 
  
  Value 9/10 
  Easy: huge environment, hours of exploration, great character designs, superb graphics and a trip 
 to the NPP chernobyl for something aounrd 40$ - if this isn't value I don't know what is ;-)
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 10/10
  Since I personally love games like Fallout and this game goes into 
 the same direction, has an awesome atmosphere and plays really well, I give this game a 9.5, which 
 equals to a 10 here on gamespot.
  Should anyone like FPS, untypical settings and very atmospheric games, there should be no holding 
 back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jansolo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Ignore the past news regarding the issues at GSC - this game was absolutely worth the wait and 
 is one of the most ground breaking FPS games in years. Why? It's the gameplay, stupid! Stalker 
 is just like playing a modern FPS version of Oblivion where the player is not forced into a linear 
 game play model, but can instead go on missions as they deem fit and go where they want to. Some 
 quests will move the story along as the marked one attempts to find out who he is and why he is 
 there, while other quests will get you money and items. And just about every mission is useful, 
 fun and worth taking the time to go on.
  
  The good:
  
  Graphically, this game is both beautiful and demanding. Only the top of the line computers with 
 the fastest video cards can turn on all the eye candy at 2560x1600, but with a bit of tweaking 
 and removal of aforementioned eye candy will yield a playable albeit still quite beautiful game, 
 filled with some of the best dynamic lighting around.
  
  The creatures and their AI in this game is fantastic and tricky. The pack of blind dogs attack, 
 you take out a few and then the last blind dog runs away, no longer part of the pack that gave 
 it strength. Enemies will duck and hide behind cover as they sporadically come out from hiding 
 to take you out with gun fire.
  
  The bad:
  
  Enemies aren't very smart when it comes to using their weapons wisely, case in point - enemies 
 with sawed off shotguns will still try to hit you from afar even though the weapon is really only 
 useful at nearly point blank range.
  
  Due to the somewhat buggy nature of the game, NPC chat menus sometimes close too quickly, making 
 it impossible to sometimes get pertinent data for a quest.
  
  I had a bit of time getting used to moving and aiming during gun fights. I found myself lagging 
 and therefore missing constantly at the default mouse sensitivity. When I moved up the sensitivity, 
 I found myself overshooting enemies and the system reacting too quickly. I've yet to find a happy 
 medium unfortunately and I still miss too much. Clearly, the mouse acceleration algorithm needs 
 a bit of work to achieve perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero1970
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  is very credible. and stop giving it a 3 o 4 when u cant play it all these people b***h about it 
 without giving their pc specs its a game that need power don't try to play it with an old card.
 
  the game is very immersive it's very easy to loose yourself in it. the AI 's great i was attack 
 by a pack o dogs i killed few of em and when two of them were left they ran away realizing that 
 they didn't have any chance to kill me.
  weather effects and lightings are great. Sound is top notch the weapons sounds are great unlike 
 a lot of stupid games out there.
  Issues:
  -i'm not able to use AA try to force it but nothing. Once they fix this the game will be more outstanding.
 
  -The game is hard the npc are very clever if you don't have patience forget it!!! -the most annoying 
 thing is the respawning sometimes the enemy keeps coming ceaselessly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaiKhulud
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. - finally... After 6 years i can't believe that i play this game right now. You 
 know, there is some games in the world, that is suitable for all countries, but for some country 
 it's like a cult. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is one of that games. My uncle died in Chernobyl, that's why this 
 game is very special for me. But that's not what i want to say you. All this soviet landscapes 
 with breathtaking sound, gameplay and graphics like still photo from MY past... Dead photo... I 
 can't even describe it. All levels are hand-made and made with love... S. T. A. L. K. E. R. levels is 
 the best in FPS now, because this is not sci-fi or fantasy, that's is our painful past and it's 
 real. Every time when i see Zaporoshets car and soviet-style-painted wall in NII AGROPROM... In 
 this moments i just love this game.
  
  Buy the way, this game is strongly inspired by Strugatskiy brothers book Piknik na obochine (Picnic 
 on a roadside) . This book is one of the greatest russian sci-fi books. Some pieces of levels is 
 just like in the book. Anomalies just like in the book.. Even habar (artefacts, loot) like in the 
 book.
  
  This game is like a pure idealistic dream for all who in-theme, and just very strong shooter for 
 those who're not in the club .
  
  Play it, this is masterpiece anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockToTheLed
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  The world of S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl is an immersive, innovative, exciting, thrilling 
 and intriguing experience. It pust you as a mercenary like character, not knowing much about your 
 past but ready to set a brutal future. It's a survial like First Person Shooter that throws you 
 in a very alive world. So many high points and very few leet downs.
  
  I'll put a (+) to note all the positives in the section of the review, and a (-) for the negative 
 sections.
  
  To start it off, i'll review the graphics-
  
  (+) They're simply amazing. I'm running them completely maxed out, Full Dynamic Lighting and all 
 (whihc i admit makes the game look Amazing!) . The textures are completely clean, not grainy when 
 you approach them up close. The foilage is constantly blowing in the wind and casting shadows all 
 over the streets, fields, buildings, and even your weapon. You as well cast shadows which is quite 
 nice. The character models are completely expressive, and move realisticaly. The game over all 
 looks amazing. Definetly one of the best out there.
  
  (-) Only problems are if you havea low end computer and try running high settins, there are many 
 slow downs and glitches. but that's only if you're running more than you can handle.
  
  Next, The gameplay.
  
  (+) Phenomenal! and thats still an understatement. The controls are 
 clean, the way your character moves with each actioin. aming is very realistic, with kick in the 
 weapons and all. actions all look very responsive and realistic. the stealth really works, nothing 
 is greater than sneaking up on an enemy and jamming your knife in his back. another amazing touch 
 is sometimes enemies don't completely die, only fall to the ground and beg for help. you can either 
 offer a ed kit and gain friendship, or put a bullet in his head. The game also instokes fear in 
 you. going down dark hallways and hearing the footsteps or whispering voices, only light is from 
 your flashlight or the sudden flashes of lightning. it really does immerse yourself in the experience. 
 and the anomalies are pretty amazing too. the biochemicaly unstable areas will have affetcs, anything 
 from biochemical damage to your health, to electric shocks and even tremendous force pushed down 
 on you cause major blows to your health. all in all, one of the most realistic and responsive games.
 
  
  (-) only flaw is it's sometimes quite difficult to move things around in your inventory screen.
 
  
  The Sound
  
  (+) its amazing. the lightning striking, the rain tapping on the roof tops and street andnearby 
 ponds and lakes. The enemies yelling to one another giving there enemies position. animals growling 
 at eachother as they fight, distant gun shots from firefights going on between factions and mercenaries. it's 
 really immerses you in the game. and... the amazing musical score.
  
  (-) nothing comes to mind.
  
  The Lighting
  
  I know this is usualy in the graphics, but 
 i thought it deserved it's own section.
  
  (+) The sunshine or moonlight shining through the gaps in the clouds. sun rays striking the glass 
 causing a glare, and casting shadows across the ground. reflectiosn causing a glimmer across the 
 water. camp fires and nearby wreckage fires flickering and causing sparks to travel up lighting 
 up its surroundings. and your flashlight castings shadows and lighting up the area beautifuly. 
 it really is very amazing. (-) occasional glitches in the lighting area when around fire, rare, 
 but it does happen.
  
  The A. I
  
  (+) Wow. thats all i have to say. The human enemesi are quite smart, calling out to one another 
 to try and get you, taking cover when reloading, using evasive tactics when in firefights. it's 
 all unbelievable. but whats even better, is the animals a. i the wild herds of dogs will run at 
 you, only causing you to focus on them as there other companions get you from behind. if you fire 
 shots in the air, theyll run, but try to catch you off gaurd again. all the animals are extremely 
 smart. they also stay around there bounty. if they killed someone, theyll be by it, protecting 
 it and eating it.
  
  (-) . Nothing i can think of.
  
  Overall
  
  (+) One of the best games i've ever played. it's an amazing game, graphicaly, gameplay, sound, 
 and enemy A. I. it's a must by for any fps or survival fan. Truly an innovative and immersive experience. 
 (-) occasional slow downs on low end comps and multiplayer at the moment is unplayable unless its 
 over LAN because of the major lag problems. future patches will hopefuly fix this.
  
  ***and for all people wondering, i know i said i was running this game completely maxed out. so 
 here's my specs so you can compare and see where you'd stand for settings. I have 2.67 Ghz cpu, 
 2 gigs of Ram, and an ATI Radeon x1600 Pro.
  
  i hope this review was helpful. enojy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 2:42 am PT
Review:  Last time I played a game with a huge amount of potential I had great feelings about the future 
 of the First Person Shooter genre. The game combined the shooting elements I loved with the choice 
 and character development of an RPG. To my great disappointment the game did not kick start a revolution, 
 it seemed as though most had just ignored it despite its stellar ratings. Deus Ex is the game 
 Im referring to and after almost 7 years the mix of genres has been drastically under utilized, 
 only a handful of titles have been released with a similar playing style.
  
  Enter S. T. A. L. K. E. R. from stage right, an eerie shooter set in an alternate universe around the 
 Chernobyl area called the zone. The game seems to have come from an older time because even its 
 very design, whereby the player is not being told exactly what to do, seems to comes from an older 
 era. The game has fewer RPG elements when compared with Deus Ex but it does not suffer from it. 
 You dont need to worry about putting points in weapon classes only to have your options limited 
 should you get a sniper rifle. Your experience is gained by your own use of weapons much like how 
 standard shooters work. As you travel further into the zone enemies get harder and weapons found 
 are much more dangerous. Most of the enjoyment comes from being able to choose how you want to 
 approach quests and seeing how that choice changes the AI.
  
  Of course the game is not a direct Deus Ex clone set in Chernobyl. The game world is far more open 
 and you can travel between the connected levels any time you wish. The AI can also travel between 
 these regions, this may be in order to strengthen numbers or to perform other quests as though 
 you were not the center of the entire game world. Its not uncommon to come back to a zone and 
 see dead bodies strewn about, ones you did not shoot. Animals such as dogs within the zone move 
 in packs and circle around dead Stalkers and require some different tactics to overcome.
  
  The games direction does not suffer when you add this extra freedom and allow players to do side 
 quests. There is a fairly clear path of main quests that the character follows and a PDA will regularly 
 keep you up to date on them. This direction also includes more traditional corridor segments in 
 underground areas. Atmosphere increases greatly during these underground sequences where there 
 can be quite a high level of detail in the environments. If you are lucky enough to have a PC that 
 can run it with dynamic lighting then you are in for a special treat. The whole game is lathered 
 with atmosphere the chilling sounds in the distance, the dynamic weather and time of day system 
 and the click of your Geiger counter as you enter an area high in radiation. Based on my experience 
 I can only hope that games like S. T. A. L. K. E. R. become commonplace. The key word I mentioned earlier 
 is potential and despite being a great game S. T. A. L. K. E. R. has so much more potential to become 
 a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anandram
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. With headphones and in the dark it truly another experience altogether. Free 
 roaming and getting the crap scared outta you is the best combination ever!! However -- i am a little 
 dissapointed that i have to play on low settings because my 3d card is about as handy as a hammer 
 without any nails But yea -- great game
  
  The free roaming aspect is great and can see that this game is a blast when you have the correct 
 setup in terms of graphics. Atmosphere is great and there is always something happening.... your 
 allies taking down bandits, wolfs chasing down people and dragging dead bodies around. This isnt 
 one of those games that you can just play in a normal FPS fashion.... try looking around a little 
 with your binoculours... you'll be surpirsed at the different things that can be found... you'll 
 see dogs and mutants running around and chasind down civillians.
  
  Good stuff and can get very immersive...
  
  Be warned -- have a great 3d setup or you'll have 
 to turn down settings like i had to to 'low' : ( So for me to say its a great game and having to 
 play it like it was a PS2 game in terms of graphics, i cannot understand why those of you with 
 a supreme setup are saying its rubbish?! Be grateful for what you have thats what i say!!
  
  The bad - Graphics are great but In my personal experience if you dont have the correct card -- your 
 pretty much down to PS2 graphics. I feel kind of cheated in that sense in terms of the &pound;, 
 but that is not the game iteslfs fault is it -- its mine!
  
  Although i havent played it much, it seems as though there isnt that much to do -- but what there 
 is to do, its great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: home1986
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This game really need some polish. I cant believe a game that under development for years comes 
 out so buggy. And this game also a resource hog. I have a save game that every time i load it will 
 be different. One of the time the enemies suddenly shoot you and another time they unaware i'm 
 there. Load time is better for me compared to bf2. Sound is still ok.. sometimes it really makes 
 up the creepy atmosphere. One thing i dont like is when I throw the bolt to the ground, no sound 
 is made from it. This makes me feel like something is missing from the game. The graphics engine 
 really need to be optimized. I feel like watching slide show more than playing a game.
  
  Btw, the money is something like waste paper in the game. Not much thing u can buy from those people. Most 
 of the special items are hidden throughout the map.
  
  I am waitng for the patch to fix this buggy game so that i can enjoy it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_lenoir
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  The concept of this game was a great idea. The atmosphere and background they used are great. Yet 
 the game lacks the polish of a good FPS. The game is often clunky and very ambiguous making for 
 a frustrating experience. It would be great if another company took this idea and made it into 
 a great game with the polish that games like Half Life, Far Cry and Unreal have. This game almost 
 feels like THQ might of known this game was having problems in development but kept giving the 
 team more time hoping it would shape up into something they could at least release and recoup some 
 of their money invested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firehammster
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Why is this game so easy to die in... even in rookie level? C'mon, no quick slot for radiation 
 meds or vodka? I have to go to me inventory every 2 minutes. Just not very intuitive in it's user 
 controls.
  It's really disappointing to spend 40 bucks on a game that has an old game engine and is dizzyingly 
 hard to follow too. Graphics are ok, but what is the deal with all of the pauses to load scenes. 
 It's not fluid enough for a modern game.
  With all of the hype surrounding this game I was hoping for something more thought out, instead 
 it's just expansive and hard to follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon1057
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow Of Chernobyl is a very brave and ambitious game that really does deserve 
 to succeed. It challenges convention by offering a truly non linear approach to the FPS genre. 
 Something which even the highly acclaimed (and largely overrated imo) Half Life 2 couldn't accomplish 
 and it blows a very welcome wind of change into a fairly stagnant genre.
  
  The game takes place in the area around the Chernobyl power station that was evacuated following 
 the disaster in 1986. The locals refer to this area as the dead zone and it remains to this day 
 a barren wasteland with pockets of intense radioactivity and a natural wild population of wolves, 
 pigs and various other fauna. While some people may feel that this is an unusual choice of location, 
 it's a very obvious one for this type of game and lends itself very well indeed to the process 
 of creating tremendous atmosphere. Atmosphere which really does pervade throughout the whole game 
 from the moment you take your first steps out into the barren, irradiated wasteland that is The 
 Zone . I've never been to the dead zone so I can't comment on the accuracy of the depicted locations, 
 however, the most famous of the landmarks are all present and correct, from the deserted and emotionally 
 provoking ferris wheel to the looming spectre of the sarcophagus that was erected around the destroyed 
 reactor in an effort to contain the remaining fissile material.
  
  The games representation of The Zone is far from dead however and is populated with a varied array 
 of wildlife along with a moderately (un) healthy human population. Of course most of this population 
 serve as your quarry during the games many quests although there are allies to be found along the 
 way and not all of them human. Often I was amused when, during a firefight with bandits a pack 
 of mutated dogs would arrive amongst my adversaries and assist me in finishing them off before 
 turning their rather unwanted attention to me. The human adversaries range from other stalkers 
 like yourself, highly trained and well equipped military crackpots to mutated tentacle faced bloodsuckers. 
 The Zones other inhabitants are all equally imaginatively realised and provide a number of creepy 
 and genuinely hair raising moments as you progress through the game.
  
  Dispatching the aforementioned wildlife is accomplished using a wide variety of pistols, smg's, 
 rifles, sniper rifles, shotguns etc... The weapons were mostly very nicely done and all sounded 
 quite authentic and powerful, the crack of the AK assault rifles was particularly satisfying. There 
 are also a selection of thrown and tube launched grenades to be found which prove to be very useful 
 indeed when facing multiple enemies although do be careful not to bounce them off trees and the 
 like (don't ask) .
  
  The quest categories divide themselves up into the find this particular weapon/item/artifact , 
 the kill this particular person and the clear this camp/lair of bandits/bloodsuckers/mutants formats 
 but rest assured that they all involve trips out into The Zone to engage in deadly combat with 
 it's various inhabitants. Indeed it seems nigh on impossible to get from one area of The Zone to 
 another without running into somebody who feels their day just won't be complete until they manage 
 to pepper your forhead with shot, so be prepared! Also be warned that night can descend upon The 
 Zone with genuinely alarming rapidity and getting caught out in the middle of nowhere in the dead 
 of night is not a pleasant experience so keep an eye on the sky when you're out and about.
  
  It may seem at this point that I'm making this game sound really rather good and the plain 
 truth of the matter is that it IS. However, it does have some technical issues which might detract 
 from your experience. Now, my PC may not be the hottest spec in town, boasting only a 3800 64 Athlon 
 and 2 6600GT's SLI'd, however, it pumps doom 3 out at a healthy 60 + FPS at 1280x1024, CS: S/HL2 
 at 80 - 100 at the same resolution but S. T. A. L. K. E. R. was all but unplayable at anything higher 
 than 800 x 600. Yes, you read that right, 800 x 600. Now I realise that 800 x 600 is soooo 1990's 
 but believe me when I tell you that it doesn't actually look too bad at that resolution, particularly 
 when you have all the other options on high, which I did with the exception of textures (only 256MB 
 texture RAM don't you know) . The graphics themselves are deceptively good. At first you'll think 
 they're crap (I did) but after a few hours playing the game and a few trips through various environments 
 you will begin to change your mind, trust me. This is especially so in the darker underground areas 
 of the game where your flashlight comes into play.
  
  Sound is excellent, firefights sound like firefights and grenades and rockets explode with a deafening 
 crack. Some people may be irritated by the amount of Russian spoken dialogue during the game but 
 I thought it helped maintain the atmosphere. After all, if you were playing a game set in the USA 
 I'm sure most of you would be appalled to hear European accents coming from the mouths of the locals.
 
  
  The quest system is driven by your PDA which also has the map and your characters notes which contain 
 the information he's gleaned from various conversations/missions etc... Some of the side missions 
 I noticed would time out after a while and be automatically removed from your quest log. Whether 
 this is an intended feature or a bug was unclear but it proved only to be a minor annoyance most 
 of the time. The main quest was fairly well executed, if a little short and I wasn't completely 
 satisfied with the ending as ending the main quest means ending the game, so if you're enjoying 
 the side missions and generally running round The Zone killing and looting then do not finish the 
 main quest, however I felt it was certainly value for money with a high level of replayability 
 due to the open ended nature of the game.
  
  Overall I would recommend S. T. A. L. K. E. R. to anybody who enjoys games with superb atmosphere and 
 depth, but if you're a graphics junky with a less than stellar PC you may do well to leave it alone 
 or perhaps rent it, but be warned! Once you get past the first couple of hours there's no coming 
 back :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R : Shadows Of Chernobyl is a excellent open ended atmospheric First Person Shooter 
 game . You start the game as a person who survived death but has forgotten his past and now looking 
 for his true identity. The game is set in Chernobyl where nuclear disaster occured in 1986. In the 
 game the place is still active with radioactivity. And our hero has to seek his missions through 
 radioactive zones . Plus he has to face deadly bandits , militarymen all armed with high -tech 
 weaponary .The place is filled with lots of mutant creatures too . But our hero can also arm himself 
 with weapons to defend himself from opponents. The game is a harcore FPS game yet the missions like 
 side quests , main quests , heroe's trading with people , inventory ,skill and attributes log has 
 a touch of rpg game elements. The hero not neccessary has to buy stuff always , he can gather them 
 from dead bodies too .The hero gets a PDA for his missions and maps. You always've to eat ,drink 
 ,take medicines in the game to heal yourself from the hazardous nature , wounds or fatigue. You 
 can wander ,explore throughout the open ended world at your own pace. The graphics / visuals / 
 Lightning effects/ shadow -Dynamic effects in the game is very impressive . The environments in 
 the game is sometimes very spooky too. The AI in the game is decent. The game has good soundquality 
 .The games action is really cool. The gamplay is quite lenghty if you consider doing the side quests 
 too in the game. Tho the overall gameplay never bores you for a moment. The game has multiplayer 
 feature also to play online .The multiplayer of the game has some cool maps to choose and play 
 . Now about my mentioning of patches for the game. The game is demanding on P. C components. I'm 
 sometimes facing stutterring , fps drops in the game on my Nvidia 7950 GT ddr3 512 mb video card 
 , 2 gigs of ddr 2 ram ,Intel Core 2 Duo E6300 C. P. U and XP Pro O/S on any settings ( low - high 
 settings) .Oh , i've faced the game sometimes crashing to the desktop too .Loading a new area takes 
 time. THQ and GSC should release 100 % working patches ASAP for fixing the technical issues in the 
 game . Overall , if u don't consider some of the techincal issues with the game , this is a superb 
 game to enjoy. I hope my review suggests all of you well . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurnThisCity
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  ------------------------- MY RATINGS -------------------------
  Difficulty: Hard
  Time Spent: 10 to 20 Hours (Still in Progress)
  Learning Curve: 2 to 4 Hours
  
  Gameplay: 
 8 / 10
  Graphics: 8 / 10
  Sound: 8 / 10
  Value: 9 / 10
  My Tilt: 9 / 10
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Gameplay: To put 
 in simple terms, STALKER is like Oblivion meets Rainbow Six Vegas. The environment and game play 
 is very much like Oblivion - open-ended and free-roam. Like RainbowSix Vegas, this game makes it 
 harder than it should be. As realistic as it may be, in the outdoor areas of the game you hardly 
 get anything to help you dodge bullets, which gets quite annoying after a while. On top of that, 
 even if you have trees to hide behind, the weapons you get to use toward the beginning of the game 
 don't shoot that far, thus making it very hard in combat.
  
  I wouldn't call myself a veteran in FPS but I've hard my share of Counter Strike for the past 6 
 years as well as other classic titles in which I always start off at the hardest difficulty. In 
 STALKER, I started at the stalker difficulty setting, one above the novice, and I'm already having 
 a hard time battling enemies. In this game it is impossible to do the run-in-and-shoot playing 
 style, as you will easily die in about 6~7 enemy shots. The AIs are suprisingly good in targeting, 
 as they almost always hit you when you are trying to get rid of groups of 2~3 at most times.
  
  Another thing that grinds my gears is that the characters speak Russian to you, which is not 
 a problem if they don't speak Russian to another in the background while the convo screen shows 
 that he's speaking English to you in the mean while. It's just a minor annoyance that I have never 
 experienced in other games.
  
  The PDA map is another thing that is quite... annoying. It takes about an half hour to figure out 
 how to use the dang thing, and the details on the map is hardly helpful. When accessing the PDA 
 and the Inventory screen, the game does NOT pause. Which means if you want to use some bandages 
 during combat you have to watch out for enemies while the inventory screen is right in your face 
 covering 90% of the screen. Sure, some people call that realistic but may I remind everyone that 
 this should be a game, even if we seek realism as much from a game as we can? It's just frustrating 
 after a while as it take a few hours to get used to.
  
  Graphics: This grahics in this game is very much like in Oblivion. If you have an high-end graphics 
 card you can enjoy most of the scenery, only if it's not so gloomy all the time. The character 
 models look A LOT like the characters in Rainbow Six: Lockdown. I have a GF7900GT and I have to 
 turn down the graphics in other to run smoothly at 1280x1024, and at 1024x768 the game looks crappy 
 to me even with everything at max settings. So mind your graphics.
  
  Sound: Again, as real as it may be, most of the NPCs speak russian in voice yet English in the 
 dialogue box where you carry on your conversation... it's just very weird and take some time to 
 get used to at the beginning. The guns sound realistic and so does everything else. Nothing wrong 
 here :)
  
  Value, Tilt: Like mentioned in the Gamespot review for the game, this game is quite buggy from 
 time to time and it crashes a lot on many PCs. The loading time too takes quite a while so be prepared 
 for that. A patch will fix it all, hopefully.
  
  Buy... or no Buy? - This is more like a alternative FPS and the graphics is definitely dated but 
 if you can get around that it wouldn't hurt to try... But keep in mind that this is very much like 
 a FPS version of Oblivion when deciding whether or not to purchase it. The game is listed for $40USD 
 but I know a nation-wide chain store that sells it for $32USD. *Cough* Target *Cough* Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diesel_dejavu
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Not sure why this gamre took soooo long to release. I was expecting something more revolutionary. 
 Its good, but not great. Too many broken parts. Bad translations are a nuisance. For example, whenever 
 the description of a location mentions basement , they actually mean attic . Its stuff like that 
 throughout the game that drives you crazy. You sell things for money, but rarely do you need to 
 buy anything! You get everything you need from drops. The humans are rendered near perfect. Finally 
 a game where humans look human. The AI is scary. The NPCs WILL out flank you if you sit still too 
 long. They will spot you rather quickly unless you sneak up from a distance. Other than these two 
 bright spots, the game is still broken and needs patching. I would like more gun choices as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DooM-ftw-
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 25, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Don't take me wrong but i want to say that after all this years of waiting and waiting and again 
 waiting...... the game isn't at all so good. I have seen many shooters... my first shooter that i 
 played was Wolfenstein 3d in 1993 and since then i played i think all the good stuff: doom, doom1, doom2, al 
 quakes, doom3, half life1&amp;2, counter strike, farcry, serious sam........ and many many others.... the 
 point is that this game isn't at all an atractive game.... it is rather annoying.... you die very 
 very very quick because of the very well build AI or because of other things (radioactive stuff) 
 I have to save the game every 10-15 seconds... The point is that I played this game only for the 
 briliant AI because i like chalenges...... but not all shooter players think like that.... many players 
 will hate the game because it is too hard and it is rather unplayable. Another bad thing about this 
 game is that the graphic is a little bit.......... old........ After all this years of waiting i 
 have expected of much more especially from the graphic part because the game was cancelled so many 
 times because they changed the graphic engine... and the result is dissapointing. During the game 
 you will se some minor bugs. You will see a good or a bad part (it depends how you consider it ---i 
 consider it very stupid and lame) the fact that the FPS is mixed with some RPG elements. The sound 
 is good but not exceptional the weapons and the gunfights sound good. So the conclusion is clear.. the 
 game is a chalenge for a veteran shooter player but an annoying one for a usual player......... and 
 beyond all doubt the game is just too diffrent from other shooters... and it is strange..... and 
 i think you would better buy something else because there are big chances that you will not like 
 the game ..... because it is very difficult and very.... different.. STALKER is unique in its way 
 but it has many negative points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarukaSawaguchi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  After many years of waiting, Stalker is finally here, and well worth the wait. You're given a large 
 area to explore, all centering around the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. And tread weary, the zone 
 is a dangerous place. If you're not careful, you'll end up dead in no less than an instant. The 
 atmosphere in STALKER is thick enough to cut with a knife, the environment is filled with abandoned 
 cities, forests abound with dangerous levels of radiation, the pained visages of mutated animals, 
 strange and deadly anomalies, and other STALKERs. The game pays tribute to the classic Russian 
 Novella, 'Roadside picnic', with it's brave treasure hunting STALKERs, 'zones', and anomalies, 
 save for the fact the atmosphere is updated from extra terrestrial transformation and is instead 
 set in Russia. The graphics aren't beautiful, but they look good, and many areas have an excellent 
 look to them, also the lighting is great [A good example is in the underground areas] . The biggest 
 problem with STALKER is that it has some nasty bugs that cause the game to skip constantly. The 
 game will never crash, but it's has it's problems. Overall, STALKER is an amazing game experience 
 that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsb247
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I have waited for the release of S. T. A. L. K. E. R for quite a while. The idea of such an open ended 
 game with so many different ways to complete it intrigued me a great deal. When I finally got the 
 game, I was pleasantly surprised with it. I enjoy the fact that the player can play at their own 
 pace, and take time to just explore the world around them. It's nice to be free of the linear style 
 that hampers so many other FPS games these days. Anyhow... Back to my review. I have heard some 
 complaints about the graphics, and I honestly don't see why. The dynamic lighting in the game is 
 incredible, but only if your machine can handle it. There are some pretty steep sytem requirements, 
 but it looks great even on the medium settings. I especially love the flashlight effects. In my 
 opinion, this game has done it better than onyone else has so far. As far as the basic textures 
 and whatnot go, I see it as being up to par with the likes of the Source engine. While slightly 
 dated, the X-ray engine can deliver some impressive visuals.
  
  As far as the actual gameplay goes, I like it a lot. Yes, there are some flaws in the quest system 
 that can be a little annoying, but they aren't too hard to get past, and I am sure they will be 
 fixed in a patch fairly soon. It keeps me entertained, and that's all that matters.
  
  I have experienced some rather choppy gameplay and some crashes. These are things that I simply 
 cannot overlook. While overall, I enjoy the game, there are times where it is quite frustrating 
 because it will crash or lock up at the most important moments. While my crashes have been relatively 
 few and far between, they still happen, and thereby hurt my view of this game.
  
  Despite its obvious flaws, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is a game that should definately be played. It's open-ended 
 and innovative enough to keep any FPS or RPG fan entertained for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnar136
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Stalker sounded like a fantastic idea, a first person shooter with a few rpg elements thrown in 
 an open ended world. After playing for a day though i found I just couldn't play anymore. Game 
 glitches and bugs throughout the game actually prevented me from proceeding forward as stuck doors 
 would prevent me from completing the main storyline.
  
  Gameplay- Gameplay is rather fun, it really requires a lot of skill to infiltrate a building full 
 of bandits since the AI isn't as bad as i expected. What i found though was you are kind of thrown 
 into the game without much information on how the world works. As you go you get a few hints on 
 game mechanics but i still was never told how to bandage myself without going into my inventory 
 and double clicking on bandages (game doesn't pause while you are in inventory) . Also the main 
 storyline is very vague and unclear and blends in with the numerous side quests you do which don't 
 seem to get you anything worthwhile. Looting corpses of enemies with get you bandages and first 
 aid kits which are helpful but weapons you only sell for money which you can't really buy anything 
 useful with.
  
  Graphics- The graphics could be better but really aren't that bad. Luckily i was able to play on 
 maximum setting without any glitching and the only thing that i found unbearably ugly was the paper 
 doll of yourself in your inventory. The environment actually looks quite pleasing at maximum settings 
 though is pretty much all the same.
  
  Sound- Nothing special i noticed as to sound. One thing that annoyed me was reloading and changing 
 guns no matter what the weapon made the same noise. Pulling out a knife and a shotgun make the 
 same sound, could have done better.
  
  Value- Stalker could have quite a bit or replay value as long as you don't run into any glitches 
 preventing you from proceeding forward. Personally, i got stuck about four times and given there 
 is no unstuck button or consul i had to resort to reverting back to a previous save.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- I'm a bit angry with thq because i had expected so much from the game but what 
 i got left me wanting more. Actually my save game is broken because of some glitch where a box 
 fell in front of a door that automatically opens when you get near it. Of course it wont anymore 
 and there is no way to blow up the box since guns are disabled in the area and i can't move it. 
 So the game is broken and that is unforgivable as i can't continue any missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  So it's been awhile for S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl, now that it is finally out, you may 
 want to know how the game is? The game is a blast if you like a little bit of RPG (such as Oblivion) . 
 This game requires you to go around and do quests, kill some bandits, and get some good stuff before 
 you can actually go out and kill mutants. I was expecting this game to be more like a Fly in a 
 chopper land in Chernobyl, kill some mutants, find out how to stop radiation flow and possibly 
 kill the boss type game (kind of like F. E. A. R.) . Well it's not and that was sort of a disappointment 
 for me. I still played the game however and it actually did turn out better than i thought. The 
 story starts off as you drive in some rainy weather and a lightning bolt hits your car. The next 
 day some guy finds you and takes you back to a camp, you are alive but suffer from amnesia and 
 technically you are sort of working your way back to remember everything you were trying to do. 
 Along the way people ask you to do some tasks, give you money, or other rewards, and really an 
 innovative game. Besides the storyline the graphics are a bit dated, because of the long delay. 
 Yet they are still decent and you will enjoy them. Be prepared to give up about 10gb worth of space 
 as well. I was kind of disappointed that their wasn't that much music involved in this game, i 
 always look for some interesting audio, and non was in here. I still do find some of the adventuring 
 and stuff a bit 'unorganized' Just to rap-things up a bit, this game is your kind of game if you 
 like games such as Oblivion or some kind of RPG's. If you don't really like those kind of games 
 you won't get a kick out of this one, but hey, it's still worth it to give it a shot. This game 
 is the most innovative FPS game of all time (in my opinion) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxXeNoCiDexXx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  What can you say about a game that delivers a spectacular time? If you havent heard the rumors, 
 yes S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl is indeed a difficult gameeven on novice lol. For all 
 the gamers out there, I suggest playing on novice for a few battles and then starting a new game 
 on a higher difficulty. The ballistics in this game is just impressivetheres no game out there 
 up to this date that has such extraordinary ballistics. When youre in a battle, the battle does 
 feel authentic. It is a great game overall; there are only minor bugs and what not. This game is 
 definitely worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hfm_
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  First of all, the whole 30 square km is just a load of crap. This thing has more loading screens 
 than Half-Life 2. It also has more bug's in it, in fact... I played this game in 1 hour parts, 
 because I got kicked out all the time... And, To Hell with this 'similar games' list of gamespot, 
 where it is compared to Half-Life 2, Battlefield 2142 let alone Crysis?!?! Best game to compare 
 this to is the standard Half-Life game with bigger maps and bugs. 5 Years to make this horsecr*p, 
 glad i didn't buy this game...
  Now I am going to play it, cheating my *ss off, looking to find some satisfaction in this game. 
 One last thing, please don't get pissed if your new 8800 GTS isn't pulling this game it should, 
 it's the game not the card... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebtr
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  I am still overwhelmed at the shear size of this open world game.
  The price you pay for large worlds are longer loading times and it was slightly longer than the 
 load times in Half Life 2 but still tolerable.
  The graphics are stunning but the best part of this game is it's diversity.
  This game 's best 
 quality is that no 2 players get to the same place the same way . This is fun, requires dexterous 
 game play and careful thought.
  Kudos to the Game Guide here at Game Spot:
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/features/6167656/index. html? om_act=convert&amp; om_clk=multimodule&amp; tag=multimodule; picks; img;1
 
  
  Reading this is a must when beginning this game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_doody_1999
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  One Of My more anticipated games for a while, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Was overly ambitious to begin with.
 
  
  Having trimmed back the games scope to somthing atainable and finaly released it you felt happy 
 just to be playing, but then... wait a minute. Uh oh, am i playing Cs: S on a modem? No its stalker 
 - im in a game with my fairly beefy system and im experienceing lag - yes you heard me LAG. This 
 isnt my system not being able to handle the game; this is a game so un optomised and rushed out 
 (6 years -HA) ; that before I can play it with any kind of seriousnes I will have to wait for them 
 to release a patch. The game is fairly stable, just shockingly un refined as to being able to perform 
 on the differing configurations you find in the home users pc. Maybe the russians thaught we all 
 use standard IBM hardware over in the west and so theyd get away with it?? Or maybe 6 years was 
 too much for them to handle and they wanted you to all become paying little beta testers for them, 
 who knows. After my rant about the performance I have to say the game would look very prety if 
 i was able to play it properly. Beautiful skys and cool efects on the anomalies. Very smart AI 
 shockingly so. Think of the lads and lass's in Oblivion (its that unscripted nature) but rather 
 than thinking, oh ill wonder two steps over hear and then turn round, now maybe 5 steps over hear, 
 oh no!! The users looking at me, id better find an NPC talk about the weather Actors in Stalker 
 wonder round with actual purpose, its kinda like playing multiplayer. You know theyr not just their 
 for you, but have things in the game they want to acomplish, a big part of this being as you walk 
 around - perhaps on mission, you happen uppon events. Maybe the other stalkers are having a gunfight 
 or taking a hostage or just having a bit of a sing song, but it all goes to show you, the world 
 LIVES and you wouldent be suprised if the little people continued to kill mutant dogs or play the 
 guitar inside your pc once you switch it off. Atmospheric sound too, tho buggy at this point.
 
  
  we have been handed a game that still has much potential but as far as im concerned wont be released 
 proper till the first patch and the thousands of people who baught it can play the thing. hence 
 my value rating.
  
  let the arguments over quality controll in games begin!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talanto
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  The most important thing in this game is when you start it you must go to options an choose a real 
 grade for your pc, ie normal, and then you will have no problems at all with stops and freezings. 
 Now for the game... it is simply a life simulation game. It gives you the feeling that you participate 
 in a movie. The gameplay , the sound, the graphics (only if you have a hi-end pc) and the story 
 are unique.
  From the first to the last minute of the game you have the impression that you are there but without 
 been there done that. After a two hours continiue play you have the feeling in your mouth of that 
 crunchy bread or that sausage.
  A must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  STALKER has been waited on for years. Now the time has finnaly come to play this game. As i firts 
 started out i thought the game was horrid. I then decided to put it away. I got bored again and decided 
 to play thro some more. and WOW was i wrong. AS you progress it gets better. It takes place in chernobyl 
 Ukraine where the power plan blew up in 1986. This takes place in 2012 where a second explosion 
 occurs and mutates humans and animals. You are a STALKER ( hence the name ) a mercanry who finds 
 artefacts made from the anomlies and radation and sells them to others. This game is a FPS/RPG blend. The 
 game is very tatical and very very hard, not for the casual gamer. Gravity Pulls bullets down so 
 its hard to shoot. There is a system called ALIFE. which gives all AI charcters daily routines and 
 objectives to carry out. As well each faction makes war with each other. The miltary is the enemy 
 to all, they are also hardest to kill becasue they have the best body armor. Graphics are so so on 
 low-medium ( for a medim ranged PC) graphics are nice and detailed on High with low lighting ( 
 for middle to high with no lag) and Very High with Full Dynamic Lighting (for exteremly high PC) 
 ( i can run it on that) are absolutly amazing It actually looks like a Xbox 360 game.. almost oblivion 
 like. Sounds are nice but at times annoying with many sounds going all the time... from birds to 
 distant gunfire and explosinns to people talking. Real worl gun sounds are nice and accurate. Voice 
 acting is chezzy at times but are cool to with Russian accents. The game is 39 bucks right now ( 
 dont expect price drop soon) and comes with a special map depends where u by it. I have both codes... Best 
 buy has 1 map and Eb games does to. This game will give hours of fun and free roam exploration. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa_gorilla
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I heard about this game when it was first announced in 2001 and didn't really pay any attention 
 to it until about two months ago. All I can say is that I'm glad I bought it. I haven't had any 
 bugs or crashes at all and I've played it quite abit. Seeing the screenshots before it came out 
 I thought that was going to be a dated game, being 6 years in the making of course, and while the 
 character models look mediocre, the dynamic lighting, shadowing, and the textures really do a great 
 job of immersing you in the world. This game also tries a lot of new things with the fps genre 
 filled with multiplayer-centric games and fast-paced twitch shooters. This is not one of those. 
 You will die if you just run in guns blazing. Each battle is much easier and, in my opinion, more 
 exciting and interesting, if you use your binoculars to scout out the surrounding area and plan 
 your move. The game has an inventory system like an rpg where you can only carry a certain amount 
 of weight or suffer a penalty to your endurance. This effectively restricts the amount of weapons 
 you can carry since you also have to keep room for food and ammo. Like I said the game hasn't caused 
 me any problems so far, no bugs, errors, crashes, or the like. The game runs smooth at max settings 
 with my system: AMD +3500, 7950GT 512, 1GB ram. The only downsides I've experienced are lame dialog 
 conversations with the npc characters and a hard time using the pda map. But in the long run these 
 few flaws are minor and definitely eclipsed by the amazing atmosphere, lighting, shadowing, ai, 
 and gameplay. This game is one that anyone who likes a good single-player game should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spfn7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I saw this games first videos at a Scottish gaming convention I was hooked from then 
 on in. Once I opened the box and began to play the sound and Chernobyl wnriched my over all feeling. 
 This game was truly a remarkable experience. Th story line is a bit dry, but starts to get really 
 better as it progresses. The games weapons are quite powerful and do in fact require fixing at 
 some points. Monsters are pretty easy to face off against, but only the soldiers seem to really 
 pose a threat. One development problem I had with the game was the whole dragging system as bodies 
 seemed to become really light and elastic as you toss them. That reminded me of Deus Ex. Graphical 
 performance didn't really have an impact on me as I could get a stable frame rate with a Opteron 
 165, 2 gig RAM, and an x1800 xt. That was with all settings maxed, at a resolution of 1280 *1024, 
 and with Windows XP. I heard that Vista does encounter problems, but probably because it is generally 
 new. This also may seem as a biased statement, but I personally believe that the game seems to 
 run better on ATI cards even if the game was developed with nVidia cards. If people do encounter 
 problems with performance they really should turn towards the Direct X8 render instead because 
 it is included with the game. Also for bump up in the frames people using the Direct X9 render 
 should use Static lighting. This like most games are in need of a patch. I was struggling with 
 the performance of Hitman: Blood money with the identical system I played on this game, but this 
 was before the patch happened to come out. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. truly is a remarkable wonder and it should 
 go on the shelves of any fps fan out there. If you enjoy games where you experience the thrill 
 and survival of your life then it will truly put a nice bit of excitement into youtr body. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Webergriller
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 24, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I literally cannot get through 30 seconds of the game without it freezing, and having to reboot. 
 This is ridiculous. I hope the retailer takes it back. Have been playing PC games for some time 
 now... Not accustomed to a game out of the box having such issues. I read the trusty reviews before 
 purchasing it and thought, hey I have XP, I'll deal with it. Well here I am... frustrated because 
 because a piece of licensed software I paid for crashes the moment I get started. Never have I 
 had this problem with any game, or had this amount of frustration. I am surprised it is able to 
 get on the shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damthegames
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  well i always liked fallout , so much that i&acute; ve played 1 and 2 and also fallout tactics , 
 so i can see the obvious attentive of putting that atmosphere in this game , but sadly it doesn't 
 work it lacks the true felling of desolation, that the human race is real done and we are a coming 
 to extinction and are being bypassed by other races and have to mixture with them to survive. the 
 game itself is frustrating i&acute; m always dieing at the worst moments and sometimes have to start 
 over from an auto save that was far behind the graphics are far from impressive despite of thinking 
 that the game is strangely heavier on pc, s , and does make a lot of loadings. the god thing is 
 the sound for those that have an x-fi the game does sound great , the Russian crap that the characters 
 are always babbling becomes rather annoyance over time always that bla bla bla , its funny at start 
 but later on it becomes a Payne in the ass. we can put this real simple if this game where a pure 
 rpg lets say 3rd person or something like ,it ill be rated as a poor clone of fallout and if it 
 was a pure fps , it will be label as just another , and all this talking of an fps with rpg mixture 
 is crap the only game that does that real god is oblivion because its not based in other games 
 it is an original , stalker is just an attentive of putting fallout in an fps and its crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riznitch
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  when i first started playing. i was expecting graphics that were in the beginning intro. they were 
 awesome. when i started to play they weren't as detailed. the first are is pretty bland. It wasn't 
 till i got into some buildings that the graphics really started getting awesome. The sound i felt 
 was a little on the weak side. kind of sound like weapons are being firing in mono. The NPC are 
 made up of but maybe 5 models so, you see the same guys over and over. Many of the NPC can do some 
 serious wall hacking. for instance i might be behind a couple of twigs hanging off a branch and 
 it will stop my bullets dead in there tracks. NPC on the other hand can hide and protect themselves 
 from bullets and are able to fire out and hit with great accuracy. I've even taken shots from one 
 of them inside a rail car. I hope the DEVS fixs it. The game did looked rushed even though it took 
 4 years to complete. ive seen some lazy mistakes. for instance a can hanging off into space off 
 a hill. I'm rating this game an 8.9 cause it has great potential. i doubt the MP will go anywhere 
 but, the single player is pretty entertaining. For 39.99 its a good deal but, i'm already looking 
 for a patch RIZNITCH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinhaldecoina
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  i can belive wen there are games like far cry or half life and just keep make this week games. i 
 dont no but this is new ,it was supose to be a evoluction of the best games we see in pc, after 
 so mutch time in expecttition this is the surprise? i buy the game in the day they are reliced 
 and im played a couple hours ,i dont no about you guys but this is no garbage for my pc im take 
 hem out right now. the are bugs, i run in midlle of the enimies and pass the levels like that, i stok 
 my gun in one guy and he stiil alive, the story looks boring and complicated, im sorry but im expected 
 so mutch of this one and that its to bad to be true, try pain killer 2 or half life 3 thats a games 
 a good games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikefictiti0us
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 28, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  During the past few years I have kept a close eye on STALKER's development. Judging from the developers 
 comments and the videos that I had seen of it, It seemed to me as if it would be a hybrid of quality 
 games such as Deus Ex, Operation Flashpoint and GSC's own Codename Outbreak. Taking this into consideration, 
 I thought that the game would be a masterpiece that would set the standard for future FPS games. 
 How very wrong I was.
  
  While it does share similarities to the aforementioned titles, it fails to emulate and improve 
 upon the features that made these games a joy to play.
  
  GENERAL
  
  My initial feelings on STALKER were positive, but this swiftly changed the more time that I spent 
 playing.
  One of the first things that I noticed as I played STALKER was that the Zone was nothing like I 
 was expecting it to be. Rather than a large, completely open map, we are given smaller chunks to 
 explore, which are connected by load points. I discovered this unpleasant fact when I attempted 
 to jump over a low barbed wire fence, only to discover, to my immense disappointment, that these 
 fences actually define the boundaries of almost all of the maps. Now, while most of the maps are 
 somewhat large, you can explore most of them individually within 15 to 35 minutes, depending on 
 the size of the map. For me, this reduces replayability by a very large margin, as I have little 
 desire to replay the game when I will be revisiting areas that I have already fully explored.
 
  
  While disappointing, I begrudgingly accepted this. After all, Deus Ex did not need immense land 
 mass to create an unforgettable game. Which brings me to....
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  While the game is generally enjoyable, it trips up on quite a few important areas, namely the RPG 
 elements which are poorly implemented.
  The inventory system is cumbersome, the PDA is ugly and most of the NPC's that you can talk to 
 lack any real personality. The text conversations that you have are poorly written, as if they 
 are merely placeholders that GSC never bothered to update. Non crucial missions (and quite a few 
 crucial missions, for that matter) lack any inspiration and consist of the most basic RPG-style 
 quests. Kill someone, help someone, get this for me, deliver this, etc...
  
  Rewards for said missions are also poorly balanced, and I found myself with a huge pile of cash 
 within the first few hours of play. There's really no incentive to go on most of the poorly designed 
 side missions when you're rich enough to buy out entire trader's inventories with cash to spare.
 
  
  I also found that Anomalies were far too prevalent. Rather than having them spaced apart, so that 
 encountering them would be somewhat rare, unpredictable and fun, the maps are literally saturated 
 with them, so much so that its annoying.
  
  What IS a problem is respawning enemies. For a restricted military area, the Zone seems to have 
 a LOT of bandits. What's truly disappointing is that you can never really hold certain maps, as 
 bandits or the military will CONSTANTLY respawn and attack you.
  
  For example, during one of the first quests, I helped a group of Stalkers repel a bandit attack. 
 Upon defeating them, another group counter-attacked from the opposite direction. After killing 
 that wave, another group attacked. And ANOTHER. I eventually gave up, due to low ammo, and retreated 
 to a different area, only to find more bandits that another wave of bandits spawned after I killed 
 the last group. The story is hackneyed and largely forgettable, so I won't go into detail.
  
  AI
  
  The AI in STALKER is a mixed bag. Enemies in STALKER usually exhibit some degree 
 of intelligence -- they try to stay behind cover, they duck and strafe and they generally try to 
 keep out of your line of fire. There are problems though. Flanking, as well as group tactics, seems 
 to be nonexistant. Groups of enemies will simply rush your position like a swarm of angry bees, 
 rather than relying on the tried and true method of suppression and co-ordinated flanking. Combat 
 in open ground is easily exploitable by using a few tricks, although combat in closed quarters 
 is more unpredictable and enjoyable.
  
  One problem was that there were many times when enemies simply sat in full view while enduring 
 my automatic fire. I could spray them with immense firepower, and they simply seemed unfazed as 
 I cut them down. That's not to say that the game is easy. It's not. The human enemies can kill 
 you VERY quickly if you make any mistakes, especially on the higher difficulty levels. Death is 
 a frequent occurrence. Many of the mutants are also quite brutal, and I found myself running from 
 some of them so I could take a breather and use a medkit without fear of being torn apart.
  
  GRAPHICS \ ATMOSPHERE \ PERFORMANCE
  
  I won't spend much time talking about STALKER's 
 graphics. While not mind-blowing, they are, for the most part, very passable. Atmosphere, especially 
 in the underground sections, is usually excellent. Lighting is also utilized well and the models 
 are passable.
  
  The performance on the other hand differs from average to terrible on my PC due to random FPS drops. 
 Other people have reported similar problems, but I'm hoping the issue will be resolved with a patch 
 in the near future.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound is generally good. Gun reports, for the most part, are solid. General Russian dialogue 
 for NPC's are voiced well and add an air of authenticity to the surroundings. English voiceovers 
 aren't that inspiring, but they are not terrible.
  The sounds that the mutant enemies make, while not incredibly varied, are very good. Some of them 
 are very intimidating and I jerked from surprise scares during many occasions. Ambient sounds are 
 non intrusive and are implemented well.
  
  OVERALL
  
  All in all, STALKER could have been so much more. It could have redefined the hybrid RPG/FPS. Instead, 
 I personally found that STALKER, while being enjoyable at times, is ultimately a forgettable game 
 that I will probably remove by the end of the month. So much potential was lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogdan_2k
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R a pretty well done game... there some bugs here and there but over all i feel its 
 a polished game unlike many other games that come out... Its only drawbacks is its somewhat undone 
 optimization... I run the game under a monster PC on Windows Vista... And the game doesn't support 
 DX 10 witch is not a big surprise... It has serious issues with Vista... unfortunately... The game 
 simply won't run with Full AA and Max Settings it will lag to put it simple... But if you're determined 
 to play the game you will soon find the exact amount of video tweaks to make it run almost perfect 
 ! But Enough about my little problem... If you don't have vista and run it on XP with DX 9.0C ( 
 February 2007 ) and have a decent computer the game will fly ! The atmosphere of the game is pretty 
 well done ! I don't know why people complain about the graphics... In my opinion graphics is not 
 the most important... Stability, game play and especially Story are the key factors to any game... 
 The sound it just right ! It is masterfully combined with horror scenes... which are quite bone 
 chilling in some dark places... For example the sounds in an old abandoned science lab... you'll 
 hear pipes creaking, monsters breathing and special scripted events a boss will pop up right before 
 the exit. The game itself is well... huge, lots of places to explore and plunder... combat is pretty 
 fun though some of the guns act kinda weird... The weird thing is when you're a Rookie at point 
 blank if u have say.... an AK-47 you will unload like 30-60 rounds in 1 Soldier... which is very 
 unrealistic... but if you aim for the head you get instant kill... sometimes. The Story is well done 
 a little unclear but you will figure it out when you get the 3rd of 4rth dream. The thing that 
 i admire about the game is that there no loadings... except when going to another area. The game 
 is nice... it should be fixed with a few patches but you should really play the game its fun and 
 it has a lot of freedom ! And the most important thing is that its not crap like most games that 
 come out...
  
  Peace ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregeepoo
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 8, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  I so wanted to LOVE this game. Imagine playing Fallout in the first person!
  
  Graphics score 5 out of 10
  Sound score 9 out of 10
  AI score 4 out of 10
  
  Very disappointed 
 in the graphics. Whoever said it was comparable to HL2 was WAY off. More comparable to Quake II.
 
  The weather effects tend to make up for this a bit. But that can only carry the game so far.
 
  I think STALKER : SOURCE would have been a better way to go.
  
  The audio is totally immersive and goes a LONG way in making the game more enjoyable! GUNS, WIND, 
 LIGHTENING, ANIMAL NOISES in the distance all rock! If the sound was like the graphics, the game 
 would belong in the $9.99 bin.
  
  People keep saying the AI is so good, what are they talking about?
  Side-stepping AI has been 
 around since FarCry (whose AI is WAY better) .
  And sidestepping left or right until shot and then side stepping the opposite way is not smart 
 AI. You can easily lead the enemy once they start side stepping (and they will) . Here is how the 
 AI has acted for me: It approaches until you fire at it, then it starts to sidestep right and keeps 
 sidestepping right until shot at, then it stops or sidesteps left. I have the game set on the HARDEST 
 setting, the AI should be PWNING me! And the animals don't act right, but I at least enjoy their 
 antics. I can run after a big boar like creature that is running around and shhot it right in the 
 butt. It just stops running and ignores me or keeps running and ignores me. Dogs act funky, one 
 minute runnng around like scared weiner dogs and the next attacking you even after you shoot a 
 few of them. All in all I'd say it is not a must have game by any means. And the days of selecting 
 text for what you say and then reading text back are OVER! Nothing is more irritating than reading 
 a long paragraph from the NPC and then being hit by an anomoly and killed while reading.
  
  Gamespot is very generous in it's rating. If I ever make a game (and it will suck for sure because 
 I don't know how to make games) I want Gamespot to review it for me. Wish I could say it rocked 
 all the way around. But I'd say wait until it is in the bargain bin if you can. Otherwise buy it 
 for $40 and enjoy what you can of it. I've paid more for worse games (anyone else have Pacific 
 Assault?) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LexEldron
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I have not followed this Sim and bought it only because I was looking for a FPS to mess around 
 with. I saw Gamespot gave it an 8.5, so I decided to give it a try. This was not the first time 
 that Gamespot and I disagreed... perhaps I will learn someday.
  
  I have heard that the game is about 2-3 years late. Well, when a game is 2-3 years late, expect 
 the design to be that far behind the state of the art as well. There is nothing in this game that 
 I have not seen before. Gamespot has said that there may be some bugs... well, based on the game's 
 forum, there may be more than just a few. Even with the delayed release, the game still seems more 
 undone than broken.
  
  So lesson learned... be very wary of games that are released years after their scheduled release 
 date. I am personally hoping a patch does help this game out... but then perhaps that is just wishful 
 thinking.
  
  One good point is that I really like the AI... however, I am not very good at FPS'ers, so that 
 may not be a good thing. I have learned that one must keeping moving... that is the one thing that 
 will confuse the AI. And yes, the graphics are not bad either.
  
  I will play this Sim for a bit, then just let it fade away. This is not a Sim worth building a 
 following for... though the potential was there, just not achieved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mantis789
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  The long awaited S. T. A. L. K. E. R. - Shadow of Chernobyl has finally arrived in the shelves.
  
  I must say that all of the features presented in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. are quite impressive at least. 
 When you start playing you'll get a glimps of the hell that man created. The starting sequences 
 puts you in a rather open position, meaning that the orgine / purpose of your character is endless.
 
  
  After that you'll be throwen into the world itself, 'the zone'. It has a nice ring to it, but anyways 
 'the zone' is a huge environment that has it's own day / night system aswel as a weather system. 
 All the animals etc are non-scriped. Yes you read that right, non-scriped. Meaning that it will 
 fight when it wants to not because the programmers meant them to do so.
  
  When first introduces to the 'starting-off' characters, you'll get a PDA which keeps your important 
 information. It contains a list of all your objectives / missions, a map, a ranking system, stats, 
 contact information and much more. All of this is necesairy to complete your goals.
  
  After the chat with some characters you'll be able to do what you want, go where you want, shoot 
 whoever you want to shoot. (in some cases you'll automatically holster you weapon so that you can't 
 shoot main characters)
  You still have to be careful because there are numerous foes within the game. I'll give a few: 
 the different fractions, the army, the anomalies, the radiation (duh!) and much much more, so keep 
 one thing in mind; lots and lots of things to shoot!
  
  You've got a wide area to roam freely, a huge variation of items and upgrades and most important 
 lots of missions.
  
  The zone itself is quite large but you'll manage to get everywhere. Eventually you'll find vehicles 
 to drive with, they variate from a crappy russian car to a APC. You'll see swamps, forests, urban 
 territory... You'll be surprised how much different scenery there is.
  
  Items are lovely but you'll have to have a good eye for the because not every one of them is equally 
 good. For instance a weapon, a weapon has a specific ammo type (which is upgradeable) , can be modded 
 (ability to add a scope, silencer, granade launcher... and has a 'health bar' meaning that it has 
 a certain condition that varies how it has been treated. If you have bad quality weapon it will 
 jam on you during gun fights (really cool!) .
  
  Last but not least, the missions. During your objectives, you'll have to figure out who you are 
 and what you are doing within 'the zone'. Somewhere between all the assigned missions you'll get 
 information about yourself and eventually be able to finish the game.
  
  --------------------------------------------------
  
  Sounds: Great russian accent!
  Graphics: 
 Plays a bit to rusty for that kinda graphics.
  Gameplay: Superb (Morrowind with guns) .
  Singleplayer: Pwnage.
  Multiplayer: Lag issues but the basic mp is fun.
  
  Downside: Bugs! 
 (minor and major) It has been said that the developers are creating a patch to address these issues. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leggat101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  Stalker is a powerful and complicated game and isn't something you can jump straight into and expect 
 to be an instant expert. There's not many other games that you can compare it with and that's what 
 makes it special. People have talked about the graphics being outdated, however, it's not something 
 that I'm going to let bother me. I am more fascinated with the game play of Stalker which, in my 
 opinion, provides fantastic playability and value for money.
  
  Whether you're doing a mission or killing an enemy in Stalker, you will notice that this is not 
 a game that's based around simplicity. Missions in Stalker can be a long and challenging process, 
 particularly for a new player, which is what makes this game so interesting. No one wants an effortless 
 challenge and Stalker will push you're gaming abilities to the limit. Killing an enemy isn't as 
 straight-forward as it is in most FPS games. The bad guys are intelligent and organized, and take 
 some difficulty to beat, which requires skill and patience. It's not a simple procedure of point 
 and shoot because that won't work. Guns in Stalker recoil, jam and eventually need reloading. Your 
 weapon can also become old and start to fail more often, which means you should replace it. The 
 game has a real-life feel to it in every sense of the word and you'd better get used to it.
  
  Learning to use your equipment and weapons will take sometime to get used to because there 
 is a lot of different items you can collect in Stalker, mostly from dead people you find or kill 
 yourself. Bandages, ammo, radiation equipment and even food are the bare essentials in this FPS. 
 Your character is only human after all and needs what humans need to survive in a radioactive environment. 
 So if you fancy exciting challenges and value for money then Stalker is for you. Remember, be patient 
 with this game and don't judge it on first appearances. Don't hate it because you're not any good 
 at it. I doubt anyone is initially, but in time you can learn to get into it and it becomes fascinating. 
 Stalker is raw and not clean-cut in the slightest - it's quirky and different and deserves to be 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  Six long years. It took six years for GSC of Russia to turn S. T. A. L. K. E. R: Shadow of Chernobyl 
 (referred to as stalker for the rest of this review) into a playable form. Of course there are 
 some bugs in the game, but should we really expect any game to be bug free, even if it has been 
 in development for six years; no. The game introduces you to your scenario with a very high quality 
 cinematic, which exposes who your character is. Apparently you fell out of a death truck when 
 it was hit by lighting and you are found by another Stalker who takes you to a fat ogre for payment. 
 I call him the fat ogre, in reality he is your loveable Russian with sarcastic remarks and a lust 
 for money. Anyways, you are thrown on a table in front of the fat ogre and he starts looking for 
 your PDA. Needles to say he finds it and you, the alive-dead character on the table reaches out 
 and grabs it, you have a tattoo with the words S. T. A. L. K. E. R on your arm. Which allows you to be 
 deemed the Marked One by the fat ogre, because apparently you have amnesia; his cure for this 
 is to keep you busy. The main mission of this game is to find Strelok, a stalker whom disappeared 
 a while back according to the ogre. Along with main missions, there are side missions, but since 
 there is no incentive to perform on these tasks, you may never touch them. Although, a few are 
 actually forced onto you, such as helping to protect a camp from bandits, which if you succeed 
 all you really get is money. While the game isnt linear, because you can go off, do all the side 
 missions, and never touch the main story, the story missions themselves are on the rails but the 
 train can be derailed. So, needless to say that in this immersive world nothing is linear, but 
 sadly you never need to touch the side missions to have an exhilarating time. Now these missions, 
 especially the main story can become frustrating with how well Stalkers Radiant AI system works. 
 Realism seemed to be key in their development when it came to how many bullets it takes to kill 
 someone and where the most destructive hit boxes are located. Aim for the head, you wont be 
 disappointed.
  Enemies in this game, become far and wide as you face the military, bandits, rabid dogs, pseudo-dogs, 
 pseudo-giants, snarks, poltergeist, rodent, flesh, and bloodsuckers. Encountering a bloodsucker 
 is probably the most terrifying thing in this game, they have the ability to turn invisible and 
 some can use psycho mind tricks that will mess with your visions and brain. I found it easy to 
 kill them if you look for their eyes while their invisible and pump two or four shots of from the 
 shotgun right in-between them. Most of these animals, other than the poltergeist, bloodsuckers, 
 and snarks are relatively harmless. The human enemies though, paired with Radiant AI, just as the 
 animals are, will give you a tough time if you arent aiming for the head. By the end of the game, 
 you will have encountered everything since you have to travel deep into the heart of Chernobyl 
 just to beat the main story. To kill enemies you need weapons, weapons such as guns and grenades. 
 You can only have four weapons and binoculars equipped and ready to use at all times. You have 
 a knife, a pistol, your choice of shotgun or smg (which ever one you prefer when you find it) , and 
 grenades. Your friend will become the shotgun, smg, and pistol. While I did find the grenades useful 
 to clear out groups of bandits, it never came in handy much. The rule stays the same for all weapons, 
 including the knife, aim for the head and the enemy will go down fastjust like real life. I havent 
 talked much about graphics, usually the first thing I delve into with reviews. Here is the reason 
 why, we know they are dated; they wouldnt be superb anyways because of the size of levels, and 
 three details and lighting make up for it. Thats right folks, this game has high detail and paired 
 with HDR and other lighting effects it will turn this bleak Chernobyl into a sometimes mutated 
 fairy-tale. Now, on the internet people have been complaining that this game isnt very pretty; 
 well it wont be pretty because you are playing in a nuclear wasteland set in and around Chernobyl. 
 Although, this game will cause even the best of computers to become slow at times and buckle under 
 the attention to immersion and lighting in this game. Here is a scenario, say your traversing the 
 harsh radiated landscape at night and it begins to rain. You see the rain and you hear the thunder 
 along with chirping of mutated birds and insects. The thunder intensifies lightings a coming, boom 
 you hear and see the lighting and the whole world around you lights up. Here is why this game can 
 bring even the best computer down to its knees, the attention to detail doesnt include just textures, 
 it includes atmosphere of the game, which is superb beyond all expectations.
  Two things have yet to been discussed, artifacts and anomalies. Artifacts are essentially radiated 
 pieces of earth or metal that now holds a form of value. The value of these ranges from very low 
 to very high depending on the rarity. How greedy are you? Ask yourself this because, either you 
 can go through a trader who will get some profit from this, or, you can sell directly to a scientist 
 in the area, which brings in more RUs for you. The game does use the official currency of Russia. 
 Now anomalies are exactly what the definition says, n odd, peculiar, or strange condition, situation, 
 quality, etc. In this case, they are random spots in and around the zone that will cause harm 
 to anything that walks in their wake. There are four different types, lighting, bubbling green 
 that causes severe blood loss, burner, and vortek. A few of these anomalies actually move on the 
 ground such as lighting and burner. Others such as bubbly green and vortek are stationary and have 
 life spans. These two things are related, if there are many anomalies around there is or some artifacts 
 around. Around the bubbly green, I found fuzzy which looks like a big brown fuzz ball. You know 
 the core of the game now, game play itself is more realistic than un realist because of the ballistics 
 system used. Did you know gravity affects bullets? Apparently, many shooters dont understand this, 
 but stalker does. Dont go around thinking you will be able to snipe someone with a pistol or smg; 
 they all have realistic ranges. As you make your way through the zone and into Chernobyl itself, 
 the nuclear power plant that blew up years ago, you will be scared and at times happy. Immersion 
 in this game was a goal; they achieved that goal not through graphics but through attention to 
 atmospheric detail. Along with random stalkers and other characters that go about their lives 
 thanks to the Radiant AI system, so do animals, but the humans get to speak in Russian that no 
 one understands. Voice acting isnt the best, then again who cares when you have a game this phenomenal 
 on your hard drive. I would write more, describe more, and praise the game until I die, but I want 
 to get back to the Zone and have some fun. The game is designed like an RPG in some ways; you will 
 find upgrades for your weapons, like I found a silencer for both my AK and my pistol. You also 
 have an inventory, which you can only hold up to fifty pounds at the start. The inventory is of 
 course where you will conduct trading deals along with checking your reservoir of ammo and health 
 packs. Eating isnt priority in the game, but is needed at times when youre low on health and 
 need a caffeine boost. Talking with characters isnt the most exciting thing unless your listening 
 to their Russian gibberish, then it is rather enjoyable. The RPG side of the game isnt as expanded 
 ast most people, but from a first person lover it is a wonderful addition that wont slow you down. 
 Before I do that, multiplayer should probably be discussed along with a few bugs. Multiplayer is 
 a bust, it wont be the new thing but it is fun for a while. Like in Counter-Strike you buy weapons, 
 grenades, helmets, protective vest and what not. Thanks to realistic bullets, though only snipers 
 can snipe and smgs can sometimes pull off a pop headshot. Its not fast paced and the system doesnt 
 feel very well balanced. It seems like the developers through it together at the last minute and 
 tacked it on to their wonderful single player experience. The bugs in the game are things such 
 as NPCs clipping through walls and the game sometimes not starting up. This can be fixed with 
 a reinstall though and you dont lose your save games. Im saying that from experience. Overall 
 the game is gorgeous, in a radiated mutated way and it is one of the most immersive games that 
 can compete in not just a shooting experience, but horror also. If youre a pc gamer, you need 
 to go pick this game up. Did I mention that some character play guitar and that Vodka reduces radiation? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedemoness
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  When i started the game i had to fine tune my system (encountered some small bugs) , after that 
 i could enjoy the enviroment of Chernobyl but then after just a short 10 hours of playing i was 
 at one of the possible endings, which didn't even follow up on the story-line.
  The game looks and feels great, has some nice scare moments but after finishing it, it gives you 
 the feeling it was rushed at the end. (even though the development took more then 6 years )
  The enviroment looks great in the game, though the npc's, monsters and other characters in the 
 game look al little outdated, they tried to give a nice feeling with the a-life system which most 
 of the time works fine, but i have also seen some examples of artificial stupidity like a dog running 
 to the roof of a building and jumping of it to try and catch a crow in mid-air.
  During the 10 hours i played i only met 3 traders from who i could buy weapons and armour, the 
 other npc's in the game only trade in medikits, food etc. also a bit disapointing i think.
  Overall the game is good as long as you don't want to follow the main story because the makers 
 haven't put much thought in it.
  The game starts with you the player needing to find out why to kill a character named strelok, 
 but somehow ends with looking for a monolith which grants a wish, i cant see the link there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TH3_1NF1D3L
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  STALKER is the kind of game that seems very new and flashy at the beginning but can grow old fast 
 if no effort is put into it. I felt that waiting 6 years since I heard about it, was the best waiting 
 I've ever spent. What I like:
  
  The A-Life is amazing to watch. I sat on a rock for 15 minutes and just watched the animals attack 
 one another and feed on dead stalkers. It was amazing. I watched the other stalkers defend themselves 
 from two things at once, animals and other stalkers. I've seen bandits take cover, provide cover 
 fire, and attempt to flank me. I've seen enemies that have gone down, get revived by their comrades. 
 I was amazed by the amount of A-Life that was put into it. I like how the player can't carry 20,000 
 pounds of equipment because it adds as sense of realism that isn't seen in others of the genre. 
 I like how inaccurate the weapons are. I like how infrequently ammo is found and to be had (even 
 if it caused my death on more than one occasion) . What I Don't Like:
  
  Is there a story? I couldn't find one. I thought once that I had found it, but it was just a quest 
 line.
  
  Am I the only one that thought this game was OMG difficult? I shoot and shoot and shoot, but nothing. 
 No reactions, no damage, no nothing. At one point, the only way I could kill some enemies was to 
 Grenade them to death and then I wasted all my Grenades. Weapons do inaccurate amounts of damage 
 IMO. And where is the ammo. 2/3 of the time, I was running around with my pistol killing things. 
 WITH A FRICK'N PISTOL! The AI also seems to be way more adept at shooting things as I was getting 
 sniped by people so far away that I could barely make out dark blobs. How are they so good, when 
 I suck so bad? Bit unbalanced I'm thinking.
  
  All in all, it may seem like the bads out-weigh the goods. And for you, the might. But, this game 
 is very realistic feeling and looking. That is what I expected, a realistic shooter with realistic 
 ballistics and enemies. That is what I feel I got in STALKER. I'm very pleased with this game. 
 Sure, it has problems. But, what game doesn't.
  
  Oh, and the only bugs I have found have been, twice, I got a runtime error when attempting to join 
 a MP game. No other bugs have presented themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IgorDraskovic
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  I got this from the store and at least tried to paly it for a few hours or so, the game lags terribly 
 and it as nothing to do with my system specifications. I soon as I try to walk out into the world 
 my fps drops to about 2 and I have treid lowering the resolution to as low as 800x600 and the detail 
 to medium and none of this fixes my pbolem. The game also crashes ever 10 minutes or so. My specs 
 are: AMD 4800 X2, 1GB 3200 RAM, Radeon 1950XTX 512 MB and all of my drivers are up to date, it 
 is not a Vista problem as I run Windows XP SP2. Get the demo first as there is no telling before 
 hand if this game will work on your computer. Good luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SplinterCellSC2
Rating: 4.4
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  Holy bug spray Batman, this game is buggy!
  
  Man, I have never installed a game right off the shelf that was so full of bugs!!! This game had 
 better get some major patches soon or I am going to sail it like the plastic disc it is worth into 
 the trash.
  
  Where to begin? Okay well, the in game save feature kicks me out to an error reporting window when 
 ever I try to save a game in flight... The lag is unbearable even in single player mode, I can play 
 FEAR, BF2, BF2142, Doom 3, Quake 4, Oblivion etc on my PC with all video and audio settings on 
 hig and this game still taxes my system to the point that is it unplayable. I gotta say in it's 
 current non-playable state, this game is worthless. Sorry, good try guys, it had potential...
 
  
  Gotta give it a rating slightly above a goose egg, thats about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheFrostWolf
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  I have been following the game development of S. T. A. L. K. E. R since all most the begining, in 2002 
 i think, and you can understand how much I have been wating to get my hands on it, and finally 
 I did!. So as a very big fan of the game, and as an exprieanced gamer of FPS's ill tell you how 
 it is:
  
  The Game it self is solid, rock hard! no mishappanings, no gliches.
  
  The Graphics are very life like and realistic, It a different style of graphics because.... well 
 its hard to explain but here: lets take Doom 3... the graphics are good, very good! but that dosent 
 mean its realistic right? its impressive but not 'real' here in S. T. A. L. K. E. R we see they did the 
 exact opisit: its good graphics that look REAL! so thats one of the first thigs you'll notice in 
 the game.
  GSC game world really pushed the maximum out of the DirectX.9... (and maby if the game would have 
 been developed with DirectX.10 you'll actually feel the rediation from the atomic core in Chernobyle^^)
 
  
  The Sound Is EPIC! and if you have a good spare of power on your sound card and mic's youll be 
 sorounded by the atmosphere! the wind, the leaves, the weather everything!!! its really amazing
 
  
  The Value of the game is good i sopouse, but most of gamers download games so if you are dissapointed, 
 you didn't waist money only time...
  
  If you put all these elements together you'll get a fun, refreshing, explosive expiriance from 
 this game..... you will be chalancged and amazed all through the game. and remember, that when you 
 finish it the first time, you will have another 7 possible endings to the story!!!! so be prepared 
 to play it alot more! and it will be fun all the way!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSS383
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for something to compare this game to, the only thing I can think of is Deus 
 Ex and System Shock 2. Both of these games were masterpieces in their day and STALKER attempts 
 to take these FPS-RPG type games one step further, by adding a living world in which to go about 
 your adventures. The feeling you get when you finally get use to the game and figure out whats 
 going on is something like the feeling you get when you play TES : Oblivion for the first time, 
 minus the OMG! graphics factor.
  
  When you first start out in this game you do feel a little lost, it took me a good 2 hours to get 
 my bearings and figure everything out. Prepared to feel totaly lost when you start, but dont give 
 up. Once you do get your bearings, you start to have fun and this is when you realise that you 
 are in a living world and that you have a bunch of things that you can do. Some examples of the 
 living world I keep talking about are the way animals and humans spawn and go about their daily 
 lives. Animals hunt and battle humans, humans raid other human camps, patrol and some sit around 
 the campfire and play the guitar when all is quiet. People do speak too much Russian though, atleast 
 give me some subtitles.
  
  The main things to do in this world are the main story quest, special quests and basic quests. 
 I have not gotten to far into the main story quests just because Im exploring and doing other quests 
 so much. Special quests are ones in which you have to kill a certain NPC or get a unique item from 
 some location. The basic quests are pretty a limited variety of, well basic quests. Go destroy 
 this group of mutants/humans, kill something and get a body part ect. Overall the quests have been 
 fun so far, even the basic ones, this is due to these taking place in new environments for each 
 quest taken. Beside quests and exploration, every once in a while you can get tips on where to 
 find stashes of items, which are also pretty fun to hunt out. Your PDA is where you store all of 
 your quest stuff and everything else worth knowing in the world. It is a little clunky and slow 
 to work with, and could have been designed better, however, it serves it's purpose.
  
  This game does not take place in a seamless world such as TES: Oblivion. The Zone, which is the 
 entire area in which you adventure is subdivided into separate areas, which have passageways in 
 between them. It would have been awesome if you game's world were seamless, but with ambitious 
 games I guess limits must be set. Each area feels as if it is large enough for some good adventuring. 
 You pretty much have enough varied architechture and landscapes in each area to feel as if you 
 have alot to see and do.
  
  Theres a large variety of weapons, ammo types, armor and artifacts in the game, which keeps you 
 excited when finding new items and busy changing ammo types and artifacts for the situation. The 
 inventory control system in the game is based upon item size and weight. You can only carry what 
 fits in the gridded inventory panels and if you carry too much weight you get planted , which can 
 be a pain in the middle of a firefight. Other than getting planted , inventory control is pretty 
 strait forward. You must eat in this game and the game lets you know when you are hungry with a 
 special symbol. You do not require sleep though, a pitty, there are so many free beds and it would 
 have been fun to have to find a safe sleeping area. One the graphics side of things the game is 
 a little dated as everyone else has already said. The graphics arent bad they just look like something 
 just below Half-Life 2 in quality. Some of the special effects are done very well though, expecially 
 the lighting. Anomalies, lightning and flashlights all look great. The weapon models arent near 
 as bad as many people have said they are, they just arent insanley detailed like with out newest 
 shooters.
  
  Sound in the game is OK. The music is creepy and fits into the game well and doesnt bother you 
 any. Weapon sounds are a tad weak but totally passable. Ambient sound is well done but does tend 
 to be a little redundant and overpowering at times, especially the thunder, its cool but it comes 
 way to fast and too much in my opinion.
  
  Overall I think the game is pretty cool. It's not what I expected after all these years of development, 
 but you know how most really ambitious games go. Many are never released or are very bad on release. 
 Luckily the developers knew what to cut out and what to leave in, the end result is a solid FPS 
 - RPG that will give everyone a unique diverting experience from other current day games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teardropmina
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 23, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Roaming around, talking to NPCs, asking for jobs and taking tasks... we do this in RPG because there's 
 a thing called leveling up in that genre (guess why all those people spending their time on WoW?) 
 RPG people hate and love inventory system because the stuff we gather can make our PCs more powerful. 
 This game has NPCs, Tasks, redundant beast and enemy killing, inventory system, but has no leveling 
 up, which drives everything that seems pointless in RPG.
  
  As a FPS... this game is tough... in novice level; honestly I'm not a very skillful FPS gamer, but 
 I can finsih most of the games at the easiest level and some at normal difficulty (like F. E. A. R.) ; 
 however, this game's novice/easy demands more works, patience, and skills than most game's normal 
 difficult, by a wide margin. it's like playing restricted stealth Splinter Cell game, while has 
 almost no chance not being spotted by enemy. (well, will be ambushed by monsters quite frequently 
 though) .
  
  you get a RPG feel, but blood lost rate as in killer FPS (not early rainbow six death by one shot, 
 but not very far) .
  
  the graphic is quite crappy from today's standard (I do play with everyhitng maxed-out; SLI 7900GTX 
 )
  
  Were I a more skillful FPS and with extreme patience, I might like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MystrDix
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  I am a hard core role player and first person shooter enthusiast, so when I saw S. T. A. L. K. E. R I 
 was amazingly pumped. Now that I have played it for a couple hours and got some experience under 
 my belt I think its about time I share what I have picked up with others.
  
  First of all, I want to make it clear the enjoying this game is largely in the mind of the player. 
 If one is going into this thinking OMG, this is going to be the best game ever! WOOHOO&lt; OBLIVION 
 WITH GUNS! then you will be dissapointed. Even if you are totally excited for the game, go into 
 it expecting the worse and you will recieve the most insane ride ever.
  
  Second, lets talk system specs. The game really doesnt need THAT much power to run. If you turn 
 everything down to the lowest settings, it looks almost the same as on maximum and runs fantastic. 
 I ran this game on both a hardcore gaming machine on maximum settings, and your basic office computer 
 on low settings. Both ran great.
  
  Next, the blend of RPG and FPS. Many believe that this game is not the right blend of the RPG and 
 FPS genres. Although this isnt the BEST of what is to come, it is the first game of its kind and 
 pulls off what it promised. The game has an open ended persistent world with the best A. I. I have 
 ever seen populating it. THere is an extremely fast paced first person shooter set in an open world, 
 thats why S. T. A. L. K. E. R is so amazing.
  
  The A. I. is about as smart as your average human player. WHich is pretty sad, but still true. They 
 hide, use cover, flank, and even provide each other covering fire. The amazing thing for me is 
 that your enemies will actually try to sneak up on you. I can never forget that time when I was 
 looking at a peculiar sight in the distance and when I zoom out I see a red dot RIGHT behind me 
 on my radar. When I swing around, there is a bandit behind me with a knife and if I hadnt caught 
 him I would have been stabbed. That displays to me that there is a good future in artificial development 
 technology.
  
  As for the open endedness of the world itself, the game is split into several areas. Each area 
 is quite large, though you can run clear across it in only a couple of minutes. As for quests, 
 there are many side quests from almost any character you encounter. Most have to do with disposing 
 of something or another or hunting down artefacts. The main quest itself is actually extremely 
 easy to get into and get going in, and before you know it, you will be armed to the brim with machine 
 guns and such, just having the time of your life.
  
  Lastly, we have technical problems. The most apparent problems to me are the problems with dialog. 
 Sometimes it can take up to 5 clicks on a button to actually have it respond. THe biggest problem 
 though is that the conversation will sometimes just cut off suddenly and the lack of voice acting 
 for everything makes it impossible to ever see that statement again. Other than those, I havent 
 really encountered any issues.
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R is a really great game that is largely misunderstood. Enjoying this fantastic piece 
 of art is all in the mind and how you go about playing the game. I would recommend S. T. A. L. K. E. R 
 Shadows of Chernobyl to any fan of both the first person and role playing genres!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-ACE
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Oh yeah! You must have gotit. The game IS B. E. A. U. T. Y. with all the Awesome Duties. (UH uH srry 
 for such lines...)
  But then Everyone wanted Hybrid of HL2 and FarCry.
  
  Seriously open ended, and intresting 10 - 20 Hrs play, Descent huge Playground, Smart Enemies (Really 
 smart, I did say.) and how did i even forget mentioning Mutants. The Real Deal.
  Just imagine 100 rounds and fighting against mutating stray dogs, under radioactive environment, 
 trust me. Its difficult to guess who is Hunter &amp; W. H. O. is being Hunted. Technically i havent 
 found any problems with Vista ( till Now)
  
  Then guess what, For the first time in my life i have taken up a wrong decesion in a game and ended 
 up with unsatisfied ending. I say good for a change.
  
  Statutary Warning:- Game is only survival base game, Stratergies should be made every time regarding 
 any condition.
  
  ANd then Gr8 Thnx to develepors for have a games where no place is safe for long... until unless 
 one is planning to play hide &amp; seek then, Tom &amp; Jerry.
  
  Over all very succesful, experiment with such a Survival theme.
  
  and then multiple ending 
 is one best reason for its replay-ability. Different ending different story..
  
  Over and Out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahetulla
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 23, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  STALKER is deserves a bit of a pat on the back. I was immersed into the game right away wondering 
 what was going on. The 3d environments are great! Lots of chaos and unknown in the beginning until 
 you start moving through the game. After about 30 minutes it reminded me of Fallout yet set in 
 3d. This is where the game lost some of its luster, meaning no original idea here. Yet I loved 
 the shootouts with bandits and the AI is quite good. I'd love to see a bit more blood and gore 
 in the game, yet I am avid 3d shooter and that is my taste.
  The game overall has substance and is playable for hours. I have to say I am interested in staying 
 up and solving it. Great graphics as well. I wish I didn't have to keep running back to the Trader 
 all the time, yet you learn to start making your own stashes. Good job THQ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luthorcrow
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Stalker should have been a great game given the years in the pipeline. Normally I think Gamespot 
 gives a pretty accurate review but in this case, I want to know who got the payola? Honestly to 
 giving this game an 8.5 would take blinders or a fat wade of cash.
  
  That said the game is not terrible but it misses the mark of great by a wide margin. But here is 
 the big WARNING. Here is what will separate those who like stalker from those that hate it (folks 
 like me that are in middle are likely to be rare) , patience. If you are not a patient player, skip 
 this game. You die many cheap deaths. There will be many points of frustration. Its a game for 
 the patient and the old.
  
  Good
  1) Large open environments
  2) Mix of RPG and FPS
  3) Excellent feel and mood.
  
  Bad
  1) Most dialog is presented as text. Pre-2000 you could 
 forgive this in a game but in the post 2000 era that lack of production values is not forgivable. 
 It simply breaks the immersion in the game environment to read rather text than hear dialogue.
 
  
  2) No damage feedback. The only indicator you receive of damage is your health bar on the HUD dropping. 
 Its is a standard in today's FPS that you should get a visual and audio cue that you are being 
 hit. To have to keep glancing at a health bar to know if you have been hit breaks immersion and 
 is clumsy game play.
  
  3) Because all of the colors are washed out an almost everything is a shade of brown, it can be 
 hard to spot enemies from the environment. Also because foe and friend basically wear the same 
 outfits, FF can be hard to avoid.
  
  4) Tilt. The fire fights like any feeling of versicle feel.
  
  5) Russian dialogue. I don't 
 speak Russian and 90% or more of the folks that play this game don't. Not being able to understand 
 what is being said in the ambient environment is very annoying. This should have been an English 
 only option like BF2.
  
  6) Difficult. Sometimes the game can be annoyingly difficult on some of the tasks. To be honest, 
 I play most games on the hardest setting and don't die much. I have been forced to play this game 
 on Veteran and I have died more than the last 3 FPS put together and I have only played the game 
 for a few hours. This wouldn't be annoying if is was the gun fights that were hard but I found 
 myself dying just trying to use my anti-radiation tools to grab a backpack off a crashed truck 
 or retrieve a backpack from a fallen stalker. Some of the radiation zones are little quick to kill 
 your character.
  
  7) Poor inventory system. The inventory system is ripped directly from RPG games. The problem is 
 these same games allow you to pause during the action and do inventory management while not being 
 attacked because the game is paused. This being a FPS that is not possible. You only have two weapon 
 slots so if you find you need a different gun than the two on hand, good luck on hiding behind 
 a truck during the combat to switch. The same if you need other equipment. In a FPS everything 
 needs to be at the touch of an assigned key.
  
  8) No future for MP. The guns are pretty inaccurate as others have mentioned. As a SP this not 
 a big deal because REAL guns are not as accurate as portrayed in most FPS. But for MP, guns needs 
 to be accurate for comp play. At best it might fuel a short lived casual play but the MP has no 
 gas because of the combat engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrb45
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I like the idea of a world to explore. Not just a series of levels thrown together. this alone 
 was enough to make me purchase the game. But I have a pretty Powerful machine. I play games like 
 FEAR, Doom 3, Quake 4, Battlefield 2 and Many others that use shaders and normal mapping, lighting 
 and shadows far more complex than this games on max resolution without any problems. But this games 
 Crashes when i set it to anything but the lowest settings. Hell it crashes on the lowest settings 
 when i try to use my PDA or change weapons. The developer should never have released this game 
 in the state it is in now. I for one am tired of the PC game industry pushing games out the door 
 before they are ready so they can patch them later. Im a customer not a beta tester. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auntbessie
Rating: 2.3
Date: Mar 28, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  Well well, I could be accused of not giving this game a chance but I've come to expect a lot more 
 from FPS's nowadays. I know this game was started way back when mullets were cool but it failed 
 to light a fire up my arse like I expected from the somewhat misleading Gamespot review (which 
 I always pay great attention to) . I didn't even get to an hours gameplay before the bugs had irritated 
 me too much to continue, the graphics can only be described as dated and pretty ropey looking in 
 all honesty.
  
  I pre-ordered this over 6 months ago because I was convinced it was going to be good, that opinion 
 never changed until today when it arrived on my door step and promptly let me down. What a disaster, 
 the whole game has a very unfinished look and feel to it, it doesn't run nicely despite the fact 
 that my pc has a very meaty spec. It's clunky and riddled with bugs which given the time they've 
 had to develop it should have been ironed well and truly flat by now. I consider myself to be pretty 
 decent at FPS's, this game made me feel like I had parkinsons, I couldn't hit a thing, it was like 
 playing pin the tail on the donkey with a sodding gun
  
  It seemed like an altogether very attractive idea for a game, but I get the impression that the 
 designers spent so long dicking around with bizarre plot and large scale environments that they 
 forgot about actually making a game that was any good. Gamespot reckon it's dated by a few years 
 - too feckin right it is if by a few they mean about quarter of a century. Comparing this to HL2 
 is an insult, that game still looks pretty tidy compared to some of the **** that gets put out 
 now. Stalker is very forgettable, I have no interest in playing it any further, the only sad thing 
 is that I registered the cd key online and now it won't be worth a toss to sell on ebay.
  
  I have an idea the developers went on a massive pissup for 5 and half years with the money they 
 got to make it, then spent the last 6 months knocking together this bollocks. The metal box is 
 nice, about all it's got going for it to be honest. 25 quid of mine has been flushed down the bog 
 with a nice big steamy turd, totally lame, a real let down. Do yourself a favour - save your money.
 
  
  N. B - After a second attempt I dislike it even more. I would like to add that this game has a unique 
 way of returning to windows - namely crash the whole **** thing and start the pc up again. MASTERFUL, 
 stroke of brilliance, I did not sell half my possessions to buy a top of the line Alienware to 
 pollute it with nobcheese like this. Even the simple things don't work it would seem, quit to windows 
 you say? No chance, uninstalling it right this minute, I've lowered the score some more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuPeR_InFeRn0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  We have been waiting for stalker for quite a while now.... was it worth the wait?
  Yes.
  
  Is it a good game? Yes. Why?
  Because it adds some real nice editions to the genre such as 
 some very nice ambient weather effects and all the sounds sound wonderful, the graphics are not 
 perfect and your gonna need a fairley decent pc to run this game on everything full but the lighting 
 in this game is superb, best use i've seen in lighting so far to date. (but graphics aint everything.) 
 and this brings me to gameplay, the gameplay is very much like the oblivion games only this game 
 you've got guns, and the guns respond pretty well, although it can be frustrating at times if your 
 new to this genre as the guns react in a realistic way, for example the guns will jam or overheat. 
 but this does not get in the way of gameplay much, it actually adds some tense moments. so to come 
 to my conclusion of this review as it's already pretty long, i must say this game is definetley 
 worth a try!!
  
  ==========
  My Review.
  ========== 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lizard_1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Despite what other weird people say, these graphics are actually O. K., especially on highest. Soft 
 shadows, paralox mapping, other sm 3.0 effects... IF you complain about the graphics, you can die. 
 Gameplay, imagine Oblivion with guns and... creepy atmosphere and whole new story. That's STALKER. 
 Game is so good, that I am going to replay it to experience anything I missed. Oh and..... the 
 game is freaky xD. I literally jumped when I first saw snorks and the blood suckers. There were 
 also some enemies which were extremely annoying... like the poltergeist which you can't even see 
 but they can see you and throw physical objects at you (boxes, barrels, etc...) . The sound was 
 horrible (In my opinion) and there are still a few Russian voiced NPC's that scream out gibberish 
 in battle. I got to learn Russian some day, lol.
  
  But overall, this game is worth playing! But make sure you do as much possible, going for the main 
 quest only will just bore you... (Oh and if you are a new to FPS or like... suck at it, don't play 
 this unless you want to get raped in the 1st quest) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pogintx
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I have played through the first two levels. I find the graphics to be ok, however I'm running an 
 ATI X1900GT. The game also at times halts or studders; have noticed the lightning strikes causes 
 the game to drag. Weapons are ok, but you really need to learn how to access each one of them through 
 the items menu and activate them. I haven't tried the multiplayer areas as of yet, I kind of want 
 to get the feel of the game before attempting this. I do like the fps and roleplaying combination. 
 My opinion of the game may improve as I continue to play through the levels. I will submitt another 
 review as I progress through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insanob
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  This game is an achievement on the part of GSC, and I'm glad to see it has finally been released. 
 Despite the fact that they may have bit off more than they could chew with their promises (vehicles, 
 etc) , they still turned out a wonderful game that does not fail to impress me.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  This game takes a lot of great roleplay and action elements, and turns it 
 into an exciting game. Personally, I have not encountered any bugs (though I see many people have) , 
 and I find the gameplay to be very stable. The free roaming environment really gives you a lot 
 of options here, and it's a great choice. The only thing stopping me from giving it a perfect review, 
 is that the enemies seem to be a bit overpowered as far as what they can take. An amazing ballistics 
 system comes with this game, but the hitbox system leaves something to be desired. Unless you're 
 shooting someone in the head, it is very difficult to take someone down near the beginning, and 
 even farther along. The inaccurate weapons at the start don't help much, but as you move along 
 to bigger and better things, this problem goes away.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  True, the graphics on this game are a bit out of date, but they still manage to sneak in a few 
 surprises here and there. The lighting system is absolutely gorgeous, and the way the enemies and 
 people are designed is great. The anomalies are a great example of the graphics, however, bringing 
 in interesting screen effects and great style.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  The sound in this game is good. What more can I say, the ambient noises of dogs, people, wind, 
 etc and great, and I have no complaints.
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  At $40 this game is a steal.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  I have always been a fan of roleplaying 
 games, and more importantly, post apocalyptic games. This is the closest I can get to Fallout 3 
 for awhile, and it does not disappoint.
  
  Overall Score: 9.0 Superb
  
  Play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  I can't remember any game generating as much controversy in the forums as STALKER, and for good 
 reason. Having been announced before the days of Source and Half-Life 2, STALKER was going to be 
 the end-all of definitive PC gaming, taking players inside the radioactive graveyards around Chernobyl. 
 Fast-forward four years, and the technology is lacking but the killer gameplay remains. There is 
 one glaring piece of STALKER which befuddles me; it runs so poorly on modern PCs, how did they 
 expect to release this years ago? My computer, while not top-notch, runs everything from Company 
 of Heroes to FEAR on maximum settings with no performance issues. STALKER, with a dilapidated engine, 
 chugs merrily along at 800x600 like Jedi Knight ran on my Pentium 133MHz. Luckily, the worst passes 
 within the first minute or two of each area, but those first few moments are very frustrating. 
 Otherwise, STALKER delivers on its potential in ways other games (read: Soldner) failed miserably. 
 A main griping point, and one which generates the most Love it/Hate it feelings is the combat. 
 Those expecting a run and gun game looks elsewhere, because STALKER is every bit as tactically-demanding 
 as Rainbow Six: Vegas. The AI is spectacular and will force you to outhink and out-flank your enemies 
 before they do the same to you. A great feature is that you will stumble upon frequent AI vs AI 
 battles which increase the ambience and make for a great ride. RPG elements are well-done, although 
 admittedly, I'm not very far into the game where they will begin to shape my game style. The atmosphere 
 is chilling and grim, and all the settings, from burnt roads to random crumbling factories on the 
 countryside, are fantastic to explore. Random radiation pockets are annoying and too-frequent, 
 but I suppose that is what radioactive wastelands do to you. A final word to the wise: play through 
 the first time on the easiest or second-easiest difficulties, because if you charge in on hard, 
 the AI will destroy you in your first gun battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fratos
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  I was totaly disapointed after playing this game .. it's a total letdown . If you're intending 
 to buy Stalker , just forget about it . GSC said that the zone of chernobyl was suposed to be not 
 limiteded , insted it's divided in levels . U have to shot a guy 20 times until he dies , counterstrike 
 has better sound that this , high requirements for poor graphics . With a bit of colaboration with 
 other companies , GSC would have turned up a very rich institution. It's a shame realy... I've 
 waited 5 years for this game to be realeased . If u want some real RPG at First Person ... play 
 Boiling Point ( out dated graphics but at least you get the fealing of plaing whit pleasure) or 
 TES Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  With S. T. A. L. K. E. R. GSC has really delivered an atmospheric , lively world. Every thing which was 
 said about out this game is almost true to every word.
  Your foes have behavior like real people, they react to you accroding to circumstances.
  The 
 world around you is very atmospheric and lve , even the birds flying high are very realistically 
 doing what they should do.
  The Story is not very strong , but again, any lover of FPS &amp; RPG will like the open-ended gameplay 
 of S. T. A. L. K. E. R , as it surprises you for every quest you do, it is so open ended that you can 
 even sometimes get disorientated.
  There are some neat features available too, like Hunger icon, shakey screen , when you are near 
 death, you wont be able to run too, heavy back pack means, you can't move.
  Simply S. T. A. L. K. E. R. after around 9 years, I finally have found a game , which can be on my PC 
 besides HALFLIFE to be played from time to time.
  
  Happy Hunting S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gahaz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 23, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  I may be biased, im playin this beast on a xps 700 wit dual 512 cards and a dual core proc, but 
 i have had only one moment were the game tried to lock up after i changed the grass settings, wich 
 i reccommend, having the grass density turned up to maximum can freak the game out and it makes 
 it hard to see the lil puppies that will try to eat you! The AI really is something to behold, 
 moving with each other, getting help, and using cover are just a few things that the enemy stalkers 
 do, not to mention the animals that will work as a pack circle around you and run at the sound 
 of a gunshot if one of thier own have been shot before. It really captures a bit of the Living 
 World aspect that Oblivion had, not as well but it really tries. And as Gamespot said the flash 
 light is something to behold, the most stunning pull off of such a small feature that i have ever 
 seen, and to boot, no flash light batteries. The only drag on the gameplay is that there is no 
 fast travel, after you compleete a mission you have to hoof it back to the giver, and the fact 
 that there is not enough to spend yo cash on. If you complete the side quests as you go you will 
 quickly stash a large amount of cash, but you will find that it is hard to find anything to blow 
 it on! All in all its a great experience if you skip the bare bones multiplayer. If you are starved 
 for a shooter and are waiting for Half Life 2: Episode 2 this will kepp you busy for awhile, like 
 10 hours total. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeon_Crane
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  Graphics and gameplay are tops in this game. The firefights are so amazing that you want to retry 
 situation to kill as cleanly and efficiently as you can. Ammo is rather scarce when you get out 
 in the field so accuracy and tactics are a must..
  While this game is still a bit buggy, it has 95% of it's sh*t together. The world is just amazing, 
 and the other stalkers, animals enemies and monsters interaction with you and the world is truely 
 unique. This game is more than worth its $40 price tag. I highly recomend this title if you like 
 indepth, action gaming. Takes some getting used to the controls, but once you do your are in for 
 a ride. Be sure to save often :) .
  
  Update: This game just keeps getting better and better. I turned down the screen resolution a bit 
 and it made the game incredibly smooth. It became so smmoth infact that I restarted on a higher 
 difficulty level. Now it is incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totedoggy69
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 23, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  I spent 40 dollars on a game that coulda shoulda woulda, but failed miserably. I must admit, my 
 machine is dated and my card could use an upgrade at this point in time... but even when I took 
 my copy of the game to a friend's house and attempted to play it on an Alienware and had a NEW 
 set of bugs all together... It started with choppy frames per/sec during the opening dialogue of 
 the game and the switch from inside to outside. After accepting my first mission, and not clearly 
 understanding just what I was supposed to be doing, I made my way out into the world of... yellow 
 skies and tree collision horizons. OK... so I closed out and tried messing with settings, new Nvidia 
 graphics card update. Restarted, resumed play --- Crash again after same dialogue. I spent about 
 two hours begging for this game to come to life on two different computers. On the ALienware, the 
 collision was gone, but I got buggy sounds. The first time I fired my pistol the game locked up. 
 After completing my first mission, well, when I went to turn it in for my due reward of a (jellyfish??) 
 the game crashed. Reloaded, tried again, got gunned down by the stalkers in town. Frustrated, angry 
 and swoll as all hell I uninstalled and attempted to take this broken P. O. S. back to Target, HOPING 
 they'd understand and put some new plastic on it and just give me my money back -- but no. Stupid 
 rules about piracy, give me a flipping break. Either way, I was elated that the game had finally 
 arrived, and I wanted to love it so bad, but alas, it wasn't meant to be for me. Hopefully someone 
 else out there is having a good time with it without the bugs. ^^ The Soviets constantly jibbering 
 in Russian gets pretty annoying pretty damned quick too, imo. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reef
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  After all the hype of this game within the last 2 years I was expecting it to be a great game . 
 Starting with graphics they are a little out dated but still look great , the sound is even better 
 .Sounds great with a good surround sound setup.
  
  The game play is done very well there are a few flaws but thats to be expected with almost any 
 new game . The story line is very thin and they took out driving for some reason ,that is the only 
 down fall other then that the game is a must have to add to your collection . Great game and def 
 worth the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mpchitown
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:20 am PT
Review:  I knew very little of the numerous delays sorrounding this game, but I am glad that it has finally 
 come. It reminds me of a Fallout inspired world, that is enjoyable although sometimes confusing 
 at the same time. I really enjoyed the realism in combat, but was dissapointed with the weapons 
 distrbution, particularly in the last parts of the game. But it could have been simply the way 
 that I was playing. Make sure to devote plenty of time to exploring to truly appreciate this game 
 becaue the main quest can be short. I would definately reccomend this game and if you purchase 
 it I am sure you will trouble putting it down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dragon_Hunter-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  Plunge into the world of the Zone, and be amazed and horrified by it's wonders. This game is just 
 as much a work of art as it is a game, and the time it has taken to develop is well worth it. It 
 should be said already from the start however, the out of the box edition has no support for Windows 
 Vista (Though supposedly there's comming a patch for that soon enough.) .
  
  You take the role of a stalker, a scavanger armed to the teeth. And the life of a stalker is an 
 interesting one. While you, the Marked One, is quite active, most stalkers life is not only about 
 killing enemies, grabbing loot and getting shot. They also have an apparent interest in sitting 
 in small groups around a fire, smoking, chatting, drinking and playing guitar.
  
  First of, let's start with the gameplay.
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R isn't for those faint of heart. Becouse 
 while the difficulty if very varied, it ranges from rather easy to damn hard, it usually leans 
 towards the later. Also, this game is a rather even mix of RPG and FPS, and i'll adress both separately.
 
  
  First off, the RPG part of the game. Now, some might wonder, If it's an RPG, where's the skills/level/exp 
 etc? . The answer is simple. While those are systems used by most RPGs out there, they aren't a 
 must for all RPGs. What makes a RPG a RPG is the freedom to act out a characters as you envision 
 him. And that's exactly what S. T. A. L. K. E. R does. In fact, it does it better than most other games 
 out there.
  
  Now, the FPS part. First off, the ballistics are far more realistic in this game than any other 
 game to date (Atleast there are no well known games with equally realistic ballistics, though there 
 might exist.) . The only part about it that isn't very real, is the actual damage the weapons do. 
 But ofcourse, that's for gameplay purposes. It'd be hell to take on more than one enemy at once 
 if every hit is likely to kill you.
  
  One of the things this means is the accuracy. Hitting a target far off with a pistol is next to 
 impossible in real life, and the same goes for the world of S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Wind, recoil, gravity. 
 Those are just three parameters that affect the bullets trajectory. This means that even if you're 
 using the iron sight, and have it perfectly square on the enemy's head, it might still hit the 
 body, or miss completely.
  
  This also means that firing in full auto at anything else than point blank range is a waste of 
 ammo, and ammo is something that doesn't exist in ample supply. This is what could best be described 
 as a Survival RPG With FPS Interface.
  
  The AI, known as A-Life, is simply amazing. The enemies will move between cover, hide in bushes, 
 lean out and fire a few shots, and then hide again. Larger engagements with AI characters at both 
 sides can take several minutes, especially early in the game when everyone got rather worn out, 
 old firearms. They'll also try to sneak around you, and there's no quicker way to meet your demise 
 than to allow an enemy with a shotun to flank you.
  
  Now, considering the difficulty of the game, it's a bit suprising that there's no quicksave function, 
 but that will hopefully be adressed in future patches.
  
  On to the graphics we go.
  
  The graphics in this game seems underestimated by most. Sure, everything isn't as smooth looking 
 as you'd expect from a game released in 2007. However, the detail of everything, from the high 
 detail textures to the special effects, is astonishing. There really isn't much more to say.
  
  And the sound. Everything from the sound of gunfire to the growl of a bloodsucking mutant is 
 top quality. Most non-story dialogue is delivered in text only, but that doesn't really hurt the 
 game. Sure, fully voiced dialogs are pretty much commonplace these days, but it isn't necessary. 
 And it might be worth adding that all non-story chatter in the game is spoken in russian, which 
 adds a great deal of atmosphere. And so does the guitar playing stalkers you often find around 
 the fireplaces.
  
  Value, now, that's probably the strongest point of this game. I've played for roughly 30 hours, 
 and while i've completed the game as a loner (Not joining a faction) , it feels like i've barely 
 scratched the surface. I'm already working on a second playthrough, and i estimate that there will 
 be more of those in the future. Considering the insane amount of work that has gone into this title, 
 that's not a big suprise.
  
  There are around seven different endings, where two of the endings are considered desirable. Yeah, 
 that means that the Marked One can work his ass off, and still be screwed over in the end of the 
 game. It shouldn't be hard to figure out what leads to what when making you're choices however.
 
  
  All in all, i dare say this is one of the biggest releases so far this decade, and probably one 
 of the best ones, since this game is truly in a class by itself. It makes a brave move towards 
 joining two very popular genres. And while many will be dissapointed, since this isn't the type 
 of game that suits everyone, even those who doesn't like it should be able to admit that it's concept, 
 or atleast it's technical aspects, are great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Throstle
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  I can't play the game more then 5 minutes and it crashes! Crash after crash after crash. And not 
 just a little crash. We are talking hold the off button for 3 seconds and reboot from scratch. 
 I have a decent system too. Meets all the specifications. I tried to take it back to gamestop. 
 They said no way, so now I'm screwed out of hard earned cash. Just preying for the patch to fix 
 it all. The graphics really do look dated. The people don't look that realistic. Dialogue with 
 people is read out of a pop up box. What bugs me is I saw the video review saying how awesome the 
 game was but I don't think they did there homework. They should have said it was a bugs nest. Last 
 time I trust a video review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard763
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  STALKER is this kind of game that fails to deliver because it has been over-hyped.
  
  Graphics are just above average. Sound is correct. Gameplay is a mixed bag, the RPG elements are 
 great, but the shooting parts are really nothing special. Oh and FPS n00bs can already delete this 
 one from their wishlist, this game is hard, even on Beginner. Personnaly, I really didn't get into 
 this bizarre world of STALKER. Chernobyl and mutants ? Story is poorly tell and didn't made me 
 feel I was in a middle of something big. Verdict: FPS fans may want to check this one out, but 
 others should stay away, there's better FPS out there. I almost forgot, STALKER crash more often 
 than not on Vista and it's a real shame to let go a game that unstable almost two months after 
 Vista release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themesmith
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 27, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  So save your green for something else I like the game but the constanent crashes drive ya nuts 
 and its not a simple crash its the good old reset button to the rescue the accuricy of the guns 
 suck this is Russia were are the ak47s the old 5.56 round is garbage in real life too good old 
 30 cal anytime the graphics are on the dated side the voice overs stink you can tell the speaking 
 Russian if the game had more of a choice of weapons it would be a little better but the crashes 
 need to go need a patch I belive finally a patch on http://www. stalker-game. com/en/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megadupek
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Yesterday I went to a local store to check if S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is out. I couldn't find it, but then 
 a guy came out with a little trolley full of Stalker copies. Hmm... I thought: I waited so long 
 and now I have a copy of it in my hand. I turned it, looked at the screenshots on the back of the 
 package and decided to buy it!
  
  I dont't regret it! It' really really great stuff... after the first mission where I had to attack 
 some bandits in a garage near the village I have to say that I'm very impressed by the game. Awesome 
 graphics and it runs so smoothly on my Athlon 2600+/GF6800/1GB! with Medium Quality settings. Amazing!!! 
 The atmosphere is so deep that I feel like being in Russia. The mixture of role playing elements 
 is very cool as well. Well done!!!
  
  One thing that I need to mention here is that the game doesn't like heavily overclocked Graphic 
 Cards like mine. I had to go down a little bit with the overclocking settings to run Stalker.
 
  
  To everyone who waits on Crisis or another game: Don't wait! Buy S. T. A. L. K. E. R. today. You won't 
 regret it. Really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is so bad I dont know where to start. The graphics were supposed to be better than any 
 game seen yet. Im sorry but this game looks like it was released 5 years ago. Far Cry looks way 
 better than this game and that came out like 3-4 years ago. The voices in the beginning of the 
 game are out of sync and during the game you dont even get voiceovers. You get crappy dialogue. 
 This is like a crappy attempt to mix role playing with a FPS but for some reason you dont even 
 get a gun to start. You get binoculars. You are lucky if a wild boar or dog doesnt kill you to. 
 Please stay away from this game.
  
  Graphics
  Ugly! I have a super computer and not even it could make this game look good.
  
  Sound
  What 
 sound? Some bushes make noise in the wind. A few dogs bark. Thats about it.
  
  Value
  No value in this one. Sell it on Ebay or Craigslist before word gets out about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neil108
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I have played many games trust me, i started with wolfenstein back years ago. And this has to be 
 the most annoying game that God could have possibly created. I literally have to save almost every 
 2 seconds, because the enemy AI kills me without question. Plus it is so dark at times, i cannot 
 see enemy soldiers at all. The annoying factor is there hardcore. If it were 2 years ago, i might 
 have put up with this garbage. But i will not. I have to save the game every 2 seconds because 
 the enemy literally kills me with a freakin shotgun from about 20 feet away, and that is a HUGE 
 annoyance. I played fear. That was fun. But i just do not think the first person shooter world 
 is ready to merge with the role playing game world. I cannot in the life of me, be so frustrated 
 by this game. For one, the graphics are very aged at best. The thing that bothers me the most is 
 the actual combat with enemy characters. I literaly put head shot after head shot, and no response 
 from the freakin enemy. And trust me, it is no oblivion, at least in oblivion you had voice dialogue 
 in every situation. Do not expect that here. It very much reminds me of fallout, remember fallout? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stover197
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I believe the setting and atmopsphere are excellent for this game, but the fighting is way to repetitive. Kill 
 5 and 10 come to the funeral' it seems to me like your fighting to replace the ammo you wasted 
 fighting the battle you were just in.
  There omly seem to be about 3 different weapons in each zone so after a few fights you are not 
 going to find any thing new. i know it's not a rpg but there seems to be no reward for fighting, 
 except to pick up ammo for your next drawn out gun battle.
  i coudn't wait to get the game and im still trying to sift through the bugs, quest problems, and 
 lock ups.
  I suggest you try it for yourself. but if you have the willpower buy your second choice in game 
 and wait for improvements to this one.
  i can't get my computer restarted fast enough or the game rebooted quick enough after a crash or 
 lockup butt i wish there was something else i was interested in for pc games to take my mind off 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BubbaCheese
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? It's realistic, looks and plays great, and has an atmosphere of mystery and despair 
 like no other game I've played! S. T. A. K. L. E. R. is one of the best game centered around sci-fi realism 
 out there, and it delivers everything it said it would, except for the free roam (a big let down) . 
 The AI and ballistics are superb, the guns are beautifully inaccurate, and it's difficult but fun! 
 I find nowadays that games are too much like an arcade, you can't spend anytime just soaking it 
 all in. But STALKER lets you appreciate something that most games don't; detail. HL2 and Gears 
 of War may have all the detail in the world, but your to bloody busy dodging bullet or looking 
 for cover. It's not realistic at all. And for everyone out there complaining about food and bullet 
 calibers and so on, your complaining about the realism, so go play your DOOM 3's and your crap 
 shoots, and let us soak in the beautiful light of STALKER...
  
  Oh yeah, and for the ending, (which I haven't reached) If you don't like how you character ended 
 up, then replay it differently! don't give up because I guarantee that there's at least one good 
 ending out there.
  
  This game deserves credit on so many levels, so everyone keep on STALKIN'!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad0260
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This game treats the player like an RPG player and not a run and gun junkie. In the first 15 minutes 
 of gameplay I got myself into a shoot out and was dead pretty quickly. At times it did feel like 
 shooting at the bad guys didnt do anything but they went down eventually. There needs to be a feedback 
 of some sort if the bullet hits the target or not. Things like that dont make this game any less 
 awesome than it is. Also, the developers shouldnt stop developing just because the game is out. 
 There is always room for patches. I see this becoming a sort of a modders classic, rather than 
 a big mainstream blockbuster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I spent almost 2 hours last night trying to tweak the graphics. My system:
  
  Pentium 4 : 3gHz
  1 Gig Ram
  Nvidia 6600 GT.
  
  I ran this bastard at 1024 X 768 with everything 
 on full EXCEPT FOR THE DAMN DYNAMIC LIGHTING SETTINGS and it ran like a dream.
  
  Here is a HUGE problem. The game is a horror/sci fi game. If you use the Static Lighting option, 
 then your comps will run like a dream. Unfortunately, the Static Lighting option renders your torch 
 useless. As in, IT DOESN T WORK!!!
  
  There better be a patch for this, because it get's pretty dark when you start wandering the corridors 
 of buildings and tunnels etc.. Now, the game itself..
  
  To cut the long story short, this so far looks like Fallout meets Oblivion. Now let's get this 
 straight right now that this idea is just pure platinum on all fronts. We are talking about a concept 
 that can be the best one so far in computer gaming. But there is something slightly odd about the 
 game physics that feels a bit strange. The strategic FPS action is awesome but there is a bit of 
 a Deus Ex touch there which I didn't really like that much. In saying that, the overblasted Doom 
 3 game can still eat my ass and I will accept the new touch they have in these latest technological 
 achievements in Stalker. After all, the programming code in this is pretty huge with cross genre 
 styles attached ie; FPS and an odd hybrid Roleplay elements and this is the games strong point. 
 The story? Well yeah, I think if you really want the thick of this story to embedd in your head 
 then you will have to do quite a bit of reading. The PDA is your friend in this area with all the 
 messages that you can sift through and the interesting mysterious characters in your contact lists. 
 But the real story lies in the manuals provided. I got myself the collectors edition and that gave 
 a few more goodies to spice things up a bit, but the reason why I like this game so far is the 
 fact that the mystery does intrigue you to keep exploring and learning it as you go. I can't say 
 much for the overall ending because I haven't got there yet and even if I did, I wouldn't want 
 to spoil it for you ;)
  
  Overall, it's the most interesting game out so far and I will give it a thumbs up! Was it worth 
 the many years of waiting? Too early to tell. But one things for sure, I haven't exploded in my 
 pants just yet.
  
  THQ, hurry up with the lighting patches. Dynamic lighting even at the lowest settings still make 
 my PC **** itself. I refuse to run around in the dark for too much more.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickel1dol
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This is by no means your typical FPS (or FPRPG) so it's obviously not for everyone. Blending an 
 extremely realistic ballistics &amp; physics model, intense FPS combat and simple open-ended RPG 
 elements all rolled into one sweet package. The AI is revolutionary in terms of its behavior although 
 there's still a couple of kinks here and there that can easily be fixed via patch. No confrontation 
 is ever the same. Due to the intelligence of many of the enemies, the game can be extremely difficult 
 at times.
  
  Excellent graphics, especially in the lighting department. Extremely lifelike visual, especially 
 out in the open with graphics on full (although they can be taxing to your machine) . Sounds are 
 quite good and the simple things that you can hear in the distance add a great touch (such as firefights 
 occuring far away) .
  
  Lots of replayability due to the random tasks, amazing and unpredictable AI and choices you make 
 along the way (what factions do you wanna join up with, etc.)
  
  Overall, an amazing experience with only a few minor bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boby_jinjin18
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I was playing and was well enjoying the game so much that i played it every day untill it all came 
 to an end. when i wanted to continue playing i could'nt not only did the ending suck but can't 
 continue playing, i know there are 8 difernt endings but i do not want to play it again from the 
 beginning. If i can't continue playing after the end of the game. game play is awsome, but the 
 end of the game makes this game horrible. if this game had co-op then this game would get a better 
 rateing. i have nothing against the sound even though it sounds like it was ripped from counter-strike, 
 Graphics arent that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volodnikov9
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Chernobyl, a nuclear power plant within Ukraine (then part of the Soviet Union) was known little 
 by common people outside of the USSR. However, in April of 1986, this all changed when Reactor 
 4 within the plant exploded. What ensued was a massive cloud of radiation that spread from Scandinavia 
 to Turkey. In 2012, you come as a STALKER, a designated treasure hunter, to the 30 km exclusion 
 zone around the Chernobyl Power Plant.
  
  First announced in 2002, STALKER began as a science fiction game. Early concept art and screenshots 
 depict a futuristic soldier and various vehicles. After a year, in 2003 it was announced that STALKER 
 was going to take place around Chernobyl after the nuclear disaster. Since then, the game has experienced 
 delays and financial trouble. Features such as vehicles and co-op were cut out of the game, and 
 as time passed, the once superior X-ray engine was becoming buried in competition. Miraculously, 
 five years later, STALKER is a very fun and addicting game. Combining elements of first person 
 shooters and role playing games, STALKER immerses you within the Zone around Chernobyl, and creates 
 one hell of an authentic experience.
  
  Game-play wise, STALKER is very challenging. The AI doesn't just remain in the same position as 
 in other games, but try to flank you and catch you by surprise. You'll find many moments where 
 the enemy will sneak up from behind and easily kill you. Though there are complaints about an enemy 
 taking 30 shots to the chest before dying, this is an extreme exaggeration. While it takes numerous 
 rounds in the chest to bring down an enemy, one or two well placed shots to the head will drop. 
 Seeing that most enemies wear body armour and leave the head unprotected, it is all a matter of 
 skill. RPG elements also add to the game. Many times you will find yourself needing to conserve 
 ammo, but thankfully you can loot ammo and other items such as medkits and weapons off of dead 
 bodies. In addition to humans, mutated creatures will pose as a threat to you and fellow STALKERS. 
 Using a clever artificial intelligence system known as A-Life , creatures go about their business, 
 hunting in packs, feeding off dead corpses, sleeping, etc. It really adds to the chilling atmosphere 
 that STALKER presents. You will also come across different anomalies that vary in shape and form.
 
  
  Graphically, while not as good as Crysis, STALKER does an excellent job at portraying a radiated 
 and twisted world. The detail is immense, ranging from the cyrllic writing on wrecked buses, to 
 peeling murals upon walls. The weather is dynamic and also includes a day and night cycle. When 
 darkness falls, you can't help but feel helpless against the horrors of Chernobyl. Low-end users 
 do not fret, as the static lighting option runs quite well on 2.0 Ghz, 512 RAM, and a Radeon 9800 
 Pro. While dynamic lighting may look relatively better, static lighting makes the game even grittier 
 and looks nearly equally as good.
  
  Overall, STALKER is an immersive and enjoyable experience. From the seemingly open-ended world, 
 down to close quarters combat within the ghost town of Pripyat, it is a truly memorable experience. 
 As for glitches, I have not experienced any in the time that I've played.
  
  -Volodnikov 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4dee
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is operation flashpoint, diablo, half-life 2, and criminal origins all wrapped up in one 
 crazy broken package. But for some reason i cant stop playing. The AI like they say is good, so 
 good when you shoot or get shot at your stuck fending for yourself for a half-hour. Because other 
 AI hear the shots and come running for you. This sounds like fun but all the while the anomelies 
 are killing your quest npc because they randomly spawn. SMART!
  randomly spawned deaths+killable quest npc's=broken quest. No patch will fix this. Even after 4 years 
 spent on this game. I hate to say it but if this game was never heard of 2 weeks ago and it just 
 came out it would of got a 7 or a 6 just like every other broke next gen game .But dont take it 
 from me, like i said love, hate and anxiety..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanbijl
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Romping through endless coridors, and long linear paths are the usual thing for a fps... but stalker 
 gives you a complete new type of level to be explored... in an action/fps/rpg type hybrid... the 
 so called levels are composed of large zones which are, indeed similar to levels, only bigger, 
 and gives you more freedom as to what to do, and see, and kill. Its not quite oblivion with guns 
 as most people figured it would be, but its a very good concept, because the zones don't seem too 
 terribly big... and difficult to get around in. Not only that the sheer detail they put into the 
 zones is just amazing... every run down building is accessable, and look very accurate to what 
 a run down filthy empty building would look like...
  
  If you havn't followed STALKER for the last 6 years, you wouldn't really notice any of this, you 
 would most likly enjoy the sheer size of the map, and not give a damn about the loading points 
 inbetween zones (ala half-life)
  
  Granted stalker is a sort of open ended game, that provides you with a main quest, followed by 
 side quests to do, it also has a very unique way of handling things... In a way think dues ex meets 
 far-cry meets half-life 2... only with the difficultly level up'ed quite a bit.
  
  Thats right, 6 years of waiting to find out stalker is a very difficult game, which is a break 
 from the usual, go there shoot that person in one hit type thing that most fps's usually do. This 
 game requires strict thought into how you execute the missions, even if it is the same kill this 
 person task, you can choose how you want to take that person out, whether it be day or night... 
 So stalkers definatly for the fps newbie, or the impatient, it is at heart, a very different game, 
 combining a very challenging AI system, that almost gets on your nerves sometimes... The AI can 
 be very hard, but often very trickable. I was just amazed at how they handled going after you. 
 eniemies will flank you, hide behind objects, and wait for you to come around the corners (or so 
 it seems) at some points, factions will have wars against each other all in real time, and you 
 can simplily sit and watch, or go help... its all up to your choices in the game... Never has a 
 game been so atmospheric, the sounds, the sights, are nearly frightining at times, from the almost 
 alone outskirts of towns, and frightful underground complexs, they make up for the oblivion freeroam 
 feature they took out... The sound is definatly the highlight of the atmosphere, its creepy to 
 here the screaming of an oddly mutated creature in the distant, or gunfire far off... or the cries 
 of a fellow stalker who is injured (whom you can dispatch of if you wish, its survival at its best) 
 but not only do the sounds play a role in the game, its the graphics too. Thers alot to the graphics 
 of STALKER, its often been compared to HL2, but fortunatly looks almost nothing like it. The main 
 feature is the dynamic lighting, which makes the game seem darker, and more realistic. Lighting 
 from a rain storm realistically lights up the entire outside area, illuminating any animals shadows 
 in the background, which can make for some creepy moment, especially when your underground in pitch 
 black with only your flash light and the odd screams you here from mutated creatures... Not only 
 do the lighting effects look amazing, but as does the level design... All buildings are accessable, 
 and detailed quite well, they look like they have really been abandoned for years, The game is 
 getting bashed because of the graphics being outdated but its safe to say, its one of the most 
 artistic dirty looking games , which isn't a bad thing... it makes the environments feel real, 
 from the wind that really blows vegetation around, and kicks up dirt, to the unfortunatly anomlies 
 that you encounter throughout the game...
  
  This is indeed a game that relys on gameplay more than the graphics though, its heavy on frustrating 
 the hell out of you, especially with the AI, aiming is a pain in the ass , but once you aquire 
 more weapons you'll be getting the hang of things... Its a different game, and you have to play 
 it to believe it... some may like it other may not... but its no halo, you don't run around and 
 shoot things, you have to take a slower approach, and I don' think many will realise this off first 
 hand.
  
  In short... STALKER is definatly my pick of best game of the year... its fun, it draws you in, 
 it has a lack of any realy story but makes up for it in gameplay... it may not be the most next 
 gen pc game out there right now, but it sure as hell will scare you when you start fighting the 
 mutants... buy it if you love slower paced, more tactical PC shooters... the only issues I had 
 were that I couldn't connect to a multiplayer game (it crashes to my desktop) and the npc models 
 look alittle dated, but besides that, its my favorite as of now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoggington
Rating: 3.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Oh lord, this game was supposed to be so good. Even got good reviews from this here web site. I 
 was so excited to try it! In my opinion this game has some of the worst gameplay you'll find anywhere 
 on any platform. It's clunky and has a horrid inventory system, pre-Halflife 2 graphics, shooting 
 the guns is not fun at all... they seem very weak and aiming is really bad. First off is the mix 
 between role playing and first person. If you're going to one, then please don't do the other. 
 The inventory system is so silly in this game, I don't want to pick up cans of tuna and sausage 
 rolls for my health. Also the whole, what ammo goes with what gun thing. When I have 1000 rounds 
 of various ammo, why am I always running out of bullets? When I pick up bullets from some corpse, 
 how about those bullets just going directly into my ammo counter instead of that silly backpack. 
 They really need to streamline or do away with the role playing style of inventory.... In an FPS 
 when the crap hits the fan, whats better than having to go into you're backpack to see what you 
 need to click on..... HORRIBLE. This game is NO WHERE near high quality. Congrats to GSC on using 
 their own X-ray engine... but hey my Ukrainian friends, the engine is way outdated. Worse than 
 the engine though is by far the gameplay. I would not recommend this game to anyone.
  
  Peace... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebcdic
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  The game play just rots of missed promises. This is the most linear open world (and that is what 
 most Reviewers are calling it) ever conceived. I also find it funny that traveling from point to 
 point mostly consists of walking down roads, which would make sense since they scrapped vehicles 
 at the last minute. You may refer to this game as an open field fps, but not open world. The Oblivion 
 references I read throughout the web are plain silly. This world in tiny.... The NPCs have absolutely 
 no personality. This is probably a big reason why I feel absolutely no connection with the story 
 line, the NPCs are just so boring and robotic... They just stand there staring off into space, as 
 if I do not even exist. The AI is just silly, and it appears we have been scammed into believing 
 randomness equates to life like. This is not a living breathing world, and again is nothing near 
 the Radiant AI seen in Oblivion, as many posters like to refer to. Your comrades seem to like rushing 
 blindly into gunfire, or standing out is the open while bandits pick em off. It is nice that they 
 move around the world, but again that is just random pathing.... And I wish I could take that damn 
 guitar and crack it over their heads, give it a rest already. And how am I supposed to find the 
 Russian chatter interesting? Is this supposed to add to the atmosphere?? The clownish PDA makes 
 me want to throw my monitor out the window. The awkward inventory makes my eyes bleed.
  
  Graphically the game looks below-average at best. The character models are laughable. Maybe I am 
 spoiled because I also happen to be playing through Half-Life 2 AGAIN, but this game cannot hold 
 a candle to HL2. It is funny too because I hear people making this comparison, which is a great 
 disservice to the boys over at Valve. Oh, and by the way HL2 came out in 2004. What we have here 
 is a game with textures, character models, and rendering techniques that are quite antiquated. 
 They then took this and threw in some new exciting things (oh no, Crysis is on the way) like AA, 
 HDR, EAX, and created a very uneven mess in the process. This time would have been much better 
 served actually polishing the game. There had to be very little optimization done in the final 
 stages, and it shows. Frame rate stutters very regularly which is perplexing, cause the thing don't 
 exactly look like Gears of War... My final point, and biggest deal breaker is the BUGS. What a 
 mess. There are graphical glitches everywhere ( I am still trying to figure out if the grass spazzing 
 out is a glitch or a design decision) . I experienced numerous CTD while saving. The controls seem 
 to be buggy as hell, especially changing weapons. Why does there seem to be controller lag in my 
 single player game? Why does lightning make the sky look like a spider web? Why did the opening 
 cinematic have horizontal lines running through it?
  
  Even at the reduced price, which is probably due to the fact they realized they had a turd on their 
 hands, I regret the purchase. I even preordered the thing... What a kick to the groin
  
  Game Ranking Scores:
  Stalker: 84.4%
  Dark Messiah: 75 %
  Neverwinter Nights 2: 82.2%
  
 
  3 highly anticipated, buggy piles of doo doo. All received good scores. Till reviewers start grading 
 these games fairly, we are gonna continue to receive this kind of crap. It is a disservice to PC 
 gamers everywhere.
  
  And finally some rebuttals:
  Nerd Voice Yeah well maybe you should run it on a machine newer than 1994, your setup SUXORZ NoOB! 
 
  My Specs:
  Dual Core 6600
  4GB Ram
  Nvidia 8800 GTS (640)
  Raid 0, Raptor Drives
  Vista 32 bit
  Nerd Voice Uh huh, Vista! You early adopters get what you deserve... I ain't putting 
 dat crap on my PC 
  I recently got a new PC for running Supreme Commander, and it seemed like as good a time as any 
 to take the Vista leap. Do you realize how many Vista machines are out there? Do you realize how 
 it outsold sales of WII and PS3 combined? Is it OK to release a buggy as hell PS3 game because 
 there are only a couple million units around? Do you still believe this is a small enough demographic 
 to not put any effort into Vista Bug squashing? HL2, Supreme Commander, Company of Heroes, and 
 Titan Quest all run flawlessly on my machine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexkx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  After a few hours of figuring out why* I was experiencing a slideshow after booting up the game 
 for the first time... I was graced with the incredible game experience that is STALKER. I have known 
 about this game for a while, and being a Fallout fan and Quake 2 veteran, I figured this would 
 be the ultimate for me. Quite hillarious how long I waited and don't want to think about how many 
 times I googled STALKER over the pas, but it was all forgivable. Seeing a game from the Ukranian 
 GSC become an international sensation is very very inspiring for a russian. They took fantastic 
 sci fi writers, real conspiracy, and a very strong 3D engine to the top! Finally I have to say 
 it resembles Oblivion in gameplay approach, but it is much more appealing to a reality lover. Very 
 big thank you to GSC! Let's give them support and let them relax, they will definetly give us improvements 
 to this already concrete game!
  
  *my cpu is a 2.2ghz AMD, 1gig RAM, the bareminimum, but graphics card is pcie x850XT running 7.2 
 Catalyst center (display driver 6.14) . The game runs well on maximum 1280x1024 but with Dynamic 
 Lighting -Objects only. Poor performance on this setting was due to old drivers 7.1 catalyst I 
 think, the display driver was 6.10. And also my CPU, which I believe is largely utilized for the 
 Dynamic Lights. A very worthy game for an upgrade however... You have got to see world Dynamic Lights, 
 revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick225
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R: Shadow of Chernobyl is an amazing game, it redefines the FPS genre as much as Half-Life 
 did.
  This game is very open-ended and not at all like traditional first person shooters such as Call 
 of Duty or Halo. At times, it feels more like an RPG, than a shooter. The environments are truly 
 amazing, you will become immersed in the world. Everything from the detail to the AI makes you 
 feel like you are really in a nuclear wasteland. The buildings are missing walls and windows; on 
 some, the ceiling is caved in. Destroyed cars litter the landscape, and of in the distance a group 
 of wild animals feeds on a dead stalker. At one of the many small villages, groups of stalkers 
 wander around, some patrolling, others sitting by the fire talking.
  STALKER has an interesting feature called anomalies; places where there are strange, energy vortex 
 things. If you get too close to these swirling things, you risk getting sucked in. Anomalies litter 
 the landscape, and when they die they produce valuable artifacts that you can sell.
  The graphics of STALKER aren't fantastic, they show some age compared to newer games. In a way, 
 it's a good thing, because the system requirements aren't super huge. You don't need a brand new 
 computer to play this game. I can play on max-detail, 1024x768 with an onboard GeForce 6100, AMD 
 Athlon 4600 x2, and 1GB of RAM. The sounds are amazing though. A lot of the personal conversations 
 between stalkers are in Russian which really adds to the feel of the game. the environmental noises 
 are also good and realistic.
  The AI is also very good. I was amazed, after a firefight, two of the stalkers on your side, sat 
 down by the fire, and one of them pulled a guitar and began to play it. stalkers will take cover, 
 and try to flank you when you attack them.
  overall, STALKER is an amazing game that brings new life into First person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pills2k
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  I have to say I have enjoyed this game so far, i'm about 5 hours into the game. It remindes me 
 of the RPG Fallout but in first person. I like the Russian setting it gives every thing the heavy 
 steel , feel that the Russians are so famous for. I would say by reading the negitive reviews that 
 this is not a game for FPS fans as its open ended non liner story line does tend to confuse the 
 standard FPS fan. However, if you like both FPS's and RPG's then you will enjoy this game. The 
 graphics are a bit dated whish is disapointing however, it kind of makes the game better as it 
 fits with the feel of the game world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dg-sarcophilus
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  Don't be fooled by a flashy 3d intro movie or wonderfull looking zone you play in. Underneath the 
 already outdated grafix is a very thin Storyline, well storyline ? i would not even call it like 
 that.
  
  Don't get me wrong this is a good game but definitly not worth the hype some people are giving 
 it.
  I waited for this game after the first screenshot i saw from it and had quite high expectations. 
 Altho i am not disappointed i feel the game is not even close to big titles like half-life 2 or 
 gears of war. There is nothing innovating about this game and it does not offer anything that has 
 not been done before.
  
  I think they spend way to much time on detailing the zone and forgot about a quality storyline 
 and singleplayer experience. For those that have not finished the game yet this might come as a 
 shock but for those that did finish the game i am 100% sure it was not what you expected of the 
 game. The single player is way to short and the ending ? OMG seriously thats the most stupid thing 
 i have ever seen in all the games i have ever played.
  
  To sum this up:
  This game does not deserve the hype it is beeing given. It has great grafix and gameplay wise it 
 plays quite well. Alot of different weapons and alot of freedom to wonder around in the zone. The 
 singleplay experience is far below what a game should have. Multiplay has alot of potential but 
 its success will depend on the players playing it. If a communty grows this might be enough reason 
 to stick around and play this game some more.
  For those seeking a great single player experience i am sorry to say you will be greatly disappointed 
 unless good grafix is enough to satisfy your needs.
  
  6 years waiting for this game and this is all they can come up with ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yacbos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  the long waited stalker is finally out .
  i adore the fact that am playin in an open world this is simply marvelous you can go wherever you 
 like i didnt even do more then 2 quests in the main story line as i go left n right to get additional 
 stuff
  you can buy weapons , trucks aids all the usual stuff but still you can kill someone and get it 
 for free easier right plus you are a stalker you dont have to buy ;)
  the gfx is realllly nice the colors are just right the lightning is awesome i enjoyed every minute 
 i spent on this game.
  the sounds though arent that perfect for me i mean for my xfi and 7.1 speakers i still dont feel 
 the surround
  the bullets sounds arent made that specific to be felt over the surround something is missing about 
 it.
  the AI is really surprising as i never saw an AI who goes around you and try to hit you in the 
 back even groups get divided so you are in the middle to be an easy prey for them wut i also liked 
 about the AI is the fact that they go get cover to reload their empty weapons thats really a good 
 work.
  about windows vista the game is NOT playable under that windows with my current pc specs and the 
 game took exactly 14 minutes to load the first new game : ( that was sick and even inside the game 
 the engine was like crying and suffering so i had to switch to my old windows xp to play it (what 
 a shame a 2007 game that is already not compatible with vista that gives me a bad feeling about 
 the upcoming games)
  under windows xp the game runs fine
  
  in summary this game is a must if you really like fps
  and THQ plz we need a patch to play this 
 game on vista and to fix some of the sounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_razorback
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I Honestly wanted to enjoy this game, I wanted SO BAD to enjoy this game! Heck, weve been waiting 
 since when... 2001? Thats a long wait! But honestly when push comes to shove I found SO MANY flaws, 
 so many glitches and just enough design and structure errors I literary uninstalled it, deleted 
 the folder, obliterated the icons and threw the darn disc out my three story window! I believe 
 some little old lady passing by took the thing home for her cat to play with!
  
  I can live with the dated graphics, actually they are far better in many ways to Oblivions graphic 
 capabilities. Projected shadows for example give the game tremendous depth. The guns, the few I 
 was able to try before turning the disc into a UFO out my window, were pretty darn nice. It actually 
 feels and sounds like youre firing rifles, pistols and bolts... yes you can throw screws to distract 
 the enemies. The NPCs seem smart, or at least smarter than in many FPS games. They take and fire 
 at you from cover, they try to flank, distract, jump out and surprise you. They will come in close 
 if armed with a shot gun for example. Yes, the NPCs are all right. The scenes seem well designed 
 and elements are placed in a very natural form. I personally would have liked a little more interaction 
 with my surroundings, especially after waiting for half a decade, but oh well... we cant have 
 it all.
  
  My main complaint is how the missions seem to be flawed. You take a mission, complete it, and somehow, 
 by design or glitch, you can attack the same dudes you killed an hour ago. Every time I would pass 
 from one sector to another, and back, the same guys were there and actually facing the direction 
 (waiting for me) I had come from originally. Over, and over... and over again. The missions are 
 honestly stupid and guided by the hand.. Far too simplistic. Go here, kill that, go there, talk 
 to that guy, then come here get this, take it there and back. What am I UPS?
  
  Hidden stashes are sometimes not there and at other times do not disappear from your PDA (the in-game 
 device used to keep track of everything)
  
  The one thing I love about the game is that it feels DESIGNED ON A PC, FOR A PC. None of that damned 
 console, obnoxious, ported-over, cow dung were seeing in far too many PC games lately. The menus 
 are great and well organized. Its easy to keep track of missions... that is, if they work for 
 you in the first place. Some quests you just cant finish. And me, I like to get things done.
 
  
  Thats about it. I was expecting Oblivion with an AK and got Half-Life with Russian actors. Another 
 thing, that annoying Russian babble. Give me a break, I like to know what people are saying behind 
 my back. The NPCs are all Russian, sure, sure, I know, Chernobyl is in what used to be the U. S. S. R. 
 (thanks to the guy that corrected me on this, I had written Russia before) , I know that you imbecile... 
 but the game, I purchased it in the good Ol U. S. of A, buddy!
  
  As John Lear would say... Stay away from the light.. Dont go into the light!. There are anomalies 
 everywhere, they are kind of cool. You can kite an aggressive NPC mutant to run right into one 
 and watch it get sucked into a mini-black hole and spit out in a blast of blood, guts, pixels and 
 teeth! Hehe.. I gotta admit, that was fun! But after a while, anomaly here, black hole there, 
 whirly-wind there.. Cmon... a little too much! Quantum physics and string theory step aside, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 gives you enough alternate universe holes for a lifetime! Then the game boasts free roam gaming... 
 nah, not true. You pretty much need to stick to the storyline or you get your ass kicked into a 
 thousand pieces and thrown back at you into an alternate dimension. The game takes you by the hand 
 all the time, that is, if you want to make it anywhere. And it feels like youre playing in a closed 
 environment, not an open map. For example, when you start out you actually have fences that limit 
 your exploration in certain directions. A pretty lame method of delimiting an area if you ask me.
 
  
  If they would fix the faulty missions, lessen the anomalies a bit, and translate the NPC chatter 
 and expand the maps (I know the latter is very unlikely) ... I may buy this game again. For now, 
 I go back to Oblivion, where at least I can actually roam free, as free as the wind blows, as free 
 as the grass grows... ahem.. Sorry bout that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decon5
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  To all of you who say This game sucks, it's too hard. Wait for cheats. Seriously guys... nut up 
 a bit. What good is a game if it's easy?
  
  Gameplay wise- The game is fun. It's different. You have an inventory and can basically loot and 
 kill anything. If you like the Elder Scrolls series, and if you like FPS style games, this game 
 is for you.
  
  Graphics - A little outdated, yet choppy. Some places in the game lag up and make it hard (er) to 
 aim.
  
  Sound - The voice acting is cool, a lot of random talking adds a more life like environment. Value 
 - The game is worth the price. I'm assuming a patch will come out soon fixing some of the small 
 bugs. Granted I'm not very far into the game (hopefully) but I've already encountered 10+ types 
 of guns.
  
  So to sum it up, check this game out. If you are a hardcore gamer, you'll love it. Even the occasional 
 FPS player will get a crack out of this. And as I stated earlier, stop crying about a hard game. 
 If I had it my way, every game would be hard it makes it more of a challenge, as well as more of 
 an accomplishment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomdelonge0686
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  The Bad :I couldnt wait for this game to come out, I bought it early like a week before anyone 
 and was so let down. The story is good, the graphics are wtf? this isnt next gen material at all. 
 It reminds me of counterstrike 1.6 with better textures. Another thing that bothered me was the 
 hitboxes, most games have a hs. This game haha sadly doesnt : ( this is what killed it for me. The 
 good :With the bad graphics wierd gameplay etc, this game did make a great mood. It made u feel 
 if something like this would happen with military blocking off roads and what not felt real since 
 im in the military. The mutated feeling and how humans would still fighting for power was aweosme. What 
 i mean here is that sometimes ur outpost get over runed and u have to take it back. Overall: Sadly 
 u cant rent pc games, i wouldnt buy it.... or till the price drops. The game wasnt something that 
 kept my interest cuz of the bad gameplay :\.
  
  Im not a picky gamer either, i found myself shooting a soldier or gang member multi times. A good 
 5-8 times. its a fair game! dont let this review discourage u from buying! Im just letting u know 
 that its not all cracked up to be like the trailers. This isnt what i could understand how u could 
 make the trailers so kick ass and the game so off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  I didn't know what to expect having waited so long for Stalker. Would it be good? Great? Or would 
 it simply be another bomb? So I picked up my pre-order with eagerness, took it home, and fired 
 it up right. Having read some previous reviews I was more curious than ever and really wanted to 
 see what it was all about.
  
  When I first fired it up I was very pleased with the decent array of graphics options, which allowed 
 quite a bit of customization. I cranked everything to the max and jumped right in. My system easily 
 handled the settings with no problems at all. After a very interesting start up cutscene, my initial 
 reaction was that graphics were pleasing to the eye and with high resolution textures, very good 
 in certain aspects. I saw texturing that exceeded some of the top games of today, but not in all 
 cases. Nevertheless, the world looked superb. It was gritty, dirty, and felt like the apocolypse 
 I was expecting.
  
  After a quick story intro with one of the main NPCs I was on my way. I took on a few quests, trading 
 a bit of inventory, and spoke with many of the local inhabitants of the zones. I was a little confused 
 by the story at this point, but after a few hours of gameplay, reading PDA notes and speaking with 
 NPCs it all began to come together.
  
  Having set the options to Master difficulty and not knowing what to expect, I embarked on one of 
 the first quests, killing a group of bandits with other stalkers. Was the A Life engine all it 
 was cracked up to be? You better believe it was. After a 10 minute gun battle with local bandits 
 that involved sneaking, hiding, ducking and ambushing I was in awe at just how good the AI was. 
 It actually felt like a gun battle with thinking opponents and not just like an NPC turkey shoot. 
 It was the best AI I had experienced to date without a doubt, hands down. Other areas of the AI 
 were just as good as I watch the world come alive around me. Stalkers fighting it out with the 
 local army, packs of wild dogs chasing down NPCs, and so much more. This AI engine is truly revolutionary 
 and they did deliver on what they promised.
  
  Having spent the last 4 hours playing I must honestly say that Stalker is superb. It's not some 
 tin can pee shooting expose that so many FPS have become. This game is absolutely immersive and 
 draws you into a world that is believable, gritty, stunning, and so much more. Immersive is an 
 understatement. Where so many games have failed Stalker has succeeded. You play this game thought, 
 perserverance, strategy, tactics, and intelligence. Having said that, if it's an NPC crapshoot 
 your'e looking for this is not the game for you.
  
  Sound is fantastic. The noises of the enviroment subdue you and keep you looking over your shoulder 
 wherever you go in anticipation that someone or something is hunting you. I was concerned about 
 the gunfire having read some of the comments, but quite frankly I feel that it's quite good and 
 certainly not a weakpoint of the game. The music score is also fantastic and fits beautifully with 
 the game.
  
  I could go on and on commenting on how riveting the experience has been so far, but I'd rather 
 tell you to pick up a copy for yourself and give yourself a chance to get into this game. You will 
 not be disappointed when you see the approach the developer took and how original Stalker is compared 
 to all of the other FPSs out there.
  
  Anyone who reviewed this and gave it a 3.8 is truly looking for an NPC turkey shoot and not a game 
 that requires brains to play. If you want a brand new FPS/RPG that is truly unique this is it. 
 I congratulate the developer on a job well done. This title was worth the wait and I'm signing 
 off to jump back in.
  
  P. S. Don't forget your flashlight..... you will definitely need it come night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigonthewing
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Well this is definitely it. Sure it lacks polish in some areas. But in others it shines.
  
  Ill start off with what i don't like cause i am that kinda guy.
  
  1. some weird graphical 
 bugs. Rain was causing lots of graphical glitches but this was fixed but taking the full dynamic 
 lighting off. Also grass seemed to go hay wire when coming from inside to outside sometimes. I 
 don't know if this was intentional or not but it doesn't look right its like all the grass is having 
 a seizure but it only lasts a few seconds.
  
  2. The characters seem a bit stiff i found. Not very fluid animations.
  
  3. Side quests can 
 be ok but honestly i see no point in them.
  
  4. Interface elements lack that polish you may expect. Just doesn't work quite right its hard to 
 explain. 5. I miss dialog a lot and have to check my log to see what i missed cause the chat will 
 only be up for a few seconds then it vanishes, i can read fast but not 2 paragraphs in a second.
 
  
  Now these issues are pretty minor. It just doesn't have that smoothness i was looking for in regards 
 to interface and control with it.
  
  Now for what i do like.
  
  1. Graphics. Yes they are fine. It also runs great on my system which is a couple years old now. 
 Cept my video card is a 7800gt. I like the graphics it is bleak which is what i was expecting. 
 2. AI. Yes it is good, sometimes it will do something odd but that is to be expected since there 
 isn't much that is scripted things just happen and its pretty interesting. For example i am in 
 a house with 3 bandits holding me inside then out of no where a pack of boars comes in and just 
 rips one down. I start shooting one of the other bandits safe from the boars since i am upstairs 
 and he goes down. Now the last bandit runs away only to be chased by the boars, and i watch him 
 through my binoculars as the boars take him down. Another moment i am just walking down a road 
 near the beginning of the game and 3 stalkers are camped out under a bridge i pay no heed to them. 
 As i am walking i notice 5 flashlights to my right. A large group of bandits is closing in on the 
 3 stalkers. There are about 8 total. I rush back to the stalkers and a large firefight begins between 
 the 3 stalkers and the bandits i quickly start unloading on the bandits as well and after the fight 
 i am now friends with this group of stalkers. None of this is scripted its just random stuff that 
 can happen. That is pretty amazing for an AI system.
  
  Sure sometimes a guy will just not react to something or does something weird and its to bad people 
 will say out right the ai is bad. It does 99.9% of its job correctly and well the very few times 
 it messes up i can live with since its so rare.
  
  3. Immersion. This game really takes you somewhere thats for sure. Its strange and a mystery which 
 its suppose to be. It truly feels like your in this wasteland area where nobody should be.
  
  4. Combat. I am having some great firefights in this. The way the guns are not perfectly accurate 
 is fantastic it really makes the fights more believable and a lot harder.
  
  This game is fun. So far im highly enjoying it minus a few flaws here and there. I love the setting 
 and the weird quirks here and there such as the guys hauling out a guitar and playing around the 
 camp fire. If you want to try something new this is it. It may not be for everyone. This isn't 
 the fast paced run and gun of gears of war but it doesn't try to be either its a game that forces 
 you to be cautious and aware of your surroundings. Its unique and i am glad a developer had the 
 courage to try something that doesn't fit the genre norm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 3.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  i played with the thing for hours and could not even get a damn hand gun on novice level... so 
 for me this game suks... there are no cheats out yet so for me running around with a med pack as 
 weapon is no fun... unlike other people i'm able to run the game on absolute maximum settings on 
 6600gt + Dual3.1 system and i get excellent frame rate.. in addition the game disables g15 not 
 even the volume control works.. i think its not a coincidence probably they wanted to avoid the 
 use of macros.. so unless your a hardcore gamer that loves near impossible win games this game is 
 not for you... for me its unplayable with out cheats 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunchap
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  If you have lived in a post-USSR country (Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Belorussia, Russia, and so 
 on) you will love this game. It is just like the action is happening in your neighbour facility/factory. 
 The architecture is amazing. And the details are set perfect, like old trucks, cars, tractors and 
 furniture. I haven't been able to play the game on maximal graphics, but i saw some screens from 
 other players that run it on max graphics and I can say that it is just perfect.
  ok i think that the system requirements are a bit too high (some optimisation :) ) .
  The sound 
 is really great, weapon sounds, environment sounds, monster yells it all helps building the atmosphere 
 of this game (just one thing is missing (screeching metal doors : ( ) ) .
  Overall the game was worth the wait. and i will play it a long time :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markiie
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  I am Russian. And it was with great pride and anticipation that I followed this game throughout 
 the whole six years of development. I saw the movie and read the book on which the game is loosely 
 based, hung onto every screenshot that came out, and played the Alpha which leaked out in 2003. 
 Back then the game looked amazing, and if it actually came out about that time, it would have taken 
 the gaming world by storm! But four years is a long time
  
  The game was envisioned as a blend of FPS and RPG, and so to do it justice both genres should be 
 addressed. As an FPS the game does hold water but falls well short of recent offerings like RS 
 Vegas or even Fear. There are no bells and whistles like bullet time, blur effects, or advanced 
 physics. For the promise of a dynamic world the environment is rather static. There are few movable/destructible 
 objects and they rarely get caught in the line of fire. Even with the realistic weapon ballistics, 
 the action simply fails to deliver the fast-paced visceral experience of a modern shooter. As an 
 RPG this game is a resounding failure. With no experience to gain or skills to improve, the most 
 addictive RPG element of character development is visibly lacking. There is not much in the way 
 of wealth creation either. You are supposed to be a hunter of rare and valuable artifacts, but 
 in effect you end up collecting useless radioactive rocks. They do little to enhance the character 
 and the money they generate cannot be put to good use. Likewise, if you like RPGs like Oblivion 
 for the breadth of quest lines or sophisticated NPC interaction, you will not find them in Stalker. 
 In sum, the game has nothing to offer an avid RPG fan except a large barren landscape to explore.
 
  
  What saddens me the most about this project is that the development team seems to have wasted much 
 of the six years time on elements that add almost no value. The Chernobyl territory was painstakingly 
 modeled after the real thing by taking many trips to the original area. This is hard to appreciate 
 for anyone who has never and will never visit that forsaken place. The persistent world with 
 creature intelligence is also a major miss. True, it can be very neat to line up to take out 
 a bandit, only to see him get torn apart by a pack of mutant dogs. But I feel the same effect could 
 have been accomplished with some careful scripting, as was done in FarCry. Instead the endless 
 behavior calculations take a huge toll on system performance. As a result, a game that was developed 
 for DirectX 8 does not run smoothly on todays mid-range machines. Finally, the Russian NPC chatter, 
 stories, and songs, which by the way are absolutely phenomenal, are lost on 99% of the gamer community. 
 All in all, I am grateful to Gamespot for giving this game a clearly generous 8.5 mark. They must 
 have taken pity on the developers who committed six years of their lives to this project and will 
 now go bankrupt if this game doesnt sell. Oh well, I too have made my $40 contribution to their 
 cause, but a strong recommendation, as much as it pains me, I cannot give. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warriorlax1234
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  So, I am on the 4th mission so far and wow.... I mean the game is crazy realtisitc..... guys will 
 limp when near to death... react to certain hits on there body.. and such a smart A. I... I guess I 
 really got to get used to it becasue I will die without even paying attention because is other 
 games i really didn't have to... the only thing I have to nick it for, is when you are in a midst 
 of a firefight, I have to go into my inventory, and use a mdedkit.. then usualy I die.... Games runs 
 kinds slow on my rig which is no monster but no slouch either... I oreder another stick of ram for 
 2 gigs dual channel total. when it gets here hopefuly it will run... as for the graphics... I know 
 a gritty looking game can't really be beautiful, but it is.. you feel like you are really there 
 in te gritty nasty old and rusted country.... I like it.. enjoy it... well worth the 40 bucks... and 
 btw.. they defintly need to fix the ping problems online... slow pings...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspking111
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 21, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  i have gotten the game today and i cant belive what i was seeing.... it was amazing just on LOW 
 graphics settings.... sound is good as well gameplay is different.... but its like an RPG..... i still 
 dont know all the things about this game but i really like it..... the only thing that i thought 
 was SOOOO annoying is that if you died you had the optoin of going back to the safehouse or just 
 starting were you saved..... IT DOESNT LET YOU START OUT WERE YOU DIED... if you have alot of guns 
 and items YOU LOOSE EVERYTHING by going back to the safe house.... SO ALL I HAVE TO SAY IS SAVE 
 FREQUENTLY.... other than that its good..... i played multi player and its decent nothing amazng 
 just same old same old.... but you can HIDE in places.... LMAO so as it stands i say BUY it it looks 
 good on LOW like i said.... and i'm not dissapointed at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaphan3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Wow! I cant believe it. Stalker is finally out. I've been following this game for years. :D And 
 now I'm Proud to say that its finally out. Anyway on to the review.
  
  Graphics : I think the graphics are awesome. I mean for an aged engine. I'd say that it's comparable 
 to HL2. Either way, this game is so detailed. Trees, grass, foliage blowing in the wind. The details 
 on the models are amazing, everything is just amazing XD. Gameplay : Wow, where to start? I love 
 the gameplay in STALKER. It's an awesome blend between FPS and RPG. You can really do anything. 
 Mod your weapon, eat, communicate with other npcs, buy and trade. Now the world itself is like 
 a living thing. Everytime I play its different. Quests will keep you occupied for hours on end. 
 The world has it's own weather and time system as well. So it can go from day to night. Sunny to 
 rainy. The ballstics on the bullets are extremely realistic. Bullets will ricochet, react with 
 gravity. Do juat about everything they do in real life.
  
  Sound : The sound is STALKER is very clear, and really enjoyable. Hearing sceams of death in a 
 distance is very creepy for the player. The mutated dogs and other animals all have their own unique 
 sound, so you know what's coming at you. Anyway sounds at night are really cool. Hearing owls hooting 
 and stuff. It really puts you in the game
  
  Multiplayer : Not many people have the game yet so I havn't really got a chance to play MP. But 
 when I did play it was a lagfest. Mostly because all of the servers weren't dedicated and were 
 only hosted by clients, not servers. Value : I know for a fact that with this game; I will be playing 
 for ages. IT has 6 or 7 different endings so, that would make anyone play for ages.
  
  Overall, STALKER is one **** hell of a game. It has its intense firefights, and it also has its 
 creepy scary moments. Only downside is that all the bugs that were shipped with the game. Hopfully 
 GSC Game World will patch up those problems soon. Pray to god that dont go Ubi on us. STALKER is 
 a game that must be played by any FPS/RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justjoe126
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Keep in mind I only played this game for about an hour because i downloaded it and decided I'd 
 rather buy it and patch it because i noticed a few bugs.
  This game, from what i can tell, is incredible. The graphics may be a little dated but the detail 
 put into this world is amazing. You wont see the same 6 houses over and over or the same trees 
 everywhere you look. They do a great job at making the world an interesting place to explore, if 
 your not afraid of the wild dogs, mutated hog-like animals or the anomalies that will rip you apart 
 if your not careful. the AI in this game is incredibly smart, despite the few bugs i encountered. 
 They will destroy you if you try to run in and take on 4 guys at the same time. Thats what i did 
 at first assuming it wasn't as hard as i heard but since i just had the beginning handgun and no 
 bandages, i didn't last too long, which brings me to another feature this game has that you may 
 not of heard about, bleeding. Getting shot/bitten causes you to bleed and depending on the severity 
 of the wound you can bleed a little or practically bleed out and die, this is where the bandages 
 come in. To me this is a plus because I'm into games that try and be as realistic as possible, 
 like Americas Army. If your a casual gamer and are looking for some quick, easy firefights, this 
 may not be for you but If you're looking for a good non-linear experience that forces you to use 
 cover and plan your attacks, this is the game you've been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MastaMule
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  So far, the game seems like it has a lot of potential. I've been playing through some of the single 
 player and it's an interesting game design, and the players within it act quite realistically. 
 It's not one of those shooters where you can just go in and kill everyone by yourself, it requires 
 a lot of strategy and tactics, and you'll be happy to have anyone help you out. It's a very interesting 
 concept. Be sure to download the Float mod though, it helps a lot! Online is a lot of fun. As I 
 get further into the game, it becomes more immersive, etc., you can join factions, etc. Fun stuff.
 
  
  Sounds are amazing in the game, you can sit by other stalkers and here them speaking russian, playing 
 the guitar, and listen to the rain or rolling thunder. The environment is also spectacular. Graphics 
 are great, be sure to download the Float mod to maximize frame rate and graphics.
  
  It's Nice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: claudiu91
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I think S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl is the best video games in the history of humanity!!! 
 Graphics, sounds, special effects and game-play it's OK. This game is a new conception for a video 
 game, because represent a real life of a soldier... The personage eat, drink, kill enemy's for 
 money... In the near future i think mor producer's will create similar game like S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 but in a short time. This game has the biggest map ever made for a video game... this map is like 
 a city with over 70000 - 80000 inhabitants. It; s very big... This game was a successful giant project. 
 I lke very much this game... Best game of first part of 2007!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightningline
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Yea, the game looks good and has lots to do but to the average Joe Gamer it gan be a real headach 
 ! Way to hard even on the novice setting.
  If you are just an average joe gamer looking for a good shooter like far cry or half life 2 you 
 will hate this game. IT IS VERY DIFFERENT !! So if you like getting killed every 2 minuits and 
 reloading constantly because your way outnumbered or enjoy getting killed by enemies you cant see 
 or have no way of fighting go ahead and get this game. Below is my updated thoughts.
  
  Well I didnt uninstall it yet. It does get better especially after I dropped my mouse sensitivity. 
 I couldnt hit anything. Boy do I feel stupid. I shouldnt slam this game just because it is challanging. 
 If it was to easy how much fun would that be ? Now that I can hit my enemies I am anjoying the 
 game much more. I also am using the static lighting which brings the enimies out much more. At 
 least on my PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mulder2683
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't wait till S. T. A. L. K. E. R was out but when I first played the game, I got the feeling 
 that I was robbed! The game sucked big time! I was really shocked with THQ. I actually anticipated 
 something like F. E. A. R or better yet something like HL2 Episode One! Unfortunately the game is 
 poor. The graphics and the sounds are amazing, but the gameplay is so weird it doesn't seem like 
 a 2007 game! I wouldn't totally recommend not buying it or trying it because I might just be one 
 of those few guys that didn't like the game! Just keep in mind it's disappointing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnarchyRising
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 21, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  At first glance (and the first hour or so or play) I thought to myself this game would tank badly.
 
  
  After playing it for another hour, then another, and losing track of time -- my mind has totally 
 changed.
  
  The game itself is pretty immersive, although zoning can sometimes blur the experience. Whether 
 you choose to do the massive amounts of side missions from various agents or stalkers or follow 
 the story line, STALKER is a fun ride that has a nice replay value.
  
  The graphics are pretty good (though a bit dated looking) and do a fine job of creating that post 
 apocalyptic world that is Chernobyl in Russia. The highest graphical settings though will bring 
 some high end rigs to a stutter. Running the extreme setting on my rig caused some problems (Asus 
 C2D 2.6ghz, 2g Ram, GEF-7800GT water cooled) but bringing the shadows down and making a few custom 
 video setting mods fixed it up pretty good. The effects are damn nice especially the lightning 
 and vortex animations in the windy nights.
  
  The audio is descent but not totally perfect. Some of the weapon sounds are a tad unconvincing 
 (the shotgun has the best matched sound to real world weapons in my opinion) but overall done well. 
 The voice acting is very good both in Russian and when the other Stalkers speak in English.
  
  All in all this game is solid and should give you many hours of enjoyable play.
  
  I haven't 
 tested Multiplayer yet so I can't comment on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rew-erace
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  At first I put the game`s graphic settings at highest... well... game crashed... then came medium 
 settings.... worked perfectly for me... And you know what? At medium settings it looks better than 
 half life 2! Well, the graphic`s are great and it perfectly creates atmosphere of postapocalypse. 
 Sound is great too... and it`s helping to create that creepy atmosphere. Well... the gameplay is 
 fantastic! At first i accidentally chosed the hardest difficulty... after 5 hours of saving every 
 5 minutes routine I noticed that... :D And the greatest thing was that I realised that this game 
 is meant to be played on hardest difficulty - that is why i fliched every time i heard a mouning 
 animal/mutant, thats why my eyes were wide open when i soad a flashlight far away, thats why i 
 was forced to use tactics instead of run and gun technike. Well i think every HardCore gamer will 
 lowe the games shooting ballistics and the unpredictable AI. Yeah... about the AI... They have 
 worked pretty hard on so called A life system. And it totally pays off! For an istance... there 
 was one place where i couldnt get through.... every time i loaded my savegame the AI did various 
 actions... one time it camped and waited for enemy to come, next time it started to advance to 
 take raid some factory and one other time they started a gunfight with pack of mutant dogs. The 
 bad... i found myself wondering why i need money? I got loads of it, but there was nothing to buy 
 - there were no items that i could`n find seraching enemy`s corpses. summary - It offers a pretty 
 good replayability. It`s atmospheric. It`s scary sometimes. It`s worth your time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karlotikas
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Yeh its finally here -i sayed when i get this game now im reviewing it to you. Hope you will enjoy 
 my first review in gamespot. OK let's start this thing. If i must talk about the first impression 
 i can say that it is quite good but not good. The first thing i saw that this game uses so little 
 resources that i went to play on maximum (in everything) i started to play and the first vision 
 was not so atmospherik that everybody sayed. First intro was not so original to ,and then i sayed 
 :) ''where is the garbidge can'' :D Then i played it for about 1h and i saw a buety of this game 
 ,i foung gameplay very interesting ,i found sound superb, and finally i found that atmosphere that 
 i was looking forrward to see.
  Now i will not trust the first impression and now i opened new chapter in my gaming the chapter 
 that rocks . (sorry for gramathical mistakes i am from lithuania :) )
  Gameplay:10 atmosphere and shooting was very enjoyble Graphics:9 Inside is to realistic to imagine 
 on your mind as it is outside but something was missing
  
  Sound:10 one word real life in radioctive territory
  
  Value:10 dont uninstall this game ever! Or 
 mutants will eat you :D
  
  Tilt:10 -''What i can't hear you!?-Go eat your lunch-What!? Say it louder!!-I sayed stop that f*****g 
 shooting and go eat your lunch!!! What are you doing there!?-I, m playing STALKER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 21, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  I question what criteria gamers are using when saying the graphics are disappointing in Stalker? 
 On my nothing special PentiumD PC I can run the game at nearly full graphics in widescreen and 
 it looks incredibly great. The texture work is unusually good on buildings and the dynamic lighting 
 (if your system can handle it) makes both the interior and exterior look impressively nice. Over 
 all, the graphical effects that we get here remind me of what Far Cry for PC offered. I have to 
 stress that Stalker gets major bonus points for the beautifully crafted and expansive outdoor levels. 
 I suppose if you are looking for the really fuzzy glowy over-saturated look of Oblivion you wont 
 find that in this game but I thought those graphics were annoyingly fake-looking. There is a light 
 bloom effect in Stalker at the highest setting but it is used only for objects and landscape at 
 a distance (which is what a bloom effect should do in the first place) .
  
  I think the gameplay is great, though the intentionally inaccurate guns will annoy gamers who are 
 looking for a simple gun and run shooter. You will quickly die in this game if you dont always 
 use terrain for cover. There's a constant lack of ammunition (also intentional) to give this FPS 
 a nice strategic slant . The enemy AI is excellent and it the first game to come close to the great 
 AI in Far Cry for PC.
  
  Stalker lacks the ability to upgrade your character except for some simple ways to increase your 
 armor's defense. That's really it for RPG elements and its a shame because a story-driven game 
 like Stalker would have been better if you could customize your character's abilities more.
  
  I dont think Stalker is for everyone: its a often a hard game that requires some strategic 
 thought before you engage in battle but at the same time it lacks the cool gadgets of something 
 like Splinter Cell: Chaos Theory. The story doesnt always make a whole lot of sense but it is always 
 sucessfully creepy. I'm loving the game 4 hours in, but then again I liked classic games like Deus 
 Ex 1. I'm pretty sure Oblivion fans wont like the difficulty level of this game or how this game 
 looks. They are missing out on a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Illscrewyoubig
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2007 2:39 am PT
Review:  Bascially, since I've just gotten used to the inventory system and all that, I'm not really pro 
 at this game, but I've got to stress, the visuals are pretty good. Oh, by that I mean the horrific 
 stuff. The backgrounds okay, but nothing to be wound up about. However, the writhing, the twitching 
 of the dead, the effect from mutilating corpses, its enough to satisfy any mass-murderer...
  
  So, if you suffer nightmares or are afraid of the dark, go home, cuz this is way too scary 
 for any wimp who pisses their bed at night. Thats right, this game is just right for anyone who 
 has anger management issues (or any psycopath for that matter) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 13, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I'm not one of those giving praise to any game that comes out be it on hype or anything, as a 30 
 years old guy i'm no kid and i've seen my shares of games, so take this short review seriously 
 :)
  
  1. Graphics = The outdoors are superb and the weather dynamically changes, things are very random, 
 one moment it is windy the next it is raining, the next is sunny.
  some of the textures are a bit plain just to put it in simple words and some of the indoors are 
 bland, but the outdoor is in general excellent, special effects are great too.
  
  2. Graphics 2 = The game supports various resolutions and settings, personally since i have an 
 8800gtx nvidia card and a Core2Duo E6600 i am playing it with HDR, AA and AF and everything at 
 HIGH, resolution 1280x1024.
  i am using Windows XP SP2.
  
  a word on vista ..... Vista performance for the game sucks from what i heard for some reason and 
 i suppose it is because of how new the OS is and the game's engine was conceived well before VISTA. 
 so new patches or drivers updates should fix it. also i heard AA doesnt work properely on some 
 cards probably driver problems.
  
  3. Sound = The sound is 90% responsible for how great this game is, you are surrounded by sound 
 and if you play it with Headphones in the dark you will jump like a mad man. very creepy and well 
 done. music is ok.
  the Pistol sound is horrible though, but other weapons sound very good.
  
  4. Gameplay = the 
 meat of the game and it is well worth it, sure the A. I sometimes act suspect and some animations 
 could be done a bit better but considering how ambitious this game is i have nothing but praise.....
 
  the whole country is at your hand miles after miles you can walk freely.... think FARCRY island 
 but much much larger.
  dogs will attack you, people and other stalkers will talk to you, love your or hate you, firefights 
 are great. gameplay rocks.
  
  Bottomline : this is a game you cannot miss IMHO, you might not be impressed the first hour of 
 play..... give it 2 hours and you will be addicted like ants to sugar...... and dont' listen to the 
 other people who say it sucks, this game delivers awesome gameplay.
  
  Must Buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakashi-X
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 12:27 am PT
Review:  Stalker is the game we have been waiting to come out for 5 years so of course it has to big shoes 
 to fill, and it certainly does.!
  
  The main character you play in Stalker is The Marked One a soldier with amnesia who wakes up in 
 the Chernobyl Excursion Zone which has turned into a radioactive breeding ground of warfare. You 
 of course have to find out who you are and the secret behind all of this.
  
  In Stalker you will enter a virtual world unlike any FPS has created. It feels like a living and 
 breathing world due to its amazing Day/Night cycle, startling atmosphere, and rich detail. The 
 place is crawling with realistic mutant wild life, soldiers, bandits, and about 100 more stalkers. 
 The opponents in Stalker are some of the toughest guys you will ever fight due to the games amazing 
 AI system. They will flank you, use cover, and kill you enough times to teach you that the way 
 to get around is by using tactics. Some of the people out in the Zone are passive and you are able 
 to buy equipment, food, ammunition, and weapons from. There are a number of Stalker Factions that 
 you can join and interact with but each of them are against each other so if you join one you are 
 a target for the rest.
  
  There are plenty of quests to do in the game. There is the main quest line but then there are tons 
 of other side quests you can do to earn money, and other important equipment.
  
  The World of Stalker is truly fantastic, though the graphics may not be the best compared to recent 
 titles but they are great. The detail of the cities and landscapes are rich. GSC Game World did 
 recreate a very detailed version of Chernobyl.
  
  All the weapons in the game are realistic but the only problem is that most of the sounds are generic 
 but they are satisfying. The voice work in Stalker is pretty decent, the Russian is great, but 
 the English is kind of funny.
  
  The time I have spent with Stalker is enough for me to know that this game is a SUPERB game you 
 shouldn't miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineChampion
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 20, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  This game basically makes me happy and gives me a particular lust to go and give a hug to a rainbow. 
 The graphics in the game may not be the best out there, but they are good non the less and also 
 there are a few bugs ( just like in any other game thats just been released) . This game combines 
 the elements of Deus Ex, an adventure first person shooter (which i once played religiously)
  , as well as great role playing features. The role playing part would most likely be similar to 
 Gothic 3. Seeing as how the inventory works just the same way as well as talking to people and 
 trading. You don't just pick up a weapon and let it occupy one of your weapon slots like in any 
 average shooter (such as Halo, HL2, Farcry, FEAR, and so on...) . You actually have a limit of what 
 you can carry (and the carry capacity depends on your bags than your strength) and you must take 
 care of things that you put in your inventory. All in all, this game is great. The engine they 
 used is fun and pretty easy to run on average computers. Exploring is really fun, and since i am 
 Russian and can speak and write Russian, i can understand some of the sings on buildings and stuff 
 like that. *Go me! ^.^* This game is challenging and a good challenge brings the greatest or rewards. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secnpa
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is finally here.. finally ready to show why so many years were spent getting this 
 title out to market.. finally ready to prove so many naysayers wrong with their critisizm of the 
 game's much delayed rollercoaster ride of a development cycle. I, along with so many other pc gamers, 
 have waited patiently for this game to grace our hard drives (others not so patiently) .
  
  Well it has finally arrived.. alittle out of shape and with quirks that could easily detract players 
 away from most other FPS games in the past, but in the grand scheme of things it does little to 
 stop this mammoth of a first person shooter. The sheer excitement of moving across the zones of 
 this game is nothing short of amazing. All praise must be given to GSC Gameworld for creating the 
 imppresive and immersive world that is the Zone! A world that will have you on the edge of your 
 seat and will not let go of your attention for a long long time. The Ai is incredible given the 
 game's expansiveness which along with this brutily realistic world leave an impression on gamers 
 that no other game has done in the past making it safe to say that S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is truely a revolutionary 
 game in the FPS market.
  
  If you love FPS games, beatiful immmersive game worlds, survival horror concepts, realistic and 
 brutal combat then YOU NEED TO PLAY THIS GAME!!!
  
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. is an incredible achievment!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laxdaddy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Alright, Basically this game has a good story plot and alright AI. The graphics are what stuck 
 out most to me. I mean this is next gen graphics coming in and you have to be up to date.. A lot 
 of gamers expect Gears of War or Dead rising game play. Stalker comes out packing Counter Strike 
 Condition Zero Graphics and mediocre game play. I understand that you have to make the game play 
 the way it is due to the story plot. But with a game like this you have to change something for 
 this game to be classified as a Sci Fi FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baselerd
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  This game has been in the making for half a decade, and so much hype has surrounded it that it 
 would seem impossible to deliver. However, this game does exactly that, because most MIA games 
 such as this always end up a low quality product.
  
  Let me first say that this game has its high points and low points, both of which are very apparent 
 when you start to play the game. I will start with the positive aspects of the game.
  
  The best thing about this game, by far, is its AI and open ended nature. The open endedness of 
 this game really sets it apart from other first person shooters. While it is not as seamless as 
 other open ended games, such as Oblivion, it still is extremely open ended for an fps game.
  
  The environments are restricted by barbed wire fences and are fairly limited, you can't keep 
 walking in a direction for more than a minute without hitting a border, and you pass between areas 
 through small connecting gates (think fable) . However, this does not detract too much from the 
 game, and as I previously mentioned, this is a HUGE step up from other fps games.
  
  The AI in this game, simply put, is some of the best I have ever seen. The enemies in battle are 
 very intelligent, take cover, act as teams, and flank in a realistic way. Enemies back off and 
 flee when they are outpowered, and their alertness isn't omniscient as it is in many games. What 
 is even more amazing than the human AI is the creature AI. The creatures act like unpredictable 
 creatures should. In this game, I approach animals as if I would a stray dog in real life. They 
 protect their food, shy away when you fire a rifle (usually) and attack if threatened. The world 
 around you is full of consistently occurring AI encounters. Once, while walking along a road, I 
 observed some mutant dogs hunting these boar creatures for a meal.
  
  On a final note, the actual combat in this game plays out nicely, despite the annoyance of enemies 
 taking 10 shots to down if they aren't hit in the head. Seeking cover and using tactics is necessary, 
 running and gunning (while possible) is usually not the best approach here. The bullets travel, 
 penetrate materials, and ricochet realistically.
  
  The negatives in this game are not as significant as the game's strong points, but are still significant 
 enough to be noted.
  
  The first point is the sound. While not all terrible, many of the guns sound weak and really don't 
 make encounters as exciting as they could be. The sound is not all bad by any means; the game makes 
 full use of EAX, and the environmental sounds are great. The wind whispering in the trees, distant 
 cracks of rifles, and scary creature howls all fit in nicely.
  
  The games graphics, much like the sound, are a mixed bag. The environments, usually, are fairly 
 nice. The areas are covered in vegetation and have nice textures. Trees and grass blow in the wind, 
 and the shadows and lighting are really nice. However, the models and weapon models are pretty 
 bad. I make special emphasis on the weapon models. Sometimes in this game I walk into a barren 
 area and am slightly repulsed by the graphics and low polygon counts, and other times I am amazed 
 at the amount of ambient lights and shadows cast from my flashlight as I proceed through a wrecked 
 hangar. Overall, the graphics are more passable for the last generation of games, but the gameplay 
 more than compensates for this. The plot in this game is pretty weak, there are no characters to 
 speak of (except for yourself and random stalkers ) and the story is almost exclusively told through 
 text boxes. The map/quest interface is slightly irritating, but far from unusable.
  
  As a final note, do not hesitate to buy this game. It isn't a straight up shooter, and provides 
 a sense of immersion and tension I haven't encountered in an fps since I played System Shock 2. 
 The game is a unique blend of first person action, role playing elements, and a strong survival 
 horror flavor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliteking
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  At first I really liked this game, but then I realized how bad the gameplay was. Some of the graphics 
 are up to date, but some object look awful. I dont like the feel of the weapons, it never feels 
 like I'm actually firing a weapon. I think the worst part of this game is how poorly the rpg element 
 is incorporated. You have to go around picking up ammo and guns on the ground... alright this is 
 fine like any other first person shooter. The problem is you have to open you inventory, empty 
 out the ammo in the guns you picked up, check all of them to see which is most damage, drop all 
 of them to make room and pick up more, so after a battle you have to do all this work of emptying 
 and picking up weapons instead of just walking over the guns and getting the ammo. Its not really 
 rpg in that way it just makes inventory a pain to deal with. This is painful enough to get through 
 then you have to deal with these stupid radiation things always being in your way for no good reason. 
 The game doesnt look that good and the enviroment is overrated. Overall the worst part is the shooting, 
 Just isnt clean and my bullets will go miles off where I am if i dont wait 30 seconds between each 
 shot while lying down and holding my breath... but the AI feels free to spray and hit where they 
 please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sypher213
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  ++++Contains Minor Spoilers++++
  
  So I acquired Stalker the other day...
  
  Before I start this review, i'd like to mention that this game was in development for about 6 years... 
 thats like a third of my entire life. Props to the devs for making it. I've come to known this 
 game about 3 years ago, and have been waiting patiently right until yesterday.
  
  Naturally such an ambitious and hyped project got my hopes and expectations extremely high, which 
 at start, left me disappointed with the game. After a few hours I realized I had to imagine I never 
 heard about this game, and after another few hours I fell in love with it.
  
  There are quite a few flaws and bugs in this game, both minor and major, but mostly nothing a patch 
 or two can't fix.
  
  The pros:
  
  The fighting system.
  
  The Atmosphere.
  
  The characters
  
  The Ai
  
  The cons:
  
  The Open-ended-ness of the game.
  
  The 
 Quests.
  
  First of all, the open-ended-ness of the game. If you imagine Oblivion with guns, you will be disappointed. 
 Sure, the world is big, but its not as open-ended as you would like. The world is divided into 
 levels, the levels themselves are BIG. Nothing too huge unfortunately. These levels are then surrounded 
 by impassable barbed wire.. which you can't pass... another bummer. This really takes away from 
 the experience.
  
  There are 2 types of quests. The main quest which takes you throughout the zone, trying to figure 
 out who you are ( you apparently suffer from amnesia ) and what the hell is going on in the Zone. 
 So far im really enjoying the story, albeit its a little confusing at times.
  
  Then there are the side quests. There are 3 main types of side quests - Kill X, Find X, Eliminate 
 the camp of X. Occasionally there are more interesting quests which could take you on small raids 
 of sorts with other npcs, but these quests are very rare.
  
  One thing that confused me was the fact that you are limited to carrying 50kg to 60kg ( 50+ your 
 endurance drains much faster, 60+ you can't move ) of items, which is great, I love that, but you 
 can carry hundred thousands roubles worth of money with ya. Where do you put it? o. O
  
  What really amazed me was the whole fighting system. If you were a fan on perhaps, Rainbow Six, 
 you'll love this. You can't just run and gun, thats suicide in the real world, thats suicide in 
 Stalker. Instead you always have to use cover. Aiming is important too, you may spend a clip shooting 
 a heavy armored soldier in the torso only to realize he is still alive, while carefully aiming 
 at his head can bring him down in 1-3 careful shots. Which also brings me to different types of 
 cover. The ballistics system is awesome. You have to find cover, then you have to judge if your 
 cover is good enough. For example if you're hiding behind a wooden plank, the bullets can pierce 
 through the wood.. and through you. On the other hand if you hide behind a solid concrete wall.... 
 Which reminds me of the ricochet system ; Bullets ricochet just like in real life, and not against 
 everything either.
  
  This game sports one of the best Ai's i've ever seen in a videogame. These guys really know how 
 to fight. They for the most part, work as a team. The enemy always tries to flank you, they support 
 each other with covering fire while the other reloads, etc. Infact some of them are so good, you 
 really have to pick your fights, because these guys can rip you apart withought you even knowing 
 what hit ya. On the other hand the ai still has a few bugs. Sometimes they decide to shoot the 
 enemy through a solid concrete wall, doing nothing. Other times they just stand and do absolutely 
 nothing, which is extremely rare, but happens.
  
  The atmosphere is really what did it for me. Each level is completely different from another. While 
 the graphics look a little bit dated, the game still looks gorgeous on full lighting and maximum 
 settings. This really does feel like a living, breathing world, and for once, it doesn't resolve 
 around you. You can find mutants fighting each other, or stalkers attacking a bandit camp. The 
 weather system itself is wonderful to look at. At night you may get caught in a huge thunderstorm, 
 which is just beautiful to behold as the whole level is only being lighted by the rather frequent 
 lightning.
  
  Other stalkers in the game really do have a life of their own. Although its surprising how many 
 of them carry guitars with them. They also tell stories and sing songs and tell jokes to other 
 stalkers around the campfire. Unfortunately, they mostly talk in Russian, but the main dialogue 
 like quest information and essential dialogue is all in English, so don't worry. I laughed when 
 after a recent gunfight a few stalkers got around the campfire, then one took about a guitar and 
 said Time for a music break 
  
  The economy in stalker was a little bit disappointing. There is really nothing that you can buy 
 that you can't find on your own. And you will have absolutely no problem getting rich, very quickly. 
 But the inventory system is great, you're not a packmule, you can't carry everything the enemies 
 drop. Which makes you think what you should take and what you have to leave behind.
  
  I have yet to play multiplayer so cannot comment on that. Personally I can't imagine how this game 
 took 6 years to make, but considering the fact the game changed engines and ideas very frequently, 
 its no surprise.
  
  In closing, this game is a true masterpiece. There is simply nothing like it in the market and 
 it delivers a unique experience to the player. But like any other game on the market nowadays, 
 it does have a few bugs, but nothing gamebreaking. Its really one of those games that, if you allow 
 it, will grab you by the balls and never let go. There is really not a dull moment when you play 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beka13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  This will be short, i only played 7 hours with this game.
  
  Graphics: This is not like Hl 2 or Oblivion, but you can see that they worked 6 years with this game. The 
 graph is not so nice, but its quite good, you know, you travel in big places with many characters, animals, mutants 
 etc...
  
  Gameplay: Its quite good! Its like a survival game with no puzzles to solve. You shoot, you hide, you 
 eat, you drink, you talk, you feel the magic of Chernobyl.
  You can trade food with other stalkers. I dont know, maybe you can buy weapon and sell weapon.
 
  
  Sound: The mutants voice gives a real creep, the weapon sounds are all right, its nothing special. I 
 only heard music in the main menu. Ohh, wait, there a many music when you play but you cant notice 
 it very well.
  
  Value: In Hungary, its 10,000 HUF, its not to much, you can play hours a day. And i feel it will be 
 a long game, with good multiplayer features. I havent played multiplayer yet.
  
  Its a great game after all, it could be first person shooter of the year. And dont miss the movie, here 
 is a little info: http://www. imdb. com/title/tt0079944/ 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
