-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: S.T.A.L.K.E.R.: Clear Sky
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/stalkerclearsky/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Amazing, oppressive atmosphere.
 Enemy stalker AI is often remarkable.
 Huge, chilling world to explore.
 Faction war gameplay adds focus and replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 High level of difficulty won't be for everybody.
 Bugs, bugs, bugs.
 A number of small frustrations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,839 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Koch Media
Developer: GSC Game World
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Sep 15, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Glitches drag it down, but Clear Sky provides plenty of haunting ambience and challenging gameplay. 
 

  The Zone isn't a friendly place, and if you played last year's shooter/horror/role-playing hybrid 
 S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow of Chernobyl, this comes as no shock. Clear Sky offers a few improvements 
 and a number of issues, but the real star of the series -- the large, barren wasteland created by 
 a fictional explosion of the infamous nuclear facility in Chernobyl, Ukraine -- is still the most 
 impressive aspect of this prequel. This isn't a full-fledged follow-up, but rather a stand-alone 
 expansion set before the events of the original. You're introduced to a new main character and 
 several new mechanics, the most important of which is factional gameplay, which allows you to ally 
 with an AI-controlled group and assault its enemies. Unfortunately, new features come with a price: 
 new bugs, erratic difficulty, and other annoyances further disrupt the immersion. While Clear Sky 
 is a good game, it's disappointing that developer GSC Game World failed to address the problems 
 with Shadow of Chernobyl that were left to the modding community to clean up.  

           You'll join your comrades and capture enemy camps in Clear Sky's all-new faction battles. 

  If you've already visited The Zone and got lost in its nightmarish world and deliberate pacing, 
 you'll find the landscape is still bleak and uninviting. You play as the silent loner Scar, a survivor 
 of a strong emission originating from the nuclear plant at the center of the zone. His rescuers 
 are the Clear Sky faction, a group of scientists investigating the reasons behind the emissions. 
 And of course, their goal becomes yours as well. During your measured journey through The Zone, 
 you'll visit other factions' headquarters as well, where you'll be asked to assault enemy bases, 
 join their brotherhood, and perform tasks in exchange for information.  

  With so many bases scattered about, you'll soon discover that compared to its predecessor, The 
 Zone is practically teeming with human life -- though you shouldn't take this to mean that it's suddenly 
 a carnival of cheery faces. This meatier population is borne out of necessity: Clear Sky's major 
 new addition is that of factional warfare, in which the various packs of mercenaries (or in this 
 case, stalkers) fight each other for turf control. As a result, you can meet the faction leader 
 and join the team, assuming you've proven yourself worthy. This in turn means better merchant prices 
 and other perks, as well as easier (or harder) passage to certain areas. Thus ensues a Battlefield 
 style tug of war, in which factions fight over controls points in an attempt to take over the other's 
 base.  

  Joining your teammates in these battles, like almost any combat situation in Clear Sky, is a nail-biting 
 excursion into the unknown. Impressive enemy AI is one of the biggest reasons for this. Enemy stalkers 
 make excellent use of cover, crouch and move away when they reload, flank you whenever possible, 
 and generally react in plausible ways. They're tough cookies, so even at standard difficulty, you 
 can't play as you would a standard first-person shooter. The only successful approach is to act 
 and react as you would in real life: with caution and perseverance. Because of the slow flow of 
 cash, you'll often feel spectacularly underpowered, but while these fights are often tense and 
 difficult, clearing out a base with nothing but a pea-shooting pistol and an underpowered hunting 
 rifle feels like a major accomplishment. Just be prepared to save. Often.  

           Enemies like these invite some of the tensest moments.      

  Over time, you'll find 
 and purchase new weapons and armor, and can upgrade them with a visit to the right technicians 
 at various bases. Unfortunately, enemy stalkers have a few tricks up their sleeves that border 
 on the magical. Grenades are a nice addition to the series in theory, but foes have an uncanny 
 knack for throwing them directly at your feet from huge distances. The implementation seems a bit 
 off here; grenades explode very quickly once they land, yet S. T. A. L. K. E. R. has never been about 
 quick movement (a stamina bar limits how much you can sprint and jump) , so more often than not, 
 multiple grenades usually means game over. The AI's uncanny ability to land shots, particularly 
 at nighttime, also borders on the absurd.  

  These issues are most prevalent in two frustrating sequences that bottleneck progress in the first 
 half of the game. In one, you emerge into a new area only to find yourself under attack from a 
 nearby military installation. You're meant to run, but the eagle-eyed soldiers riddle you with 
 bullets time and time again as you die and reload, wondering what the secret for escape is. In 
 another, you must take potshots at enemies from behind a bus while dodging multiple grenades at 
 once. Furthermore, this battle takes place a few feet from an exit point to another region; should 
 you accidentally trigger it, your location will be reset to a few feet away, potentially on top 
 of a grenade. Usually, Clear Sky is a tough challenge that makes you feel powerful when you succeed 
 at your task. Sequences like these do the unforgivable: They yank you from the powerfully immersive 
 world at the heart of the experience.     

   

  But what a world it is. Both new areas and old are desolate and freaky, and become more so as you 
 move out of the swamps and carve a path to your destinations. Swirling anomalies threaten the simple 
 act of trudging through the wilderness, and may pick you up and toss you about before you can escape. 
 Packs of mutants, from wild dogs to leaping monstrosities, will descend on you as you scavenge 
 for ammo, and it usually takes more than a single blast from a shotgun to defeat them. A journey 
 through an underground installation becomes a fight for sanity as you get pummeled with psionic 
 attacks that blur your vision. And in a heartbreaking moment, thugs attack you and take all your 
 cash and equipment. Harsh, sure, but most of the time it doesn't feel unnecessary; it's just the 
 nature of the world. You'll begin to think differently than you would in most games. How soon will 
 night fall? Do I have enough bandages and radiation drugs (or the ever-helpful vodka) ? What factions 
 bar (or ease) the way to the artifact-harboring Garbage region?  

           During this underground journey, you'll really feel the burn.      

  Speaking of artifacts, 
 those valuable, stat-enhancing objects are still floating within anomalies like before, but you 
 aren't just going to see them and run in to grab them. Now you need to equip a detector, which 
 will flash and beep when one is near, and point you in its direction. You won't see anomalies until 
 you get very close, which means wandering directly into the radiation, grabbing the glowing bugger, 
 and making a hasty retreat, usually while downing some vodka and using a health pack or two (here 
 is one of those occasions where you will desperately wish the game let you bind radiation drugs 
 and vodka to a hotkey) . These are harrowing moments, but they make artifact collection feel meaningful, 
 and just as you will tense as you wade into the danger, you'll feel equally rewarded when you walk 
 away intact, brandishing your new glowing artifact.  

  It's too bad that Clear Sky tries so hard to make you not like it, thanks to any number of bugs 
 and performance issues you may experience. The first main mission -- assist a friendly stalker at 
 a swamp outpost -- is bugged: If you take a different route to your destination than the game intends, 
 you won't trigger the script. In other cases, your faction leader may direct you to defend an outpost, 
 but the attack will never come, or the promised reinforcements will never arrive, even if you wait 
 for 10 or more real-time minutes (an eternity in video games) . We experienced multiple crashes 
 using a Steam-purchased, patched copy of the game, and a save-game corruption erased an hour's 
 worth of progress. A retail disc would not run on one machine, because the copy protection program 
 insisted there was no disc in the drive. Other annoyances also get in the way, from the inability 
 to use the quickload key once you've died to hotkey settings that won't always save your changes. 
 And over a year later, the engine remains unoptimized, delivering lower frame rates than you would 
 expect on systems more than capable of running technologically superior games without a hitch. 

  However, Clear Sky doesn't look bad, and GSC Game World has managed to squeeze a lot out of an 
 engine that was already lagging behind the competition when Shadow of Chernobyl was released. Lighting 
 and shadows are outstanding, particularly if you have a system capable of using the newly enhanced 
 light settings (good luck with that) . Even without that system-wrenching addition, though, contrasts 
 of light and dark are impressively ominous, due in part to the game's visually authentic day/night 
 cycle. Dawn imparts a realistic orange glow, while midnight brings bleak darkness, punctured by 
 the roaring fires in stalker camps. Bolts of lightning cut through the evening sky and dreary rain 
 moistens the morning. Atmospheric effects like these are effective, taking your eyes off low-res 
 textures, blocky geometry, and occasionally glitchy animations.  

           Doom and gloom: Clear Sky's specialty.      

  Clear Sky's ambient sound design is 
 amazing. From the far-off howls of a dog to the roar and whoosh of anomalies, roaming about The 
 Zone has never sounded so scary, and so lonely. No matter how many times you hear a mutant growl, 
 the sudden outcry of one on your trail is always startling and chilling, and will have you glancing 
 about, looking anxiously through the tall weeds. There are a few missteps in other areas, however. 
 While much of the voice acting is fine, some characters sound like caricatures, like the squawking 
 Freedom barman that offers to sell you marijuana (it's so grating, it may be enough to drive you 
 to join the opposing Duty faction just to not hear him speak again) . The base broadcasts you're 
 pelted with when you visit faction headquarters are similarly out of place, and they detract from 
 the atmosphere.  

  There's also a new multiplayer mode, but a week after release, we couldn't find anyone playing 
 it -- though Clear Sky's straightforward but slightly clunky online play isn't its main draw. You 
 come for the atmosphere, and few games deliver dread and desolation better than this. Too bad it's 
 as buggy as its predecessor, and throws in some new quirks of its own that break the spell. Nevertheless, 
 while Clear Sky may get even better with some patches and fan modifications (much like Shadow of 
 Chernobyl did) , it's still a worthwhile journey through a stark world that, at times, feels all 
 too real.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (141 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: IChangIT
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 6:36 am PT
Review:  The game setting is appropriately eerie. Really brought the zone to a warped life. The gear customization 
 feature is nice. 
  
  Some shoddy programming here. Lots of broken bits a pieces. Always choppy with 9800GT SLI. Looked 
 like it was trying to access the hard drive causing the lag. Made combat less fun.
  
  And what's the deal, I paid for the games, so NPCs should not be able to push me around and block 
 passage ways. Really irritates me when there's an emission on the way and an NPC is sitting down 
 playing a guitar blocking the doorway to safety.
  
  Oh, and yeah, the enemies all trained with Joe Montana. They have super heat seeking grenade launching 
 ballistic catapult arms that can throw a curve ball grenade at your feet from 2 football fields 
 away. However, your allies are only effective half the time and often push you out of cover into 
 line of fire... then get killed and leave you hanging. 
  
  I got the game because the I like the 1st one, stayed for the scenery and mood, but glad I'm done 
 now as the unpolished bumps and edges made playing somewhat tedious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfsebastianII
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:31 am PT
Review:  Review and Tips
  
  So, I finally finished this game after all the abortive attempts to start it when it first came 
 out.
  
  The first thing to say is that they do seem to have sorted out almost all bugs - any i still encountered 
 were so minor I've already forgotten what they were.
  
  Overall it's a game that feels strange in the way it's divided into three sections: firstly there's 
 the swamps which is essentially a training area. Then once you've broken through the cordon, which 
 I found incredibly difficult as I didn't spot the 'easy' way (though nothing's that easy when THAT 
 machine gun is firing at you) , you have the hunting-gathering bit, which involves all the usual 
 Stalker RPG/FPS stuff like taking side missions, gathering stuff to sell to traders, and generally 
 hanging around being shot at and attacked by all manner of mutants and factions. The third part 
 is a series of scripted missions, a la Call of Duty or any other such FPS. 
  
  Parts of this third section were quite hard, even when I tried to drop the difficulty down, and 
 a lot of saving is required, and often there only seems to be one 'right' way of doing things.
 
  
  I chose not to join a faction, but perhaps I'll go back to an earlier 
  save and do so, to get some more play out of the game  as always with Stalker, it's a choice as 
 to how much side-stuff you do and how much you follow the central plot. In terms of the central 
 plot, you were chasing a stalker who was up to something in the Zone  to be honest though, whilst 
 the plot to the original Stalker was genuinely gripping, this one felt like, and proved to be, 
 simply a device to give the game some context.
  
  Some aspects were an improvement  I particularly liked what they did with the artifacts, which 
 were difficult to get and provided a fun challenge. 
  
  I also thought the new maps  the swamps and the red forest for example  were quite good, though 
 the latter was a little small.
  
  However there were less creepy sections than in the first game, which was disappointing. 
  
 
  Also there was much use of already used maps from Stalker SOC, and on that basis the whole game 
 was in a way more like an expansion pack than a whole new game.
  
  To me I never thought this game would be as good as Stalker SoC because it was a prequel so didn't 
 have some of the uncertainty, but in addition the disjointed feel, lack of new maps and general 
 lack of many improvements meant I didn't enjoy it as much, then when I got into it it changed character 
 or finished altogether.
  
  I'm sure there's a way of developing a sequel to Stalker SoC though, and I look forward to seeing 
 it.
  
  In the meantime at least you can play it as the bugs seems to be fixed, just don't expect it to 
 outdo Stalker SoC.
  
  
  
  
  
  Tips 
  
  Money is more important in this game than SoC  in particular if you don't have enough before you 
 go to the scientific base at Yantur, you'll have real trouble playing the rest of the game, because 
 you need to buy a really good suit
  
  Don't complete the final task too quickly  instead take your time and you'll get to have much 
 more fighting around the final scene
  
  Remember to collect rewards before you travel from one map to another (especially when leaving 
 the swamps) , as although there's a little to-ing and fro-ing it's a pain to have to do too much 
 
  
  Many factional battles are re-fought on a regular basis, so if you're in the area drop by and search 
 all the new bodies!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamrob7
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Loved the first game despite numerous flaws, bugs etc. Atmosphere was excellent and very immersive 
 bleak world.
  
  Clear sky is much the same but improves on numerous things, the joining of groups, the map layout, 
 the weapons etc.... numerous little improvements.
  
  The plot again is good and explained a little better in this one, another Clear Sky improvement. 
 Can't fault the voice acting or script, it does the job.
  
  This game has two major things going for it. Firstly it is an excellent FPS, great combat mechanics, 
 great weapons, upgrades, realism. Battles feel real, sounds could be improved upon I suppose and 
 to some extent the AI. Although in some instances it is actually pretty good.
  
  Second thing is the survival horror element. This is reduced from the first game but is still present 
 and when it comes it is very well presented and executed. The atmosphere pours out of this game 
 in a way very few games can boast of.
  
  The major issues are the bugs, which were horrific when it first came out. Those have now largely 
 been dealt with though by patches. Other issues I have are the faction wars could be better in 
 a multitude of ways, for instance i dont like defeating an entire faction only for them to reappear 
 out of no where. Quite a few little things like that which grate. In fact there are so many minor 
 little issues its impossible to start naming them. 
  
  However these issues are overwhelmed by the incredible bleak atmosphere the game oozes and the 
 excellent gunplay. It gets the major things right.
  
  Too short though, there is so much possibility with a game like this, i would love to see this 
 developer working with someone who can provide a more stable engine and some finesse to the world/ideas 
 involved.
  
  Even with a few of its game ideas fixed and organised better I would probably give this game a 
 10. As it stands however a 9 is what it deserves.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leffe_sweden
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, but the amount of glitches is too high and they are sometimes too major. 
 
  This game is a little mix of action, horror and exploration. These three things woven together 
 like they are in this game result in a kickass game. Because it's very realistic you get scared 
 a lot by this game, and that's awesome. The various kinds of monsters and mutants feel very real 
 and you're always scared when facing a new type of mutant for the first time (maybe not the fat 
 porkballs in the very beginning of the game but pretty much everything else)
  The AI is quite impressive, the stalkers aren't stupid while fighting and if you are they will 
 kill you. They will take use of the cover nearby and so must you. It only takes one stupid decision 
 and you could be dead within a second. Just like you can kill a guy with a short burst fire using 
 a rifle or a headshot with a gun so can your enemies. That is why you have to play this game different 
 from other games like call of duty or something like that when you can run out in the open and 
 kill your enemies one by one. Keeping it short this game is truly a challenge, it's hard.
  The graphics are really good although some stuff is animated a little different from the real thing. 
 For example humans look a little wide and have pretty large hands, but you get used to it after 
 playing through the first few hours. 
  The sound effects are absolutely amazing. Very realistic and you really feel like you're there 
 (In other words you're scared)
  The story is pretty good once you get into it, after the first 5 missions or so outside of the 
 swamps. You get a lot of freedom in the game and that's really nice. It's also a really authentic 
 feeling over the whole thing.
  The voice acting is pretty bad and can be a little irritating actually because of some characters 
 having crappy voices that sound like sh*t and don't match the mouth movements. br / 
  The multiplayer is kind of dull. It's simply not very fun to play and not excactly overpopulated
 
  
  All in all this is, according to me, a really good game that sucks you in to 100% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilTwinBrother
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 4:34 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best game that I've ever played. In time of games like GTA 4, Crysis Warhead, 
 Far Cry 2, CoD5, Fallout 3, this game still looks fine (not great) , but her amazing atmosphere 
 should keep you playing. 
  I started game several times because of bugs and patching, but it wasn't changed my mind about 
 game. It is frustrated, it makes you angry very much, but, like I said, something pushing you to 
 keep playing. So, why it makes me to throw original? Well, mutants is much stronger (In first one, 
 they were harmless if you ask me) , and this time you will feel some emotions like pressure and 
 faster heart beating when you see them. Game is much harder and that makes atmosphere stronger 
 because you will be little afraid for your life You can finally spend money on upgrades for weapons 
 and armor. RPG elements are great, unlike original, and you actually will find yourself in situations 
 that you want buy something, unlike original when I bought just one armor that was worth my money 
 at the end of the freaking game (But you really need to watch out how you are spending your hard 
 made money) . Searching for artifacts is now interesting, unlike first game. You can see how good 
 you are with fractions, unlike first game. You can make your destinations easy, unlike first game. 
 So, this game is awesome, but there is bugs (like you didn't know) , and older graphics, but real 
 gamers shouldn't be bothered by that. 
  In the end, I have got to say that everything in game is on right place and that this is real STALKER 
 game that I waited so long, unfortunately because difficulty, weaker gamers wont play this game, 
 and little spoiled kids because of "graphics". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machew100
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 6:05 pm PT
Review:  For some reason I remember this game getting some minor bad rep for having poor graphical quality, 
 but this game has incredible shadows/environmental effects above anything else. After the initial 
 appearance I recognized that the gun play was kind of slow. I originally started the game on normal, 
 and with every bullet I was bleeding and sprinting for cover. However, I started on easy/novice 
 and I've had so much more fun not having to worry about me getting put down in seconds without 
 cover. The game is pretty hard, and can be tricky at times. The combat definitely grows on you, 
 and as you get upgraded weapons and armor, it becomes much more fun. As you become increasingly 
 powerful as a lone wolf, you start to feel like a real stalker bada**, taking out a group of 4 
 or 5 bandits using a silenced sniper with all headshots. After the deed is done, you roam wherever 
 you desire, taking in the vast levels, varied level design, and strange anomalies. This game isn't 
 particularly scary, but it is pretty atmospheric, and I always love it when I'm cleaning up a bandit 
 camp during a thunderstorm, with the lightning flashing tree shadows through the camp's dark shacks. 
 The story isn't bad, neither is the voice acting, but it's nothing award-winning. Stalker is unlike 
 any shooter I've ever played, and I enjoy it's tasteful differences from the hum-drum shooters 
 out there. If you do buy the game, don't just play a few hours and then give up on it; keep playing 
 to reap rewards and feel like you've worked for something, then make your decision. Overall, it's 
 a fun game that has the potential to suck you in. Hope this helped, and make sure to update your 
 game to eliminate any previously griped-over glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTPAHHIK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 2:46 am PT
Review:  Clear Sky has same game play and style as previous Stalker. A few things are added, but dynamics 
 remain the same. Explore the zone, find artifacts and kill bad guys (as well as good ones if they 
 drop good loot) . You have a few nice additions that were not available before. 
  Weapon and armor upgrades make all the difference now. You can choose different upgrade paths for 
 most of your items to makes you more effective in either combat or exploration. 
  You have an option to join different factions to get better items and faction support and participate 
 in faction wars. This is something that you would do playing game second time on max difficulty, 
 as at first you want to uncover the story line. 
  Unfortunately, this is where Clear Sky falls short. Storyline is very straight forward and not 
 as catching or involving as Original Stalker. I also got a feeling that Clear Sky is shorter on 
 game play and has smaller area to explore, but that could be just my impression as I was expecting 
 more. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: makarov13
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 6:35 pm PT
Review:  clear sky is a sequel to a very good game but somehow ended up being very disapointing to people 
 who liked the first game.
  
  
  I'll start off with the good.
  - clear sky has more areas to explore compared to soc 
  - it has weapon and armor customization
 
  - joinable factions and faction wars
  - 30 miles of area to explore
  - no radroaches
  
  now the bad 
  - glitches even when patched 
  - the ai throws to many damned grenades
 
  - the pistols no longer have ironsights (mods don't count)
  - artifacts are invisabvle unless you have detector out
  - ai glitches alot of them
  - some 
 features that made soc good were removed
  - some things in the story in general don't make sense
  - no hookers still
  
  the game is 
 a waste of money don't buy it
  buy the first S. T. A. L. K. E. R. it has much more to offer than this half baked attempt at making a 
 quick buck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SrTVBR
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2009 7:28 pm PT
Review:  To write on and reading on S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Clear Sky generates a paradoxical situation. This because 
 many of the described characteristics of the game fail in its final conception, being only as a 
 to be reached potential. The collection of bugs, the problematic performance and instability, beyond 
 broken missions, results in a great cold water bucket. However, it has of if praising a game that 
 still more obtains to be atmospheric, shady and structuralism that the previous one - exactly without 
 the originality of the script. The combat most realistic and the extreme difficulty do not become 
 it an indication for all, but who liked it previous game, with sufficient patience and understanding, 
 will go to have fun itself very and to dive of head in this new unit of the radioactive surmounting.
 
  You gonna feel scared when the night falls and you are in the middle of the red forest. Try that! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkgnb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Stalker is a very good shooter with more depth than you will find with other FPS. Clear Sky offers 
 improved graphics, different environments and more combat able foes than the first. I found it 
 to be a bit more difficult than the first one, but Stalker has a way of sucking you in over time. 
 Starting out, in Clear Sky, I thought I was going to be disappointed, but as you get into it more, 
 like the first, it really becomes better as you go. The different types of weapons and ammo remains 
 and the open ended exploration is there, as in the first. The story is so, so, but I really do 
 not care about the story in games anyway. I would rather have the quality game play than a story 
 and Clear Sky offers enough of both, I think, to be considered a good game worth picking up. For 
 20 dollars, it does offer a lot. Yes, there are a few annoying bugs, but after the patch they are 
 minimal. I wish it was a bit more polished than it is, but it's not bad either. Hope they continue 
 with a third. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skeez123sbc
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 12:47 pm PT
Review:  (Stalker CS v.1.05.07)
  
  I currently uninstalled this game completely, patched to 1.5.07 and now it runs as it should. NO 
 more random crash to desktops. When I patched before it still ran like crap, not sure if there's 
 a big difference between the two patches I used though. I had to re-write my review of CS because 
 it is an excellent game that has the power to captivate. GSC has the ability to think outside the 
 box, when it comes to forward-thinking game design. Stalker CS is one of the best, if not the best, 
 FPS/RPG hybrid on the market right now. The only game that may challenge Stalker CS for the title, 
 would be Stalker SOC. Nuff Said' 
  
  (Stalker CS v1.05.03-v1.05.05)
  
  Had to give Stalker Clear Sky a 6.5, my reasons being.... Well it would get a 9 but it's busted 
 beyond repair! I played through the whole swamp area and when I got to Cordon, the main mission 
 to "Eliminate Military at Elevator" just ufcked up and wouldn't complete itself. I couldn't advance 
 at that point any furthur, so I tried patching the game to 1.5.05 ,a better version and basically 
 starting fresh. Doing this only made my problems much worse, with constant Crash to Desktops happening! 
 Throughout my whole experience with Stalker Clear Sky, there was stuttering and a lot of it. The 
 original didn't run this badly for me and I ran that one at higher graphical settings, wtf?! I 
 stopped playing this game because it was a big waste of my time due to bugs, crashes, stuttering, 
 and freezes. Ohh and btw, I loved SoC, look at my avatar for god's sakes! You think GSC would learn 
 how to polish a game the second time around, they must be soaking in some radiation themselves. 
 Hopefully the third time around (if they even get there) they'll get a game to run decent and not 
 have to rely on the Mod Community to fix it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LagMan_pt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Clear sky is the prequel to stalker shadow of chernobyl and i recommend it to all who like me loved 
 the first one and would like to get deeper into the misteries of the zone and its people. In this 
 prequel you play as scar a mercenary who is assign to stop strelok (the main protagonist of the 
 first game) on his attempt to reach the center of the zone for the second time. The gameplay is 
 pretty much like the first stalker (great :) ) only this time a dinamic war between factions is 
 going on and i must say this is the only game i know that decently does that, I mean the game flows 
 even if youre not there at all, that gives the player a greater sense of realism and immersion. 
 The atmosferic ambience of the game shines even more with directx 10 enabled, the textures are 
 very crisp and the light effects top notch, few games beat stalker on the lightning part, the real 
 time day night cicle is awesome and when it rains youl see the water flowing down the walls amd 
 making puddles on the ground. The shooting is really different from most fps games, you will feel 
 overwelmed by the hostilitie of the gameworld, your enemies are ruthless and as strong as you are, 
 theill charge if over numbered, flush you out with grenades when your camping, flank you, this 
 will make you search for new equipment often, and gear up as you head towards a difficult fight. 
 Even if the enemy dont kill you theres allways the chance you will fall into an anomaly that rips 
 you up to shreds, this makes you feel like a small rock in the pond not the hero of the day. The 
 sound is also very good it sure gets in your head. This game is hard to explain but it feels like 
 a very artistic indie work. Of course it also has its down parts like THE BUGS, the only thing 
 trying to wreak the great moments this game provides nad i mean of all kinds: Collision, ctd, unknown 
 heheh, and more... But still worth it. Its good the company who made this game if very responsive 
 to the fans and delievers patches timely. So bottom line if you played ssoc and liked it buy this 
 now, it has the great stalker gameplay new maps, better graphics, faction wars, great economy system, 
 a story that connects well with the first 100% addictive and one of the best playable enviorments 
 yet. If not you need to play it to fully enjoy this prequel and its adventures. (stalker imo is 
 the best free roaming game yet anf far cry 2 rips a lot of it :P) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cis278
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 24, 2009 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible. I played the first Stalker and enjoyed the game play a lot. Clear Sky is 
 just absolutely horrible. The story line makes no sense. It was impossible to use any of my quick 
 saves. I don't know how many times I had to start over using my auto save just after I finished 
 some questing earning rubles and artifacts just to start over again. Plus when I did save I had 
 to delete each save then re-save to make sure the save didn't corrupt. This slowed game play down 
 for me considerably.
  
  So from the save debacle I just tried to hurry and finish the main mission to see how the story 
 ends. I got to the end to find Strelok, got tired of dying over and over again and just finally 
 deleted the game. It was just not working for me. On the plus side the game has the best graphics 
 I've seen yet in a game. I even up-graded my video card for this game.
  
  It just seem liked Clear Sky tried to artificially extend the game with the constant enemies you 
 have to fight in the main quest. This made it so annoying especially with the save corruptions. 
 If you can get the game for $10-$15 bucks and patch it to the latest patch it might work for you. 
 I never ever rarely give up on a game, but I had to for my sanity's sake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daword
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 12:12 pm PT
Review:  im played more than 200pc games. so i know what games are realy good and what game are boring or 
 just realy bad
  i allways buy those new pc games and try them 
  im almost played every new pc game.. so if i give 9-10 points its have to be a REALY good game 
 and u shoul buy it or even try it =)
  someone give games 9-10 points just to easyly, i give those points only for masterpieces..
  and 
 i dont write big review i give now only points and thats because my main language is not enghlis 
 so its brety hard to write good reviews.. Sory : (
  so my enghlis is not so good that i can tell every nice or bad things in games.. so i use only 
 points =)
  i hope everyone understand that i just try to give my own opinion those games whitout many words.. 
 
  and i think many player just look those numbers? ;) thx to undertanding me and good gaming
  
 
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  Graphic 9/10
  
  
  Sounds 9/10
  
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  
  Time Spent Playing 
  more than 10 hours
  
  
  Difficulty 
  easy
  
  
  Gamevalue 9/10
 
  
  
  This is realy the game what u should try.. Gameplay is beter than many other fbs games and game 
 world is dark and creepy.. there is some minor bugs but they are only minor.. Great fbs game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muscleserge
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Shadow of Chernobyl was one of the best games I have played, and Clear Sky makes a worthy sequel. 
 It however does not retail the same atmosphere of its predecessor, it some what modifies it, in 
 some places it seemed a bit more shiny that I would have liked but it still was a convincing desolate 
 environment.
  Clear Sky is a more difficult game than Shadow of Chernobyl, which is a pro, running for cover 
 and trying to snipe the enemy first will be common practice in this game. Taking on 3 or 4 opponents 
 makes for a challenge, and since in this prequel the enemies can throw grenades you will find your 
 self sprinting from cover to cover. Artifacts are harder to come by as well, and they can cost 
 some good money too, which brings me to an another point that changed about this game, money. Everything 
 is more expensive, and money is generally hard to come by.
  Over all STALKER Clear Sky makes for a very immersive experience and it is a worth while purchase.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Templar_Bladema
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 6:49 am PT
Review:  When I first launched Clear Sky, I ran on max settings before my computer just ran into the corner 
 and cried. The max DX10 settings are beautiful, but hardware intensive. I then decided to run and 
 the settings that were max for Shadow of Chernobyl, and the game plays and looks pretty much the 
 same. If you played Shadow of Chernobyl, then after you finish the first zone and enter Cordon, 
 you get a nostalgic feeling, but always a been there, done that. With the exception of the ability 
 to mod your weapons, having to now search for anomalies, and Faction Wars, this is basically just 
 Shadow of Chernobyl with a new story. The glitches and memory leaks hit harder though. I cannot 
 play this game for more than an hour before my computer crashes, even at this games most recent 
 version. To sum it all up, what made Shadow of Chernobyl fun and interesting, from the dynamic 
 wildlife (or what I can call wildlife) migrating patterns to the realistic bullet physics, feel 
 dated in Clear Sky. If you never played Shadow of Chernobyl, then this game is fun, otherwise, 
 your money would be better spent elsewhere.
  
  The Faction Wars gameplay basically plays like Battlefield or Enemy Territory: Quake Wars. Instead 
 of an individual statistic of every STALKER and the top 20 Stalkers, you get a grouped rating of 
 6 factions (5 of which you can join, 1 of the 5 you are sorta Shang-hied into) . It is usually this 
 faction hates that factions guts, so they fight them. You pick a side, you have set objectives 
 to complete (usually take X amount of points, take the enemy's main base, rout their forces and 
 secure the zone) and points you have to defend. Both sides have stats that get sorted into two 
 bars, Faction Strength (Number of men and Control points held) and Faction Resources (amount of 
 guns and other supplies available) . This is probably the biggest, and most interesting addition, 
 because it gives the NPCs reasons to do all those scouting missions.
  
  Replayability: A
  Gameplay: B
  Graphics: B
  Sound: B+ (The atmosphere is basically the same, but still terrifying)
 
  Multiplayer: ? (Haven't played, but I imagine it hasn't changed much)
  Overall: B (More of the same) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkzeroyosi2
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2009 6:19 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. an Rule Playing Game combined with First Person Shooter it's really worth fun to 
 spent time to play with there are many factors that you can do in the game that makes you more 
 spent more time for it and saves you from getting bored the is free roam on huge area but ironically 
 Anomalies are scattered everywhere (similar to Radioactive/Radiation area) that cause deadly effect 
 on Player and NPC even Death, Mutants species also scavenging in certain areas to hunt some fresh 
 flesh of humans probably the deadliest Mutants monster is the Bloodsucker they can hide, sneak, and 
 attack without warning with their Invisible ability the more you explore the game the more deadly 
 crappy enemies you well encounter that well creep around your neck including Zombies!! (Eventually 
 you well encounter them during your missions) not only mutants but also other Clans controlling 
 their own territories that also have their own assault Team to search, capture and destroy the enemies 
 on the path including you if you were not part of their Clan aside from this Clans there are also 
 Bandits around which usually your always former enemies that also you can hunt them for Items/Weapons 
 basically to make Money to upgrade your Weapons/Armor and repair them you can't fight through all 
 the game with it (unless you cheating xD ) but anyway Upgrading weapons and armor are one of the 
 good factor of the game (which i mentioned above) there are many ways to upgrade your weapons and 
 armor including attaching Scopes, Grenade Launcher, and Suppressors to make more stealthy kill.. 
 There are 41 Weapons that you can own including Artifacts detector (but you can't carry every weapon/items 
 on the game you still have 50g limited weight that you can carry you can Walk more than 50g or 
 60g weight) , This artifacts are very hard to find and very rare part item this artifacts can upgrade 
 your Armor and Status that helps you to the battle very good supportive items aside from upgrading 
 Armor but the help of Artifacts Detector you easily to find it although it has limited on distance 
 and depend on features and the way they can Detect (i think there are 3 kinds of Artifacts Detector 
 that you can buy) The Atmosphere on the game was excellent it improves the game more exiting and 
 feels more scarier especially when there's creepy mutants around not only that The game has Random 
 Weather and Time synchronized system though Day and Night which gives more challenge to Player...
 
  
  well i guess that enough for my review for now overall for this game is worth playing for you should 
 buy the original its really great FPS-RPG game
  
  my score :
  
  1-bad
  2-good
  3-impressive
  4-excellent
  5-awsome
  
  Gameplay = 5
  Graphics = 3
  Sound = 4
  Learning 
 Curve = 4
  Fun = 5
  Price = 4
  Spending Time = 30-40 hours 
  
  
  as simple as that.. game is OWNS before Fallout 3, Far Cry 2.. but still OWNS xD i wonder if they 
 make another series of the game from the future 
  
  as for bugs/crashing problems this is my advice to avoid this problem just try to avoid evolving 
 to many side quest just try to finish up your current quest before trying or opening into other 
 new quest (Except for Primary quest which indicated into RED mark ) just follow the game flows 
 and you may avoid crashing to desktop well if you ask me i tried it cause i been playing the game 
 with version 1.5.03/5 (those are same version 1.5.03 is just German patch but its still the same) 
 ever since i follow the game flow i barely crashed.. and so far i crashed 2x and a top of that 
 i finished the game using on my old PC its quite Ironic *LOL*.. so that's it i hope this helps too.. thanks 
 for viewing by the way..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: achilles123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 12:09 am PT
Review:  OK, I admit the game has its demons. There are one or two annoying bugs and even a broken mission 
 or two. But it really isn't THAT bad, at least not deserving the humiliation of a 7.0 score. For 
 Christ's sake, GS gave 8.5 to Far Cry 2 and 9.5 to Crysis! Come on, Crysis!? 
  
  But later on that, let's go through the things that made this game so great.
  
  Atmosphere. 
 Nothing really changed here, which is good news. No other game is so immersing, creepy and alive 
 - all at the same time. None. Not even one. Nada.
  
  Gameplay and content. Here's where things really changed since Shadow of Chernobyl. And for the 
 better, that is. Improvements include:
  - Money. Unlike Shadow of Chernobyl, money now really matter, thanks mostly to the weapon/armor 
 upgrade system. It now makes sense to do side missions or artifact hunting just to earn some extra 
 cash.
  - Artifacts are now much rarer and much harder to get, which is great! That's how the Zone was 
 supposed to be in first place! This is obviously a tribute to the original Roadside Picnic book 
 (which you should read if you still haven't) .
  - Factions. Haven't really experimented with them a lot, but most people say they offer great replay 
 value.
  - Already mentioned upgrades, which are a great new RPG element. 
  
  There are, of course, a couple of things I didn't really like in Clear Sky:
  - Too few mutants, 
 especially the "high-level" bloodsuckers and poltergeists. I only encountered one (1!) poltergeist 
 in the entire game, which is a shame. Also, there were just one or two new mutant models, but I 
 could live with that if there were more bloodsuckers and poltergeists...
  - The ending of the game is just not right. It is obvious the guys were in a hurry and kinda put 
 the end credits right in the middle of 
  where they were in terms of development. But since the ending is linear and it only takes an hour 
 or two to complete, it doesn't really matter, compared to how big and long the rest of the game 
 is. Just for the record, it took me little over 50 hours to complete the game (finishing all side 
 missions, collecting all artifacts and making almost all possible upgrades) .
  
  And a few words on bug criticism...
  
  Sorry, I really don't get it how so many people (including 
 GS) can criticize a game like Clear Sky for having a lot of bugs, without defining a proper set 
 of criteria first. What are you guys comparing it against when you say "it has a lot of bugs"? 
 Do you take into consideration the fact that there is no other game on the market that gives such 
 freedom in an open and breathing world? A world, in which you are just a small part, and most of 
 the events happen regardless of your presence. Isn't such a game allowed to have a little more 
 bugs than your average scripted shooter? What are everybody comparing the game with, Crysis? Yes, 
 it's almost bugless, but let me ask you this: what's there to break in Crysis? The scripted events, 
 the linear storyline or the AI, which only cares about you and the triggers you activate? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iXBuRny
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 9:12 am PT
Review:  I really must say I was addicted to the first one. I think I played it 4 times at least. So it 
 was a no brainer to pick this one up. At first I wasn't too overly impressed, seemed awkward almost. 
 As I got used to it and learned how to actually FIND the dam artifacts (which I thought was a nice 
 addition instead of them all over the place) and how you can actually fix/upgrade your inventory 
 I was pretty hooked. And it's not a run-n-gun either, you actually have to take cover because you 
 will die real quick like if you don't! 
  Now this game has it's glitches for sure, to the point that it WILL piss you off, like doing the 
 wrong thing at the wrong time will not let you finish a quest, doors won't open etc. or your gun 
 will jam CONSTANTLY when you run into enemy fire, where as it won't any other dam time! But all 
 in all I really enjoyed this game more than the first one I think, and am playing it for the 3rd 
 time! I would recommend this game to my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lpjazzman220
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Well, It's not Crysis, but the graphics are pretty good. It has amazing lighting, shadow, 
 and particle effects. This is one of the first games that I have actually seen the clouds have 
 an effect on the sun. Mind you, I don't have a super computer, I can only run it with maxed textures 
 and medium shadows and lighting and no antialiasing what so ever. With this in mind, I still think 
 it's beautiful. 9/10
  
  Sound: The sound is really good. I have a nice gaming headset, and the audio is very accurate. 
 You can hear NPCs walking, water dripping, and you can hear your own heart beat when you are bleeding. 
 It really makes you feel like you are there. The voice work was not complete, with a few more hours 
 of recording work, they could have had all of the dialogue voiced over. 7/10
  
  Gameplay: Many people have problems with the gunplay, but I think everyone was expecting Halo or 
 something like that. You have to concider that, for the most part, you are shooting a low caliber 
 weapon at people in heavy body armor. People said that the weapons seemed ineffective, but if you 
 shoot body armor that has 3 ceramic plate, and you can upgrade your armor with that, with a 9mm 
 or a 5.56mm, you're not going to get very far, so expecting it is stupid. You have to act like 
 you're really shooting someone. You have to aim for the head. Guns jam, people complain about it, 
 it happens in real life, the developers wanted a realistic game, therefore guns in the game jam. 
 You don't like it, get over it. I thought that the gunplay was amazing. The faction war means almost 
 nothing in the game. I think it was a waste of time to even develop it; it really had no impact 
 on the game. 9/10
  
  Story: The story felt thin. For the most part, you had no idea what was going on. But that is okay 
 because your character has no idea what is going on. It is really confusing as you don't really 
 know where it's going and you don't know why you are doing things, you just do it because the faction 
 you're working for has no one to spare and you have combat experience. When you get to the end, 
 you feel like you really haven't finished the story yet, but that is probably because you are being 
 led up to the original game, which I have not played so I can't say for sure. 6/10
  
  Overall: The game is not Crysis, it's not Fallout 3, it's not Call of Duty 4, so I don't compare 
 it to those games too much. If I expect this game to be Fallout 3 and to play like it and to look 
 like it, if I do, I may or may not be disappointed. I won't compare the graphics to Crysis because 
 this game is not meant to be a benchmark, it is meant to be playable. Out of the box, this game 
 is unplayable, but I have updated it to 1.5.07, and it works beautifully. If you are going to get 
 this game, now is the time it do it, they finally made a patch to make it the way it should have 
 been out of the box. I fully enjoyed this game, and I am definitely going to buy the original so 
 I can finish the story, I got hooked. It may not have good reviews, but it also has great reviews. 
 I agree that this game isn't the best ever, but it is a very good game in its own right. 7.5/10
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jericho9696
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  I don't really think you should buy this game because it's extremely similar the original.
  
  This is a prequel to the original, and again, the story isn't that
  memorable, the LARGE 
 amount of bugs and glitches are back again only this time, the bugs are even worse..............
 
  
  If you really want this game, go buy the original S. T. A. L. K. E. R not this one, but quiet frankly 
 they are very similar so...... yeah.
  
  Overall it's a good shooter, but it's a pretty big disappointment because, I really liked the original 
 stalker.
  
  The graphics aren't really something because it is more polished than the original but it doesn't 
 stand a chance against auother games.
  
  
  
  So don't buy this game unless it's 20-25$ exept that, you shouldn't buy, buy the original.
  End 
 of  
::::::

::::::
UserName: organic_machine
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Stalker: Clear Sky is worth playing. Like it's predecessor, it is completely an incredible and 
 immersive experience. The games universe, "The Zone," feels real and convincing. As you play, it 
 truly feels like it is your home. That is a winning formula, because few games can have that impact 
 on me. 
  
  Clear Sky is a bit conflicting in terms of its quality. As a sequel (or prequel in this case) , 
 it brings several improvements to the original. The new artifact system is genius. Instead of waltzing 
 through the Zone casually observing hopping rocks, you now are forced to hunt for them. Because 
 they are invisible, you, the player, must throw yourself in harm's way for the chance of obtaining 
 one. This is a much greater risk/reward relationship than in the original. 
  
  The upgrade system is also a vast improvement as well. Your guns and your suits suck unless you 
 upgrade them. And the system is made in such a way where you cannot choose all the available upgrades. 
 Choosing one upgrade nullifies another. This forces the player to weigh the advantages and disadvantages 
 of each upgrade. It is engaging, and it is a rewarding system. The upgrading system gives you a 
 great reason to make money and not race through the game. 
  
  Just as it has its great moments, Clear Sky also has its weak ones. At best, both the emission 
 and the faction systems are totally and completely broken. Emissions are said to be random, but 
 they aren't. In fact, when you reach a certain part of the game, emissions happen every single 
 time you load from an autosave. They generally only happen when you load a level. And they never 
 ever happen mid mission. This completely ruins the emission system that I loved in the modded version 
 of the original. 
  
  The faction system is useless because you cannot eliminate entire factions. They keep respawning. 
 And there's nothing you can do to stop it. So, unless you want to waste tons of ammo and make yourself 
 enemies with powerful, well armored people; joining a faction is completely useless. Yes, you gain 
 a base and some cool equipment. But without the ability to eliminate factions, a faction system 
 is useless. There needs to be a decision and consequence system. Like, for example, a system where 
 if you eliminate, say, the Duty; then the Zone gets littered with bandits and mutants. That's what 
 a faction system should look like. The ability to totally destroy entire factions at the cost of 
 great consequences. But no, instead they'll just respawn minutes after you spent hours clearing 
 out their base. 
  
  Be aware of these faults, but don't let that dissuade you from playing Clear Sky. It is an incredible 
 experience that needs to be experienced. If you want a deep and immersive game, this is most certainly 
 it. The game needs to be played. The thing is, it also needs to be modded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merc_Scar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Clear Sky is the prequel to one of the best games of 2007, S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Shadow 
 of Chernobyl. Al tho it doesn't really clear up any of the mysteries from Shadow of Chernobyl, 
 it does not require a play through of the first to understand everything in Clear Sky. You play 
 as Mercenary Scar, a mysterious mercenary that just seems to do what everyone tells him to.
  
  The game starts you off with a nice cinematic of you and some scientists walking through what 
 looks like the swamps and suddenly and emission occurs, a wave of radiation emitted from the center 
 of the zone. You get hit and somehow survive. You end up in Clear Sky base where they fix you up 
 and set you up with a pistol and a double barrel shotgun. They then tell you to go help an outpost 
 in the swamps and you get hit by yet another emission. After that you can either help Clear Sky 
 take back the swamps and do the main quest line, or join one of the factions and help them wipe 
 out the enemy factions.
  
  The way you take out enemy factions is through a new system called Faction Wars. In Faction Wars 
 you will get objectives from your ally faction like Secure the road to The Cordon where you have 
 to eliminate the enemy faction from that area so your friends can come and occupy the area. It 
 is a good end game system for those who have beaten the game and want something extra to do after 
 they have beaten the game. The only complaint I have is your friendly AI will tard out sometimes, 
 leaving you waiting at an outpost for nearly 10 minutes before they get there and occupy it.
  
  The story is pretty weak in Clear Sky. Its definitely not the selling point of the game. Tho 
 it is there, its just not told very well and seems more like a add on than the main point of the 
 game since you will be doing faction wars and trying to find some loot rather than do it most of 
 the time, tho you are required to do some of it to pass to new levels of the game.
  
  The interface has been given a face lift and looks a lot nicer than the one one Shadow of Chernobyl. 
 It not only looks a lot better but it ads a better Geiger counter and hazard warnings. The only 
 thing about it is now there is a flashing disc in the bottom corner that doesn't seem to have anything 
 to do with the game.
  
  The weapons and armor haven't changed much from Shadow of Chernobyl. They did add a few guns but 
 nothing really notable. They did however add an upgrade system which is really nice. Say you find 
 a really nice AK-74 that you like, you can just go to a mechanic and he will upgrade its accuracy, 
 rate of fire, damage and more. You can also upgrade and repair armor which is a really nice feature 
 since in SoC when your armor degraded you had to buy or find a new set.
  
  Some things I found disappointing in Clear Sky is there are only two or three underground levels 
 that I could find. Some of the scariest and most fun moments from SoC were the underground levels. 
 Another thing is they still have really bad grass sprites, I just ended up turning them off. The 
 textures on some of the areas seem pretty bad as well, but the introduction of Parallax Occlusion 
 Mapping (or bump mapping) makes areas with alot of brick or tile walls and floors look pretty damn 
 cool. The sun rays (or god rays) look really nice too. Tho they only appear at 6:00AM through 8:00AM 
 I think they should have made them appear all day. One thing I recommend is not using Anio-Sitropic 
 filters unless you have a texture pack mod that enhances the ground textures, they do not looks 
 very nice and don't really need to be seen at the distance.
  
  The DirectX10 mode of Clear Sky is a disappointment for the most part. The only noticeable change 
 is the addition of rain mapping (or wet surfaces) which adds an amazing looking reflective wet surface 
 to most outdoor textures. Another one of the options in DirectX10 mode is volumetric smoke, but 
 I could not find anything that related to volumetric smoke during my time playing the game which 
 was disappointing because it sounds really cool. The lighting is where the games graphics really 
 shine. There is 24/7 fully dynamic lighting which looks really good and helps immerse you into 
 the game.
  
  If you are looking for a great open ended shooter with some rpg elements then I highly recommend 
 S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Clear Sky. It does have some bugs but GSC Game World is notorious for fixing bugs 
 and optimizing games through patches and lets not forget the amazing mod community the game has. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edwincnelson
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  It is important to note first that this game was all but broken before the initial patch. However, 
 after the patch I found that the game played seamlessly from beginning to end. So for those of 
 you who were scared off by early reviews, please ignore the hype.
  
  There are a million of first person shooters on the market and, in light of the competition, as 
 gamers we are always judging which game deserves our hard earned cash. This game is worth every 
 penny. 
  
  At their best, games allow us to transcend our everyday experiences and provide us the opportunity 
 to experience a different place that is so unlike our own it opens our eyes to new a new way of 
 looking at things. This is where Clear Sky shines. 
  
  Ultimately, the story is interesting (more so if you have played the original game) but not filled 
 with earth shattering twists and turns that keep you on the edge of your seat. The same can be 
 said for the main character who seems to lack much definition. The real star here is the zone. 
 It's a living breathing world full of amazing events and people and every inch is filled with something 
 that may be important to you. The meat of the game is really moving through the areas trying to 
 find the materials and weapons you will need to traverse the next set of tasks taking you through 
 the story. 
  
  To it's credit, Clear Sky has ramped down the almost impossible difficulty of the original so that 
 a less motivated player could move through the main storyline fairly quickly if he or she wanted 
 to. Fortunately, like the original, just navigating through the zone will keep you entertained 
 enough that you will most likely want to finish every quest. Even the simplest, most banal quest 
 can lead to jaw dropping moments. A seemingly simple "go get the rifle" mission can turn into a 
 nighttime 4th of July fireworks display of tracer rounds and flying bodies. Any moment in the game 
 can turn into a memorable event and that's what keep s you coming back for more.
  
  The graphics are excellent and run well on most machines. I had smooth frame rates on a AMD X2 
 4400 @ 2.6ghz with an ATI 4850 (slightly overclocked) , and I am happy to say I had no lockups or 
 crashes. 
  
  Most important is that all of the glitches that were reported in the earlier versions have been 
 fixed. I have played through every quest (except for the bandit faction) and I had no broken quests 
 or other problems.
  
  If you were on the fence about this I highly recommend you give it a try. You won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redcut
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Top notch innovative game. The last patch will work out bugs, or it did for me. but even w the 
 bugs this game is a desireable rpg-fps hybrid. Play it for 2 hours and you will be hooked and immersed. 
 You have total freedom in this game to fight who and where you want, to find artifacts that give 
 radioactive powers to you and assortment of weapons are believable and fun to try out.
  
  This game has a story line that you follow. The graphics are great, but to run at 'high' lowers 
 frame rate dramatically. Its still pretty at medium. New graphics shadowing makes it like you are 
 in this place. Much detail has been included in this game, regular day-night cycle, need and acquisition 
 of med, endurance factor, believable rifle and weapon differences. You will want to kill the enemy, 
 as they are mean.
  
  The post-Chernobyl zone has several factions or groups. There are rpg powers in many dif ways. 
 The game has a realistic feel. Getting money, guns and ammo are just as fun as the plot. The ending 
 is good and appropriate. Fantastic.
  
  This is a bigtime favorite in Europe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thor25br
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  It's the best shooter there is for me. Nice weapons, good damage system despite the old game engine, 
 and great visuals and overall graphics. However, what Clear Sky implemented in weapons upgrade, 
 factions, and the new fun way to hunt anomalies, it's been all crapped over with bugs and bugs, 
 and more bugs, and game bugs, and mission bugs, and, well, you got it. Still, it's the best fps 
 action, since you can run and snipe, get a millisecond machine gun fight with either you killing 
 every enemy or getting shot all over. It really feels like a shooter, 'cause, either you hit and 
 kill or get hit and die. Too bad the developers didn't clean it up at all. And, what I can possibly 
 say to fulfill the so fore mentioned one hundred characters minimum for a review is that, I probably 
 guess so, it's getting to the end, hope you liked it... and... er... well, is it enough? Can I... 
 go now...? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zweh5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  i have played stalker: SoC before, i will say SoC is better than CS
  the good for CS are:
  1. graphic great but cant match with Crysis Warhead.
  2. weapon and armor upgradeable
  3. has 
 guides, dont need to press W button all the way to trader
  4. night vision is useful during at night (it is very dark) , it is not like Crysis = useless 
 
  
  the bad:
  1. bugs bugs bugs, always always always
  2. stupid AI and how they can throw a 3 seconds grenade right under my feet??? always dead by it 
 : (
  3. cant make a different either stand or crouch, should show a picture on the hud
  4. not too creepy as SoC when enter the underground of Aprograum (didnt remember the name)
  5. 
 i never know there is a trader at garbage has a business hour
  
  !!! CAUTION!!!
  this game may make you paranoia in real life, so an anti-psy suit required before play it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lcradcpt
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  The BAD
  Over all this was a challenging experience. Mostly because of the bugs that plagued the game making 
 it an exercises of patch after patch just to make the game playable. Performance could have been 
 more optimized. ( CRYSIS) ran better than this game did for me. This is the first game that I was 
 forced to play on the easiest level. I found that the level of difficulty varied from easy to down 
 right extremely difficult at "novice" This at times crossed the line from a fun but yet challenging 
 game to one that was a regret having bought in the first place. "Another example of poor development" 
 The biggest game play disappointment was that they still used the same antiquated inventory management 
 system. It shouldn't take 5 seconds just to lob a nad at the enemy. The monetary system was a good 
 idea but unfair allowing the player to be robed but not being able to rob the bandit that jacked 
 you! And the trader offering you cents on the ruble once again making this game a lesson of "hard 
 knocks" I think GSC should look at what Crytek and Valve have done for the gaming world and take 
 some notes and try to incorporate these positive traits in any projects that anticipate working 
 on. It's a shame that they even shipped the game to fans of the franchise in a broken box and then 
 have us rely on mods and patches just to play game. "SHAME on you GSC"
  The GOOD,
  is the satisfaction you get from making it through all the disappointing aspect's mentioned above. 
 Good atmospheric game play and faction wars allow for desired repeatable game play after everything 
 works out the previous time around. The dialog for the "English' version is comically cheesy but 
 some good laughs can be had from it! Enemy AI is OK with the exception that they can lob a nad 
 with unreal precision right into you shirt pocket for some reason. There guns and use of them are 
 always better than anything you'll ever have. A bit to disappointing" but satisfying when all 
 is said and done.
  Over all for fans of the franchise and with all the available fixes NOW available it probable worth 
 a try but be prepared to be beaten, chewed up and spit out and then stepped on like no other game 
 can deliver.
  If you like abuse like I mentioned above then buy it! If not try it at a friends or rent it. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Stalker is one of those games that has all the tools to be great but just does not manage to fully 
 utilize all of its potential.
  
  Graphics/Environment 6-10/10 - Stalker Clear Sky's atmosphere is amazing. Some environments are 
 just so fully detailed you have to stop and acknowledge them. The overall atmosphere gives you 
 that creepy sense that you are in the ghost town/area, highly radiated Chernobyl. At night you 
 will feel creeped out due to Stalker's awesome lighting effects. There is nothing more creepy than 
 being out of breath walking through some thick brush only to emerge into a dark field only to have 
 it lighten up by a flash of lighting exposing a pack of mutant dogs feeding on a not-so-fortunate 
 stalker.
  
  However the character models, and some environments look really dated. Some character models and 
 environments will simply stun you but the graphics are just so inconsistent. Its like the pros 
 made parts of the game then gave other parts of the game to rookies to craft them. 
  
  Ballistics/Gunplay - 5/10
  
  Seriously the guns in this game are so inaccurate its so frustrating. 
 You can be point blank and spray with your gun and out of 30 bullets youre lucky if you hit the 
 person 4 times. Even after you upgrade your weapons accuracy, recoil, etc. they still do not feel 
 as accurate as they should be.
  
  Enemy AI is pretty good. They'll flush you out of your spot and look to flank you. And they know 
 how to use cover very well, and can blind fire at you as you look to maneuver.
  
  BUGS!!!
  
  This game has way too many bugs such as random game crashes, enemies randomly appearing 
 even after you've cleared the area behind you, reloading after dying only to find the enemies are 
 standing in the same place and wont do anything even if you shoot them.
  
  Also,
  
  The game has large open areas but missions and anomalies/hazardous zones make things more linear 
 than you'd expect.
  
  Final Thoughts
  
  When Stalker Clear Sky wants to be good... ITS D*MN GOOD, however its just so inconsistent of when 
 it wants to be good that you'll have lots of times where bugs or the crappy ballistics system will 
 just totally screw you over. And some mission structures are so linear that if you find a different 
 way to a certain location the story will not advance itself until you go that specific way to get 
 there.
  
  Its like they want to make Stalker a good game... but then they just put it aside and say to themselves... well 
 we might as well half a** our way to completion, just so we can get it done.
  
  A VERY FRUSTRATING (but when its GOOD)
  
  8/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelv666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Brilliant Graphics But Initial release IS V VRY BUGGY!! Download the v1.5.0.5 patch good Story 
 line but gets repetitive hey stalker go get this go shoot that same old stuff like in Shadow of 
 chernobyl
  
  lots of goodies = customizable weapons, suits, new weapons, You have to LOOK for artifacts and 
 Did i mention the main factor of the game FACTION WARS yes that's right you can actually JOIN freedom 
 or duty and help them 1 bad thing i noticed Everyone seems older even though this game is before 
 the events of shadow of chernobyl.
  
  very easy to mod this game i highly suggest if you get the game you get some blood detail mods 
 oh and the mod so you drive cars :D in the zone XD
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  You 
 are found by a faction called Clear sky (hmmm) after a big blowout in the zone from there it just 
 gets worse they give you a shotgun and tell you to find there guy who is stuck in a tower - getting 
 attacked by ... Boars :) then you have to go through the swamps and shoot anything that moves and 
 capture the ... Yup you got it 
  The bandits camps they've set up its all fun and games a camp Clear sky 
  
  The Bar mans Funny 
 (the one at clear sky 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6wheels
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Actually I might go a bit far and make it my game of the year.
  
  I like the idea that NPC's can die.
  
  The game makes you be what you want to be bad or good, 
 kill everyone or help them, i wish i can join the bandits to steal PDA's lol.
  
  I like the idea that armor and weapons can be modified and improved.
  
  I like it when you 
 weapon jams only in critical areas lol.
  
  I like the idea of bleeding and you must heal yourself with a badge, unlike crysis and CoD4 you 
 auto recover.
  
  it is not a storyline really, you are surviving and living in the game.
  
  I feel like the game is so unique and spacial, and i will never sell my copy like i did in 
 crysis, gears of war, bioshock. I will add it to my legendary titles like DIABLO 2, COH, Commandos 
 1,2.
  
  I advice you guys if you have ATI to download the fix for the game, it really helps.
  
  my 
 system is:
  
  2X AMD Opteron 285
  8GB DDR1
  ATi 4850 512mb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRM114
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  The first Stalker was one of the better First Person Shooters I have played in a long time. Buggy, 
 and Extremely difficult, the game nevertheless possessed a fantastic story and atmosphere. Free-Roaming 
 shooters are certainly en vogue right now with bigger budgets and advertising campaigns (see Far 
 Cry 2) , so its a little hard to remember just how ground-breaking Stalker seemed upon release. 
 There was a certain uniqueness to the game, no doubt the product of its unique ambiance and back-story. 
 Sadly, while Clear Sky is very similar to the first Stalker, it has lost much of the original game's 
 charm and instead acquired an entirely new host of game-breaking bugs. Its a good effort from GSC, 
 its just that with 75% of the gameworld consisting of recycled content from the first Stalker, 
 there isnt much here that could be had from simply reloading SOC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: builtman
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  I must say that this was shaping up to look like a 9 plus game and the graphics and other improvements 
 over the original Stalker are impressive but the game has attack of the Bugs! Even after the supposed 
 fixes (patches) the game still crashes alot. This game is not like the original and I mean that 
 in a bad way. In the previous game there was a progression but this one leaves you flat at the 
 end. Who ever wrote the ending did a poor job. Going from very wide open to "LINEAR". Want me to 
 repeat that??? Once you shoot Strelok a couple times with the gause rifle in the first part of 
 the ending, he is not seen again... O, some things that were improved? The night do get really 
 dark and even with gen 2 night vision it is still dark. Also the mutants are alot more dangerous 
 this time around. And finding artifacts needs the gen 3 detector in order to properly find them. 
 Make sure you get the upgrades to the suits and weapons as the FT 2000 can be a great sniper weapon 
 with a 45 round clip :) Don't get the machine gun (waste of time and ammo) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akiracoe
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  Where to start - have had to patch several times already. Im also investing in a SECOND 8800gt 
 AMP edition from Zotec (if I can find one) - god knows without it Ill stop playing due to framerates 
 alone. Ive been sniped in the head in the pitch darkness one too many times for my liking so I 
 can only hope someone makes a "realism mod" or similar soon :)
  
  I can only liken this game to Rain Man - broken but brilliant. You might as well buy an Nvidia 
 280GTX with static damage to go with it.... it's about as useful sometimes.
  
  It's an awesome concept rushed on to the market way too early - there are several months worth 
 of further patching and mods required. Unpatched is a no-no.................
  
  On the other hand the atmosphere is as good if not better than the original and the graphics combine 
 with this and the sound effects to create an unreal world to play in.
  
  Concept - 8-10
  Gameplay - 6-10
  Graphics - 9-10
  Addictiveness - 8-10
  Worth the effort (stress?) Yes..... 
 just 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar2J
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  After loosing saved games via patches and suffering glitches in the game play ... I have shelved 
 it. 
  I found there are several places where a saved game does not return you back to where it was saved, 
 ie: the loss of a contact or what your quest or task was before the save and death. One such glitch 
 was guiding the Stalkers to the anomalous area. 
  There are also some anomalies in the PDA map, where a path is shown when you are in another area 
 and then not shown when you are on that path, the very north most point in the garbage dump to 
 the army depot comes to mind.
  
  I do not remember having as much trouble in Stalker Chernobyl with so much 'night time' game time. 
 And traveling at night is just out of the question in most areas, especially the Red Forest. I 
 have taken to holding up somewhere, saving the game just in case, and gone for a beer, vacuumed 
 the house, or what ever to let time pass until daylight. btw ... The Red Forest is very annoying 
 even on the lowest level of difficulty.
  
  At the bridge, which I could never get to lower, Bandits were walking across the river on thin 
 air. When I finally made it to the tower, the radio would not transmit. So outside of killing zombies 
 and picking up loot, that was a big waste of time.
  
  There are more glitches I have run across, but I think one might get the idea I am not happy with 
 this version.
  
  For me, restarting over and over again from the beginning of a game because I never know what I 
 might have messed up is as enjoyable as watching paint dry. Better yet, a root canal.
  
  At the writing of this, which is about 30 minutes from pulling the disk and putting it back in 
 the box, I dropped my rating score from semi-solid 7.0 to sympathy 4.5. I was so looking forward 
 to this second installment of Stalker, the first being excellent. This one, for me however has 
 been a very big let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This game does manage to improve on several aspects of it's predecessor, (one of the best games 
 ever, IMO) , yet manages to be a crushing disappointmant as well. Just how did a game that looks 
 so good on paper turn out to be that waY? Well, three things scuppered this game, 1) a shaky engine 
 that dropped the framerate at inopportune moments, 2) difficulty that's so punishing it's no longer 
 fun (more on this later) , and 3) an ending so lame, so anticlimactic, you'll be staring agape in 
 disbelief for a good 5 minutes after the game's ended.
  
  On the oft mentioned bug front, I must profess to only seeing one persistent bug, which actually 
 helped in the difficulty, and that is, if you save the game during a firefight, sometimes, when 
 you reload, the enemy forget they were fighting and become neutral - so you can walk up, talk, 
 trade... Now, the difficulty - I like difficult, I like a challenge, but in THIS game, you can 
 shoot them in the face with a shotgun and POINT BLANK, and this'll barely perturb the enemy who 
 will cut you to ribbons in a second with a gun that'll somehow shoot bullets made of blancmange 
 when YOU get your hands on it... Grenades, also - in their hands they'll bounce, greased, up you 
 colon, tearing you a new several, from 1/2 a mile away, but in yours? You throw it like a girl, 
 and it explodes in a shower of not-very-deadly candyfloss anyway.
  
  There is much that is great, the graphics and atmosphere are wonderful, although, again this is 
 tempered with a reduced horror element. Absolutely stunning when used (especially in pitch black 
 night, another great improvement) , but why not used a little more? Also, it's almost coincidental 
 to the plot; "oh yeah, there are some creepy beasties as well, but they'll soon go away."
  
  Overall what should have been one of the year's best is seriously overshadowed by the competition 
 (Dead Space, Far Cry 2, Crysis Warhead, probably Fallout 3, etc...) . The difficulty makes playing 
 it NOT FUN quite often, and as I said (I won't go into it further) the ending is beyond just regular 
 sucky, and into a whole new dimension of "I played through the game for THAT!!!???!!!" But on the 
 plus, it's quite sizable (a rarity these days) , and the atmosphere cooks when it wants to, oh, 
 and it's quite cheap, and still, ultimately, a good game. But it shouldn't have settled with good 
 when it SHOULD have been FANTASTIC! 
  
  Thus, for that reason, it's a crushing disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Treadstone71
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  SPOILER ALERT: Review contains some plot spoilers for the original Shadow of Chernobyl game
  
  To start off, I loved Shadow of Chernobyl (herein referred to as SoC for brevity's sake) . The 
 ambiance of that game was just about perfect. Add to that the "open ended" shooter mechanics and 
 the the whole "Oblivion with guns" comparisons that started cropping up and I was hooked.
  
  The one aspect of SoC that I found really annoying was money. You ended up collecting vast 
 amounts of it throughout the game, but ultimately there was absolutely nothing worthwhile to spend 
 it on. Anything you might possibly want to buy, you invariably ended up finding on your own somewhere 
 out in the game world.
  
  So by the time I made it to the wish granter and just for a lark tried it out, it immediately plastered 
 me with the 'greedy' ending due to the large amounts of money I had on me. But I didn't have large 
 amounts of money because I was greedy - I had large amounts of money because it was completely 
 worthless and there was nothing to spend it on! Needless to say, I was somewhat irked.
  
  Which brings us to Clear Sky (herein referred to as CS for brevity's sake...) . CS is essentially 
 the same exact game as SoC. Notable differences being you play a different character, there are 
 some different weapons, and some different areas, and the areas that are the same between the games 
 now have different factions controlling them.
  
  However, the number one key difference between the two games is money. And it's kind of a good 
 news/bad news situation. The good news is that money is finally relevant. However, the bad news 
 is that money is finally relevant.
  
  Through a new upgrade system, you can now spend your hard earned cash on key upgrades to your weapons 
 and armour. And to boot, these upgrades make a noticeable difference in game play so it is definitely 
 in your interest to upgrade as much as you can.
  
  The problem is, it is now difficult to keep enough money around in order to purchase all the upgrades 
 that you would like. Artifacts help. Through a new cool system where you actually have to locate 
 artifacts with a scanner (they are invisible otherwise) , you can find them and then sell them for 
 relatively hefty prices. But again, the problem here is that there are fewer artifacts in CS, and 
 many of the ones you find you'll want to use for yourself rather than sell.
  
  The other thing that helps is the shear quantity of gear that is dropped by foes in the game. However, 
 the problem here is that, due to the game's weight capacity restrictions you end up walking forever 
 back and forth between the site of your last battle and the nearest vendor. Again, artifacts help. 
 There are a couple that increase your weight carrying capacity allowing you to trudge further, 
 faster, with more loot, and these are by far the most valuable artifacts in the game. Which brings 
 up the next improvement over the original: guides. If you want to get from one area of the game 
 to another very quickly, you can now hire a guide to take you. The good: you are instantly transported 
 far distances. The bad: it costs money. Lots of money. The further you need to go, the more money 
 it costs. I found myself walking everywhere because I was too cheap to use the guides. I wanted 
 to save all my money for the coveted upgrades and the thought of wasting it on a guide (charging 
 upwards of 4 - 6K rubles to get somewhere) was quite unpalatable.
  
  So I walked. Everywhere. It got to the point where I wanted to re-name the game W. A. L. K. E. R. But 
 be that as it may, we now have a game that has all the original's atmosphere and great gameplay, 
 plus a working monetary system. It also throws in an entertaining mechanic with "Zone Emissions" 
 where it will randomly throw out an emission (think radiation/psionic storm) and you have to scramble 
 to find a hiding place before said emission hits, otherwise it's game over. All these added touches 
 greatly enhance the game and in my mind it deserves a higher score than the original.
  
  Some people have been complaining about bugs. I had one save game corruption in Agropom. I thought 
 I was being careful, but apparently not because two separate save games within Agropom had the 
 exact same corruption and I ended up having to restart the entire section. After that, I saved 
 to a different save game file every time, but never experienced the corruption again. I haven't 
 seen any other bugs and I am running the latest patch 1.5.05 so I believe that the patches have 
 corrected most of the complaints out of the gate.
  
  The mission structure is slightly better, but again, could still use some improvement. The ability 
 to create your own waypoints on the PDA map and have the directional arrows point to them would 
 be a huge help, but this is a minor complaint.
  
  The bottom line is, if you like SoC at all, you will like CS more. CS is the game that SoC should 
 have been originally. If you've never played either, start with a fully patched CS. It rocks. Any 
 open ended game that has you running around Russian radiation infested forests and towns, dispatching 
 mutants and enemies with an upgraded AK-74 with optical scope mount, hand grenades, and upgraded 
 Desert Eagle, rides right up there at the top of the list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sigsworth
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  As with most games (with the possible exception of Half Life) the storyline in this game is pretty 
 stilted. At least you are not burdened with cutscenes. The story (such as it is) is advanced by 
 in-game dialog. The point is, while it is silly, at least it doesn't detract from the gameplay 
 (as in Crysis: Warhead) . Clear Sky improves over the original in a number of ways. Side quests 
 aren't as broken, stashes empty correctly, and the value of artifacts and other items is better 
 balanced. The new ballistic physics are very good, and realistic. However, the enemy accuracy with 
 grenades is extremely unrealistic, as in they are the most accurate, longest throwing grenade champions 
 of the universe. Clear Sky doesn't seem to provide the same opportunity to play at your own pace 
 as the original Stalker, but there are some opportunities to just wander around. The faction wars 
 are fairly interesting, but when I was a member of the Stalker faction we were never able to capture 
 the bandit base, and keep it captured. The bandits always reappeared. But these are minor criticisms. 
 The feel of Stalker and Clear Sky is unlike that of any other game. You are always in control of 
 your fate; ironic considering the location of the developer, and doubly ironic when you consider 
 the controlled, linear nature of games like BIA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toad1956
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 20, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  How do you spell sucker? Anyone who would be desperate enough to buy S. T. A. L. K. E. R. - Clear Sky.
 
  I have only played ten hours of this game and it is the same as the last. The game is buggy and 
 should have not been released so soon. You would think that after the continual bugs in the S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 - Shadow of Chernobyl Deep Silver would make sure there was no bugs. But unfortunately the policy 
 is to ship it out and patch it, which so far is on patch five. (The question will it be like S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 - Shadow of Chernobyl and the patches end at five.) This is to bad, because like S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 - Shadow of Chernobyl I like this game.
  The training area, the swamps of the Clear Sky faction, is difficult. Night time is more difficult. 
 All the water is contaminated and one step in it you will be reaching for anti-rad medicine or 
 a good shot of anti-rad vodka. To add to the problems already mention your line of sight is limited 
 by marsh grass. Night time travel is very slow, because of these factors.
  The Renegades in this area are always in groups of five, so there is no easy pickings. 
  I found 
 that this game to be of a good challenge level. 
  Overall I would love to recommend this game, but the fact there is so many bug leaves me to not 
 recommended this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swoondle
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I loved the original, and this is even better! Just make sure to patch it ALL THE WAY. Version 
 1.5.05 is out and works!
  
  Also the atmosphere in this game is epic, and anyone who doesn't like this game, only says that 
 because it is hard, and they suck at it. The other people who say that this game sucks, probably 
 never patched the game. This game released with a lot of bugs, but with Version 1.5.05 it is quite 
 solid. I personally love this game, and it's predecessor Stalker, Shadows of Chernobyl. The combat 
 is very fun, if difficult, and the story line really connects with the previous game.
  If you don't like the game, just try playing it a while. This type of game grows on you. This is 
 my favorite game, and I don't see how anyone couldn't like it. If you still aren't sure, you could 
 always torrent a copy... But mine is legit because I love this game, and it is rude to not contribute 
 to the people who made a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Al-7asoud
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  I remember playing the first part of this game, it was something new. Nobody thought that walking 
 into a ghost town nuclear facility would be so much fun and quite spooky at the same time. It had 
 what you'd come to expect from a title like this; people going nuts over valuable rocks, mutants 
 and creatures making a living by scaring the hell out of you and saving you for next morning's 
 breakfast, and a landscape the leaves you asking yourself "Why on earth am I in a god forsaken 
 place like THIS?"
  
  Well all that's mentioned is present in the next installment, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Clear Sky. It kept 
 all of the above, a few fixes, and then some. The engine took a nice face lift, the A. I. is even 
 more scary and the story leaves you wanting to know more about the Zone. The developers managed 
 to server quite a bit on a silver plate, they wanted us to go through an environment where a one 
 minute shut-eye is suicide. The anomalies and dangers are even more terrifying than the last ones, 
 and there's no such thing as making a run for it. The A. I. this time round will come looking for 
 you if you managed to piss them off enough, to a point where they'll round up the rest of the group 
 and go on a hunting season.
  
  The graphics is something to notice, although sometimes there are slowdowns at parts of the game. 
 One noticeable drop is at the start of the game, you'll notice you're going at 25-22 frames per 
 second indoors. What's weird though is once you step outside you shoot up to 35 frames per second, 
 and mind you there's more outside than there is inside. Hopefully a patch will resolve this strange 
 problem, but sadly that's not the only thing pushing it aside.
  
  The scripting can somewhat be a bit messy at times. As Gamespot mentioned; if you don't follow 
 a path to an A. I. involved objective, you'll end up confusing the poor guy and make him sit in 
 a corner staring at you like this : 8|
  
  One last thing that might be frustrating is the same thing that plagued us stalkers since the first 
 installment : The famous "You want me to comeplete this mission? Alright, then please remove 'Ridiculous 
 Mode' from the A. I.". Best example is a part where you step out of a tunnel and end up waving at 
 a Military base right in front of you, this part is so off-balance that you might replace your 
 keyboard from repetitive loads. If you do make it past that part, smash the quick save key. You 
 do NOT want to go back there again, or maybe you will once you come with bigger guns Rambo-style 
 and give them a lesson or two.
  
  The new lighting and shadow effects are something to note, You might think 'Crysis' for a second 
 when you see it. Sun rays, dynamic lighting, real time shadows are the key elements to this game. 
 As they are the very effects that make the S. T. A. L. K. E. R. universe a memorable and terrifying place 
 to set foot on. Water Bump-mapping contact is a bag of candies for your eyes (Vista's DirectX 10 
 can make that happen) and continues weather changes can actually be either an advantage for you, 
 or to the environment. Be careful how you decide your next journey, you might come back in pieces 
 or just ashes.
  
  The multiplayer is the same as the last with a new game mode, but the real thunder is in the singleplayer 
 campaign. Just put up with eh bugs and glitches and the time-to-time frame rate drops, you'll get 
 over it. Because the game itself is worth the exploration, and for goodness sake have some Vodka 
 while taking a break with other stalkers and singing along with them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  OK, just to make it clear, this game has good graphics, a good idea and a good set up but damn 
 they tore it apart completely. 
  
  First of all, this is pretty much the same game as Stalker Shadow of Chernobyl with the exact same 
 levels and only minor differences. Now that's what I call money saving. I know it's supposed to 
 be a prequel but come on, it's simply stealing people's money out of their pockets. Having said 
 that, I finished SSoC far too early so I was really hoping to get into the side missions and the 
 entire atmosphere of Clear Sky and make up for not doing it with Shadow of Chernobyl.
  
  Secondly, even though the game has the same design and same levels, uses the same engine which 
 would logically mean a lot more time to polish it up with other stuff, the developers simply ignored 
 all the problems (well most of the problems) and thought this franchise would give them a licence 
 to print money. What I want to say is that Clear Sky has even more bugs and an even greater number 
 of crashes and bugs than its prequel (sequel) . In these four days I am sure I must have loaded 
 up the game at least 70 times because of crashes. 
  
  In addition, the STALKER difficulty is just ridicilous. There are two more difficulties higher 
 than it and yet STALKER difficulty is very hard. It simply turns the game into an endless shooter 
 where you need as much ammo and as many medikits as you can carry. I would prefer to be about skill 
 where you sneak upon an enemy and can choose to take them out quietly and if they notice you, you 
 can hide behind cover and exchange (direct) some good shots to the head. Instead, sneaking is impossible 
 because the AI at stalker difficulty has EYES LIKE A HAWK and EARS LIKE A RABBIT. So, you cannot 
 sneak and knife them from behind (you couldn't do this in SoC either) . This takes a lot away from 
 the gameplay I have to say. What is more, trying to take out the enemy quietly from a distance 
 is also very hard. Before I go on, I have to say that after playing on stalker difficulty for a 
 while I reduced it to NOVICE because I prefer to enjoy the game and the atmosphere rather than 
 go around with guns blazing - it's a personal choice. Playing on harder difficulties is not hard, 
 it simply requires a greater number of ammo and medkits so it just turns into a marathon of pressing 
 the medkit button, bandage and recharge. Even with novice I could not sneak upon enemies unless 
 it was only one of them which is very rare and it would take ages to pass those 30 meters crouching 
 because within those 30 metres the enemy can hear me. So, I gave up on sneaking up right to their 
 backs and thought well if I get a sniper and not any sniper but one with a silencer, they won't 
 be able to hear me. So I got one and upgraded it fully so that the precision is improved as much 
 as possible. Even so, the shot in the head would miss about 30% of the time, which is very lousy 
 considering you have a sniper, customised and you play on NOVICE. And another 50% even if my headshot 
 was spot on the enemy would remain standing as if a mosquito bit him. On the other hand, simply 
 shooting with the Black Kite (deser eagle) gun from a distance at the enemy managed to kill them 
 all while they were standing or sitting at the same spots. It took a few clips but did the job 
 (by a few clips I mean at least 5 shots to each guys head - I know they can be hardheaded but this 
 is taking a piss) . So, a silenced sniper does not kill the enemy if it even hits him and gives 
 away my posistion whereas Black Kit gun not silenced is much better at doing the ranged shooting 
 without getting spotted. That's what I call ridicilous. The point of all this is that the quickload 
 button will become your best friend. To finalise this paragraph I have to say it is stupidly designed 
 that the slight amount of radiation that you run into and back up instantly can kill you even if 
 you have a backup medkit and use it without having enough time to run to anyone for help. Finally, 
 as I said in my SoC review, the enemy can seem to see through cover but not only that, they can 
 shoot through cover and not just thin cover, but entire trees and concrete blocks and walls. Amazingly, 
 so can you sometimes. 
  
  Ok, moving on. Thirdly, the game has no new enemies that I saw. Again, I know it's a prequel but 
 you can put more monsters in and explain it as if they got extinct or whatever in the sequel. You 
 don't even have to explain it, just put them in. Also, all of the enemies seem to make the dog 
 noise, the cats, the hogs, the monsters, everyone makes the same single sound. Come on, you can 
 do better than that, surely. 
  
  
  Fouthly, the loading times are a bstrd as they take long and there are many of them and I have 
 a good rig, even at lower resolution they take long. 
  
  Fifth-ly the same retarded dialogue persists. Many people complained about the stupid scripts they 
 use. It seems as if they got a bunch of nerds that never got offline, to come up with character 
 scripts. I'm pretty sure that not even when translated into russian it would make much sense. 'Dude' 
 'friggin' 'bugger off' 'we're getting plugged' COME ON!!!! come up with something that actually 
 makes sense and come up with more actual dialogues, not just words on the screen. I want to hear 
 the characters talking, I want to get attached to them because I hear the same voice (by the way 
 I do hear the same voice from about 60 different characters) , so I want a friendly troop who I 
 can go to again and again and familiarize myself with him, do missions with him with low risk of 
 him getting killed, even if I have to protect him. The game consists of the same voices for hundreds 
 of different characters, badly thought of texts on the screen without anyone actually reading it 
 which all adds to the feeling that you do not belong to any faction, you have no friends and the 
 game is just a game. Comendably, the environment effects add to the immersivness but everything 
 else takes away from it. Perhaps they should come up with a number of people I could hire and form 
 my own group and do missions and even form a faction of my own. I would have to arm them, improve 
 their skills and everything so that they are better fighters. It would cost money and take time 
 and if it costs money it adds more time so the game becomes something more with just this new interesting 
 idea. Perhaps we could set up our own base and build improvements on it so that when the night 
 time comes we resist the monsters and build up a sense of community and bond (it can be a single 
 not time it doesn't matter, there's just so many ideas that I almost wish I worked as game developer.
 
  
  Sixth-ly - not enough upgrades. They thought that simply putting mechanics that do different things 
 would do it but it's not enough. The best guns can simply be obtained instead of worked for so 
 that they can be bought or be given as a gift after a number of side missions. The side missions 
 are the ones that should enable you to progress in the main quest through harder enemies. Also, 
 you cannot make amends (not that I know at least with a faction that you are enemies with. I'm 
 sure that if you wiped out their enemies, gave them all the best weapons and amrour you have obtained 
 and gave them a 100.000 with a card saying I'M SORRY, PLEASE FORGIVE ME, that they would accept 
 your apology and say, SURE, YOU CAN JUST USE OUR MECHANICE AND GET THE HELL OUT OF HERE. 
  
  Seveth-ly - same as in SoC, you get a number of failed tasks because you cannot reach them 
 in time, all the while having 10 people scream on the radio. Absolutely flawed.
  
  Eight-ly and finally - AFTER APPLYING A PATCH, YOUR OLD SAVED GAMES WILL NOT BE COMPATIBLE WITH 
 THE NEW VERSION OF THE GAME - WHAT THE HELL!!!!!!! This has got to be the biggest BS ever. I just 
 spent 4 days playing the game and ran into an unfixable bug/crash (it's actually a timed crash 
 because it crashes at 21:00 every time on this specific date) . So, I skipped and hopped and found 
 a fix, wow great now the game will crash less and will probably fix my problem. but wait, what's 
 this, my old saved games are not compatible with the new version. so, I have to start all over? 
 I don't think so, I'm only going to start all over if I get really bored and there is absolutely 
 nothing else to do around here (and by nothing else, I shall include starring at the wall) . Even 
 if you start all over, I heard from profesisonal reviewers and casual players that the crashes 
 persist and may make the game unplayable again. So, it means that I could spend another 4 days 
 playing and again the game could crash at 21:00 on that specific faithful date.
  
  It is sad that I have to give it a 4 and call it an abysmal game when if I had simply finished 
 it, even with the constant crashes, I would have given it 7. I doubt I would give it more than 
 7 because it is a cheap repeat of SoC but with different missions, more bugs, same characters, 
 same voices, same dialogues, same enemies, same levels, small insignificant upgrades which do not 
 compensate for the fact that the developers are just using this game for money grabbing. At this 
 point I have to compliment devs such as Reloaded, Skullptura, Razor1911 and of course others and 
 say GOD BLESS YOU. If the question of copying games ever comes court all you should do is give 
 the judge Stalker Clear Sky to play and he will turn around after a few days and ask the simple 
 question WHY SHOULD ANYONE HAVE TO PAY FOR THIS PIECE OF C""" and not be able to return it. Just 
 to make it clear, I actually paid for this game, which is something I will never do again before 
 testing it.
  
  I have to mention here that I do not like long reviews because I don't like writing and I hate 
 reading. If I'm impressed with a game I write a slightly longer review, but I'm so unimpressed, 
 disappointed, peed off and what not, with this game that I have written the longest review yet 
 and bear in mind that I cut down on many things as I did not want to elaborate and wanted to keep 
 it as short as possible.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Graphics: 8/10 - excellent, although already seen - same levels, same engine. nothing new.
  
 
  Controls: 9/10 a few improvements would have been useful such as a loose key binder that you could 
 bind to any item in your inventory for example.
  
  Immersiveness: 7/10 - the sound effects are good but the dialogue and other stuff is a total let 
 down, same as SoC. Everyone says it's all about the atmosphere but the atmosphere doesn't make 
 the game, the entire gameplay does.
  
  
  Bugs: 3/10 - constant crashes , bugs and other stuff. Internet forums are filled with people asking 
 for help.
  
  Voices: 6/10 - repeats, same voices again and again and they sound spat out, not acted out. 
 
  
  Sounds: 7/10 - a number of good sounds, but again they are all the same as SoC
  
  Storyline: 7/10 - a good idea but it's where it stops. It's a good idea but poorly developed so 
 that the person knows what is going on. Even after reading tons of poorly written texts you are 
 likely to have more new questions than old answers.
  
  Length: Cannot comment - I did not finish it but I think that with the side missions it provides 
 a good length.
  
  Music: not really applicable - a few weird music clips exist but that's it
  
  Difficulty: 8/10 
 - the game is fairly easy, but when you increase the difficulty it simply means you will need more 
 vodka, bandages, rounds, guns and medkits (and better armour of course) . That's all there is to 
 it realy.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay overall which combines all these aspects means that the game deserves 4/10. 
 The game is the same as SoC, they could have simply introduced a new mission pack for the old SoC. 
 Crashes and bugs are everywhere. The slight number of new things and improvements does not compensate 
 for all the omissions and the money charged for this game. 
  
  
  
  Overall: 4 / 10
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
 
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else good to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing 
 to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
 
  
  -------------------------------------
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 since if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life. This applies unless I really am impressed 
 with a game and this game is a total letdown. My legendary games are game such as the Witcher, 
 FarCry, Mafia, GTA etc 
  
  ------------------------------------
  
  NOTE: The above part in between the dotted lines is a usual ending of my reviews with slight changes 
 where I say what I think about the game. This game sucked so I changed it to a total let down. 
 I also say that I do not mark games that are 1-5 and yet I gave this one a 4. This is because I 
 made an exception because it is a potentially good game but the unavoidable time crash made me 
 stop playing it and give up upon it after spending a whole day trying to fix it, even going back 
 to different older saved games and doing everything all over again. I also say that I will keep 
 the reviews short, but this one is a long mother''''er because I have neevr felt so disappointed 
 by a game.
  
  I do apologise for the grammar and spelling mistakes, I really cannot be bothered to go through 
 it all correcting it. hmmm, perhaps I should be the developer for the next STALKER game because 
 they obviously need people who cannot be bothered with small things (not even big, though) . If 
 you do read this whole thing, then you're one crazy SoGM - son of a great mom cos she made you 
 read when you was little.
  
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemfest
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I loved the original S. T. A. L. K. E. R and Clear Sky introduced many things that I was hoping for and 
 they delivered that aspect. Unfortunately, they also delivered a buggy, crashing product nearly 
 unplayable after time. Never in my life of gaming of over 25 years have I seen so many crashes. 
 Thankfully, no BSOD or hard locks, but all seem to be random CDT's. 
  
  PROS:
  I loved the weapons upgrades. Graphics are wonderful. Very familiar maps with prequel visual changes 
 made it a great play. Wonderful dialogs.
  
  CONS:
  The crashes and bugs. Constant CDT's with this game. It seems the further I got the worse they 
 got. How did the test team even get through this game? Some of the missons after joining a faction 
 were impossible to complete because they would require you to run across the entire map to help 
 out. The mission would fail a few seconds after getting the mission! Also, faction mission verbal 
 announcements via PDA would sometimes over speak each other, making it impossible and frustrating 
 to comprehend.
  
  My system is beyond powerful enough to run this properly at maximum settings. Apparently, someone 
 high up in management made the foolish choice to release a product far from ready for release. 
 Shame on you. This would be a 9.0 - 9.5 if you fixed the bugs. Wait until the Christmas season 
 and release a less buggy product. The first STALKER did not ever CTD... what happened? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,3117,0. html
  
  STALKER: Shadow of Chernobyl offered some of the most immersive environments that we've seen in 
 years. The game has sold over 2 million copies worldwide already, so it's no surprise the GSC rushed 
 to deliver a follow-up. Clear Sky is quite a strange game, with its development cycle lasting less 
 than a quarter of the time of its older sibling. This game isn't a real follow-up, and is actually 
 a prequel set in many of the same areas found in the original game. Clear Sky offers many new mechanics, 
 but it ultimately gets marred by the same issues that plagued the first iteration of the original 
 game: bugs.
  
  Clear Sky is set in the same oppressive Zone that the original game introduced. The only difference 
 is that the plot is set several years before that of Shadow of Chernobyl. You play a new character, 
 named Scar, who is injured by an abnormally powerful radioactive emission. You are rescued by a 
 group of scientists who call themselves Clear Sky (who woulda thought?) and you end up joining 
 them. From that point on, you explore the zone, visiting the bases of other factions and carrying 
 out missions in order to get closer to your final objective.
  
  Clear Sky's main selling point is factional warfare, with groups from various factions fighting 
 over territory around the clock. You can join the fight at certain times and affect your standings 
 with local merchants and mercenary groups. The faction wars remain in a constant state of tug and 
 pull, with fronts constantly shifting across the landscape.
  
  Clear Sky retains STALKER's reputation for being unforgivably difficult. The enemy is extremely 
 intelligent and accurate and will constantly flank you. You are practically required to approach 
 combat situations cautiously and skillfully. The quick save key becomes a very good friend after 
 your first battles. Enemies are also very accurate with their grenades, so be prepared to die if 
 they toss one in your direction. But, GSC doesn't stop there, restricting your cash flow and often 
 forcing you to engage enemies with a woefully inadequate arsenal. This is a good thing do, as you 
 truly appreciate it when you find an abandoned gauss rifle or manage to strip a handful of sniper 
 rounds off of a stalker's corpse. Overall, Clear Sky makes succeeding in combat situations feel 
 very rewarding, combat is definitely one of its strongsuits.
  
  The original game's strongest aspect, its immersive and detailed environment, is even better in 
 Clear Sky. A sense of foreboding hangs over the lands as you explore desolate and expansive locales. 
 Mutants and rabid animals roam the wilderness, stalking you through the grass and becoming more 
 aggressive as night approaches. Suddenly, a storm approaches as the camp you're inhabiting for 
 the night comes under attack by a 30-raider assualt force. It's all of these little details that 
 can seriously pull you into a virtual world as few games have done before.
  
  It is disconcerting to find out how bug-ridden Clear Sky is, especially when considering that its 
 predecessor was considered one of the most unstable big-budget games when it was first released. 
 You'd think GSC would have learned their lesson, but perhaps their QA team just isn't up to snuff. 
 You will often come across glitched quests, die from clipping into a wall, crash to the desktop, 
 etc. The bugs are so prevalant that they seriously got in the way of playing and enjoying the core 
 experience. Really, GSC, you should know better by now...
  
  While running on an obsolete engine, the effects that GSC introduced in Clear Sky do a lot to add 
 to the immersion of the world. There's a new, demanding lighting system which adds god rays and 
 extremely sharp and crisp shadows. The rest of the game's graphical presentation is mixed, with 
 badly-detailed character models accented against heavily-detailed environments.
  
  Clear Sky's sound design is another one of its strengths. From the rustling of leaves to the howling 
 of wolves at night, Clear Sky doesn't stop being an assualt upon your auditory senses. The voice-acting 
 is sufficient, and any missteps are rather minor.
  
  Clear Sky is even more of a flawed beauty than Shadow of Chernobyl. If you're willing to deal with 
 some bugs and slog through some unforgivingly-difficult firefights, then you'll find a world that 
 sometimes feels too close to reality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I love Stalker and it's realism. So Clear Sky is more. What's wrong with that? Nothing. I like 
 playing more of the same with different stories. I don't require new games to leapfrog the old 
 so I never get disappointed by my high expectations. If you enjoyed Stalker, you WILL enjoy this. 
 There is a more cohesive story that accelerates to the ending. There is the same open world at 
 the start and middle. The anomalies work better. hunting artifacts is now something to be accomplished 
 not just picked up. And as a result you feel as if you are surviving in the zone (which is supposed 
 to be dangerous) instead of just day-tripping around with your grade 5 class. 
  The graphics are better and smoother with real-time sun shadows, sunbeams, dust and more like liquid 
 water. plus all these graphical goodies are tunable for your rig.
  The sounds are better and you get more interaction with the NPCs around you since you can hear 
 their radio transmissions: many of which are just hilarious. Yes, the dialog is fun to listed to 
 especially when you've just taken on a new mission and the NPCs are dragooned into joining the 
 party: the complaining that goes on.
  I particularly enjoy the fact that at night, it gets dark. You MUST use a flashlight or you can; t 
 see. You can get suits that have rudimentary night vision and you can upgrade to better night vision.
 
  Yes, the game allows upgrades to weapons and suits, not just sticking artifacts into your suit. 
 You'll need to find technicians who can do the work and you may need to find the info for them. 
 Then again, you may not since techs further "in" know "more".
  I played on the Stalker level for the first pass (one up from Novice out of the 4 selections) . 
 And it's reasonably challenging: it is not a run into the room and blaze away. If you do that, 
 you will be mowed down. Use cover: the enemy sure does.
  The game gets seriously hard when it comes to running the gauntlet of the area around Chernobyl 
 nuclear plant itself. There is a huge battle going on (another great part of the game is that battles 
 will occur whether you are there to influence them or not - the game mostly does not wait for you) 
 and you'll get hit a lot. I lost my armour capability pretty quickly then as a result died a lot. 
 I consider it a puzzle to try and figure out how to get through but it's not your classic "boss 
 levels" with some amazingly stupid combination of timing, weapon selection and moves. You need 
 good skills to defeat ordinary enemies who may have better terrain and higher numbers. But that's 
 it. There weapons are your weapons.
  My only complaint? Good guy NPCs will push you out of the way or block entrances and there is squat 
 you can do about it except to wait for them to move or to jump back under some other cover during 
 a gun battle.
  Another innovation: to help you get around the huge map, you can hire guides. It takes money, especially 
 if you hire a guide to take you into area controlled by an enemy faction (his enemy faction) .
 
  I recommend it. And will play it again. Same as I did with Stalker.
  I won't mention the ending except to say it came when I wasn't expecting it. The game is a bit 
 shorter than the original primarily due to the fact that when you get to the last 3rd, the main 
 story-line accelerates you through and you get less opportunity to run missions and errands.
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bOse92
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R : Shadow of Chernobyl was a great game i actually enjoyed playing and fighting in 
 the rain with the rebels , and now we have something new , it's called S. T. A. L. K. E. R : Clear Sky 
 and it's set before the events in Shadow of Chernobyl , u're main mission is to hunt and take down 
 Strelok , you have the chance to meet the friends from SOC and places that have been re-edited.
 
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R : Clear Sky as it seems SCS requires some kind of nuclear powered gpu and cpu for 
 the data processing , this game is a monster and it will eat u're system alive , the sys req are 
 kind'a big , the graphics are good but still there are some lag spikes that make u want to delete 
 the game in the next 3 secconds .
  This game has some problems with the bugs and large problems with Ai and optimisation , all the 
 bugs have almost been fixed except optimisation , nevermind let's talk about smth else shall we 
 ? 
  You start in the Swamp , u are sent to capture some outposts for u're local stalker friends once 
 u did that u ca move u're ass outside there .
  SOC had many artifacts actually not many , lots of'em , eh.... this time SCS it's not the same 
 , artifacts are very rare in the game and very precious . 
  Altough of the optimisation probs and bugs this game is nice especially the storyline that it's 
 most impressive , u can join factions , do missions for them and so...
  So after we said all those things SCS it's a good game that requires u're attention ,hope u enjoy 
 the game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrvtChurch
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game but it has bugs coming out of every hole possible, and some that aren't. For 
 one it suffers from tearing which is worse than if it was made of wet tissues. It crashes for no 
 good reason and I have had to restart from the beginning FIVE damn times because first the game 
 just died and refused to load my saves. Then it just gave up and died completely on me. Total electronic 
 brain cancer that actually forced me to use system restore to fix my damn windows, which still 
 is acting up and crashing every so often now. After that it wouldn't even start, the game that 
 is. I then had to uninstall, find and then delete EVERY damn file and registry entry, and then 
 reinstalled it. It worked but then it wouldn't let me continue the game so I restart. I then get 
 about 4 hours into the game when it crashes, I had auto saved so no problems there but then I realize 
 that I'm using 1.5.04, so I update to 1.5.05 and then it won't load my saves. Restart. I'm now 
 about 5 hours into my FIFTH game and I Haven't gotten past the cordon yet.
  Otherwise it's a fun if annoying game that refuses to explain ANYTHING!! I'd finish it but with 
 all the bugs and issues I'll just pass until they fix this poor messy excuse for a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 9, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Started playing this game at the 1.5.05 patch.
  Pros~
  1. Great graphics
  2. Runs great on my system (e6300, 7900gs, 3gigs ram, XP)
  3. Quite stable, only 3 crashes in all 
 of my time playing. Zero save game corruptions.
  4. Great enemies, they are interesting to combat and can kill you as easily as you can kill them.
 
  5. Excellent difficulty on Master. Still a little too easy to get money and supplies, but its much 
 better than SoC.
  6. Lots of voice acting, some of it is actually pretty humorous.
  7. Upgrade system works, it feels good to upgrade and will compel you to do so.
  8. GUIDES! Yes! 
 Running back and forth in SoC was sooo lame!
  9. Getting artifacts is actually enguaging and fun.
  Cons!
  1. Enemy AI. Sometimes they shoot 
 you through cover, sometimes they kill you in 1 hit, sometimes it takes 10+ hits to kill you, its 
 all really random and can drag the fun down a lot when they constantly kill you through cover. 
 I have no problem with the grenades. The enemies clearly announce that a nade is coming so they 
 are easily dodged.
  2. Same guy does like 30 different peoples' voices. Its weird hearing Strelok's voice in some stalker 
 camp  . 
  3. Big, empty world. So much potential to hide more stashes, add more camps, add secrets spaces, 
 more squads, ANYTHING! But nope, most of the maps are just there to annoy your sprint meter.
  4. Faction balance is non-existant. Duty freedom bandits stalkers. Its really rediculous that its 
 ALWAYS like that. No amount of increasing your faction's munitions or manpower will change that, 
 they simply can't win a match vs a stronger faction. You have to babysit every location to defend 
 them from enemies if you choose a weaker faction.
  5. Faction wars don't work what-so-ever. I'm not going into detail about this, it simply doesn't 
 work, there is no triggering, no logical fixes, nothing. Waiting for patch 1.5.07.
  6. Not enough weapon/armor types. There really should be more choices seeing as the existing weapons 
 are too similar, and the armors have clear cut tiers.
  7. Story crapped out at the end, but I don't mind.
  8. Most artifacts are crappy save for 2-3, 
 and some of the cooler armors can't hold artifacts : (
  
  Closin' comments~
  Its a good game, but it seems to be stunted by its own creation team. GSC just can't seem to get 
 it right. I dunno if they are lazy or just too unskilled to make the series great. I would suggest 
 that they give/sell the stalker series to another company, but any other company would just turn 
 it into a generic action shooter. Its like choosing to eat burned pizza, or bread for the rest 
 of your life. Eating bread would get old quickly and be very boring, but the pizza would be hard 
 to completely enjoy because its burnt. The burnt pizza being gsc's stalker and bread being any 
 other companies stalker, of course. Oh well, maybe a conversion mod will make this game excellent. 
 I'm already kinda bored with it... not much to do when faction wars don't work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnerharu
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  
  Well well here we are agen i played the first S. T. A. L. K. E. R which was reilly good and loved so 
 when they said a new S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Clear Sky was geting out i just had to have it and see what 
 happens next i could not wait to unleash the pain on any thats in my way.
  
  So the game
  
  As ever a very good game and well planned out which make for good game play the weapons are 
 cool and very real but i would like to get more items for them to make them more to your like-ing 
 for beter killing.
  
  Guys is good but i think needs a bit of work on them i found them just like the first guys out 
 of S. T. A. L. K. E. R so i would like to be more free thinking for them self in all aspects but over 
 all i would give this game to any one and make them into a S. T. A. L. K. E. R.
  
  Thanks for looking at my words and score on the new S. T. A. L. K. E. R.: Clear Sky it gets a good solid 
 8.0 i cant wiat for the next S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burn791
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  
  
  GSC had a chance to make the best game ever but they blew it by trying to make S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Clear 
 Sky more of an action shooter. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. shadow of Chernobyl was and still is the best game 
 i have ever played GSC promised us that S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Clear Sky was going to keep the same spooky 
 atmosphere the same formula, everything was supposed to be the same but with better graphics but 
 instead they totally ruined it. Maybe i am being a little harsh some things are an improvement 
 on S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl like the new Artifact detecting system is genius, the graphics 
 really are beautiful, NPC's are vastly improved from the original game, u can pay a guide to lead 
 you back through levels now instead of having to take 20 minutes to walk back to complete an objective 
 and now guns and armour are repairable and upgradable and there is other good things but i would 
 trade them all for some of the moments in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl like the underground 
 labs. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl felt like you was on your own bullets was hard to come 
 across which is gone in S. T. A. L. K. E. R. clear sky somebody at GSC thought it would be a good idea 
 to have boxes full of Ammo at each camp site instead. Also clear sky has a lot of bugs before you 
 even think about playing make sure its fully patched, the fact that 3 patches where out in the 
 first month might give you a clue about how many bug there was at release. Here is the funny part 
 ever after all this complaining about this game i still recommend you check it out because it is 
 a good game really..... it just could of been so much better and that is why i am disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seriousturtle
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game after tweaking a few visual settings to make it smoother. I have a decent rig, 
 but this game does not seem to be thoroughly optimized. I would suggest decreasing grass density 
 and shadows. The environments are visually pleasing, but a little drab, though it would probably 
 look drab after what happened in the story. But the bugs drove me insane. So many crashes. So many 
 restarts! And after about 10 hours of saves, installed latest patch, only to have my saves unable 
 to load. That was 10 hours of living, not counting the many hours of replaying missions because 
 of dying. I even did a restore on my PC, but to no avail. Why do they release games WAY TOO EARLY??? 
 This same thing happened with the original Stalker. If there were not all these bugs, I would probably 
 have given this game an 8. I will think twice if they make a third Stalker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wpdfreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  All and all, this game is just different, it goes where no shooter goes. The world really feels 
 alive, mutants, wild animals, and stalkers just like your self wandering the terrain. This game 
 is spooky, it'll have you sitting there wondering what the hell that sound you just heard was, 
 and moments later sh**ing bricks both startled and cheering that a game came up with something 
 like this to throw at you.
  
  What the downside, I gave it a 9.5 because it would in my opinion be a perfect game if we didn't 
 have bugs. The game is highly mod able, anyone can do it by modifying text files. As I said above, 
 its just a unique play. Its just too bad we have to deal with bugs. Worse case scenario your crashing, 
 and on my system which is more then capable then playing this, I have to deal with random lag. 
 In the first stalker game released a few years ago, I had similar problems that pretty much disappeared 
 a few patches later. If you love shooters, you seriously owe it your self, as a treat, to play 
 this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exile_need
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  GSC's new game is a hard one to beat. But luckily an army of Modders are supplying the game with 
 the needed codes to meet the challenge.
  In my opinion Shadow of Chernobyl and the Clear Sky game should be seen as a rough diamond which 
 you can shaped and formed as you like.
  At this moment there are over 195 Mods available at http://stalker. filefront. com/
  
  I have 
 tried out some of the Mods, and here is my suggestion for a smooth gameplay. Download the official 
 patch 1.505 and supplement it with these three Mods:
  
  - Drop Mod SCS V1.2
  - Extra weight mod by Lux v1.0) by Lux
  - Fair Trade 1.1
  
  This combination will ensure 
 the ability to collect stuff and sell it for money, and upgrade your weapons and armour.
  
  But don't let the Mods spoil your day, keep in mind that the first mission in the swamp can easily 
 - and should be - experienced with nothing more than a shotgun in your hands.
  Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nalike
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Man. when the player opened the eyes and lookd arround it was jaw droping ... that was the first 
 impression, pretty good and than a long long way to power plant, game play is much more good and 
 specialy artifact hunting is much intresting unlike the previous version u see them and grab them 
 and sell them, enemies r more furious and clever then ever , night time is really tough u cant 
 see enemies n mutants ( untill u have a suite with upgraded nightvision ) but they all can see u, the 
 day time is pretty easy. some time u need to pay the visit to previous levels, to collect rewards 
 and have special upgrades keeps u quite busy, if u r just a shooter and like to kill ppl in anyway 
 than u can finish the game within 8 hours but if u really wana enjoy it than u need alot more time 
 there r many side quests on each level given by the npc's of different factions, and anomolies 
 spiting artifacts and mutants hiding in the drak places waiting for thier meal ( and its u :D ) sounds 
 r average i; ll say OK, becoz guns dosent sound better than ssoc, moreover some of assault rifles 
 sounds same, but enviremental sound effects r just great and will make u jump out of ur seat, graphics 
 are much realistic and richer than its opponent crysis warhead i have compared them both and clearsky 
 proved it. though its lil buggie , u will crash to desktop untill u patch it up fully.
  
  in short: the good is graphics enviremental sound, fire fights artifact huntings and so much more.
 
  and bad is only one thing the buggs and crashes to desktop.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 110287
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  It's good to see a game you have to play realistically, being unable to run and gun the whole game 
 was a major selling point which left a lot of room for strategic thinking and planning. The money 
 system had been redone perfectly. I often wondered what the point of all the side quests in SOC 
 amounted to since my total amount of cash was reaching half a million ru's halfway through the 
 game. It feels as if the AI in the game is just as poor and beaten as you are. I often find myself 
 lost in the games world feeling like just another stalker trying to make a buck and dig a little 
 deeper into the zone. Often forgetting about the main mission and goal to go and pursue other ambitions. 
 I had made a base for my operations at the agroprom research institute, being low on cash and having 
 only a few health packs and bandages, i decided to raid some bandit outposts come nightfall. Picking 
 my targets wisely and analyzing escape routes that would cut through friendly roadblocks i headed 
 out to raid the outpost southwest of the depot. I emerged from the tunnel with my OB96 with a psop 
 scope and picked off the first two bandits, then retreating to the area near the exit to agroprom 
 i turned off my flashlight and waited in ambush for the 2 or 3 more bandits approaching my direction, 
 the beams from their flashlights gave away their position and i followed through with 2 gernades 
 effectively killing all but one of them whom i had finished off with my shotgun. I made a mad dash 
 to loot all the corpses of their items, ammo, health and weapons. Overfilled with ak74's and viper5's 
 i returned to the trader at agroprom having to stop every quarter mile or so to catch my breath. 
 I traded him all my looted weapons and items i didn't need and made a cool 2000 some ru's which 
 i then used to buy bandages and medkits. i spent the rest on upgrading my viper5 to a 45 round 
 clip and modifying the barrel to take the more prevalant 9x18 rounds which saved me a good amount 
 of trouble finding 9x19 rounds until later in the game. I had been so proud of my arms deal that 
 i had completely forgotten about my main mission. The game is nowhere near perfect tho, i was lucky 
 enough to have started the game when the 1.5 patch came out saving a good amount of grief. saving 
 is annoying (save often and have a differn't save for each level!) the gun accuracy seems a bit 
 off (especially for assault rifles) I own an ak47 and a mossberg 500 pump shotgun and the accuracy 
 that can be achieved with either is much greater than what the game will lead you to believe. The 
 Ak series in the game is the ak74 line which is known to be one of the most controllable firearms 
 on full automatic. An ak74 in the game cant hit within 2 feet of a target 30yd's away with a psop 
 scope, it seems that every 3rd shot is dead center and the other 2 go wherever they please, taking 
 away in a lot of cases the element of surprise. Being used to far cry and crysis i enjoy the process 
 of observing then selecting who gets the first bullet to the cranium then sorting out the chaos 
 after that. The shotgun spread is fairly ridiculous landing in an area about 6ft across from 10yd's 
 making it hard to use as an effective close quarters weapon, one shotgun blast from any AI in the 
 game at your from 10yd's and you're nearly dead but it usually takes 2 or 3 shots from almost point 
 blank to take down anybody, ive unloaded 8 shells at a person 5ft away while crouched behind a 
 tree stump only to have him run around me while i was reloading to finish me with one shotgun blast. 
 Shotguns later in the game do have more power and accuracy, but for a game where you are almost 
 forced to act realistically, to have a system where power is based on the firearm itself and not 
 the ammunition used is upsetting. I also ran into problems with unscripted emissions, the first 
 time it happened to me i was in awe of the wonderful yet terrifying experience. I had been fighting 
 a group of bandits at a roadblock when the ground started to tremor, after about 2 or 3 minutes 
 of the tremors the screen started to shake violently and continuously. The sky turned red and 2 
 birds dropped straight out of the sky and onto a car one of the bandits had been crouched behind, 
 then i was blinded with a white light then darkness, and when the screen cleared up i saw myself 
 lying on the ground "game over press save to enter main menu". This is why it is wise to have a 
 differn't save every level in case an unscripted emission hits you and theres nowhere within miles 
 to hide from it. Although if you can look past the bugs or find clever ways around them it's a 
 very deep and immersive experience. Many of the games "bugs" are just products of the immersive 
 environment. For instance many people complain about how you can help a group of stalkers take 
 over an area and then you'll wait for a counterattack that never comes. If you look at your map 
 you can see that there are usually engagements happening somewhere on the map between AI elements. 
 The group of bandits that were scheduled to counterattack may have been wiped out by another group 
 of stalkers or had been held up by mutants and retreated. The game doesn't make you feel like it 
 revolves around you, rather you feel as if you're apart of it like everything else in the game, 
 when you die you're just another corpse for someone else to find and pick through. When you come 
 across bodies with no weapons or items you assume logically that another stalker may have came 
 through before you, A group of snorks near an abandoned base full of radiation and anomalies suggests 
 the fate of those who once occupied it. This is a great game if you can ignore the problems, hopefully 
 future patches will fix a lot of the bugs the game has, and turn this into a 9 maybe even 10 out 
 of 10 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I was so looking forward to playing stalker again since the Shadow of... was so hard yet so addictive. 
 Reading some of the reviews I was thinking it's buggy and hard so I'll overlook the buggy bit and 
 concentrate on the hard part.
  For those that didn't play the first game you are suffering from a memory loss and you also posses 
 some unique skills that will be revealed to you at the beginning of the game. The map you play 
 on is huge but it only differs in few areas from the first one so advantage is that you are on 
 familiar ground most of the time. 
  Guns are almost the same, but the artifacts that you could see floating in mid air in the first 
 game are hidden in abundant anomalies trout the game and with finding upgrades represent the main 
 source of income. Also the novelty introduced in this installment are upgrades that cost you many 
 rubles but are worth the pay.
  The main story goes little like this, wake up in swamp, help overtake it than chase Strelok (again) 
 and eliminate him. In the meantime you can join various fractions or not join them and trade with 
 them, help them win fraction wars or just do them favors for rewards (although some of these rewards 
 are not worth the hassle) . I played as a loner and not joining anyone but that's just me.
  The atmosphere in the game is great as expected, mutants are hard to kill while NPC's drop like 
 flies and are quite stupid. Music is great and graphic are rather demanding so you better butch 
 up your machine. 
  The bugs... a the bugs... since I played the 1.504 patched version the game crashed only 4 times 
 but having this many patches so early upon releasing the game says a lot 4 itself. 
  In conclusion it's the same atmosphere, it's hard to play and it enjoyable... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MachineZ
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Clear sky is an improvement on the original with more in-depth play and amped up visuals. Looks 
 stunning with direct-x10 and i constantly got distracted with how good it looked. For a noob like 
 me i found it difficult even on easy because the AI is friggin tough. Stalker is still a moody 
 and atmospheric game and is especially creepy at night with no night-vision and a pissy little 
 torch! And the realism is all there, guns jam and are not as accurate as other games, when shot 
 you bleed out and die if your not careful, weather effects are good day and night lasts for ages. 
 But my game constantly crashed until i got patches and it still does but not as often. Certain 
 missions just end up wrong or not completed when you finish them. Little things like this are throughout 
 the game that you'll notice, And they bring down the playability. But overall clear sky is addictive 
 and at times scary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00pz
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the specs of my PC:
  intel E7200
  radeon 4850
  2 gig ram
  
  If you've played the original Shadows of Chernobyl (SoC) , you will recognize the lore of Clear 
 Sky. If you are new, the storyline will probably be very confusing and obtuse.
  
  Clear Sky is a prequel and starts you in a new level called Swamp, other than looking creepy and 
 hostile, is quite devoid of anything interesting game play wise. You spend about 15-30 minutes 
 max in this vast map and are later led into familiar locations from SoC. While this 'expansion 
 pack' does provide at least 10 hours of new game play, the new maps only consist of a small portion 
 of it.
  
  The mission system is divided between the main quest and non-important side-missions. While the 
 side missions are relatively easy and earn you meager rewards, the real action is bonded to the 
 main quest and often you might find yourself avoiding side missions altogether. One more mentionable 
 addition is "faction wars", it is the missing module from SoC, it's purpose is to entice you to 
 join one of the factions and help them fight against the others by winning control points. Success 
 grants better items for purchase at your faction HQ. The lack of depth in faction wars and side 
 missions render them entirely uninteresting. The main quest really is the "meat" 
  
  While the game does sport a number of improvements over SoC, most noticeable is the overhauled 
 render engine. On maximum details it really does shine and looks incredibly amazing. Sometimes 
 the same place on the map at noon time will look completely different at dusk, for example.
  
  I was disappointed by the lack of testing GSC performed on this game as there is an infestation 
 of bugs: NPC's blocking paths, super NPC homing grenades that can hit anyone anywhere, NPC's super-accurate 
 targeting and firing from far away, crashes to desktop at random times, completed quests remaining 
 active, broken side-quests and some other things.
  
  Overall I felt like the game lacked some polish and could have gone miles farther, but I understand 
 it was produced by a small studio that specializes in low-budget ventures and RTS games. But they're 
 definitely off to a great start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jalong
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 6, 2009 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Just "finished" the "game"... What a sorry excuse for an ending, "prequel" or not. I think more 
 was called for to tie the prequel to the sequel than just a sudden death and 15 sec of video.
 
  
  Modders are probably the only hope that the game will be fixed enough that it actually works, let 
 alone realize its potential. I had *33* crashes at the NPP alone! When I finally got close enough 
 to Streloch to "remove his protection," he was stuck and would take no damage. I could stand right 
 next to him and fire away, but nothing would happen. In fact, I had to restart the NPP end-game 
 *5 times* right from the start to get the game to actually "end" as it should.
  
  Which brings me to the reason I want to congratulate GSC. I have been a computer gamer since 1986. 
 I have played and owned 100's of games. Of those games, SHOC is the buggiest game I have encountered 
 by a whole order of magnitude. If the worst game I encountered prior to SHOC was, say, a 10/10 
 for bugs, SHOCs bugfest calls for a entire new scale, where it would rank somewhere in the range 
 of 100/10. Maybe some of you guys have seen worse, but I have a directory bulging at the seams 
 with zipped crash reports, the number of which was actually small compared to the number of CTDs 
 that bypassed the bug report feature. Simply AMAZING, GSC!!
  
  I wanted to like this game, I really did. But to struggle through all those bugs, restarts, CTDs, 
 lost hours of game play with a faction system that doesn't work... and to be rewarded for all that 
 tenacity with THIS ENDING??!??! It defies comprehension.
  
  GSC, I feel like you owe me $$$, though I know I will never get any back. But I get some satisfaction 
 knowing that you've lost MY good-will as well as effectively ruining your reputation with this 
 POS game.
  
  Score: 5/10 (some parts of the game worked, game has potential if fixed) .
  Recommendation: DO NOT BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  STALKER is back with a prequel. The long time it took for the first game to come out and the short 
 time between the original game and the prequel highlights, among other things, two possibilities: 
 that the original game was released prematurely and that the prequel is closer to the vision of 
 developers or the second game is more of a standalone expansion pack rather than a separate game. 
 It seems that both proposals are true although the definition of a prequel stays rather vague.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  In Clear Sky you play a loner mercenary found alive after another anomaly "discharge" in "the zone". 
 Normally deadly, the wave doesn't kill the mercenary, instead stressing his nervous system and 
 binding him to an objective given by the first faction of the game: "Clear Sky". 
  
  The storyline is not one of the strongest point of this prequel. Some points feels badly glued 
 together and unconvincing, like for example there is no real reason for you to follow the main 
 objective other than because the leader of Clear Sky tells you tounconvincingly. 
  
  Luckily, there's plenty to do on the side. There are eight factions in the game with each having 
 a territory and a mortal enemy amongst the other seven factions  a perfect setting for a gang 
 war. Side missions are mostly about clearing a location from enemies or retrieving an item, so 
 it gets boring after a while but it does add a sense of freedom and continuity.
  
  Unfortunately if you get beyond the point of no return in the main objective you can no longer 
 follow the sandbox gameplay, although this time, the point of no return is further than in the 
 original game. Of course, there's always the multi-player mod with a maximum of 32 players per 
 server if you get tired of the single-player. It's a pretty standard fast-paced multiplayer package 
 with some attempt at utilizing artifacts. When comparing the multi-player mode with the single-player 
 mode, it is the single-player game that seems to be the central element.
  
  STALKER Clear Sky has kept its main formula of success: the gloomy atmosphere of the abandoned 
 Eastern-European area of Chernobyl and the sandbox gameplay. Chernobyl is a great location choice 
 for a spooky game. If the scenery scares you, don't credit the graphic designers right away, because 
 ironically, the rural areas of Eastern Europe look exactly like that. The abandoned and radioactive 
 site of Chernobyl turns the murky look a notch. Reality is scarier than fantasy sometimes...
  
  The unmodified gameplay feels like a mix of First-Persion Shooter and a Role Playing Game. 
 There are not only different types of rifles but also different types of ammunition and armor. 
 Most of it doesn't deal much damage and firefights can take a long time. The anomalies produce 
 the artifacts, carryable items that enhance your capabilities in one way or another (the artifacts 
 are harder to find in the prequel) . All of these features comprise a system that effectively replaces 
 "leveling" normally seen in a standard RPG. The downside is that some weapons and items are hard 
 to come by and you might go through the whole game without ever having seen them. In that, once 
 again, the game makers have stabbed themselves.
  
  If the gameplay mechanics do not suit you however, making your own game is not difficult. Simple 
 mods got released very soon after the release of the game and can be added and easily altered to 
 modify the way weapons and items behave to create a whole different gameplay.
  
  A few changes in the gameplay from the previous installment were perhaps not a good idea. The game 
 this time around is very concentrated on the humans and their factions. Several really impressive 
 monsters have been put farther into the background and it's a shame their presence in the prequel 
 is so brief. Lack of multiple endings is another loss for the developers. One can argue that, because 
 it's a prequel, there can only be one ending, but the original game doesn't feature the main character 
 of the prequel and thus the endings for him can be different. Moreover, the only finale that does 
 exist isn't clearing up any of the questions, leaving a great cliffhanger for anyone who isn't 
 going to play the original game. The ending is also a bad one for the main character. Playing through 
 a shaky main quest and having such an ending is a real disappointment.
  
  The game is not particularly long, but considering all the side quests and the presence of the 
 multiplayer, another side comes into light: the value. STALKER Clear Sky costs around 30 euro's 
 (less than 30 if you look around a bit) , which is very cheap considering today's game prices. This 
 might be connected with the costs being outsourced to Eastern Europe, because the game surely doesn't 
 lack quality as it may normally be true for budget games. Either way, it's a great plus.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Visuals is one of the strong points of the game. The location choice of course 
 does a part of the job. But there's also plenty going on for those of us whose computers can handle 
 it. There are no highly contrasting shaders in Clear Sky buy the sunlight can create complicated 
 shadows from everything. The atmosphere is amplified with the presence of different original looking 
 monsters and anomalies. Most anomalies were designed to not be directly visible and yet they all 
 have very diverse effects. Countless objects and effects come together to create a very distinct 
 STALKER look.
  
  PERFORMANCE
  
  If Clear Sky has kept its points of success it has also kept its greatest flaws: the bugs. And 
 these bugs aren't the cute little beetles either but are more like the mutated flying roaches from 
 the Chernobyl caves. The retail version of the game is heavily and distinctly bugged. Corrupt saved 
 games and general crashes are the main annoyances, but smaller storyline stuttering is also apparent. 
 The patches fix some of the problems, but not all. Creating many savegames, creating them often 
 and checking their integrity by loading them is the only true solution to STALKER's current problems.
 
  
  SOUND
  
  The atmosphere in Clear Sky would not be nearly as impressive without the howls of the mutated 
 dogs or the background roar of another Zone discharge or the scary hum of the "Controller" or the 
 sudden stop of all sounds. The developers have really played with noises to support the mood the 
 "Zone" generates.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  STALKER Clear Sky, just like its predecessor, has character. It has something that many of us were 
 mesmerized by in games like Elder Scrolls Morrowind  a gaming magic of a kind. Whether you like 
 the game or not depends very much on whether or not you can feel that magic and whether or not 
 you can maintain enough patience for the SCS's software issues. If the answer to both of those 
 questions is yes then you may very well enjoy yourself. At under fourty euro's, this game is worth 
 the money as long as you don't forget to patch it up to cover some of its holes. Considering the 
 nature of the game, it would probably appeal the most to those who have played and enjoyed STALKER 
 Shadow of Chernobyl.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  It seems like these days the companys that have developed successful PC games learn from their 
 past mistakes. However Stalker: Clear Sky must have been a complete rebuild from the original Stalker 
 game. I myself was very into the first PC Stalker game, but like so many other PC gamers, I was unable 
 to finish it because of all the bugs, scripting errors and almost anything else that causes a PC 
 orientaed game to crash more often than not. Unfortunately it seems the developer has not learned 
 anything from the original Stalker. Like so many of my sisters and brothers I first purchased Stalker: Clear 
 Sky from a web retailer on a DVD-Rom which was a total disaster. The installer program was so awfully 
 bad that I could not get the game to install on a high end machine what so ever. After many many 
 complaints from myself to the developer they finally gave me a digital download of Stalker: Clear 
 Sky of which I am now at the beginning of the game, yes, it has many problems so I cannot give a 
 fair and honest review when I cannot make it into the first level. I think the music is a carry 
 over from the original Stalker game and many of the screens are as well. The graphics are so so, 
 so far but I crashed going from the first game level, the name I have no idea. It almost seems as 
 if the developers have a special demo setup for game sites to promote their wares for them, and 
 then when the end user (us) buys the game or software, then try and make it worth our hard earned 
 cash
  by trying to apease the end users with patchs. Before you all plunk down your $40.00 or more wait 
 a few years. Surely by then the developers will have all the bugs worked out, well at least enough 
 that we can play the game and give unbiased opinions and a descent review. Stalker: Clear Sky surely 
 is a almost same copy of the original Stalker game and all the scripting and bug errors that came 
 with the original Stalker are part of the new game as well. If someone gives it to you free take 
 it, don't waste your hard earned moneys though. Surely in a few more years Stalker: Clear Sky will 
 be patched up enough to be a great PC gaming experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13qe244
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure who is having all the problems with the bugs, but I installed the game from CD, did 
 one update patch (v1.5xx) and never had a crash in 30+ hours playing.
  
  Things better than Stalker SOC
  + Guides can move you from location to location for a fee. No 
 more running long distances to get back to an area
  + Weapons and guns can be upgraded
  + I like the artifact system where you need the sensor to find them. It makes them more special
 
  + Money is harder to get, thus harder to get good stuff. I though the old game was to liberal 
 with money
  + Not quite and disturbing or scary - There are not as places like underground labs that caused 
 me to stake awake at night (and I'm 32.) THe old game was highly disturbing to me, I'm glad I didn't 
 have to endure that. But perhaps other people would see the as bad.
  
  Things that are worse.
  - I really can't think of any
  
  This game is really good. The gamespot 
 review didn't really have a clue giving it the rating he did.
  
  If you like 1st person shooters with an element of RPG, get this.
  
  The atmostsphere is great, 
 music / sound effects great.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alijib
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  The Radioactive Wasteland Star is back , with some new and some old areas to scavenge. Clear Sky 
 is a real improvement on last years Stalker Shadow of Chernobyl in number of ways, without re-touching 
 the idea of fictional explosion which created The Zone, which in a way is the main focal point 
 for the followers of Everything Stalker.
  
  The Zone has improved, as you are working your way up as a guide for Scientist during the early 
 days of explosion. As always, you start as a loner Scar, who has been rescued after the Emission 
 by Clear Sky, the faction , you will work for about 1 hour or so to know about the newest changes 
 in The Zone.
  
  The best part of S. C. S is its faction wars, in which you will help out or Join different factions 
 through out the game. Your alliance to the factions will dictate your progress, as the others will 
 surely retaliate at your first glance. Good piece of action comes during the Faction wars, where 
 you will raid rival factions, try to capture oil pumps, Headquarters etc, but all with the help 
 of a Smart A. I, which is a real treat to be with. Your A. I friends are much more smarter then the 
 previous games, and are very keen to stay alive by hiding , taking covers, taking pot shots, throwing 
 grenades or flanking the enemy, as well as give you cover fire. Every other fight in S. C. S is a 
 real treat. It doesn't mean you won't be getting the lonesome fights with factions, you will definitely 
 get that part too, but it will be very frustrating, as frankly speaking , you will be the most 
 underpowered player, thrown in front of some very refined marksmen.
  
  Another good RPG element added in S. C. S is a Technician/Mechanic at every Faction headquarter , 
 who can upgrade your weapons & armor at a cost. It does cost you a lot of money, which is very 
 scarce in The Zone.
  
  Artifact hunting is now a very dangerous act, as you have to first find it out with a device, which 
 only beeps and Light up, as you come close to a Artifact and later on with powerful device, shows 
 you a spot. but all of this finding Artifact thing will definitely take out a chunk of your health, 
 as these artifacts are very close to strong anomalies, and some times, in center of several anomalies. 
 However, it is very satisfying to get an Artifact this way, and really let you feel accomplishment.
 
  
  The Zone is still freakish and Littered with anomalies and enemies a like, but if you have previously 
 enjoyed the various mutants , this time, they show up rarely, in not so impressive ways.
  
  There are some glitches , where system hangs during intense fire fights, or crashes during Loading, 
 but these will be ironed out by GSC or The Stalker Community as usual.
  
  If you are looking for a Hardcore Action Game, where you can expect anything, then choose Stalker 
 Clear Sky.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tel5
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I'm now playing the V1.5.05 patch but still buggy as hell. The game crashes a lot. BUT this game 
 is totally addictive and one of the best open explorer/gatherer shooters ever. Stalker Shadow Of 
 Chernobyl was also Very good as well and also buggy as hell at retail release. Why are these games 
 released like this? must be down to the suites wanting the money before the software guys have 
 finished doing there thing. 
  The game has a poor liner ending at the end but up to that point the open exploring and faction/war 
 choosing decisions are very well done. Hate it, Love it, Can't stop playing it. Wish the Rusky 
 developers had a decent QA department. There concept is awesome. Hope there is more to come. Some 
 of the good realistic bits of S. SOC such as getting hungry/need food are missing an should be 
 reinstalled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  Stalker is a great game i have to say, very good, too good. the new fetures of the is a great welcome 
 and for a price of 69.95 (aussie $) (normal pc games ar 99.95) cant really complain.
  
  Good: first of all i love this game because its cheap. most games this days are way to expenisve, 
 especially 360/PS3 games. The new DX10 engine is great, with god rays and blur effects, the graphics 
 are great. The game a alot easier then teh first one, in terms of gameplay, its alot easier to 
 kill, the loot is very generious, and all the armor you see can be bought eventually. The AI has 
 been improved greatly, but....
  
  Bad: Well the AI is still quiet stupid, they walk in front of your gunfire and you get pinalized 
 if its your own faction. The enemy AI is great but if you have dumb as freindly AI whats the point. 
 Also its so annoying in these games where you cant get their armor. its anoyying as all hell. like 
 oblivion has this problem as well. would be alot better if you could loot everything. Also there 
 are so many bugs in this game, i cant remember how many times i needed to restart this game. the 
 patches are great that they fix all the bugs that are orignally there, but they also amkes new 
 ones, which its very very annoying. i know no ones said there was a bug-les game, but stalker has 
 so many bugs you cant count that high. 
  
  Well stalker lives up to the hype, but also lives up to its expectation of when something that 
 goes up.... it has to come down. great potential but, like mass effect still needs alot of polishing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RangerDan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Bottom line up front; a good game with a compelling story, fun on several levels.
  
  However! Lots of bugs, the AI is inconsistent, the unfocused storyline is hard to follow at times, 
 you spend a lot of time looking around for clues and info.
  
  Can be VERY hard in large battles, not always sure how to deal with the factions, missions pop 
 up; then go away, then come back?
  
  Anomalies are hard to find, and harder to get... becomes frustrating. Can't get enough money to 
 buy the best stuff, then the game automatically takes your money away from you. 
  
  I guess they will patch and mod the crap out of it until they get it right, but it is not much 
 fun to go back to a game you played and redo all the levels just for some minor fixs. 
  
  It does have great sound (makes you jump from time to time) and the graphics are pretty good, about 
 the same as the 1st game. 
  
  
  Still, all in all, worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: izzamike
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The reviews all have it down pretty well. I REALLY want to play this game but I've tabled it. Can't 
 tell you how many bugs there are, not to mention the slow frame rate, all documented and complained 
 about on the game's tech support site but little or nothing is being done so far. I'm guessing 
 they were wanting to get this released prior to halloween. Whatever the reason, this is a disgrace 
 in it's current release. 
  
  The visuals are amazing, literally dripping with atmosphere. For the brief periods of time I could 
 get it to work, the game sucks you into a world of gloom and despair - you feel suffocated, like 
 you can't escape the environment - nor do you want to. Terribly good stuff. Just be sure to close 
 the door and turn off the lights for a real treat.
  
  If you haven't bought it yet, my advice is to wait a bit until they have a patch that stabilizes 
 the game. It's so buggy right now that it completely ruins the experience, and the atmosphere is 
 definitely the game's strong suit. Game could be a 8 or 9 rated if it worked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutcrackr
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  Clear Sky represents both a thorn in the side and a feather in the cap of PC gaming. It's a thorn 
 because it's not a polished experience like many games today, it crashes, AI can be buggy (hey 
 guys why are you looking at the ground?) , patches can disallow save games from previous versions; 
 enemies spawn in front of you. It's a feather in PC gaming's cap because it shows how ambitious 
 gaming can be, open world gameplay, FPS mixed with RPG elements, dynamic battles, player choice 
 and participation in a world of thick atmosphere. 
  
  When you set out to play Clear Sky you will be torn between a buggy game and an ambitious one. 
 Part of your opinions will be formed from how lucky you are with crashes, which patches you use 
 (I used 1.5.04 with user script fixes) , how much patience you have and possibly how many times 
 you quick save. Which actually explains the huge differences in ratings as seen in press and player 
 reviews, players won't get the same experiences  which is also a very big positive for Clear Sky. 
 The game is hard to review for this reason, so perhaps it's better to describe some of the experiences 
 I had. 
  
  The big changes in Clear Sky include the factions; you can join or attempt to defeat them. Basically 
 each faction has a home "base" which contains a variety of merchants, repair guys and quest givers. 
 You can do a few quests for the leader and then join the faction. You can participate in faction 
 battles, small camps or buildings scattered through the zone represent these points of constant 
 battle of supremacy. Sometimes you'll be alone, and be told to wait for reinforcements, looking 
 at your map you wait a further 10 minutes for them to arrive. Other times you'll have quite a few 
 stalkers ready to storm an enemy base for capture! You can push through and overtake a factions 
 base, which becomes yours. Eventually the originating owners will take control of it, preventing 
 a faction from being destroyed.
  
  Other changes include weaponry, artifact and gameplay changes. Weapons can now be repaired and 
 heavily upgraded although it does get quite pricey. You can equip scopes and grenade launchers 
 upgrade muzzles and grips, making a weapon suit your style. Don't be fooled though, you are still 
 going to see quite a bit of bullet spread from early weapons in particular. Artifacts are now found 
 using a detector, rather than sitting in the open. You pull out your detector and a pistol or bolts, 
 and find paths through the hazardous (often instant kill) anomalies. The rewards are often good, 
 with prices for the artifacts being high and their bonuses as in the first, helping you throughout 
 the zone. Unfortunately one big problem with the gameplay arises from friendly stalkers physically 
 moving you huge distances by pushing you, creating a lot of frustration in team missions and anywhere 
 around other friendly AI, you end up trying to stay away from them.
  
  The Zone itself is different too, you can use guides to fast travel to the capture points or bases, 
 as time goes on it becomes quite costly to travel only a short distance. The main story quests 
 will at some stage strip you of your weapons and money, thankfully a secondary quest ensures it 
 only takes 10 minutes to get them back. Faction war battles are a great way to earn a bit of money 
 fast, but it's not always safe just like artifact hunts. The game seems quite a bit harder than 
 the original, you die quicker, and enemies are very accurate at close range. Most tricky of all 
 though is the use of grenades from enemies. Their accuracy is incredibly high and the indicator 
 provides not much assistance as it explodes so quickly after it lands next to your feet, the only 
 saving grace is the relatively low shrapnel spread. You'll be running when the audio clues tell 
 you a grenade is coming your way. The upside of this is that lots and lots of STALKERS carry grenades, 
 which means now you have access to a huge number, either for sale or for revenge.
  
  There are still moments of high atmosphere, walking through swamps to hear rustling in the reeds, 
 then walking further to hear a growl. Frozen I turn around my weapon at the ready pointed in the 
 direction of the growl, rain pours down hard around me, the crickets and frogs light up the silence. 
 Suddenly to my right a large boar runs at me, intent for a feed, I whip my shotgun in his direction, 
 one shot hits, but only wounds. My final shot lands in his head and he slides to a stop meters 
 before me, I catch my breath. The game is full of many of these moments, wild dogs or zombies may 
 give you a surprise. In one section the game plays some audio cues around the player to create 
 a bit of false atmosphere, which becomes deadly when a real bloodsucker gets up in your face in 
 the pitch black of night.
  
  There is quite a bit of downtime and trekking across barren wastelands, but the game specifically 
 tailors to those people who like to just take a quest, and roam about. You get satisfaction from 
 planning a journey, taking risks and missions that may give good bonuses. It may not be the best 
 choice just to rush through following the primary story quests without doing much adventuring. 
 Not just because they can be fairly mediocre quests in themselves but because you need to be immersed 
 in the game and it doesn't happen when you are just following a yellow arrow and not thinking much 
 about the world around you and what you can do in it. The last few "missions" in particular are 
 unbalanced - featuring spawning enemies, small linear levels and generic trigger based action. 
 This ultimately means it completely ruins just about all it established in the previous 10-15 hours 
 of gameplay. Luckily enough the end drab missions aren't too long so you aren't in pain for an 
 extended time.
  
  Of course the game doesn't help you when you are trying to get sucked in, one example might be 
 constant quests involving defence of an outpost from mutants, five minutes after your last successful 
 fend off, you are given the same quest, "perhaps you should let them all die", you mutter to yourself 
 but begrudgingly rush over and save the day. Then there are the weird spawning oddities, emissions 
 may cause stalkers to disappear, and then reappear after it ends, as if they were invisible all 
 along. What about an outpost that is being invaded by a single snork, seems fairly harmless? You 
 dispose of him and instantly six bandits spawn right in front of you, fire at you immediately as 
 you try to run with bullets slowing your progress before you become another casualty of The Zone.
 
  
  The game is quite beautiful when its given room to breathe, a gentle graphical upgrade of SHOC. 
 Sun rays peer through the wispy trees in the crisp morning, anomalies look more hazardous than 
 ever and emissions are severely engrossing. There aren't many underground sections in Clear Sky 
 sadly, although they were linear they enhanced atmosphere and broke up the open gameplay. The upside 
 is that GSC seem to have done more with the game space and added more detail to the landscapes, 
 short trips can often reveal more than you might expect. Many of these hidden locales might not 
 be seen if you follow the main quests. Better yet, the loot  artifacts, weapons, armor  keep 
 you on the steady improve throughout the main story arc. 
  
  There is a lot of Clear Sky to like for me; when it works you are seeing things that have improved 
 over SHOC, but when it doesn't you will see CS as something worse. Newer patches will fix bugs 
 and people who are patient will be able to get through. It's an unorthodox game, like stalker, 
 you have to push passed its faults and then savour those moments in the dark, alone. Clear Sky 
 pushes the franchise closer to its potential than ever - just don't focus on the "main" missions 
 too much. Most importantly games like Clear Sky are fairly rare, so if you can enjoy it you should 
 really enjoy every bit of it. It's just a pity GSC didn't spend a few more months in the QA stage, 
 everybody would have been better for it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reborn2603
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  The game was awesome but it really bugged me the dumb AI. I really seen some things that should 
 never had happen. Like a enemy taking cover behind a wall but only staying half in an half out. 
 I could shot him but he wouldn't react. Another one was hiding behind a car with windows, I could 
 hit them through the windows and they would never react.
  Another thing I hated was that many times i had a secondary objective, like the one in which you 
 had to kill the guards at the entrance in I don't remember which area. When i got near them, I 
 had them in sight, the damn task was canceled. And this thing happen to me many times. It really 
 bugged me. Other than that the game rocked, beautifull enviorment, and the story was awesome, just 
 what would you expect from an FPS\RPG\Horror game. I hope they make a sequel. Or another prequel 
 :)
  Play it, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoostyle
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game delivers and then some. I love the whole dark and dreary looks of its thick overgrown 
 swamps to the redone levels of the cordon and garbage levels. I have to seriously stop and look 
 around like constantly, admiring the ugly. oops there's a mutant boar slashing at my leg, fire 
 off a shotgun round and plaster that fugly.
  
  I too have fallen too many times in this game, it is harder than the OG Stalker game but hey life 
 is tough too you know, the economy etc etc.
  
  Game bugs, glitches, freezes, CTD's they are all here in all their glory. The first game was a 
 horror to keep running. My old PC running XP was able to handle it well before it stopped working 
 on it. It runs on my new PC (Quad-core) with Vista sweetly now as it does this game.
  
  I recommend this game. Word.
  
  "What can I do for you, STALKER?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DTH17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  You may have noticed a lot of people saying this game is filled with bugs. But honestly I don't 
 know what they're talking about. The ONLY problem that I have had with the game is that it has 
 crashed maybe 3 times since I took it out of the box. However I think that's a problem with my 
 computer. A quick restart and I was back in business. I'm going to admit right upfront that my 
 computer is a little behind on technology. Well actually it's a piece of crap. I have to run the 
 game on minimum settings. As long as you download the patches first thing you shouldn't have any 
 problems. There were already patches out for the game by the time it was released in the US.
  
  As for the game itself, It's very enjoyable. The environment is so detailed and expansive. 
 There's all sorts of different kinds of weapons, which can all be customized. The faction wars 
 are really weak, but you don't have to even participate in them to finish the game it's just extra 
 content. The game isn't to difficult as long as you upgrade your equipment. which isn't to hard 
 since money is fairly easy to come by. As for the AI it's not the best I have seen, and they overuse 
 the grenades a bit.
  
  Overall I think it's a great game. Anyone who's computer can run it and enjoy first person shooters 
 should definatley give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDragonFire81
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 29, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Ill start of this review with highlighting what i thought was good and bad in the game and go about 
 explaining my opinions.
  
  Good Things:
  - Item Upgrades
  - More NPC combat
  - More atmospheric day times 
  
  Bad Things:
  - AI didnt seem all that much better
  - Lots 
 of bugs
  - Too many old maps, items, models, textures (etc)
  - A forced end to the game
  - Horrible ending
  
  
  Good Things
  ===========
  
  Item Upgrades
  =============
 
  
  One thing that for me gave something to strive for and gather money for was the item upgrades. 
 While they didnt wary that much in options it still gave something to go for. And they were actually 
 needed to make your weapons effective. Otherwise your weapons would quickly wear out and loose 
 their accuracy etc.
  
  More NPC combat
  ===============
  
  The NPC combat at the start area was a breath of fresh air to Stalker. Sadly it seemed to end right 
 after you left the Swamp area. Otherwise the future fights were just scripted events. Nothing like 
 they had "promised".
  
  More atmospheric day times
  ==========================
  
  The day times were alot more atmospheric than in the first part. You really felt you were alone 
 in the dark when night came. And it was a total pain trying to navigate anywhere unless you happened 
 to have an armor with Night Vision.
  
  
  BAD Things
  ==========
  
  AI
  ==
  
  Saying the AI was better in this game is a flat out lie. I didnt really see anything in the game 
 that i didnt already see in SoC. 
  
  The enemy still circled around you or headed straight for you while in combat. When the enemy got 
 in certain range they always threw their grenade first and it didnt really seem to be tied to anything 
 else than the distance between you and the enemy.
  
  I really didnt see anything in my first playtrough that would have been better compared to the 
 first part of the game.
  
  Bugs
  ====
  
  Pretty much the same as with the first part of the game. There were alot of bugs. 
  
  Its pretty 
 sad to see a game put to market in this condition ESPECIALLY when they have done it once before. 
 One would think they would get smarter than that. This time it seemed almost worse than the first 
 time when you heard that at some point of the game your savegame files could even get corrupted.
 
  
  Too much of the old
  ===================
  
  There was simply too much of the old in this game. Freshening up the old maps didnt really do it 
 for me. There wasnt enough new content in my opinion so that the gameworld would have felt like 
 something new.
  
  Too many items, models and textures were the same from the last game. To be honest the mod communitys 
 Oblivion Lost made a WAY better job in bringing new content that the gamemakers themselves.
  
  A forced end to the game
  ========================
  
  Yet again. Same as with the first 
 part, you were again pushed on a path that forced you to follow it to the end. What i mean by this 
 is that at one point you will go to an area of no return. This means no going back to sell or buy 
 items, no going to repair your items and no going to visit other areas.
  
  Horrible ending
  ===============
  
  My first reaction after finishing the game was: Was this 
 really it? The ending is absolutely awful and lacked anything special to give some sense of accomplishment.
 
  
  
  This was a really quick review of the game so it doesnt really tell you all about the game. I still 
 enjoyed playing it trough the first time but i doubt i will play it again for a long long time.
 
  
  It remains to be seen if the mod community will start a new project with Clear Sky and make it 
 into something better than it is at its current state. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrianGyrofire
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  Okay, the first thing I'm going to say is that people are giving this game terrible ratings when 
 they're not even looking for hotfixes. If you're going to rate a game broken, make sure there are 
 no fixes! (HINT: Use Google to find the crash-to-desktop fix)
  
  Now, I was a huge fan of the first STALKER game, but Clear Sky surpasses it with gameplay. Yes, 
 they reuse some of the maps, but it shows you how the Zone has changed in the year's difference. 
 Also, it's interesting to see how the factions are situated differently in this prequel.
  
  The gameplay of Clear Sky is just awesome - you can repair and upgrade equipment, finding artifacts 
 feels MUCH more rewarding, you can buy stash locations from almost any character, do jobs for squad 
 leaders (if they need one done) , and other stuff. The implementation of the emissions adds an "Oh 
 crap, I need to find shelter!" feeling of panic which is a great addition to the atmosphere.
  
  The difficulty is challenging - I played on Stalker (Average) my first time through and it 
 was somewhat difficult. Taking down enemy soldiers is easily done with an accuracy-boosted submachinegun, 
 but watch out for the grenades! Enemies throw grenades directly at you, rarely missing, so you 
 need to watch for the proximity warning. After you get into the game for 3-4 hours, you'll get 
 accustomed to encountering and dealing with enemies, and this game will most likely help you sharpen 
 your first-person-shooter skills. Still, this is Stalker difficulty, so play the Novice if you 
 want an easier time.
  
  My bottom line is: the first STALKER was simply a classic, but Clear Sky's customization of weapons 
 makes it more fun to play. If you want to experience the game without tearing your hair out, as 
 I did, find and install the official patch, then find and apply the crash-to-desktop bug fix. But 
 please, don't slander the game or claim it's broken until you do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superciliaris
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Stalker was a great game.
  Clear sky, is not.
  Why?
  Cause: Its still glitchy, full of bugs, very hard (i play on hard difficulty but this is insane) maps 
 are exactly the same as previous stalker, story is mediocre. When the night falls its so dark, that 
 you have to stay in the camp until dawn (and there is no time acceleration) cause you cant see absolutely 
 nothing. Rifles are very inaccurate, but your enemies are very good at killing you with a shotgun 
 from the distance (???) , mostly you just run and hide (kidding, the bandits will spot you even in the 
 pitch dark and put one in the head) so its mostly RUN.
  Still, its a s. t. a. l. k. e. r! 
  The atmosphere is great, the graphics are improved, its openended and has charm that only shadow 
 of chernobil had. You will cry and be presured to uninstall it now and then, but eventualy you will 
 finish it with a sour taste in your mouth: Oh, its finally over. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tchenry
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  i like the new features. upgrading weapons and armor is cool. being able to repair items is a big 
 bonus feature. i like the way you have to search for artifacts with a scanner. money is a problem 
 as its hard to get enough to upgrade and resupply. the mutants are a lot harder and come in packs (carry 
 a lotta ammo) its a constant collect and sell. there are not as many side missions available this 
 time. the one thing that completely ruins the game is that it crashes continuously. i have played 
 10 hours+ and have reached a point where if i kill anyone the game crashes. now i have to start 
 over from the beginning. the game is so buggy that the bug reporting service is buggy and wont 
 work. its really a shame that a game with such potential has been completely ruined due to poor 
 programming. I should have spent my money on Call of Duty 4!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heiziux
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R Clear Sky Retail version has numerous amounts of bugs that influence the gameplay 
 but after patching the game it becomes smooth and really addictive. Few good ideas implemented 
 into Clear Sky that makes it more fun then the original and doesn't make the game a drag. Things 
 like joining a faction and getting continuous quests from them while you are in their area or taking 
 over key spots to help out your faction it adds more fun to the game by doing multiple side quests 
 fast and without having to travel far away on foot. Enemy factions sending troops to retake the 
 posts you took over will makes it an action packed experience. This game got bad reviews because 
 of its buggy features but now they are fixed so the game can be fully enjoyed. Anyone that liked 
 S. T. A. L. K. E. R Shadow of Chernobyl will love this game even more. It was worth waiting for it.
 
  
  And now it is worth waiting for the patches.
  
  PS. This game was rated 9.5 because i love shooters with some plot, for an average player i would 
 give this game approximately 8/10 and still worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Lich-King
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 9
  Sounds: 10
  Gameplay: 8
  Multiplayer: 8
  Storyline: 8
  Impression: 9
  
  Score: 8.5 (8.6 real)
  
  I have to say im quite impressed with the game. The Graphics are 
 really pleasing to my eyes and find the scenery detail made very well. The Graphics in the first 
 Stalker wasn't up to Par in today standards. When I played Clear Sky I was really impressed and 
 was pleased with the dynamic lighting. The sun light would glare off shotgun barrel along with 
 the rest of the enviorment. The characters are made well and almost seem like you are there talking 
 to them. The facial features, uniforms, weapons, are very detailed. Shells do fly out of all your 
 guns and reloading is displayed very well. Explosions are made well by pieces flying everywhere, 
 and if you get struck by a grenade you get knocked off your feet and your ears start ringing. 
 
  
  Gun fights in Clear Sky are fun and interesting. The AI in the game is very skilled and challenging 
 but are beatable. Your opponent's do blind shoot, they take cover, they chase you around and sneak 
 up on you when you least expect it. The Gun fights are enjoyable to play. 
  
  Now, I have only played for like 25 hours and I'm maybe half way through the game. But so far the 
 story is interesting and keeps me wondering on what is going to happen next. The game is not short! 
 You can spend hours playing this game, mainly because the map is really big in this game and you 
 are able to wonder freely doing whatever you want. There are creepy and deformed creatures you 
 encounter that scare you especially in the dark with a little flash light, enough to make you jump 
 out of your chair and find yourself clicking the mouse like 50 times. 
  
  Another feature that really stands out is the ability to upgrade your weapons and almost every 
 weapon is upgradeable. The weapon and equipment arsenal in the game is farley wide and makes the 
 game worth playing. There is much more to this game!!! like Factions you can join or not, radiation 
 zones, deformed creatures, and more. I just wanted to give a idea of the game and explain my experience. 
 
  
  Lastly, Clear Sky does have some bugs and glitches in the game. I've read that you should download 
 the patch first, before playing the game which I did. The only Glitch ive expeirenced so far is 
 i get these weird green squares on the frames of buildings or on the weapon im holing. This is 
 a popular error that everyone complains of. Some people say that the game freezes on them or they 
 get the blue screen of death. I have not expierenced any of these other errors so far, and I've 
 played for 4 hours straight. The way I've adapted to the weird green squares was, as soon as I 
 started to notice the squares I would push control, alt, delete. This would disengage the graphics 
 engine and then by selecting on the game to pop the game window back up it would restart the graphics 
 engine and then the game would run smoothly without wierd glithces. This process can be a repeated 
 process but, it doesn't bug me to the point were I don't want to play the game. 
  
  Basically, I highly recommend the game to anyone that is interested in it. The Game to me, reminds 
 me of Half-Life and is very fun to play. Don't let the glitches scare you, this game has amazing 
 detail and a extensive map. There will be more pathces in the future which will fine tune Clear 
 Sky into being a really well made game to play in the future. 
  
  The Good:
  -dynamic light
  -upgradable weapons
  -AI quite clever compared with the previous one
  -long 
 story that makes you play it for long hours
  
  The Bad:
  -there are bugs and glitches
  -it needs patches
  -difficult and frustrating for the FPS noobs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13ozzy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is kinda like an Alfa Romeo. Great, Beautiful, but lacks reliability.
  The original Stalker- Shadow of Chernobyl was a great game, the story line was good enough to keep 
 you going, and gameplay good enough to keep you on the edge. But I haven't finished it. Only reason 
 is because it had major BUGS. And its not like they were frustrating me so much, that I gave-up... 
 No, no, no. Its because i wasn't able to play. Every time I loaded my save the game crashed, or 
 froze, or said that i cant continue because the save didnt match the version of my game because 
 i patched it, in order to stop the B. U. G. S in the first place. 
  And im sorry to say but Clear Sky is pretty much more of the same. Great gameplay, Great story, 
 Some of the best graphics i have seen in a game. B. u. t. again the game just crashes, or exits back 
 to main menu every time i want to start playing. So Im still stuck on first few missions.
  
  OVERVIEW. 
  
  Good
  Storyline is great, Challenging AI, Best Lighting Effect ever seen 
 in a video game, Sucks you in like a hooker, Improved since the previous game, Ukrainian.
  
  Bad
  Broken, Buggy, High system requirements, Feels recycled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vercinegetorix
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I've seriously tried to finish this game - to no avail. When started the game I was very impressed 
 with the new graphics and the all the improvements in gameplay. Some new elements are quite interesting 
 (such as seeking for artifacts with a detector through anomaly fields or buying extensive upgrades 
 to weapons and armor) . 
  The atmosphere is very convincing: nighttime is especially brilliant and those poorly-lit derelict 
 industrial facilities really give you the goosebumps. I remember that distinct feeling of relief 
 when morning came after a long gloomy night during which I spent most of my ammo and medkits trying 
 to make my way through the Red Forest or Garbage... In a nutshell it really sucks you in. (initially)
 
  Unfortunately the game is awfully built, it's hardly optimized and at some point the crashes get 
 so goddamn frustrating you suddenly realize that unlike some paid-reviewers there's nobody forcing 
 you to play this half-finished game. Imagine quick-saving just a few seconds before an imminent 
 and unavoidable crash and any other save dates back at least an hour or so. Things like these seem 
 to happen even more frequently as you progress in the game, up to a point when it becomes unbearable. 
 
  ... I mean who the f*ck is responsible for shipping the piece of crap in such an appalling shape 
 ? Could it be some imbecile executive who forced the developer's hand, or some sloppy devs ? 
 
  
  Bottom line: don't spend your money on it YET (I regret doing so) , just get it "for free" if you 
 really want to have a taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FPV_fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  First off almost all the game crashing bugs are gone in the latest patch.
  
  This is where what the reviewer should of said after complaining about some of the issues within 
 the game. Go get a number of mods that alter the game to your liking, weather its changes to the 
 weapons to work ever more like its real world counter part as the game features real life weapon 
 physics depending on the bullets air resistance, to gravity and a range of other factors. Or you 
 want a experience where ammo is scarce making every bullet count.
  
  This game can provide gamers with the rich world that they all want, provide rewarding game play, 
 give real options. Does not feel like the same old battle just a new corridor, as every situation 
 can be handled the way the player wants, weather using stealth, cover, long range picking, or not 
 even getting into a fight and even better being able to flee are all options that you must decide 
 when and where to use
  
  So i will give you just one last piece of advice head over to a fan site (or the developers site 
 GSC Game World, and check out the forums) and you will sooner or later find a mod to make the game 
 that you want it to be.
  
  And remember learn from your mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel98375641
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  I was waiting for another trip back to The Zone. Very cool. The enemy AI is very smart and effectively 
 uses cover and grenades. Sometimes "too effective". Sometimes the enemy can hit you at great distance 
 in pitch black night. The oppressive feel of The Zone is great. You never really feel comfortable. 
 Even when you're at a Factions base you just never know what to expect.
  
  The game is a little buggy but a small fix on the GSC Forum took care of it. I've not had many 
 of the problems some people describe. Some of it must depend on you hardware set up.
  
  I believe I'm about 2/3 done. When I'm finished as just playing a Loner, I'll go back and play 
 as a member of one of the Factions. Also, STALKER has a pretty good mod community so it will be 
 cool to see what someone comes up with for Clear Sky.
  
  I really look forward to what this company will do next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivilidar
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  I waited for this game a lot, I loved the old S. T. A. L. K. E. R. last year. The Original game was the 
 best FPS for me in 2007 after Bioshock, i've played it trough six times:) . So. The Game is good, 
 but I have expected something other as SoC, but I didn't get it. Clear Sky is very good, but not 
 so good as SoC last year was.
  
  It has a lot of glitches and bugs, maybe after 2-3 more patches, it will be better.
  
  The 
 Graphics are very scaleable, it runs also on older computers, and on Max with DX10 is very, very 
 beautiful.
  
  The missions could be something better with a bit more inspiration.
  
  
  OK. The game is good, it gets 8 points from me for the good & for the bad:
  The Good:
  
 - Wonderful graphics with X-ray 1.5
  - Joinable fractions
  - Good Story
  
  The Bad:
  - it could be longer
  - a lot of bugs & random crashes
  - The SAME as Soc: weapons, levels, 
 characters...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsdeNation
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I love the upgrades, repair and artefact detector - better than the previous STALKER. I agree with 
 everything GameSpot have said, but I rate it a bit better then they did, this type of game is right 
 up my alley!
  
  There are still some mission issues with the game, I was given a mission to find something that 
 was underground, after I had already been there and the underground area was no longer accessible, 
 now that mission is permanently in my PDA, forever to be incomplete, I wish I could delete or hide 
 it.
  
  I was expecting more new content, in the lead up hype I got the impression that "The Zone has changed", 
 so I felt a little let down that I have spent most of the game in familiar territory, doing much 
 the same things as in the previous STALKER.
  
  All in all I still think its worth playing, and paying for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: namrac1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  1st Patch improves many problems but previous saves don't work. Have to start over!!
  Patch also adds DX10 lighting which improved my performance immensely.
  Looks better than the 
 first game and the enemy are
  much tougher.
  1st Patch improves many problems but previous saves don't work. Have to start over!!
  Patch also 
 adds DX10 lighting which improved my performance immensely.
  Looks better than the first game and the enemy are
  much tougher.
  1st Patch improves many 
 problems but previous saves don't work. Have to start over!!
  Patch also adds DX10 lighting which improved my performance immensely.
  Looks better than the 
 first game and the enemy are
  much tougher.
  1st Patch improves many problems but previous saves don't work. Have to start over!!
  Patch also 
 adds DX10 lighting which improved my performance immensely.
  Looks better than the first game and the enemy are
  much tougher.
  1st Patch improves many 
 problems but previous saves don't work. Have to start over!!
  Patch also adds DX10 lighting which improved my performance immensely.
  Looks better than the 
 first game and the enemy are
  much tougher.
  1st Patch improves many problems but previous saves don't work. Have to start over!!
  Patch also 
 adds DX10 lighting which improved my performance immensely.
  Looks better than the first game and the enemy are
  much tougher.
  1st Patch improves many 
 problems but previous saves don't work. Have to start over!!
  Patch also adds DX10 lighting which improved my performance immensely.
  Looks better than the 
 first game and the enemy are
  much tougher.
  1st Patch improves many problems but previous saves don't work. Have to start over!!
  Patch also 
 adds DX10 lighting which improved my performance immensely.
  Looks better than the first game and the enemy are
  much tougher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isuhoy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Being a stalker means being human. Help your friends in tough times, Don't rat them out or stab 
 them in the back. Share your med-kits and rations with them, cover their backs in a fight and sleep 
 under the same roof or by the same fire. Our main enemy right now are those stinking bandits, the 
 parasites on our collective body. Our goal is the cleanse the Zone of their scum once and for all.
 
  Graphically the best part of the game in Garbage once and the sun appeared from behind a hill 
 of junk and I saw rays of light coming through the trees, fantastic!
  To survive a Stalker has to trade. Just like in the real world you can buy, sell and exchange everything 
 you need from ammunition to artefacts. The currency is Soviet Roubles and you can do deals with 
 the army, scientists, dealers and other Stalkers. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: utopic
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 25, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  If you read about it on the internet you have probably found out that it brings a few changes (good 
 changes in the opinion of the producers) but as a gamer who has finished the first game I find 
 the changes minor.
  
  I have two issues with the game: 
  
  1) it feels like playing the first game all over again. Most of the maps are the same, the weapons 
 are the same, the enemies are the same, the anomalies are the same, the dialogue is the same etc. 
 WHY would anyone want to play the same game again? Ok, I understand that the action takes place 
 at a 1-year difference, but at least give us different maps/levels. They did a copy-paste of the 
 level and gave us slightly different missions. Geee, thanks!
  
  2) it is very buggy (I was tempted to write this in CAPS) , and I tried it with the latest patch 
 to date - 1.504 Ok, so I want to play the game as I have no better game at the moment. BUT I can't. 
 At some point I reach a level where the crashes are so frequent I can't actually make any progress. 
 At the time I finished the first game (Shadow of C.) it looked like crap on my system, it played 
 like crap (20-35fps) but it didn't crash and the quests were all functional. The sequel (or prequel 
 if you will) looks better, runs better but crashes from every 2 minutes and some quests just don't 
 register as being completed - which would be fine it they were side quests but not so fine if it's 
 the main quest.
  
  
  My advice is that if you played the first game, don't bother playing the second one - this way 
 at least it won't ruin the good memories.
  
  I gave it a 3 for effort, but a game that's broken and unplayable doesn't deserve a score this 
 high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iq2luc
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  After playing the first part and loving it to death, I looked forward to this one with extreme 
 enthusiasm. 
  I liked almost everything in the first part: highly immersible atmosphere, good graphics, wonderful 
 sounds, pretty ok storyline, fair AI and THE PERFECT ballistic and anything related to it (actually 
 no.1 game in ballistics for me, that's why I loved it so much) . 
  
  Well... and here comes the 'Clear Sky': the same superb atmosphere, even better graphics, great 
 sounds, ok storyline (not spectacular but it works) and... BUGGY/FRUSTRATING ballistic that renders 
 the game UNUSABLE! : ( I'm so so so disappointed... It actually hurts my feelings... I feel like 
 a cheated lover... : ( 
  
  I want to love this game, I want to play it... but I can't - after playing about 1 and a half hour 
 I just dropped it... full of sadness; seeing how bullets just pass through enemies even if a big 
 gun is pointed to their head, putting 10 bullets in someone's head just makes him happier and eager 
 to continue shooting at you... how frustrating... and then what about the enemy AI (which in other 
 regards is quite ok) : they can shoot you without seeing you - it seems they have some kind of a 
 6th sense, they know where you are even if there are some objects interposed between you and them... 
 and that is also REALLY frustrating.
  
  So, for now, I rate this game a 5, with sorrow in my soul... but if the problems with the enemy 
 AI and the ballistics are going to be fixed, this game is something more like +9 (or maybe even 
 a 10) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lon3lysnake
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  STALKER: Clear Sky, being the 2nd installment of the series, prologue to the successful STALKER: 
 shadow of the chernobyl, many of us were waiting in high
  anticipation. The more we anticipate, greater the letdown.
  
  The major failure of this game 
 is due to the lack of innovative. Regarding the gameplay, it shares 80% similarity from the 1st 
 STALKER. They have done some minor changes, including the hud, inventory slot, etc. Basically, 
 you're playing a different storyline with the same system.
  
  The Bugs and glitches in Clear sky is full of pain. Numerous of people who played this game has 
 quit in the middle due the constant bugs and crashes. I have heard the patch will do a little help, 
 but be sure that you won't be needing your savings, because the latest patch for Clear Sky will 
 spontaneously rejecting your saving. Highly recommending you to patch it before playing the game, 
 or you could take the risk of crashing, potentially loosing all previous savings.
  
  Storyline of Clear Sky being Chernobyl's successor is flawless. Some even consider that Clear Sky 
 has better story than the 1st STALKER, me, myself has to agree with that point as well. Though 
 I haven't play much horror games before, it really grasp your breath when you play through the 
 horror game. Thanks to the outstanding envoirnment and atmosphere, the game will definitely brings 
 you the ultimate horror experience.
  
  I am not absolutely sure if I should recommend this game. Despite the frustrating bugs, this game 
 totally live up to be one of the top horror shooter game. It really depnds on how much you can 
 stand the annoying bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinkler123
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 25, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  I really tried...
  
  I got this game from a friend to test it out after he failed to even run it on his machine.
  
 
  The games sounds interesting but even my machine couldn't handle it at all.
  it legged as hell - even on low settings,
  due crysis ran great for me on high settings!
  on 
 high settings it runs like a slide-show.
  it was half playable on minimum - but come-on...
  i have a really decent gaming machine - why should i play a new game with 90`s graphic settings???
 
  (looks like DOOM 2...)
  
  so i didn't have the chance to even encounter the nasty game-breaking bugs everyone is talking 
 about... :-/
  
  from the little i could see - 
  speech is annoying with Russian accent and bad English (didn't like it at all) ,
  but level design 
 is awesome (structures ,vehicles, environment, people etc`) .
  
  only buy this game if you own a super-hybrid-NASA-like computer... :)
  (and even so u might wanna 
 wait for some more patches too...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hickmanjw
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  The game is crap. I'm wondering how Gamespot played it through without CTDs. The game is FULL of 
 game-breaking bugs. I'm okay with some errors and bugs in a game but not ones that make it, literally, 
 unplayable. This one is a joke - the number of bugs that make the game unplayable and unfinishable 
 are astronomical. Save your money. 
  
  I know how to mod and have modded the game to a semi-stable state but I'm not used to having to 
 fix a game this much before playing it. This is a train wreck... I can't say much about game play 
 because, while good, it is immensely frustrating to play in 10 minutes bursts followed by 3-4 CTDs 
 or PERMANENT CTDs that corrupt your whole game.
  
  There needs to be a law governing computer games - any other product that was this broken would 
 be returnable. The developers are lucky they live in Ukraine b/c I'd be willing to travel if they 
 were in the United States in order to shove my CD up where the sun doesn't shine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  STALKER Was a great game when it came out, it had everything, atmosphere, storyline, and graphics, 
 now STALKER Clear Sky comes out, now the question arises, was it worth the wait? Well guess what, 
 it was, this is again the most atmospheric game created so far, but unfortunately it is marred 
 with alot of technical problems that will hamper the experience, but if you are able to look past 
 the bugs of this fabulous game, then I say stop reading now and get it.
  
  STALKER starts you off as a mercenary named Scar and you are tasked with finding Strelok's Faction, 
 you apparently survived an Energy Emission, however if this continues, then this emission that 
 is emitting from the center of the zone will kill him, so from there you journey across the wastelands 
 of Chernobyl and you complete missions that the NPC's send you to do. I'd like to make a note to 
 new players out there, weapons in this game have something of a RPG feel to them, they all have 
 special attributes to them, they have Damage meters, Condition (Really just Durability) , Handling, 
 rate of fire, and accuracy, so don't go all John Wayne and think that a pistol will peg a target 
 at long range like in Call of Duty 4, Because they have a limited effective range.
  
  During the Encounters in the zone, you will notice something has changed, there is a new system 
 known as Faction Wars, these emit randomly, so you will be called out to help fellow STALKER's 
 in the battle against enemy factions, this if a fun experiece, though I should note that the battles 
 do tend to get hard early on in the game, mainly cause you aren't given a good set of weapons, 
 the pistol is fairly limited in strength and accuracy and the shotgun is a sawn-off and has a very 
 slow reload rate for a dual-barreled, so the battles early on are fairly hard, but what's you start 
 to progress through the game, you will encounter other guns, early on you get an AK-74, the MP-5 
 (Known as the Viper 5 in the game) , and some newer better pistols to better combat the Factions 
 you should fight upon. While Clear Sky is the faction you are allied with in the game, you can 
 also ally yourself with other factions in the game, Renegades, Freedom, Monolith, Bandits, and 
 Stalkers, if you check your PDA in the game, you can see how many friends in each faction, or how 
 many enemies you have in each faction, it is pretty simple, to make friends, you just run out to 
 do errands, or bail them out of trouble, to make enemies, just shoot the faction. Bailing out the 
 factions is sort of hard to do, mainly because it gets hard to get the the destination they want 
 you to defend, there optional, and the moneys good early on, but you will find yourself hard pressed 
 to get to the destination they want you to defend.
  
  I would like to note that the best addition in my opinion in this game is the idea of you upgrading 
 your gun, utilizing the engineers scattered across the zone, you can upgrade your gun for better 
 accuracy, flatter projectory, high damage modules, faster firing rates, and optical scope mounts, 
 this is a really good idea, this makes the early guns actually better then some of the later non-upgraded 
 weapons for example the G-36k, at these stations also, you can repair your gun at any time for 
 under 1000 RB's tops, so you can keep your early AK-74 in service for a long time if you never 
 upgrade.
  
  The Artificial intelligence in this game have gotten a big overhaul, they are really smart now, 
 they do alot of human like activities, they walk around on patrol, when you approach a guard at 
 an outpost, they will tell you to holster your gun, not doing this however they will hit you, not 
 shoot, literally hit you to drop you gun, they sleep, eat, better yet, when in combat, they will 
 use tactics to try and kill you, they throw grenades to flush you out, and they do the typical 
 flank to kill you, now they only problem I had with this is that the grenades that they throw seem 
 to hit you dead on, they literally land right beside you and kill you and pretty well wipe most 
 of your health out.
  
  The shooting model has been completely transformed, now the starting pistol you get at the beginning 
 of the game is actually a decent piece of work, though at the beginning of the game, you will be 
 using it more often then the shotgun... pretty well every gun in the game is useful, so you'll 
 think twice about throwing away that AK-74 for the better G-36, so persay, the AK-74 can do just 
 as well as the G-36, upgraded they can both do the job. Like STALKER before it, you have to aim 
 through your sights to get the best shot off, this works very well, they also due it fairly realistically, 
 engaging a target at long ranges is not a typically good idea because gravity can pull your bullets 
 down the further it goes, so for example, you have a compact AK74, you try to peg a target at 1000m 
 away from your position, your bullet will travel about half that distance.
  
  The Graphics in this game have got a significant upgrade, both in its fidelity and realism, this 
 game can now support directx 10, it can now support realistic lighting (eg. God Rays) , better lighting 
 over all in the sunny days, you can really notice it, when you compare STALKER and Clear Sky together, 
 you will understand the lighting is so much better in Clear Sky then in STALKER, in Clear Sky, 
 they have also added depth of field vision blocking, this means when you are aiming someone through 
 your iron sight, or your reloading, anything that you are not focused on will be blurred out, this 
 is not a tactical advantage, but it does look pretty. All this fidelity in the graphics all comes 
 at a hefty price, this game needs the latest and greatest to run at max settings, but don't worry, 
 if you have an 8800gt, you can run at Full Lighting Settings, you just won't get the light show 
 if you had a stronger video card, this game can also be a Memory hog, so I would watch out. I'd 
 like to note that there are some technical issues that should be resolved, performance issues, 
 and the evil BSOD, will kill you in this game, I am sure GSC Game worlds will fix this but til' 
 now, watch out for those random issues, if you buy the game, save as often as you can.
  
  The Sound in this game got a refresh, the guns all now sound completely different from the original 
 STALKER, the voices in the game don't exactly get the praise I was hoping for, but they work well 
 in there context. Every weapon in the sound's quite mean and powerful in there own way, the Pistol 
 in the game sound powerful and feels right when you fire it, the AK-74 feels like a mean and aggresive 
 weapon when you use it. The environments feel alive when you walk around, you can here the owls 
 in the distance at night, you can here battles rage on when you walk around the Zone, you can here 
 packs of dogs running around haphazardly, and people playing guitar in around a bon-fire, it definately 
 if one of those games that makes the environment and atmosphere come alive around you.
  
  Multiplayer is included, but the thing about multiplayer is that I don't feel that the game had 
 multiplayer in mind when they developed it, if felt like a spare of the moment type of thing, when 
 you get this game, try to stay on the Single Player, it has alot of praise oozing from it, multiplayer 
 just doesn't feel right for me.
  
  If you liked the original, you will like this version, it has the STALKER inside it, and then some, 
 with more additions to the original, and engine upgrades, this will sure be a keeper once the patches 
 have been developed to iron out the problems that mar this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomsteryeah
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is an extraordinary FPS game that sets you in the shoes of a mercenary in Russia around 
 Chernobyl. This is a prequel to the original game, STALKER Shadow of Chernobyl, where a fictional 
 explosion sets off in Chernobyl and creates a lot of anomalies and mutants. A cool part of this 
 game is that there are factions, each joinable by the player. This makes this game have a very 
 good replay value. Not only that, you get an inventory, just like mmorpgs!
  
  This is what all gamers want, an emmersive story and environment, great gameplay, and AI that actually 
 shoots at sight (unlike Crysis) ! The only thing dragging it down are the numerous glitches that 
 interfere with gameplay a lot.
  
  This may be a boring game to some who just prefers blowing things up, but a storyline so addictive, 
 you want to know what happens. There are very creepy parts where creepy crawlies come right to 
 your face and you wave that mouse everywhere shooting randomly (which doesn't work) . What also 
 makes this game addictive is the challenging AIs. They move around everywhere and shoots when you 
 least suspects it. One thing that's wrong with this is, somehow, the enemy knows where you are 
 even at pitch black areas and shoots dead straight at you. Oh yeah, also everyone has a habit of 
 chucking a grenade at your feet from 100 miles away and it's game over for sure.
  
  Other than the gameplay, the graphics are superb. With enhanced lighting and shadows, everything 
 looks realistic, and every object is so detailed and bump mapped that you think it was real (except 
 the guns, they look like **** The ambient sounds and far off gunshots submerses you right into 
 the game and also the realistic and smooth movements of the character as well as AIs.
  
  One thing that really drags the game down are the multiple glitches that you will surely face in 
 the game, they are your worst enemy. The percentage of crashing is considered pretty high, so the 
 constant saving is a real bringdown (is bringdown one word?) . Also some parts you get stuck since 
 the AIs have not been triggered to do something from your actions, for example you supposed to 
 lead them somewhere, but they don't follow. Also sometimes the mission doesn't end, such as when 
 you are supposed to guard a place for a certain amount of time, but nothing happens for hours.
 
  
  All in all, this was a great game, and I am still playing it every day. Tt is definitely worth 
 wasting your useless lives to play, even if you got fired, and your girlfriend left you and your 
 broke, it's ok. You are not alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david_joseph93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  If there werent no bugs it would of been Better than SOC and in its way is WAY better but it adds 
 everything you needed in SOC so Wooooooooooooooooooo for me CS its a good game but BUGGY!!! so 
 then if the Developers would of taken more time to Polish it it would of been HUGE. Thats almost 
 the same thing it happen with SOC well SOC wasnt that Buggy but it Had Lots of Bugs but there is 
 STILL hope the MODDERS like they did with SOC on Oblivion Lost, if get an Ol on CS it would of 
 make the gameplay So Good.... i am just waiting for the MODDERS to advance on CS! Gracias Por Leer
 
  
  If there werent no bugs it would of been Better than SOC and in its way is WAY better but it adds 
 everything you needed in SOC so Wooooooooooooooooooo for me CS its a good game but BUGGY!!! so 
 then if the Developers would of taken more time to Polish it it would of been HUGE. Thats almost 
 the same thing it happen with SOC well SOC wasnt that Buggy but it Had Lots of Bugs but there is 
 STILL hope the MODDERS like they did with SOC on Oblivion Lost, if get an Ol on CS it would of 
 make the gameplay So Good.... i am just waiting for the MODDERS to advance on CS! Gracias Por Leer
 
  
  If there werent no bugs it would of been Better than SOC and in its way is WAY better but it adds 
 everything you needed in SOC so Wooooooooooooooooooo for me CS its a good game but BUGGY!!! so 
 then if the Developers would of taken more time to Polish it it would of been HUGE. Thats almost 
 the same thing it happen with SOC well SOC wasnt that Buggy but it Had Lots of Bugs but there is 
 STILL hope the MODDERS like they did with SOC on Oblivion Lost, if get an Ol on CS it would of 
 make the gameplay So Good.... i am just waiting for the MODDERS to advance on CS! Gracias Por Leer
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fzlwilliams
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  game has bugs but once patched; 1.5.04 does the trick - you're in for a stunning ride. 
  Don't let all the reviews and forums crying about glitches put you off.
  
  
  old but impressive 
 and pretty graphics engine with great weather effects that really creates an incredible atmosphere 
 within the game. Runs fine on medium spec machine. (2.2ghz core 2 duo & hd3870)
  A day night cycle that will have you checking in-game time regularly, really creepy out in the 
 field at night, 
  innumerable weapon customisations to choose from, dastardly bandits that rip you off - if u allow 
 them, 
  funny dialog, crooked traders, lethal environments and freaky mutants etc.
  
  Join a faction, go to war and win territory for your clan or be a bandit. This will affect how 
 other factions respond to you as well as allow for more favourable trade at your factions trader 
 and technician.
  
  go artifact hunting and respond to calls for help if you choose. 
  the bad:
  be prepared for lots of quick deaths. never seen enemies throw grenades so accurately 
 and being able to spot you perfectly, even in the dark. 
  mutants marked on pda robs you of scares. need freakier abominations.
  artifacts could be more 
 useful or even necessary.
  
  so much potential wasted. exploration could be more rewarding and scary. example: red forest level, 
 so much more could have been done.
  
  enjoyed the game but tapered off towards the end.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fnpret
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  Background:
  
  I started playing this game on 12/09 and finished it on 24/09. Playing Stalker difficulty with 
 8800GT. No cheats, no mods.
  
  Positive:
  Great start to the story keeping you immerse. Liked the relative freedom of movement, being able 
 to climb onto almost unreachable areas. Fun part was the looting and being able to sell/buy/upgrade/fix 
 your equipment.
  
  Negative:
  Same damn maps (bar 1 or 2) as Chernobyl. Was like playing the older game all over again. Initial 
 linear storyline, but it got out of hand towards the end. No natural flow of sequence of events. 
 Running out of ammo/health towards the end without being able to return to previous maps to replenish/fix/upgrade 
 all your equipment. Conclusion:
  Will not play it again and should of read players reviews 1st before buying it. The 5 is for the 
 good memories the old version of the game brought back.
  
  Finishing last character was a joke. He just stood still while I stood right in front of him shooting. 
 No fighting back. Very disappointing ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BDL91
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  The Good
  
  Graphics- 
  Absolutely amazing graphics runs alot better especially handling the grass and trees , in my opinion 
 this is up there with crysis , when i fist played it i was amazed at the way the shadows came off 
 trees and objects , a vast improvement from the orinigal
  
  Sound-
  Alot has changed in the sound area , Guns have a new more realistic sound to them as well as NPCs 
 now have a bit more dialogue
  
  GamePlay-
  Still the same stalker rules but much more has been added or improved, the novice difficulty is 
 much easier than the orignal game was, total rework on the HUD and added a geiger counter rather 
 that just the sound as well as you have a instrument you now can use to look for artifacts , Which 
 i noticed are a bit rarer in this one, an upgrade feature has been added to give your weapons a 
 bit more umph , Npc have actions like ducking , jumping over things.
  
  The Bad
  
  Night time! seems like it goes forever and is hard to finish tasks when its pitch black, but the 
 light helps :)
  
  Well unfortunately its still the buggy game it always was but Performance wise it is better for 
 how its it looks
  
  Well after playing the original one and having finished it a few times is has become boring and 
 nothing really amazed me that much in the new one just a different storyline , i was disapointed 
 when i passed the swamp (first area) to find that the rest of the game is the same map as the old 
 stalker just a few minor changes but i guess that is ok considering its half price the originals 
 when it first game out,
  
  but overall the game is really a great one
  
  I would definately recommend buying it and playing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowimpact
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? Absolutely incredible game - I can't stop playing it. First I beat the game and 
 I thought I was pretty exhaustive about exploring everything. I was hoping I'd be able to shelve 
 the game for a little while so I could get some stuff done before starting it back up again. 
 
  
  I lasted... one day before diving right back in. Now that I've gone back and explored the faction 
 system more fully (I gave the Duty base a few 'pineapples') I'm starting to wander around looking 
 for artifacts - with the +6 health / -6 radiation combo Scar eats grenades for breakfast & the 
 +30kg one is nice too.
  
  Anyways - I'm still 'in it' so it's a bit hard to reflect. It's right up there with the original 
 - less plot depth, but more developed gameplay - guess you can't have the your cake and eat it 
 too. Playing games like this makes you realize just how little most games offer in terms of depth, 
 atmosphere, and story. Before playing this I was really excited about playing Crysis Warhead afterwards 
 - now I've totally lost interest. I just hope Fallout 3 lives up to the hype and can somehow be 
 better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epic_Oatmeal
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R. - Shadow of Chernobyl was an ambitious title from Ukrainian developer GSC Game World 
 that spent roughly 7 years in the works, going through a complete remake at least once, and was 
 finally rushed out to stores as a buggy and unstable product that didn't deliver on the vast majority 
 of its original promises. On the other hand it became immensely popular as it successfully blended 
 survival horror and role-playing elements with the first-person-shooter genre, and was marked as 
 a refreshing and immersive title that no tolerant pc-gamer should miss. SOC really was a diamond 
 in the rough, and if you had the patience, it's a game I would highly recommend. So, does the prequel 
 Clear Sky live up to the S. T. A. L. K. E. R. name? In short, yes.
  
  You step into the shoes of a mercenary named Scar, and you are once again fighting to survive in 
 the post-apocalyptic Chernobyl excursion area known as the Zone, one year prior to the events of 
 the first game. Most people that come to the Zone are there for objects called artifacts that are 
 formed in anomalous distortions created by the Zone's unique characteristics. These artifacts are, 
 you guessed it, worth a lot of money in the outside world, as well as useful to Stalkers for surviving 
 the Zone's harsh conditions. Anyway, you're guiding a group of scientists through a swampy region 
 when you are unexpectedly hit by an extremely powerful emission. These so-called emissions are 
 a regular occurrence in the Zone, changing the landscape and killing any poor Stalkers in its path 
 of destruction. For some mysterious reason you survive the emission, and wake up in the hands of 
 a faction known as Clear Sky. The leader of the group then proceeds to inform you about the Zone, 
 and why he believes these powerful emissions are happening. You agree to help him in his quest 
 to understand this phenomenon and hopefully put a stop to it.
  
  Before I talk about the gameplay, I would like to mention that the dialogue is, for the most part, 
 improved over the last game. It's no award-winner, but there are much less localization problems 
 and grammatical mistakes this time around. The story-line dialogue, such as the Clear Sky leader 
 briefing you on his mission, is really long and feels really drawn out. Thankfully, like the last 
 game, you can skip through it without missing anything all that important. The vocabulary, however, 
 is... to be honest, it's hilarious. I won't go into detail, but some of the things that Stalkers 
 say is so off-color and out of place that I laugh at it every time.
  
  The gameplay is definitely Clear Sky's strong point, as it expands on SOC in every conceivable 
 way. The whole game pretty much revolves around killing enemy Stalkers and mutant abominations 
 on your way to the next objective, doing side-missions for extra cash to buy better equipment, 
 and trying not to walk into pockets of radiation and anomalous activity, all in a free roaming 
 environment. The many areas you can explore are each very large, but you're bottle-necked when 
 traveling to another location by barbed wire fences and roadblocks. What really makes Clear Sky's 
 gameplay entertaining are the new gameplay features including factions warring for territory, greatly 
 improved AI, dangerous and involved artifact hunting, much more balanced trading and combat, and 
 randomly occurring emissions. All of these things come together to make Clear Sky very enjoyable 
 to play even after you beat it.
  
  I know I just said that the gameplay is what makes this game shine, but I LIED. The graphics are 
 what LITERALLY make this game shine. SOC was a good looking game, albeit it did not run very well 
 due to a lack of optimization. It also had poor animation that detracted from the immersion factor, 
 but the impressive lighting model made up for that. Clear Sky offers the same DirectX 8 and 9 graphical 
 options as SOC, but those that are fortunate enough to have a really good computer (read: HD4870 
 or GTX 280) can play with DirectX 10 features. These include rays of light, dynamic wet surfaces, 
 soft water, and volumetric smoke and fire, all of which really impress. All manner of textures 
 and models are reused from the first game with only a handful of new ones, but an improved animation 
 system makes all of the character animations so much better and more natural looking.
  
  A sprinkling of new weapons sound effects make combat a lot more intense. Voice-acting consists 
 of crude Russian-accented English once again, but you really can't expect Hollywood quality talent 
 from an independent developer with some 20-odd people. I'm sure the Russian version of the game 
 sounds a lot better to native Russians. There's also dynamic battle music that will come on when 
 you get engaged in a firefight. They're pretty catchy techno-beat tunes, but they sound somewhat 
 out of place. You get the option of turning them off, but when I did the combat felt empty and 
 less exciting. It's definitely a subjective thing.
  
  Clear Sky still has a very rough-around-the-edges feel, but manages to be a much more polished, 
 immersive, and enjoyable experience. To put it simply, it exceeded my expectations. S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 fans may be disappointed by the lack of eerie and mysterious cinematic cutscenes and the much more 
 social style of gameplay, but the fancy graphics and even more addictive new features will keep 
 you coming back for more.
  
  P. S.: I was playing this game with the latest patch. I heard from a lot of people that this game 
 was horribly buggy and more prone to crashing before patches were released, but I wouldn't know 
 personally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simeon_Crane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Clear Sky is a lot of fun. While it is a prequel, it is like a sequel in that it expands upon the 
 original game so you can learn fore and see more of the map from the original game. Remember that 
 huge radioactive trash pile next to the junk yard in The Garbage. Now you can walk right over it 
 and get all the stashes that you knew were there in SOC.
  Being able to repair and upgrades armor and weapons makes equipment last much longer, and you no 
 longer have to grind to be able to get that new piece of equipment. Just upgrade it and it can 
 tide you over for awhile longer. 
  The factions in this game are much more elaborate, although I still have not figured them out. 
 The bandits are neutral to me, but they just robbed me and then killed me when I tried to leave 
 The Garbage to head back to The Cordon. Not sure what happened there.
  
  The missions seem more thought out in this game too, also its is tougher. Be sure to use quick 
 save a lot. Fortunatly, it is still a game that you can master. I love doing fire fights over again 
 to see how cleanly I can win them. Try out this game. You won't regret it. Just be sure to patch 
 it before you play. Saved games won't work anymore once you patch. Best to start with the latest 
 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moc5
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  If you see a score of less than 9, then you you should really question that crtics appriciation 
 for depth, realizm and down right fun gameplay. 
  
  This game reminds me of why I got into PC gaming in the first place. Take an awesome post apocoliptic 
 premise, an interesting story with thriller/horror elements (nice touch) , and throw in some killer, 
 unpridicable combat gameplay and you still only have the basics covered in this game. There is 
 so much depth and charcter interaction to this free form game (let's not forget to mention the 
 great voice acting) all in a very believable and beutifully rendered environment (it's like your 
 really a part of the story. Seriously) .
  
  No cowboy run and gun shooter here (and thanks for that by the way) . If you go running in guns 
 blazing then be ready to get aired out by your enemies ducking for cover behind trees, rocks or 
 what's left of that old, rusted jalopy. This is hardcore, realizm combat. The AI even utilzes military 
 tactics like surpressing fire to pin you down and then sending someone to sneak around your flanks 
 to cap you from behind. Wow! 
  
  The point is your no super hero and your not fighting a bunch of kindergardiners (no offense to 
 Kindergardeners) . It doesnt mean you cant out smart your enemy and do some pretty amazing feats. 
 You just have to use your head and learn how shoot like your firing a real gun (so cool) , because 
 not every bullet is goin to fly perfectly due various fun, realistic reasons.
  
  There is a lot of in well thought out, fun gaming here. Deep Silver is to be commended. I've been 
 gamming for over 20 years, and, in the end, no matter how you package, present, or proclaim how 
 great a game is, it all come down to this -- FUN! Best game I've played yet. Thanks a bunch guys 
 from Deep Sliver! Please tell me your making a third...
  
  Diclaimer: I am not responsible for the worsening of your spelling skills, as I dont have the patience 
 to fix my errors... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crawlingsnake
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Having really enjoyed the first game but annoyed by the huge amount of patches needed to make the 
 game actually playable, I expected this to be more of the same (which it is) , but less of a mess. 
 Strangely, the developers have released the game with the same sort of bugs that were in the first 
 game. And most annoying of all is the fact that the patched game will not recognise your saves 
 from pre-patch. I think when I realised that I had to start from the beginning the third time after 
 putting some significant hours in, the roar could be heard out in the street. I won't go into all 
 the problems this game has stability-wise, just read the bugfixes in the patch readme.
  The graphics are rather nice, but nowhere near as nice as the chewing through your systems resources 
 would lead you to expect. That said, watching a sunrise with everything maxed out (dx9 though, 
 I have no V*sta) is quite unlike anything I have seen before. The locations are largely recycled 
 from the first game, but I don't think it is much of a problem since it is supposed to be a prequel. 
 The bump mapping also looks very convincing even when closely inspected with a torch. The revamp 
 that the character and weapon models have been given is fairly substantial and all the new locations 
 have the right desolate feel for the stalker universe. You get the feeling that it would be amazing 
 if they had integrated them into the first game as an expansion and all the areas were accessible. 
 The adjustments made to the sky and water are probably the most noticeable, but there are many 
 other little graphical enhancements. Like the distortion a bullet makes in the air and many others.
 
  The sound is quite good, and with a decent card and speaker set you will get some amazing sounding 
 firefights. Music is fairly unchanged from the original, subtle touches every now and then. Leave 
 the dynamic music alone, all it does is trigger pauses when things start to get hairy (another 
 bug) . The early parts of the game are made much better by the hefty feel of the shotgun (the over-under 
 double barrelled one) which I kept much longer than needed purely for the satisfying sound it makes.
 
  Now to the gameplay. The ballistics have been ramped up with penetration of cover and the arc 
 of bullets over distance being actually quite important to take into account. Getting a technician 
 to adapt weapons and armour is a new touch which works very well, but I sort of wish they had made 
 the changes visual in the case of things like a lengthened barrel or muzzle brake. I think that 
 it would have been better if they had not made the cost of repairs increase with the modifications, 
 i. e. If you buy armour for 18000 RU then the modifications can cost up to 50000 (roughly) , but 
 the armour will cost a portion of the final figure each time it needs repairing. There are 2 new 
 stand-out great ideas which have been *quite* well implemented. First is the faction war which 
 makes you much more involved and gives much more meaning to the random skirmishes with the bandits 
 and mutants that punctuate the many trips through the zone. What is not so good is the way that 
 you will be suddenly assigned tasks which it is almost impossible to arrive in time for, even if 
 you drop everything and sprint all the way. Also it will say that you need to take the base, but 
 it is actually impossible as even after clearing the base you only have to leave for a few moments 
 and some more bandits appear out of nowhere. The second and better implemented idea is how you 
 get artifacts which are *much* more useful than in SoC. Now they are invisible and in ridiculously 
 dangerous areas, you have to get a detector out to spot them and when you finally detect one and 
 grab it, you generally get something quite fantastic, and you will be glad you irradiated your 
 body and shot your armour to hell because they are so rare.
  The economics has been improved quite drastically, this is the single biggest improvement over 
 SoC. Whereas in the first game money was fairly pointless and by the time you were halfway through 
 you had enough roubles to retire and buy a football team in London and nothing to actually spend 
 it on. Now you will be scavenging stuff and carrying all the bits you can sell to the nearest shop 
 (rifle scopes are useful 'small but expensive' thing to salvage) so you can repair your armour 
 or put a new grip on your Beretta. The shooting range is a nice idea and a good way to make money. 
 But it is a bit annoying that the dialogue is still so rushed feeling, as when you have milked 
 several thousand roubles off the Major who sets the shooting challenge, He still says something 
 like "It seems I was wrong about you".
  As in the first game, the story is quite forgettable. Even though it is supposed to be explaining 
 some of what happened in SoC, it is not why you will play the game. It is for the savage and fairly 
 unforgiving combat. You will actually be buying bandages to stay alive (something I never did in 
 the first game) . And you have never seen someone throw a grenade like the enemies in this game, 
 save often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimyzilla50
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  To put it simply, STALKER: Clear Sky is no walk in the park. Unless you commonly take walks through 
 potentially life-ending parks, but hey, that's up to you. The game has a couple bugs that are really 
 more of a slight bother than anything and far from game-breaking as many claim they are. The world 
 feels vibrant and it'll reward you nicely for sticking with it, as long as you can survive in the 
 game long enough to see it unfold. The game is Very Hard and not for the gamer who likes to be 
 able to run-and-gun. Cover is a must, especially early on in the game, and kickin around with your 
 buddies never hurts either, seeing as how the AI's so good they actually help a LOT.
  
  The only reason I'm rating this a 9.0 rather than a 10 is because it will most likely scare off 
 gamers who can't handle the element of always being close to death. This is not to say you don't 
 have the supplies needed, but when your armour breaks and you're surrounded by flesh-eating dogs 
 and you don't even have the Rubles to get your armour fixed even IF you make it to a base, get 
 back to me.
  
  The atmosphere is amazing in every way, and the game takes my favorite spot for this year thus 
 far.
  
  9.0 on 10 for difficulty and accessibility reasons.
  
  Out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:13 am PT
Review:  Hard start, but step by step everything it's coming to me. Like S. T. A. L. K. E. R.-Shadow of Cernobyl, 
 the atmosphere it's very realistic created and the feeling of been there is huge (for me) . The 
 land, anomalyes, mutants, factions seems to have good implementation in The ZONE. For example: 
 I try to reach one safebox in the middle of a radiactive lake fast enought to keep my health up, 
 after I done with that, I run to escape from de radioactive zone in time happy, but I didn't see 
 on time an anomaly right in front of me and I get cought, and ripped in pices to the death. Right 
 now I still playing the game, I have more quests to resolve, and the end of main plot is far away! 
 Good game, like first one, even better on some stuff. I recomand this game to everyone who played 
 S. T. A. L. K. E. R.-Shadow of Cernobyl, to play both to everyone who didn't.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobertHGreene
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Clear Sky is immersive and has engaging and realistic combat. Having superior weapons and armor 
 in battles can give you a significant advantage of less equipped enemies. The environment in vast 
 and creative giving a rewarding experience to those who trek through the Zone. My biggest concern 
 in the monetary system. The buy to sell rate is vastly unbalanced, with items selling at almost 
 1/10 at what you can buy them for. The upgrading system is very expensive. It's usually not worth 
 it to enhance an item unless you are going to keep it for nearly the entire game. Some of the weapons 
 such as the RPG, heavy machine gun, grenade launcher, and others, are not used till the very last 
 level. Finding artifacts is much more difficult and unfortunately, you end up selling them instead 
 of using them because you will find yourself so desperate for cash. The environment remains rich 
 and creepy. Unfortunately, there are not as many frightening moments as the previous game. The 
 new fast travel system, for lack of better words, sucks, because it's once again too expensive 
 and just not worth it to use. I played the 1.5.04 version which cleans up practically all the bugs 
 and crashes, but there needs to be some patches to fix some balance issues. (i. e. money, artifacts) . 
 Even with all this criticism, Stalker: Clear Sky is a good game with some fatal flaw, in which 
 those flaws can be fixed with a couple of patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xvenc
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  In a time where the trend seem to all about making good looking, easy to solve, short, multi platform 
 games, Stalker Clear Sky goes in the completely opposite direction. Well apart from being good 
 looking that is. First things first. This game looks awesome if you have the rig for it. Sure, 
 Crysis may have better looking textures, but the dynamic lighting system in Clear Sky is what makes 
 this game, well, shine. From the sunrise in the morning with the sun rays through the mist and 
 the moving shadows on the wall to the darkest of night when the stars light your way, is just magical. 
 
  
  Clear Sky is a prequel to the first game (SoC) . This time around you play as a mercenary called 
 Scar, initially out to guide some scientist through the zone. But as faith shall have it, things 
 doesn't go quite as planned and you end up with a mission that eventually will lead you up until 
 the start of SoC. On your mission, you will meet hordes of mutants, other stalkers, factions, hidden 
 artifacts and just about everything else that made SoC so great, including the much praised atmosphere. 
 Only this time, the vegetation is slightly more lush, the zone doesn't look quite as bleak and 
 the spooky indoor settings has been toned down. 
  
  One new addition to the game play is that your weapons and armor can now be modded and repaired. 
 This makes hunting for artifacts and other tradeable items worthwhile as this service isn't exactly 
 free of charge. 
  
  Factions can also be joined for the benefit of receiving better/cheaper weapons and armor and some 
 optional side missions. Or you can stay neutral. It's up to you. 
  
  The action in Clear Sky is quite intense and also rather more difficult than in SoC. One of the 
 reasons is that most of the weapons you find are wildly inaccurate and it takes a while before 
 any decent guns can be fond. And even they have to be modded before you have something you feel 
 you can rely on. The NPCs also seem to have done a lot of target practice in their spare time because 
 while you can easily empty a clip or two at them, they can at times kill you off with a couple 
 of shots even from far away. So Rambo tactics doesn't work at all here. Cover and movement is the 
 key. 
  
  One thing I did not expect from this game was tight "corridor" levels outside. After you cross 
 the last levels, things become very tight. They've even thrown in an "invincible sniper that you 
 have to evade to complete your mission"-part. From this on, Clear Sky feels like something out 
 of Half-Life 2, which isn't necessarily bad, but it begs the question of whether they had to rush 
 it to the end just to keep the release date. Because, even if I absolutely love this game, it still 
 feels somewhat unfinished. The AI is good, but not brilliant; you still have NPCs that just stand 
 there or run around in circles when you shoot at them, the character animations could be better, 
 some missions are impossible to finish and many report crashes and blue screens (I've had none 
 fortunately) . 
  
  But I'm digressing. This really is an awesome game. Up until now, SoC was probably my all time 
 favorite game. Clear Sky is more of the same, but not so much that it feels like a totally new 
 game and not so little that it doesn't add anything new. And that's what I like about it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrednajasobaka
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  Stalker: Clear Sky feels like expansion pack to the original Stalker game: there are few tweaks 
 here and there but overall the two games feel the same. Which doesn't have to be a bad thing; if 
 you loved Stalker: Shadow of Chernobyl you'll appreciate the opportunity to immerse yourself once 
 more in the hostile world of the "Zone."
  
  I, however, was expecting little bit more from a fully priced game. Sure, you have new maps to 
 explore and the graphics are tweaked a little but the rest seems the same as in the original game- 
 including the bugs. After playing less than few hours I encountered a quest that crashed my PC 
 every time I'd try to complete it. 
  
  I always considered quests to be the weakest part of Stalker and unfortunately "Clear Sky" does 
 not improve in that area. First, you are offered incredibly mundane and repetitive selection of 
 tasks like fetching some item or clearing area of the enemy. Second, I always feel rushed by the 
 game: I'd receive distress call from member of my faction, but by the time I figured out where 
 I need to go my rescue target would get himself killed. I was hoping this new Stalker game would 
 at least pause the game while opening the inventory- there's nothing worse than being chewed by 
 mutant while you are trying to make corpses give up your hard-earned loot. But no dice. 
  
  
  And for the love of God, can't we finally have some women in Stalker? I know that "Zone" is 
 very harsh territory and I'm not expecting bikini clad centerfolds mixing it up with mutants in 
 the middle of the swamp but still some gender variety would be nice. Maybe they could include some 
 tough zone women with broad shoulders, plenty of facial hair and missing front teeth... On second 
 thought lets keep women out of the Stalker games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbwillo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok the dialogue is pretty corny, but the story, the atmospheres, the scenery, the action, and the 
 affects all just simply rock. I am an FPS guy all the way and this game delivers. If you liked 
 Shadow of Chernobyl then you will just love Clear Sky. Also, while there are a few minor buggy 
 behaviors in the game, I have not had any other problems, that is no crashes, freezes, or anything 
 else major. I am playing it on a 24" screen at 1920x1200 with the settings at maximum and it is 
 quite cool how they made the flames, explosions, shadows, sun rays, etc all look. The game just 
 pulls you into the story and before you know it you are totally consumed and time just flys by 
 when you are having fun ya know. Also, even if you didn't play Shadow of Chernobyl it won't matter 
 because the game is all of its own material. However, if you have played Chernobyl then you will 
 enjoy how Clear Sky presents some of those places that you saw before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weaselciuy
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  This is Gothic 3 like Remake , dont play it . soo many bugs u get fed up with it . Enemies throw 
 grenades right under ure feet trough walls, ure own hurt u trough walls ( just for the taste) . 
 Kill friends to continue main quest cause they are bugged. Thats like the tip of the iceberg .Faction 
 AI bugged, quest bugs, map bugs, daylight/night transition bug, Windows crash randomly, so many 
 i forgot. Seriouslly if u wana play stalker replay the old one with patches, untill u finish that 
 1 maybe, maybe they fix this "new" 1. Games like these should not be released untill they are properly 
 tested and fixed. My patience has ran out with this 1, i got so mad i had to uninstall it.
  
  I give it a 5 cause its so bugged. Yes it has the same feeling as the old 1 but thats not new. 
 All the new things implemented in the game are BUGGED . Oly thing working is the upgrade weapon/armor 
 thing, or maybe thats bugged to? :o who knows if they really work.
  
  To bugged
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtronob
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  I loved the first, but I must say the under development leaves you wondering, why?
  
  Why after installing the latest patch I can't progress
  even through the swamps. I'm told to 
 contact a guide that will lead me to cardon {or what ever} but he doesn't. I say "Yup lets go" 
 and nothing happens.
  
  The battles seen way out of balance. I finished the first installment on master, but stuggle on 
 normal i. e. stalker. I just blasted one guy in the face 4 times with the large shot gun and he 
 didn't go down. While others took only a pistal to the head to finish.
  
  Is this going to take month before this game is playable, or should i return it immediatly.
  
 
  another why? 
  
  Why dont you have any control over your faction.
  K aparently is meant to make them attack.
  
  Attack what. They dont do squat.
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Played in Vista 64 with DX10 enabled this game is beautiful. Unlike others, I enjoyed the Swamp 
 level, and the changes and additions to the Cordon (remember this game predates SHOC) are well 
 done and interesting. You'll enjoy the same great gameplay, and exploration hijinks you did in 
 SHOC. Did I mention the ambient sounds are great too? Corny dialog & bad lip synching? Oh yea.............. they're 
 here too. I liked them in the first game, and still do. Others disagree. 
  
  I would have given this game an 8.5 (here comes the "but") , but it is a broken bug fest. SHOC, 
 Crysis, COD 4, and Assassins Creed all run fine on my rig. You'd think that being a "prequel sequel" 
 CS would be so much further developed and optimised, it would amaze. Thats where assumptions will 
 get you, in a, well............... swamp! While it has run well for others, there are very wide 
 spread reports of a huge variety of bugs, glitches, artifacting, BSODs, CTDs (you get the drift) . 
 The game installed fine for me, as did the 1.5.04 patch, and ran perfectly when I first fired it 
 up. Upon shutting it down and bringing the game back up later, I discovered to my horror; what 
 everyone else had been complaining about in the game forums. Whether I started from the play game 
 button on the load screen, or booted the game off the .exe icon on my desk top, the game might 
 load OK or might load as a small 2 x 3 inch window, or might be offset to the right and low on 
 my screen (making the menu buttons inaccesible on the main menu) . The MM might be fine or flickering 
 madly to the point I can't see the menu buttons, the mouse cursor leaves stuttering paint trails 
 all over the screen. If the menu is clear enough to see and use, the game may load without any 
 of my character's HUD mini map or PDA map icons, or they may be flickering madly (or be perfectly 
 OK) making it difficult or impossible to navigate the levels and complete tasks and missions. Or, 
 I may be missing significant portions of my characters HUD info (ammo counts, health status, etc, 
 as well as text information on my PDA screens. It's not unusual for me to have to load, shut down, 
 or use tthe Windows Task manager to shut down, and reload three to five times when I start the 
 game. Once in a while, it works like it's supposed to. 
  
  There is no way this game was ready for commercial release, and is a rip off of the gaming public. 
 I'm sure many or most of these issue will be addressed, however, it is still inexcusable any game 
 was released in this state. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11Mattinator11
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  STALKER: CS is a great game through and through. It starts you off nice and easy, letting you soak 
 up the control scheme and generally get yourself used to the mechanics of the game.
  As you progress through for your first time, the difficulty seems to scale at least a little bit 
 to your skill, going from killing bandits and wild boars to military and mutants, and further up 
 through rival factions and zombies and mutant monstrosities right up to the finale.
  The controls are somewhat intuitive as with most FPS games, but some new additions (for those of 
 us who haven't played Shadow of Chernobyl) that take some getting used to are the detector and 
 artifacts, which are essentially either trading items or upgrades and mostly both. The STALKER 
 feel is kept from the first game, and the interactivity of the world quickly led to my ensuing 
 and current addiction.
  The only problem with this game, somewhat minor (besides the small glitches and bugs which are 
 still being ironed out) , is the AI. I find that at least half the time I have to wait a day or 
 so for the members of my faction to get up and go take a point that has around four enemy squads 
 guarding it, too many for me to take alone. It's still an admittedly minor problem though, as most 
 of the time you don't really need them to get whatever done anyway.
  A must-have for either the STALKER fan or monster-killer, STALKER: Clear Sky is, in my opinion, 
 both a great addition to the STALKER franchise and a truly addicting FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: champmanfan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  I find this game very enjoyable. You've got the 1st Stalker game maps revamped to explore again 
 but its much challenging this time & less repetitive. Don't forget theres new maps & one of them 
 is where you start off. The gfx are alot better than the 1st game & the tweaked AI means no fight 
 will ever play out the same.
  
  Finding Artifacts is much more difficult as you need to get out your Detector this time to find 
 & see them. If you don't then you'll just get it beeping at you without being able to find these 
 rare & valuable Artifacts. Also be aware that rouge stalkers can take items your carrying so keep 
 a recent savegame handy if you make a mistake on your travels.
  
  This game is more demanding than Crysis so be careful not to just crank the Video settings up to 
 any old level. Leave the Anisotropic + Antialiasing off. This game will use 1.5-2Gb of RAM so don't 
 use a 32bit OS which will be the cause of memory problems by others here.
  
  For higher FPS, you just need to set these to 50%: Vision Distance, Object Details, Grass Density. 
 Then just put the Textures Details to no more than 70%. So now I run this game with an average 
 fps of 55 in DirectX10 @1680x1050 on 2 ATI HD 4870s 512Mb (QX6700 3.2Ghz) . Having a 512Mb GPU is 
 important.
  
  One annoying issue I found with the sound on Creative X-Fi is that speech & scripted music speeds 
 up randomly so I've had to resort to putting subtitles on. Otherwise I've no idea what they are 
 talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  have only played the game a short time, being passed the swamp but still in Cordon. It seems like 
 this game feels very familiar like the first one, down to the controls, etc. The graphics seem 
 better in general and it feels like a prettier looking game. Daytime is actually cheerful in the 
 swamp. However, dark means dark this time around. And that is cool. I kinda wish they had stealth 
 meter this time around to show how much noise your making. The swap was super easy IMO. The npc 
 soldiers did most of the work for me while i was exploring etc. Cordon however is definitly a step 
 up. The military enemies in this area don't mess around. Tough armor and good shooting makes them 
 tough to take. But its possible still. The armor and weapon upgrades is kinda cool, however I feel 
 like i should save my money instead of upgrading my current weapon knowing I will probably get 
 better very soon. This game definitly puts you in a whole different world, just like the first 
 did and you love exploring it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwilson0514
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  I never played Stalker before and decided to give it a try based on the new feartures that was 
 added to the second edition Clear Sky. I have to say im quite impressed with the game. The Graphics 
 are really pleasing to my eyes and find the scenery detail made very well. The Graphics in the 
 first Stalker i heard was not up to Par in today standards. When i played Clear Sky i was really 
 impressed and was pleased with the dynamic lighting. The sun light would glare off shotgun barrel 
 along with the rest of the enviorment. The characters are made well and almost seem like you are 
 there talking to them. The facial features, uniforms, weapons, are very detailed. Shells do fly 
 out of all your guns and reloading is displayed very well. Explosions are made well by pieces flying 
 everywhere, and if you get struck by a grenade you get knocked off your feet and your ears start 
 ringing. 
  
  Gun fights in Clear Sky are fun and interesting. The AI in the game is very skilled and challenging 
 but are beatable. Your opponent's do blind shoot, they take cover, they chase you around and sneak 
 up on you when you least expect it. The Gun fights are enjoyable to play. 
  
  Now, i have only played for like 25 hours and im maybe half way through the game. But so far the 
 story is interesting and keeps me wondering on what is going to happen next. The game is not short! 
 You can spend hours playing this game, mainly because the map is really big in this game and you 
 are able to wonder freely doing whatever you want. There are creepy and deformed creatures you 
 encounter that scare you especially in the dark with a little flash light, enough to make you jump 
 out of your chair and find yourself clicking the mouse like 50 times. 
  
  Another feature that really stands out is the ability to upgrade your weapons and almost every 
 weapon is upgradeable. The weapon and equipment arsenal in the game is farley wide and makes the 
 game worth playing. There is much more to this game!!! like Factions you can join or not, radiation 
 zones, deformed creatures, and more. I just wanted to give a idea of the game and explain my experience. 
 
  
  Lastly, Clear Sky does have some bugs and glitches in the game. Ive read that you should download 
 the patch first, before playing the game which i did. The only Glitch ive expeirenced so far is 
 i get these weird green squares on the frames of buildings or on the weapon im holing. This is 
 a popular error that everyone complains of. Some people say that the game freezes on them or they 
 get the blue screen of death. I have not expierenced any of these other errors so far, and ive 
 played for 4 hours straight. The way ive adapted to the weird green squares was, as soon as i started 
 to notice the squares i would push control, alt, delete. This would disengage the graphics engine 
 and then by selecting on the game to pop the game window back up it would restart the graphics 
 engine and then the game would run smoothly without wierd glithces. This process can be a repeated 
 process but, it doesnt bug me to the point were I dont want to play the game. 
  
  Basically, I highly recommend the game to anyone that is interested in it. The Game to me, reminds 
 me of Half-Life and is very fun to play. Dont let the glitches scare you, this game has amazing 
 detail and a extensive map. There will be more pathces in the future which will fine tune Clear 
 Sky into being a really well made game to play in the future. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt13091309
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Great atmosphere, great game-play, great weapons, beautiful engine - buggy as hell. The first time 
 I played this I reached probably two thirds of the way through, the second time I made it to about 
 half way; the third I got stuck in the swamp starting area. And this is with the most recent patch 
 installed. SHOULD have been one of the greatest and most successful FPSs ever released. In reality 
 it's an unstable mess of a game, which probably won't be playable by the majority for a good few 
 months yet. I really hope GSC get around to fixing this in the not too distant future. If you simply 
 must play CS, I'm warning you now that it's not in anywhere near as polished a state as most other 
 modern day titles, for whatever reasons I don't know. Save yourself the potential grief I went 
 through when trying to finish it and buy Crysis: Warhead instead, or Dead Space or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecno13
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I played "Boiling Point- Road To Hell" All the way through. And even though that game had bugs.. 
 It was extremely quick on the load and actually worked.
  
  Clear Sky? Is broken.
  Even with the patch and Travel fix the game is a mess.
  I have 2 10krpm Raptor hdd's with raid 
 0.... The game takes a decent amount of time to load (if it loads)
  
  Given that and understanding yes it's a big game blah blah blah. I am ok with that.. But when the 
 game cant even remember that I was just in a zone... after I died. WHY IS IT RE RE RE LOADING EVERYTHING 
 IN GAME? 
  
  Example. In most games once you load in and you die you just hit "re spawn at last save". And the 
 game takes a few seconds if that to reload the sequence.... well in ClearSky you need
  to exit to the menu... Then either click last save or find the save you want and load that... Then 
 the game RE LOADS as if it was the first time its ever loaded.... That in it self makes you not 
 want to play the game... seeing how your health goes down without warning you, and you are dead 
 and wondering why? So Reloads are extremely common... you will spend most of your time on loading 
 screens.
  
  Not to mention the game slows to a Crawl if you encounter Any opposing Army and they decide to 
 open fire on you. Keep in mind I have a very well built gaming system that can handle Crysis on 
 max/ultra settings (and it runs at around 50-60 frames) In stalker the game almost stops if it needs 
 to start running ai Calculations or render more than 1 weapon firing.... Which leads me to think 
 the devs never optimized the game anyways.
  
  If you can get past that, Clear Sky is just riddled with general bugs and crashes with out enough 
 auto saves to keep you sane you find your self saving more than you need too.
  
  Overall I no longer wish to continue this torture.
  
  In concept the game is great. When you 
 can Load the game it looks very nice and sets the mood for the "zone" but with the list of issue 
 causing you to want to kill your self.... well... Go play a better game.
  
  
  Overall 5/10
  (A game for the hardcore fan boys, but not for the people looking for real fun.) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkurtanj
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  First of all, I would like to say that I play the original S. T. A. L. K. E. R. and loved it. It had 
 revolutionary graphics, a great atmosphere and it was more or less stable.
  
  Here, the graphics do not look much better, the atmosphere is ok, (but been there, done that) , 
 but there are LOTS!!! of bugs. So many bugs, that you'll perhaps decide to stop playing only after 
 a few hours.
  
  - quest keep randomly appearing and disappearing (VERY annoying!) . For example, you're at one side 
 of the map, a quest appears on the other side of the map, and when you get there, the quest is 
 cancelled (WHY???) , or you can't enter the building to finish the quest (garbage level)
  - some quest keep appearing over and over (even after you finished them a couple of times)
  - 
 guides (people who teleport you to different places on the map) sometimes do not want to talk to 
 you, and often, when they need to teleport you to another map, the game freezes (instead of loading 
 the other map, some scenery (grass, hills) is shown, and you have to kill the game, load your previous 
 location and walk to your destination)
  - game is sometimes (IMHO) too difficult, even on lower difficulty levels
  - your allies often 
 block your way (they just stand in the door, preventing you to leave/enter a building)
  - some quest with a time limit are activated at such a time, so you can't get to the right location 
 on time to finish it, which results in a failed quest
  - the big storms (forgot how they're called) happen too often, and like quest with a time limit, 
 sometimes you can't get to a shelter on time, before you're dead (PEOPLE, KEEP MULTIPLE SAVES!)
 
  - sometimes, when you enter a new map, you're almost instantly killed (ambush) , and generally, 
 you die too often an too easy
  
  And so on....
  
  I would wait for a couple of patches before playing, if you do not want to be disappointed. And 
 if you haven't played the original S. T. A. L. K. E. R. already, now is a good time to do so.
  And if you want even better graphics and a much better story, Crysis Warhead is out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deep_sea_six
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  The Hype
  There wasn't any. All Clear Sky had to live up to was Shadow of Chernobyl's legacy which in my 
 opinion it does with flying colors.
  
  Stability
  Thankfully for the American release being late, two patches had been released since the game came 
 out and stability is not an issue. The game has been 100% fun with no bug or problems seen so far. 
 Tested fine with 3 different systems.
  
  Visuals
  Graphics were just great, almost life like. Stalker Clear Sky is probably the first next-gen graphic 
 game I've played. The visuals are stunning during the day and down-right creepy at night, I was 
 walking through the Swamps at night and had a psuedo dog jump past me leaving a big white gleam 
 across my nightvision and scared the living bejesus out of me which is the first time I've jumped 
 playing a game since FEAR. Lighting is also incredible and I thought exsplosions were remarkable.
 
  
  Sound
  Music was great, I thought the voice-acting was acceptable, and sound effects are as well. Nothing 
 glamorous to say here, sound was blended very diligently into the game.
  
  Gameplay
  It comes together nicely. Easy to get into because it is very similar to SOC and kept the strongest 
 gameplay elements from it. The factions are well thought out and the system ebb and flows well 
 enough, its not a big draw of the gameplay, faction wars are just something to do, after all Clear 
 Sky is a shooter-RPG and they had to give you something to shoot at. Sneaking has no place in the 
 game so I have no idea why they gave you a knife aside for when you run out of bullets which is 
 unlikely. The quest system is easy to take advantage since your completed taks for a faction accumulate 
 money and items and are often completed so quickly that you can return to the trader and retrieve 
 a decent set of items, I managed to get a wonderful Combat Suit after an hour in the game. The 
 weapon and armor modification system is a nice addition and when used correctly makes gameplay 
 a breeze. It removes the annoyance from SOC that when you favorite weapon wore out it was gone 
 and thats all there was to it. With ability to repair a weapon you can still have some fun with 
 it. I found it a tad bit easy to get lost in the game when you first start playing which makes 
 failing your first quests easy.
  
  Replay Value
  Adequate. So many guns, so many places to go, so much to modify. The game hooks you for hours and 
 if you are a perfectionist will entertain you again again and again. Every gun fight turns out 
 different, quests will always change.
  
  Bottom-line
  It's a keeper and with the modding commmunity already releasing stuff it should hang around for 
 at least a year. I'll deffinitely remember it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesryan99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  if you are close to the edge of a cliff or are on somthing that you dont want to fall off of then 
 watch out for your friends they will knock you off if they run into or walk into you.
  
  other than those problem the game so far is good and fun unless you find that the only cover you 
 got is a tree and your sighted by a mg nest. that happend to me and lets just say i had to reload 
 the game cus its easy to die. btw its a very realistic game besides mutants you even get to upgrade 
 equipment so if you have a good comp it has okay grapics and its worth buying. ohh and i forgot 
 to mention watch out for water if you walk in it youll probly get radiation and die if you dont 
 use drugs to get rid of radiation witch you can also get by walking into almost invisable waves 
 in the air that can kill you fast if you go into them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphic
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  I have only played the game a short time, being passed the swamp but still in Cordon. It seems 
 like this game feels very familiar like the first one, down to the controls, etc. The graphics 
 seem better in general and it feels like a prettier looking game. Daytime is actually cheerful 
 in the swamp. However, dark means dark this time around. And that is cool. I kinda wish they had 
 stealth meter this time around to show how much noise your making. The swap was super easy IMO. 
 The npc soldiers did most of the work for me while i was exploring etc. Cordon however is definitly 
 a step up. The military enemies in this area don't mess around. Tough armor and good shooting makes 
 them tough to take. But its possible still. The armor and weapon upgrades is kinda cool, however 
 I feel like i should save my money instead of upgrading my current weapon knowing I will probably 
 get better very soon. This game definitly puts you in a whole different world, just like the first 
 did and you love exploring it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rembrandthc
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  The Game will demand alot of you and your PC. It's a Pure Shooter with a cool Story and the Grafix 
 just RULE!
  There are some Drawback though: I tried getting it to run it on Vista (DX10) , no Dice... Crashing 
 Galore, even after Patching. Put WinXP back on and VOILA` I works..., sorta. I've got a AMD 6000+ 
 Rig with 4Gig o' Ram (3GB in XP.. I know) and SLI 8800 GTS's on a Gigabyte 590 Board (should upgrade 
 I suppose) , but I had to really tweak my Drivers NVidia Drivers in order to get it running Smoothly. 
 (I'm using the 177.92 Beta)
  Also needed: The NVidia preformance tool (to be had at Nvidia for DL. Now everthing runs just Dandy 
 with decent FPS's. I got the Settings at, my Guess, Medium High, and I really do LOVE what I see 
 on my Screen (22' Westinghouse Flatpanel) . Stalker CS is HARD! When you take a Bullet you TAKE 
 a Bullet, you'll Bleed and you actually HAVE to do something about it, unless you're intent is 
 to bleed to death! No Health Regeneration, just like in real Life.  
 Time to turn around PRONTO! Take a dose of Anti-Rad-Meds or GLOW IN THE NIGHT as a CORPSE... hehehe!
 
  This Game is certainly NOT a game for Console-FanBois..., it's sophisticated, nitty-gritty & downright 
 Dirty...! I LOVE this Game, just like the First one: Stalker, Shadow of Chernobyl! This game is 
 most Def. a Game to Remember, not like some other Games you Played. 2 years down the Road you will 
 say: Yeah! I Played Stalker CS! Hell Yeah, it ROCKED!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  After playing round two of S. T. A. L. K. E. R, I feel like going back and lowering my score from the 
 first game.
  
  Absolutely no different than the original, and they did nothing to address any issues, or make 
 any worthwhile changes.
  
  The first Stalker was by far and away the buggiest game of the year... I had to play the first part 
 of the game three times because of so many patches. You would think that they would try and get 
 it right this time... not so much. 
  
  Graphics - The same
  
  Gameplay - The same... Horrible AI and the NPC's were worse. They would blindingly push you out 
 of the way and into fire, they stood in doorways and wouldnt move. And worst of all, standing in 
 front of a "trader" was painful. Every two seconds "whatcha need Stalker" "Do you want something 
 or what Stalker" and over and over. You could clear an entire town, go back one map and then come 
 back to the same spot, pre-populated again with all the baddies. Including quests, so at times, 
 double the bad guys.
  
  Storyline - Ahhh, dont remember, if that tells you anything.
  
  Overall - A waste of my money and hopefully not yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LexEldron
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 17, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I am a bit disappointed with this version of Stalker. Not that it is not a good game, just seems 
 like all they did was expand the terrain and do a few minor changes... and that is all. I say expand 
 the terrain because much of the older terrain is still there.
  
  I crashed a few times until I got the first patch. Since then, I have wondered about somethings 
 which I do not know if they are bugs or not.
  
  First example is going from the Swamp to Cordon on Veteran Level. I tried to run through the entrance 
 of the tunnel and turn left to go to the first Cordon objective. I was able to get through on Stalker 
 Level, but Veteran was pure impossible. As soon as I left the tunnel, I got shot dead by the Army. 
 I had to go back into the Swamp and go into Cordon through the northeast road of the Swamp.
  
  Also, for some reason, I ended up with the Stalkers at the railroad embankment all red to me, 
 and I had to fight my way through them both ways. However, the Stalkers in the second objective 
 area were yellow to me. This confused me... as I thought if I was red to one member of a Faction, 
 I would think I would be red to all.
  
  So as usual, it seems to me that this game was published before it was ready... which seems the 
 norm for so many games I have bought at their release. Hopefully a second patch will be coming 
 soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: radasil
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  STALKER CS plunges the player into the nuclear wasteland surrounding Chernobyl, where different 
 militant factions compete with strange mutations and unnatural, environmental anomalies in attempts 
 on your life. The graphics and AI have been upgraded from STALKER CoS, making for a more-immersive 
 experience. 
  
  While the game features will be familiar to anyone who has played STALKER SoC, the added functionality 
 of the player's PDA and the ability to modify weapons and armour are great improvements over the 
 original game. 
  
  But for me, the real treat was finding out how easy it is to die in this game. 
  
  One has 
 to carefully gauge the surroundings and estimate enemy strength before choosing whether to attack 
 or not, and how to go about attacking. Catching a bullet not only depletes health, but it causes 
 bleeding that has to be tended to by using health kits or bandages. If you don't stop the bleeding, 
 your health continues to drop until you bleed to death. This puts extra emphasis on avoiding enemy 
 fire by choosing the best cover and hitting back with long-range weapons that can outreach those 
 of the enemy.
  
  All in all, this leads to an incredibly addictive experience where the improved graphics play a 
 wonderful side note to the duck and cover of tactical play.
  
  This one is going to keep me awake for many nights! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: world69star69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Presentation: Stalker has always been about atmosphere, and this game doesn't disappoint! The environments 
 are very realistic and gritty. You really feel like you are there. The lighting engine has been 
 improved (thats saying a lot as the first game had amazing lighting too) , the shadows are dynamic, 
 the day-night cycle is done better with better looking weather, better scenery, etc...
  The darkness at night is so dark you need a flashlight to see. The swamps where you start are a 
 great environment.
  
  Graphics: I already mentioned the lighting, but besides that there are more graphic options, everything 
 seems more detialed, textures have always been high res in the stalker games, and that is something 
 i love. It takes the pc platform seriously and you can tell this is a pc engine, not some unreal 
 3 engine crap with low res textures. You will not see this game on a console. There is too much 
 depth and graphics for them. There is even dx10 mode, which i haven't tried yet, but I will, I 
 can max out the game at 1920x1200 with a core2duo 2.6ghz with 8800gts... on dx9 win xp mode, at 
 the defualt max settings The games graphics are stunning in the fact that they suck you in.
  
  Sound: the sound is great, atmospheric wind, gieger counter beeps, howls, footsteps, realistic 
 gun sound its all there, not to mention the very good music that dynamically adjusts to tense moments 
 with hard guitar rock and earie slow subdued music when in the wild. The sound mixed with the graphics 
 makes this game highly atmospheric.
  
  Gameplay: team ai, better enemy ai, more items, with upgradable Components. I am a roleplaying 
 fanatic, and this is my favorite single palyer fps by far. Why? It mixes in diablo2 style loot 
 collection with a atmospheric serious fps. This element along adds to the addictivness. You are 
 always finding new gear to use. This isn't the doom style 6 weapon fps. Even bandages, vodka, ham, 
 rations, needles with medicine, health paks, binoculars, night vision goggles, armors, weapons 
 of all kinds, upgrade parts, and money...
  
  The new ai has factions that you can join, and there is a screen in your pda that shows you the 
 relationships between them and how much influence they have. You can join the factions and influence 
 how the world is populated. There is so many quests and cool things to do you never get bored...
 
  
  The enemy ai is great, the first major outpost had me alone, (i never waited for my crew i guess, 
 as they showed up later) against 15-20 enemies, with only a few heath paks, a pistol, shotgun, 
 sawed off and smg (only 30 bullets) . This battle had me taking cover, running around buildings and 
 barriers to flank enemies, using real tactics to ambush or escape from enemies. They take cover 
 too, and duck down, shoot from cover in realistic ways, (not like cod4 where the enemies never 
 stop and always do the same thing) . This makes combat fun and engaging!
  
  All in all this game is a great games, and an improvement to the first in many ways. The only bad 
 thing is that there isn't many people trying this as some people claim bugs. I got the game from 
 steam so it was already out for a week. In that time it was patched, so the version i am playing, 
 I haven't seen a single bug yet. If you are holding off getting this game, just buy it! you won't 
 be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 17, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  With few words and to the point
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The original engine has been given a lick of paint.
  Looks prettier but still it is not Crysis 
 Warhead or Farcry 2...
  
  ----------------------------------------------------
  
  SOUND:
  - Dialogues are cheesy and suffers from translation issues apparently.
  - Sound quality 
 is fortunately above average but still there is nothing special to make you excited
  
  ---------------------------------------------------
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Has many bugs and glitses 
 plus feels unbalanced...
  Some latest patches have improve this area of the game but still it needs a major ovehaul...
 
  
  Also many missions that i have played until now are mostly BORING and the main game story is not 
 that thrilling either as it was with the previous game Shadow of Chernobyl
  
  ---------------------------------------------------
  
  VALUE:
  At the current state of the 
 game i would say "STAY AWAY FROM THIS"
  BUT if you are patient for some more patches to be released then go ahead and buy it.
  From the 
 other hand i am not a patient guy and i do not forgive easy
  
  --------------------------------------------------
  --------------------------------------------------
 
  FINAL SCORE = 7.0 (with latest patch available when this review was written) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nWo_outsiders
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  When I played Shadow of Chernobyl, I thought there were some missing features but it was worth 
 to wait. Then, GSC announced the prequel Clear Sky... I knew it was going to be what SoC was meant 
 to be.
  
  Graphics: There's nothing special about the graphics of SoC, but with X-Ray 1.5 engine Clear Sky 
 is a noticeable improvement over Shadow of Chernobyl. Volumetric lighting such as sun rays, volumetric 
 smoke and wet surfaces are simply awesome. I can say that dynamic shadows are too detailed. It 
 makes you say, "man.. does that even look like this in real life?"
  
  Sounds: Similar to SoC. However, there're few changes in weapons. They sound much better now. Few 
 changes in ambient like monster roars and etc. Conversations are somewhat improved. At least they're 
 better than SoC. And finally the newly added ingame musics... Ingame musics are very creepy. You 
 can really feel the atmosphere. I strongly recommend you to play the game with musics on.
  
  Gameplay: So, there are bugs... But if you look at the bright side, you can almost have a perfect 
 game. I believe Clear Sky will get better with further patches. Poor implementation and software 
 architecture of this game cause bugs to appear. I mean, there're so many stuffs going on in the 
 game like A-life, side missions, faction wars, day-night cycle etc. These are not combined very 
 well. Somehow these modules don't seem communicating well with each other. Hence, the architecture 
 is not modular. It's like they're trying to complete the instances without considering the consequences. 
 Faction wars could be better. Joining factions doesn't bring anything but trouble. If you really 
 wanna explore the zone, be a loner. The game is way harder than SoC. You might wanna first try 
 it by playing on novice difficulty to see what you can do about it. Weapon/Armor upgrade system 
 is another nice feature. Money is hard to come by and so are the artifacts.
  
  Story: Hell yeah! This is the best part. I don't want to give any spoiler. The story of Shadow 
 of Chernobyl was just impressive. They successfully combined sci-fic elements with facts. So, if 
 you liked the storyline of SoC you should be looking forward to finish Clear Sky.
  
  Conclusion: If you liked Shadow of chernobyl, you will certainly like Clear Sky. If you expect 
 a flawless game, you may get disappointed. Atmosphere is still there. The Zone is more bigger now. 
 Red Forest is absolutely stunning. The only letdown is the lack of underground levels. With mods 
 and further patches, Clear Sky will be one of the greatest games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordAsher
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  Although I've only played the game so far for about 30mins, I can already see that GSC has kept 
 to the original game and made it just as terrifying to play. Terrifying in the sense that if you 
 play the game and get into it like I do then you'll end up living the character and everytime a 
 huge mutant jumps out and tries to rip your face off you'll quite literally scream while flying 
 backwards clicking that mouse button and hoping for a hit. (pray you have a good shotgun) This 
 newest addition to, what I'm hoping is a long series, increases the danger within the zone dramatically. 
 Said to occur before the first game, Clear Sky places you in the shoes of a mercenary stalker known 
 simply as Scar. With attempts at the Zones core causing wild changes in the atmosphere, a new sort 
 of anomalie comes from the center and with it a deadly wake of destruction. Known as the "burnout", 
 this new anomalie is a giant surge of energy that has the ability to instantly destroy every living 
 thing in its wake. Incidently, Scar, being found after a "burnout" is alive and well. Clear Sky, 
 the people who find him, are amazed at his ability to survive something that has the ability to 
 kill everything. Also, along with surviving these new deadly anomalies, Scar has increased abilities 
 (nothing superhuman so far) that too cannot be explained. Along with a new character, new storyline, 
 new factions (to join) , and new deadly anomalies to avoid, STALKER Clear Sky boasts a whole new 
 eerie feeling that is also a bit familiar from the last one. Go out and buy this game, you wont 
 regret it and if you do... I guess you truely will never know a good game if it walked up and slapped 
 you in the face.
  
  However, I did forget to mention that the game does still have a few bugs. Which will hopefully 
 be fixed in later patches. All good games will have bugs, its to be expected. Just look at Age 
 of Conan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur1987
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the signs of a new S. T. A. L. K. E. R game I thought "Let it be similar to the first 
 game minus the bugs..." I got the first half of my request, it is similar to the first, but the 
 second half of my desperate wish was blown asunder by the game's constant crashing and inexplicable 
 glitching. Then my prayers were answered with patch 1.5.04... Now don't get me wrong, it's still 
 not perfect, but it's a damn sight better than when it was first released.
  
  Graphics-wise the game is quite nice to look at, with its dynamic lighting and, surprising considering 
 the location, rather nice scenery. The character animations aren't A++ but they are far from the 
 worst in recent history and there are a few graphical glitches here and there.
  
  The game does not disappoint when it comes to the sound either, constant rustling and growls emanating 
 from shrubs and bushes keeps you on your toes whilst the environmental sounds, like wind and rain, 
 make you feel the chill.
  
  The gameplay is not revolutionary in comparison to the first but it all feels a little tighter 
 and more polished, plus the ability to repair and upgrade weapons and armour makes it a far more 
 enjoyable and deep experience.
  
  All in all Clear Sky, although slightly bitter tasting before you add a patch to the mix, is unbelievably 
 enjoyable and far too easy to spend hours playing...
  
  Prepare to become addicted to radioactive beasts, anomalies, and sneaky bandits all over again.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedCanHurt
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  This would be the best game I've ever played - if there wasn't so many bugs.
  
  Obviously not wanting to clear their reputation just yet, GSC seems to have decided not to test 
 this game before releasing it. It took me 5 new games do even make any progress, and then the game 
 stopped working altogether when I installed the latest patch. The game crashes every 10-30 minutes, 
 at least 20% of the missions have bugs which prevent them from being completed, or even started, 
 a lot of the new features seem to be completely untested - just like Shadow of Chernobyl when it 
 was first released. Only worse.
  
  Bugs aside, the actual gameplay is incredible. The new faction wars, while potentially short, are 
 involved and enjoyable, the new anomalies and artifacts are much better thought-out, and the combat 
 system has been greatly improved. Assuming you don't suffer the bugs that have plagued pretty much 
 every other player of this game, you're bound to have endless hours of gaming with this beauty.
 
  
  As for online multiplayer - forget it. This hasn't improved from Shadow of Chernobyl.
  
  If you're new to the Stalker series, however, don't waste your money just yet. Go and play 
 through a patched version of Shadow of Chernobyl first, learn the plot and have some fun. Then, 
 when you get to Clear Sky, most of the bugs will have been ironed out.
  
  Overall, if you can go without until better patches are released, you're better off. Otherwise, 
 prepare for some pretty frustrating issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamie_vv
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  After playing S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Shadow of Chernobyl and clocking that. I just had to buy the prequel. 
 It's everything I expected the game to be.
  
  It's got the increased graphical features. (which there is lots of settings so even if you have 
 a crummy out dated computer you should be able to run it) 
  
  The storyline is awesome (I wont reveal it) :) Though some things seem a bit, you know, Cliche. 
 I guess I will let you all find out. 
  
  The combat is intense. (Keep in mind I'm playing it on "Master", which is the hardest difficulty) 
 You cant just be a hero and run in blasting everything to pieces. You have to work with your team 
 mates to eliminate the opposition. Whether you use your team as bait and attack the enemy from 
 behind, or you simply just stay grouped with your team. 
  
  My most favorite part about the game so far, is the ability to repair and modify your weapons and 
 armor. In the first S. T. A. L. K. E. R. you could only find upgraded items, now you can make them as 
 you please. And you cant just get every upgrade straight away, you have to go find USB sticks containing 
 the modification blueprints and sell them to engineers.
  
  Though there are some defects to this game. EXTREME Defects. Bugs. Lots of them, Ranging from graphical 
 to getting Blue Screens of death. For example: When it rains, occasionally you will see polygons 
 of white triangles jittering about. (It happens to other people so it's not my computer) That also 
 happened in the First game. The most common bug/glitch for your game, is for it to just randomly 
 crash to the desktop. 
  
  Overall I give it a 9/10. I would have given it a better score, but these glitches happen quite 
 frequently and the patches are still yet to be upgraded further. So when you all go to play this 
 game, make sure to get the latest patch, then start a game. The saves do not work after you update! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabs1234
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  S. T. A. L. K. E. R Clear Sky is a very good game. It add's even more to the universe that is S. T. A. L. K. E. R.
 
  The orginal game S. T. A. L. K. E. R: Shadow of Chernobyl, was voted the most atmospheric game of the 
 year and Clear Sky doesnt stray from that title. The game keeps the theme running in this game 
 with dilapidated structures, campfire gatherings and varied mutants.
  The changes in this game involve a lot of graphical improvements and animation alterations. Characters 
 look a lot better then in the previous game and facial animation looks sharper as well. Even as 
 I run the game on a Pentium 4, it still looks good.
  The gameplay of the game remains close to the previous game. However, You get to access different 
 areas that were not available in the first game and many things have been added. The main addition 
 is the faction wars. The game can be played in a variety of ways and any faction can be joined 
 to conquer the Zone. You are given objectives to take over control points, destroy targets and 
 defend positions to ensure the faction you have chosen to help becomes more powerful. Trading has 
 been expanded as "Technicians" are available to help upgrade/repair weapons and armour. This helps 
 from downloading mods like many did to repair items in the previous game. Also, guides are available 
 and can take you to ares in the Zone in a Quick Travel method. For a price, of course.
  There is a lot more to do in Clear Sky, with different ways to play the game and multiple endings. 
 Enemy AI and friendly AI has been upgraded as the AI know how to use cover effectivley and fire 
 from cover without running from cover.
  The difficulty of the game is harder than the previous S. T. A. L. K. E. R. Enemies know how to flank 
 corectly and the weapon physics are quite realistic. One shotgun blast from a close range can mean 
 the death of you. Using weapons is different from your average shooter as head shots are harder 
 and your guns can jam. Due to the weapon physics, guns act a lot more realistic.
  The story of the game is set before the previous game ( "the official prequel" as said on the box.) 
 and you play as the Mercenary Scar who is requested to kill Strelok, prior to the events of S. T. A. L. K. E. R: 
 Shadow of Chernobyl.
  All in all, by only playing a couple of hours of this game, I can say that is is a very good game. 
 It adds upon an allready magnificent game and adds more depth. Only time will tell to see how this 
 story resolves ^^. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Stalker CS is better than Shadow of Chernobyl in a couple of ways. It is also worse. The better 
 factors outweigh the losses this time, however it still remains an engaging experience nonetheless. 
 
  
  Bugs aside and let's be honest, all Stalker fans really didn't let it bother them last time, this 
 game has allways been cult. The fear factor was great and the non roleplaying equipment management 
 perks were awesome. This was the one and only pre-Fallout 3 fps out there and most fans of Fallout 
 will have this game for that reason alone.
  
  The improvements over the orginal Stalker? 3 things.
  
  Equipment management, graphics and 
 team AI combat variations. There is no surprise that it also is much more action packed than before. 
 
  
  Dissapointments? 1 thing.
  
  Horror. Even though the atmosphere is pretty beautifully morbid and dark at times, it's just not 
 as frightening as the last time. Being a hardcore horror fan, and being impressed by the first 
 game, this is allways a problem for myself but I will admit that there are a few very cool moments 
 :) 
  
  Like I mentioned, the improvements outweigh the dissapointments. Stalker CS is and allways will 
 be worth your while, therefore a great follow up to a future cult game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyclass50
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed Shadow of Chernobyl, it was new, original and damned good fun with plenty going 
 on.
  
  It had it's issues, but what game doesn't these days!
  
  Now we have a nice prequel to sink our teeth into, and I feel a little let down to be honest.
 
  
  It's not that it's a bad game, it's just that they have taken everything from the original for 
 good or for worse. 
  
  I had hoped in all the time it took to make this game, they might have ironed it out a bit, i. e. 
 why the hell do you still have to press 2 buttons just to crouch? ... I'm sorry, but that is not 
 good game design.
  
  And that's not all;
  - Weapons and armour degrade far too quickly, since they are NOT made from wood.
  - Enemies don't 
 get the same problems you, i. e. gun jamming every 5 shots with massive inaccuracy.
  - Some parts of the levels are poorly designed, where you randomly get stuck between planks of 
 wood, or you can't climb a ladder because there is a banister at the top blocking the way.
  - Irritating NPCs are completely thick, have no idea how to flank, and run into you pushing you 
 out from your cover into enemy fire constantly.
  - Guns are still terribly inaccurate, slow, and have a shooting range about the same distance as 
 a pellet gun. Whereas an enemy can load their gun with spunk and still manage to shoot you through 
 a steel door 500 yards away.
  - Enemies respawn far too much and far too soon.
  
  Whilst these things might be frustrating to some people and would have been nice to have been rid 
 of, it's still a good game.
  
  - Intriguing plot (The Zone is such a good idea) .
  - Good inventory system.
  - Lots to explore
  - Clan wars are a great idea (although, I would 
 appreciate more than 3 seconds to reach these real-time missions)
  - And immersive
  
  If you liked the first, you will probably like this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverbullet198
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  First off s. t. a. l. k. e. r shadow of chenobyl was a fantastic game, and is even more so now due to 
 the mods which the community have made. I still found my self playing stalker soc right up until 
 the release of clear sky.
  
  When i first started clear sky the first thing that struck me was the scale of the new areas. There 
 huge, by far bigger then any area on stalker soc. I spent literally hours wandering round the marsh.
 
  
  The visuals are superb, ive played both dx10 and dx9 and have had no problems. 
  
  But heres what makes it a 8.0 The game i found was very difficult, even on novice setting. Guns 
 degraded to quickly, as did your suite's which as a result i had to spend all my money on upgraded 
 and fixing everything. In the end i had no money to buy a decent suite, or gun.
  
  Secondly i found when i hit the "point of no return" which in my case was red forrest (point of 
 no return in my case is when i get to a zone n cant be arsed to go back) i found that the gameplay 
 just plumits... you dont get to explore as you end up following the main story plot right up until 
 you reach the goal, the chenobyl npp. **SPOILER** now the chenobyl npp was fantastic to explore 
 on stalker soc, but i was a little disapointed to see that its only the outside you see ( i never 
 got chance to explore due to been sniped repeatidly) 
  
  Hopefully with a few good mods, this game will be better then stalker soc. Im already enjoying 
 more now with the trader mod and weight limit in crease mod, just to help me explore that little 
 bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decathect
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  Some very nice rendering from dx10, lighting looks fantastic, granted the tree leaves can seem 
 slightly like paper cut-outs, but then it'd be demanding hardware specs that not everybody has, 
 so it's a nice balance. Also helping with this is the choice of graphical changes you can make; 
 view distance, objects detail, texture detail, grass density, grass shadow, light distance, npc 
 flashlights, detailed landscape, just to name a few. They really allow you to configure the game 
 to your hardware's full potential. There are however, a few random colour flickers in textures, 
 and rather odd physical repetitions (npc's becoming stuck by a fire and guttering until you load 
 from a previous save or just go and shoot them in the face) .
  
  Sound:
  I love the background music, it really does add to the atmosphere that is The Zone. The sound effects 
 do seem to sound crisper and clearer than the first game. I've never heard a gun being fired in 
 person, so I wouldn't know of how real they sound.
  
  Gameplay:
  Freedom of exploration, join any faction, well that's a good start right there. Attack other territories, 
 defend them, with helpful contribution from NPC's with a rather soulful AI, even if it can be a 
 PITA at times. There are weapon upgrades too, I've not delved into these too much, but basically 
 they add bonuses to your weapons or armor such as +10% to condition or +25% to accuracy. I bought 
 an optical scope upgrade without having the scope attached to the rifle, if this is correct and 
 it's not just something I've missed, then I prefer the original idea from SoC, where you can actually 
 see it attached.
  
  Performance:
  This is the game's biggest downfall. I've had to restart my computer 20+ times in the last day 
 due to crashes (the game either won't load again, or it will in a sort of half window-mode, and 
 stays that way even after changing screen resolution) .
  
  Conclusion:
  Like the title says, my patience for playing this game has ceased. The crashes are a nuisance, 
 and just down right frustrating. A game is there to be played, if you can't play it, then it's 
 not a game. I'll be waiting until the developers can release a patch to sort some rather obvious 
 problems.
  
  
  My Specs:
  Asus P5E64 WS EVO, Intel Q6600 2.4, 4GB DDR3 1333 RAM, NVIDIA 260GTX 896MB, Seagate 500GB 7200.11 
 HDD.
  
  Thankyou for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: velvetkloud
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  This is just a brief summary on my thoughts of the first few hours of play with stalker - clear 
 sky.
  
  Just as it was with SoC I was somewhat concerned when I purchased clear sky due to the numerous 
 mentions of horrific bugs and crashes. But, just as it was with SoC, I haven't, as of yet, really 
 experienced any of these.
  I have encountered only two bugs in my current 5+ hours play. 1: Where some items vanished from 
 my backpack, this has not occured again.
  2: Where a npcs guitar was still audible after he stopped playing, got up and walked off!
  Apart 
 from that everything seems fine so far. I must be one of the lucky ones.
  
  Anyhoo, so far my first impressions of the game are good. It is like visiting an old, slightly 
 dirty, eccentric old friend. The zone is just as spooky as ever and the combat a joy to be involved 
 in. I know people have complained that the combat is too unforgiving but It actually seems easier 
 than SoC to me, maybe its just because I replayed it not long ago and still have the fighting styles 
 fresh in my head.
  The sound effects/music are spot on, the dialogue is **** which was always going to be a given!
 
  
  I was really looking forward to some more stalker and, perhaps its main potential issue in my eyes, 
 that is exactly what I have.
  As of yet I have not really seen anything to suggest that this brings anything remarkably new so 
 far. We have the new hidden anomolies and faction wars but I am yet to see how these have any real 
 impact on the game.
  
  That said the one thing I loved about SoC was the atmosphere of the environment and the harsh and 
 brutal combat. clear sky seems to be providing more of the same so if nothing else I am satisfied 
 by that.
  
  I will update to a proper review once I have completed the game in full. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sun-Fac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  This game is the game that stalker shadow of chernobly wanted to be with loads of new features. 
 the main thing that i really like abot this game and the thing that really anoyed me in soc is 
 the fact that in soc you seeall these awsome stalkers whering awsome armour with gas masks and 
 then you get their armour and all youve got is a hood or a helmet the only cool armour you could 
 get was the exo suit but with upgrades in clear sky can now place your own upgrades on your weapons 
 and suits. also the factions have improved greatly you can now offically join a faction you can 
 even join the bandits. the only bad thing about clear sky is its glitchyness at maximum grphics 
 clear sky looks amazing but you will have lag, freezing and points when it just shuts down completly 
 also not much change to the multiplayer. otherwise clear sky is brillant with squad play and the 
 coolists nights you'll ever see it is seriously dark at night 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christhor
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  The atmosphere with the cool graphics a spooky sounds in this game is fantastic but the game is 
 simply full of bugs. I have put up with the crashing on reloading issues and even turned a blind 
 eye to the occasional jumpy graphics but I have now got to the stage of picking up the PDA in the 
 "Find the stalkers stash" only to find the pda can not be picked up or removed from the mission 
 list. Is this game even playable ?? It's a shame that such a good game is spoilt by rushing it 
 out and probably patching the hell out of it in months to come. Its almost like purchasing a beta 
 release, being the tester, and paying for the privilege. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dippy88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of STALKER since I saw my mate playing it on his computer a couple of years ago, 
 I really wanted to buy it, but needed a PC upgrade, so I upgraded my PC 6months later and brought 
 SoC. 
  
  When I heard that Clear Sky was coming out I really wanted to get it because the first STALKER 
 was amazing.
  
  I installed the game which I recieved a day early, installed the patch etc... and got going, as 
 soon as I saw the graphics I knew that I was in for a treat, the "god rays" shining through the 
 windows looked awesome and all the textures of the various different items around the room looked 
 great. 
  
  Anyway, I got on with the first mission after a bit of dialogue, sadly, the first mission bugged 
 for me until I found a way round it, (don't try to skip the anomalitys) I was abit worried that 
 the first mission that I attempted was bugged, there was also a few other bugs that need to be 
 fixed minor things, like when it was pitch black and a guy on a mounted machine gun ripped me appart 
 whilst I was hidden in a bush, and when a camp gets attacked by a mutant and people stand in doorways 
 and wait for the muntant to arrive (sometimes it doesn't) so your stuck in a building.
  
  Other than the minor bugs the game will really appeal to all the STALKER fans out there, because 
 it is alot better than the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattisgod01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  Its not without its problems but with future patches and mods clear sky will be an awesome game. 
 The difficulty could be toned down a little especially without an auto save feature, Personally 
 i hate playing a FPS on anything other then the hardest difficulty but Clear sky on hardest is 
 near impossible in the early stages of the game. Mostly because the shotgun can't hit anything 
 unless the target is 2feet in front of you. besides that everything is great, the Enhanced lighting 
 makes the atmosphere even better then the original and the level size is even bigger.
  They could also tone down the amount of objectives they throw at you, 2 hours into the game and 
 they have thrown 30 objectives at you, which leaves you confused with what to do seeing as though 
 most of them require you to do something immediately. 
  
  I have only really taken the time to point out the things i disliked about the game which doesn't 
 mean there is nothing good, Everything you liked about S. T. A. L. K. E. R has been improved which has 
 only added to the already incredible atmosphere the original had created.
  I have alot more i could say but i really can't be bothered so i'm going to leave it there. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
