-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sacrifice
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/sacrifice/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 9.0, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 732 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interplay
Developer: Shiny
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Nov 5, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Clearly, tremendous effort went into the game's unique fully 3D presentation and into formulating 
 the similarly unusual play mechanics. 

 Sacrifice by Shiny Entertainment is one of the most unusual PC games this year. It's also one of 
 the best looking, and it even sounds great. Clearly, tremendous effort went into the game's unique 
 fully 3D presentation and into formulating the similarly unusual play mechanics. Nevertheless, 
 at its core, Sacrifice is actually a fairly straightforward real-time strategy game, whose pitched 
 battles can have a tendency to turn into long-lasting stalemates. But the action has a lot of variety 
 and is paced very quickly, both in the single-player campaign and in the multiplayer mode. And 
 since the game has such a distinctive style, you'll more than likely find Sacrifice to be at least 
 as enjoyable as it is strange.   

  In Sacrifice, you play as a wizard who opts to represent individual members of a pantheon of gods. 
 These five gods aren't just central to the plot and the setting, but they're central to the gameplay 
 itself. Each god grants you his or her respective arsenal of magical spells, which can be used 
 to summon creatures, attack foes, and more. To summon creatures, your wizard needs souls; and to 
 cast any spell at all, your wizard needs mana. Souls and mana are the game's resources. You start 
 with a certain surplus of souls, but you can otherwise collect them from the corpses of your fallen 
 foes. Meanwhile, your supply of mana regenerates if you stand in close proximity to mana fountains, 
 which are scattered across the land. Your rivals can also replenish their mana from these fountains 
 - unless you erect a "manalith," a structure that will restore mana only to you. To replenish your 
 mana when you're not right next to your manaliths, you'll need to summon creatures called manahoars. 
 These pudgy yet quick little beings channel mana straight to your wizard, and the more of them 
 you have at your side, the faster you'll regain mana. But you can't win battles with just manahoars 
 - you'll rarely want many more than a few around, as each one costs a soul that you could've used 
 to summon a stronger creature.   

  You can help defend a manalith - and yourself, if you're near it - by using a guardian spell to 
 effectively chain one of your creatures to it, which in turn makes that creature significantly 
 stronger. But in doing so, you deny that creature its mobility. Since souls are limited, you'll 
 have to choose carefully between defending your manaliths and keeping a strong, mobile force at 
 your side. You can summon creatures quickly - this in turn makes the pacing of Sacrifice very fast 
 - and you'll need a variety of ranged, flying, and close-attack creatures to counter your foe's 
 similar assortment of beasts. Eventually, if you can defeat your enemy's forces either with superior 
 numbers or with better unit micromanagement, then you can rush toward the enemy altar - his starting 
 point - and sacrifice one of your creatures there, thus desecrating the enemy shrine and completely 
 defeating the opponent. Playing Sacrifice takes getting used to, but the mechanics are actually 
 complicated just at the surface level, mostly because the game initially seems so strange.   

 
  It may be weird, but Sacrifice is also an undeniably impressive-looking game. From the fantastic, 
 brightly colored terrain, to the bizarre creatures, to the incredible spell effects, virtually 
 everything in Sacrifice looks great. You'll notice small details, such as individual flowers growing 
 in the verdant plains belonging to the goddess of life, Persephone, or the buzzing flies and gnats 
 that teem through the pestilent lands of the god of death, Charnel. The game's third-person perspective 
 gives a close-up view of the striking landscapes of Sacrifice, and this view also lets you get 
 up close and personal with the dozens of wonderful, intricately animated creatures in the game. 
 Sacrifice's 3D engine does have some slight problems; for instance, you'll sometimes notice polygons 
 being added and dropped from particular objects as you grow closer to and farther away from them. 
 Also, some of the animations look slightly off - some of the characters seem to skate along surfaces 
 instead of moving across them more naturally. But such blemishes are in no way significant, because 
 Sacrifice looks so great in so many other ways. In fact, between the dreamlike environments that 
 stretch far into the horizon and the great variety of creatures that populate them, certainly the 
 game's graphics are one of its best features. The graphics are also highly scalable - the game 
 plays well even on relatively slow machines, while it'll also take full advantage of the fastest 
 systems and video cards currently available.   

  Not only does Sacrifice look great, but it also sounds very good. Each of the different creatures 
 has a correspondingly unusual sound to it. Some of them actually speak, while others make noises 
 - but in either case, the creatures in Sacrifice tend to sound as bizarre as they look. The wizard 
 character that you control also has his own unique voice - you play as the sage wizard Eldred during 
 the campaign, though many different wizards of every shape are available to choose from in the 
 game's multiplayer mode. The wizards all utter strange, magical syllables in their own voice as 
 they summon creatures and structures and cast spells, and the spells never sound quite the same 
 way twice. Unfortunately, this variety doesn't characterize the game's narrator. While his remarks 
 during battle are clear and informative, they can also get very repetitive. You might get frustrated 
 as you keep hearing "Your creatures are dying!" during battles with powerful opponents. But in 
 general, there's much variety to the speech in Sacrifice. In particular, there's a lot of talking 
 during the game's campaign, as in between each mission you'll hear the gods bicker among themselves. 
 This dialogue is often funny, and you'll soon grow to like all the gods' personalities on account 
 of the great voice acting that brings each of these strange characters to life. Sacrifice even 
 has an impressive symphonic soundtrack, which has subtle recurrent themes for each of the game's 
 five gods.    

 Regardless of which of the gods you choose to serve, Sacrifice plays in essentially the same way. 
 You control your fast-moving wizard from a third-person view, using a mouse and keyboard combination 
 that'll be familiar if you've played a 3D action game recently. In addition to moving swiftly about 
 the battlefield, collecting souls and avoiding attacks, you also need to cast your various spells 
 to succeed. You can cast spells using the onscreen buttons along the bottom of the screen, but 
 since these can be out of reach in the heat of battle, you're better off memorizing the hotkeys 
 that correspond with your various abilities. Also, although it's easy to simply order a swarm of 
 your units to defend you in the early portions of the game, as you face more challenging opponents, 
 you'll need to learn to split your forces into discrete groups. In addition, you'll have to learn 
 the various preset formations to keep the creatures in line. You can choose formations by using 
 a convenient and unobtrusive pop-up interface or by using a hotkey.   

  Unfortunately, Sacrifice's third-person perspective - while it looks great - isn't very well suited 
 to the strategic aspects of the game. Namely, you can't really see what's happening behind your 
 wizard, let alone to either side of him. Instead, you must constantly rely on your minimap in the 
 corner of the screen to inform you of enemies, souls, and other important features in your vicinity. 
 The minimap is fairly informative, but you'll still have to depend upon it much more than you'd 
 wish. For instance, the minimap provides the most convenient means of letting you issue orders 
 to your troops; it's more difficult both to find them and also to point them in the right direction 
 just from the 3D third-person view. It's surprising that you have to spend so much of every battle 
 scrutinizing a small map speckled with colored dots - it's almost as if all the great visual effects 
 serve only to distract you from noticing what's really going on.   

  There are other problems with playing Sacrifice, in that there's often no particular incentive 
 to press the attack against your enemy. Specifically, the further you get from your territory, 
 the slower your mana replenishes. And while you can readily pick up the souls of your creatures 
 that fall in battle, to claim the souls of your enemies, you need to cast a spell that causes their 
 souls to be carried back to your altar for conversion (or to a shrine, which you can build instead 
 of a manalith) . Therefore, the closer you get to your enemy, the easier it is for him to convert 
 your own fallen creatures' souls. For this reason, and also since it's usually impossible to gain 
 souls without killing enemy creatures, more often than not you'll just be inclined to wait for 
 your enemy to come to you. Even if you don't, because it's so easy to pick up your own creatures' 
 souls, and generally difficult to successfully convert enemy souls, you'll find that it's difficult 
 to gain any real advantage unless you completely repel your enemy's attack. And then in that case, 
 the momentum of the battle shifts so drastically in your favor that your opponent will likely get 
 frustrated. Due to the nature of the momentum of the game, if you're losing in Sacrifice, it can 
 be extremely difficult to mount a comeback.   

  Fortunately there are a lot of different ways to play Sacrifice, and many of them let you avoid 
 the potentially frustrating elements of the combat. Sacrifice's single-player campaign pits you 
 against a host of aggressive computer opponents. This campaign has a lot of replay value, as it 
 lets you ally yourself with any of the five gods, one mission at a time, and shift allegiance between 
 missions and play the sides against each other if you choose. Depending on your choices, you'll 
 get different missions later in the campaign, and you'll also get a different combination of spells 
 and creatures. This loose structure, in addition to the interesting plot, makes Sacrifice's campaign 
 very worthwhile. You can also opt to play with up to three human or computer opponents in a skirmish 
 match, in which you can set a number of different starting parameters and choose from a wide variety 
 of maps. In multiplayer Sacrifice, your wizard actually gains experience as he fights, and experience 
 levels bestow new spells, which can give you the edge against your enemy if you play more aggressively. 
 Also, multiplayer Sacrifice has numerous offshoot modes, such as slaughter, where you aim for a 
 high kill count, and soul harvest, where you try to collect the most souls. These variations aren't 
 quite as interesting as the standard mode, but they still provide a change of pace.   

  Sacrifice supports online play and has a fully integrated player-matching service, though it doesn't 
 have a direct-connect TCP/IP option. The game also comes with a very amusing manual that's written 
 from the perspective of the different gods. Sacrifice even includes a powerful map builder called 
 Scapex, which lets you easily build a great-looking Sacrifice level from a fully 3D view. Since 
 the layout of a Sacrifice map can drastically affect the way in which you must conduct the battle, 
 and since the level editor works so well - and, most importantly, since Sacrifice is such an interesting 
 game - Scapex is bound to give Sacrifice a great deal of longevity. This, along with the fact that 
 Sacrifice looks and sounds so good, is reason enough to recommend the game. It can take you awhile 
 to learn the game, and some of the elements of the combat may occasionally prove unwieldy, but 
 most everything else about Sacrifice is so inventive that you should be able to turn a blind eye 
 to its shortcomings and enjoy the game for its many outstanding qualities.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kjschla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  A must-play game in my opinion. It was just released on Good Old Games for 6 bucks. The graphics 
 were stunning 8 years ago and are pleasing even by today's standards. The graphics remind me a 
 bit of World of Warcraft -- bright and colorful. The game even plays similarly. 
  
  You control your wizard in real time from a 3rd person view and have a spell bar loaded with all 
 of your offensive, defensive, creature summoning, building summoning, and other spells. Your summoned 
 creatures are controlled directly by you and can be organized in formations. For instance, you 
 put your melee troops in the skirmish formation so they lead the charge and then stick the ranged 
 guys in a semi-circle behind them. You can have your units guard you as you run around the battle, 
 or send them ahead and control the battle from a nearby hilltop while supporting with fireballs 
 and heal spells.
  
  The resources in the game are your life, mana, and souls. The souls work like a supply limit in 
 games like Starcraft or Company of Heroes. You collect souls mostly from your enemy's dead creatures. 
 Sometimes you can find them floating at a strategic point on the map or maybe even liberate a few 
 from some local peasants. You life and mana are like most rpg/mmo games. You take damage from spells 
 or creatures and you lose life. You cast a spell or are hit by certain creatures and you lose mana. 
 You gain mana by casting manaliths on mana fountains -- think of it like capturing a point in Company 
 of Heroes. The more mana fountains you tap with manaliths the faster your mana comes back, unless 
 you get too far away from your manaliths... then it slows to a crawl again... so the lines of battle 
 are drawn in a way. If a mage tries a direct assault on your shrine far from his own manaliths, 
 he will run out of mana quickly and be left vulnerable. The shrines tether you to the world, so 
 if they are destroyed you are likewise banished. If you die from loss of health, you can respawn 
 after recharging at a mana source as long as your shrine is around.
  
  The single player game has a well told story that changes based on the god's you chose to follow. 
 It even has a collectible card game element to it. You can customize your spellbook to your liking 
 by taking missions from different gods every time you play through. The god you pick grants you 
 a unique spell and unit. So, there are many different spell and unit combinations... and game endings.
 
  
  The multiplayer has AI opponents. Joining up with a friend against a team of 2 AI is quite enjoyable. 
 There is no difficulty setting for the AI, but you can give them an advantage by adjusting their 
 damage multiplier. Matches support up to 4 players with many different options to mess with -- 
 like friendly fire, soul count, mage level, etc. The online service has been unusable for me, but 
 hamachi works fine to connect with friends provided you do a direct ip connection to the host's 
 hamachi ip (games won't show up in the local lan list, at least for me) .
  
  It is a great game which didn't get nearly enough attention when it was released. Full of innovation 
 for its time, it is quickly forgotten that it is an 8 year old game. You will not be sorry you 
 spent 6 bucks on this. With all the buggy, unfinished games often inflicted on pc gamers... 60 
 dollars might even seem a bargain for this treasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyfingers
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I've been on Gamespot for years and have never written a single review. I felt compelled to share 
 some brief thoughts on this ridiculously fun game. I bought Sacrifice when it first came out, and 
 now eight years later, it is still pretty much my all-time favorite game. I'm not going to go into 
 the gameplay or storyline (I am sure there are plenty of other reviews that do that admirably) , 
 but I can definitely say that this game single-handedly got me into PC gaming. When it came out, 
 the graphics were top notch, the gameplay superb, and the replayability was robust. I may be a 
 bit biased, but I feel that this game still holds up very well and pretty much nails it as far 
 as the "fun factor." It does have a bit of a learning curve, but once you are familiar with the 
 mechanics, the game has a perfect blend of action, troop management, and strategy. The setting 
 and characters are also very surreal and unlike most other games that are out there. Do yourself 
 a favor and find this gem. When you hear those words, "Where was I? Oh... yes," and begin your next 
 battle, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonytehtiger
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  Sacrifice is simply put the rare game that gets it all right. Well almost.
  
  First off, the graphics. They are simply excellent. Not only are the graphics well done, the art 
 direction in this game is almost unrivaled. I have not seen a game as unique in its appearance 
 as this one. The wizards and creatures are all incredibly well done and I guarantee you that you 
 will not find such units looking like this in any other game. The terrain is smooth and detailed, 
 and the world looks genuine.
  
  Then comes the sound. Again, the sound and music in this game is top notch. In fact, I am tempted 
 to say this game has some of the best music in video game history, and I am 100% positive that 
 the voice acting is the BEST in all of media history, even beating Frank Welker as Megatron. Seriously, 
 the audio in this game is pure 100% quality and sheer brilliance.
  
  As for gameplay, well its just EXCELLENT. The singleplayer campaign is unique in its presentation. 
 The gamespot review details this in more detail. All I am going to add is that you can technically 
 have five campaign in one if you do all the missions with one god. Each god's campaign has a unique 
 twist on the main story, and from what I remember after playing this game so many times is that 
 very few of the missions are exactly alike. Yes, most of them involve defeating opposing wizards, 
 but each mission has some other little objectives or twists that make almost every mission memorable.
 
  The AI is for the most part pretty good, though they do not use all the spells at their disposal, 
 and their creature choice is somewhat odd at times. Still, I must confess that if the AI was smarter 
 this game would be nearly impossible to finish.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty dead unfortunately. This is not battle. net. There are some players out 
 there though, so if you really want you can find some people to play with. However, I do not think 
 multiplayer is this game's strong point. As said in the gamespot review, the soul economy can quickly 
 become a slippery slope.
  
  One of the problems with the game is that it is difficult to command your creatures with the view. 
 This is an additional point that makes multiplayer even worse. In singleplayer you really don't 
 need to command your creatures all that much. Trust me, I've beaten this game with all five gods 
 multiple times.
  
  Since I have heard this game can be extremely difficult for some people (some reviewer said they 
 were in a stalemate for 6 hours) , I am going to include a brief little hints section here. This 
 is what worked for me.
  First off, the first battle between you and the enemy wizard is THE most important battle. It is 
 important that you NEVER lose any souls in the initial battles. You always start off with less 
 souls than the enemy, and if you lose any souls in the first battle, the rest of the mission will 
 be incredibly difficult.
  Second, there is very little use for the guardian spell in my experience. Your forces will be easily 
 spread thin, and that is not good. If your manalith is being attacked, teleport to it. Zoom out 
 of the minimap and teleport. In general, the artillery units are not very useful for you. They 
 are the slowest in the game and pretty fragile. The enemy uses these a lot, but the enemy also 
 starts off with more manaliths than you and more souls. If it suits your playstyle you can try 
 to use artillery units if you want, but I have had difficulty using them with much success. The 
 only time I use artillery units is in the later missions when I am almost winning the game but 
 the last few manaliths have dozens of guardians or whatever. Another unit that has limited usefulness 
 are the flying melee units such as the ikarus, pyrodactyl, blight, gremlin and seraph. If you have 
 really good reflexes you can use these units extremely well with their special abilities, but for 
 the regular folk these units do not win battles. They have low health and die extremely easily. 
 The enemy sometimes uses these units to attack your manaliths. They have high attack so your manalith 
 will usually be destroyed pretty quickly, but this tactic is usually used when you're winning, 
 so you should be able to spare either some souls to attach 1 soul ranged units to your manaliths 
 or just let the manalith die. You should have a lot of them anyway. In addition, the majority of 
 you army should be the strongest unit available. Don't bother playing this as an RTS, just tell 
 your creatures to guard you. For each type of creature, make a control group and give them a certain 
 position. I recommend 4 manahoars in phalanx formation, ranged units in semicircle formation, flying 
 units in semicircle formation, and everything else in line formation. Later in the game when you 
 have extreme amounts of souls, (like 12 flyers, 12 ranged and a lot of melee) take your strongest 
 unit group and put them in phalanx formation and use them as a death squad. Yes, 12 ents works. 
 This obviously isn't everything that will make you win, but its a good starting point. For me, 
 the easiest god to win with was James. Choose all the good choices and you'll have a dragon as 
 an ally for the entire campaign with James, and this makes the game SOO much easier. For most missions 
 just tell the dragon to attack the enemy wizard. For around 6 missions you'll have no problems. 
 Pyro is the hardest to win with in my opinion. His creatures have high attack, but until the last 
 2 missions most of them die extremely quickly. With charnel its a pretty difficult game as well, 
 but spamming animate dead should help turn things in your favor.
  There are certain missions which for some reason are incredibly difficult. With stratos there is 
 a mission where you have to keep hachimen and buta busy. This mission is murder. I only managed 
 to beat it once, then my patience died. Don't hurt yourself on this, if you're not getting anywhere, 
 just cheat. Another mission which is pretty difficult is a charnel mission where you fight the 
 pyrodraulic dynamo. This mission is beatable, but it takes some luck and LOTS of speed. Save often 
 in this mission. There are times when you are not able to teleport in time from being killed by 
 the volcano, and that usually means you lose, especially in the early part of the mission. In the 
 beginning try to build as many manaliths as you can while at the same time summoning creatures 
 to use up all your souls. Don't bother attacking the dynamo until late game. The second to last 
 pyro mission is pretty brutal as well. Usually the only way I can win is by stalling by casting 
 volcano as a temporary wall . The enemy always runs away from volcano. I don't want to spoil too 
 much though, but stalling will make the mission easier. :) In one case the mission became easier 
 because one of the triggers wasn't triggered. If you can avoid triggering a wizard in that mission, 
 it makes things MUCH easier. I think it has to do with the way the AI works, but I'm not too sure. 
 In any case, none of the missions are impossible, and I am not a pro nor am I very good at games. 
 Just learn the tricks in the game and that's all it takes.
  
  You probably won't find this game in stores nor anywhere else for that matter, and the company 
 that made it no longer exists. What this means is:
  Get this game any way you can. I am including piracy and copies here, because you're no longer 
 stealing from the company, because it no longer exists. This game deserves to be played and enjoyed, 
 and I recommend you do that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retro-smetka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  I remember years ago, when Sacrifice came out, I played the demo, but never got to buying it. Well 
 early this year I picked it up in a store by chance and got to playing it. And I can tell you, 
 the game still looks excellent. The years have been good to it. Sacrifice is basically a real time 
 strategy mixed with roleplaying as it involves basic leveling and spell casting of main characters 
 (the wizards) in the game. The game starts with you choosing which god you will serve ( you can 
 change your allegiance later on) and the game begins. You play a wizard, who is able to cast spells 
 and summon creatures to do your bidding, I will not talk about the plot because I don't want to 
 spoil it for you. In the earlier levels you obviously have only few spells and creatures available, 
 but as the game progresses you gain access to more powerful spells and monsters. You are required 
 to have sufficient amount of mana to cast spells and summon creatures, so you need to build so 
 called Manaliths on mana fountains. You then have a source of mana, but then you must also summon 
 creatures called manahoars which then transfer that mana to you, when you move away from the manalith 
 (otherwise you are manaless) . In most scenarios, your goal is to banish your rival wizards, by 
 desecrating their altars (they can desecrate your also) and the lack of different goals, in general, 
 plays a small role because you'll alway be excited by new spells and monsters, and preoccupied 
 with fighting your rivals. The controls are simple and effective, you control your wizard from 
 3rd person with your usual W S A D controls, cast spells by clicking on the icons on the panel 
 in the bottom of the screen and targeting them on desired creatures or location. You can zoom in 
 and out, rotate left and right via mouse or keyboard, so you will rarely be in a situation where 
 a creature blocks your view. The graphics are simply amazing (considering the game came out in 
 2000) . The engine is capable of rendering vast areas in high res meanwhile displaying a battle 
 of 30+ creatures on the screen battling and wizards casting flashy spells, with no problem. Kinda 
 puts newer games to shame (Oblivion for instance) . Another thing I love about Sacrifice is it has 
 a great replay value. In the game there are 5 gods, and each one has a different set of creatures 
 and spells, plus scenarios, which comes down to you replaying the game again and again. I think 
 that if there is still anyone out there, who loves RTS mixed with fantasy and RPG, look no further. 
 Get a copy of Sacrifice today and join the battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romulus24
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  I have played through this game at least ten times, the story line (which is great) changes depending 
 on your choices and experimenting with the different spells and creatures is a blast and with five 
 seperate gods, each with there own arsenal of spells and creatures, you can easly find yourself 
 wanting to experiment with different combinations. Early levels are easy but the later levels can 
 be really hard. Very easy to get the hang of. Definitely recommended for RTS or RPG fans. The multiplayer 
 is also a blast, but it can be hard to find oppenents, especially ones that might be a challenge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rachaelhourne
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  The soul mechanic works wonders for this action orientated strategy game. The spells are fun to 
 use and the creature summons are imaginative.
  
  The five God factions are likeable characters, and each offer usefull spells and units. Replay 
 value is high via online and offline (in offline mode the campagin can be tackled through a number 
 of paths) .
  
  The graphics and sound are fantastic, with the art style still holding up to this day.
  
  The 
 game can be tough to begin with, but stick with it and it will all of a sudden 'click' and you 
 will have great fun with the game for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zellgod
Rating: 10
Date: May 3, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is such an original. The story line is great. You get to choose from 5 different gods 
 to follow. The voice acting is superior to any game ever created, and yes i am aware this review 
 was written in 2007. The gameplay is very good and the difficulty is oldschool. The graphics are 
 great too for the time and still look absolutely pleasing. I truly believe this is the greatest 
 game is perfect. The fact that you can make your own unique build depending on which god you follow 
 each round adds a ton of replay value. The different battles that occur depending on your choices 
 also adds to replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zipster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Sacrifice was released by Shiny Entertainment in November of 2000. Set in a beautiful, artistic 
 and unique fantasy world, Sacrifice casts you as the wizard Eldred (by default name) , who has traveled 
 to another world in seek of refuge and guidance. From there, the 5 gods of the game respond to 
 Eldred, allowing the player to choose whom to follow. Your decisions in which of the 5 gods to 
 follow clearly affects game play - dictating which ending you'll see, which spells you'll use, 
 which creatures you can summon, and which levels you go to. The story itself focuses on the growing 
 tensions of the five gods, and a prophecy which talks of great destruction. Each of the 5 different 
 gods have their own motives, which allows for things to be different each and every time. The characters 
 of the gods are all very well created, and they all manage to be likeable.
  
  The game play is what sets Sacrifice aside from all the other games out there. Sacrifice is an 
 action RTS (Real time Strategy) . The player controls a wizard manually from a third person perspective. 
 The Wizard is the central force of play, as he or she acts as every important facility that can 
 be found in more traditional RTS games; the Wizard gathers the resources, builds any structures, 
 or produces any units for combat, while also casting his own spells into the midst of the battle. 
 It seems confusing, and at first it can be overwhelming. The game's resources come in two different 
 forms. One is souls, and the other mana.
  
  Souls are used to summon the various creatures in the game. As you level up, you get access to 
 more creatures. A creature can cost anywhere from 1-5 souls to summon - the higher number of souls, 
 the stronger the creature. Every game has a set amount of souls in it, meaning that souls are a 
 very important resource. If you have a soul, that is one less soul your opponent (s) have. If there 
 is only 5 souls in a game, then every soul is drastically important. Souls, likewise, are gathered 
 from fallen creatures - or, can be found just hovering around in some places. When a creature dies, 
 the souls of the creature hover above it. If it was your creature that died, then the soul will 
 appear blue - meaning you can pick it up as it is. If it's an enemy's creature, then the soul must 
 be converted - which costs mana.
  
  Mana is much easier to come by than souls. Throughout every level is what are called mana fountains. 
 These fountains spew mana out of them, replenishing your wizards mana reserves - which is what 
 allows the wizard to do any sort of magic, be it summoning creatures or casting a fireball. The 
 wizard can also take ownership of the mana fountain by making what is called a manalith. The manalith 
 is a building constructed over the fountain which makes it so the fountain transfers mana only 
 to the wizard and his creatures. Mana, as previously stated, is what allows the wizard to do what 
 it is that wizards do. A wizard without mana is worse than a wizard without health. The game play 
 can be fast and frantic, often with upwards of 20 creatures fighting on screen at once, with up 
 to 5 wizards all casting spells in the midst of the battle, thus making it a very intense skirmish. 
 Even when there aren't 4 wizards, the battles can escalate into sheer chaos.
  
  This is partially due because of all the creatures in the game. Sacrifice offers more than 50 different 
 creatures for the player to summon for his disposal. Each of the creatures is unique, and distinct, 
 offering its own advantage to the game. Some of the creatures are small - such as the speedy frostwolf 
 or the pesky gnomes. Others are gigantic, easily 5 times bigger than your wizard such as the monstrous 
 rhinok or devilish hellmouth. The magical spells, of course, also attribute to the carnage of a 
 battle. The spells themselves are spectacular, and like the creatures, all with distinct advantages. 
 Every wizard will have a Heal spell, a speed up spell, and a basic attack spell. The basic attack 
 spell - as well as every other spell aside from Heal and Speed Up - is dependent on the god who 
 granted you that spell. Stratos, for example, will allow a wizard to shoot a bolt of lighting, 
 whilst Pyro will allow the wizard to summon a fireball. The spells are unique, and all serving 
 their distinct purposes. Some spells will rain destruction - or frogs - down onto the enemy, while 
 others will revive downed creatures, put up shields, immobilize enemies, or even create a wall 
 to prevent enemies from moving further. Each god has a super spell, which are the most impressive 
 - and effective - spells in the game. These spells are able to turn the tide of battle with a little 
 bit of luck. Such spells have wizards calling down a giant tornado, which causes enemies to be 
 sucked up into it and tossed about, or causing a gigantic hole to open up in the earth, swallowing 
 whatever is above it. One even causes a massive volcano to erupt from the ground, spewing forth 
 loads of lava, and hurling flaming molten rocks throughout the stage.
  It's all very impressive.
  
  Graphically, Sacrifice shines - even though it's 7 years old. 
 While, not nearly as impressive as the new games that are out, Sacrifices graphics remain stunning 
 and beautiful. Edges can be jaggy, sharp, and squared off, but it hardly seems noticeable unless 
 you're looking to point out the flaws. The wizards are all very well modeled, and each one is unique. 
 The creatures, however, aren't all as unique as the wizards. Creatures such as the earthfling, 
 fallen, and the flame minion all seem to share the basic same model, but are differently textured. 
 There are a few other creatures which are like this - though some of these are even explained in 
 the story. The games effects are all very pretty. Though, the game uses sprites in some situations, 
 the effects are all beautiful. Weather it be watching the Sac doctors dance around the altar sacrificing 
 a fallen creature to your god, or watching as an Abomination pulls out a chunk of intestines and 
 hurls it over a great distance as blood drips off it, staining the ground until it finally splatters 
 in a big bloody mess, it's all very impressive. The game engines handles battle scars very well, 
 and often blood and scorch marks will remain in that spot for a good while. Add this to the fact 
 that the landscape is deformable, and you can really change the face of the battle field. Spells 
 such as Bombardment will hurl giants rocks into the air, which will dent and deform the landscape 
 - often leaving craters or ditches. Sacrifice's sound design is just as impressive as the rest. 
 The main story itself is fully voice acted - and the voice acting is all done wonderfully. The 
 scenes in which the gods are bickering back and forth are often humorous, and the sounds of the 
 various effects all sound just right - whether it be the sound of lighting, or the deep rumble 
 of a volcano about to erupt.
  
  Each of the wizards also features their own voice acting, and they are all very distinct. During 
 the time which a wizard casts a spell, the wizard will chant a few words, and each wizard sounds 
 entirely different, while never standing out as Man, that just sounded stupid. 
  
  More so, each of the 50+ creatures have their own, unique voices and sound effects, which does 
 a wonderful job at giving each critter a personality. Not only do the creatures have basic lines 
 that can be summed up as, Alright and Attack! they even have some extra lines in there which some 
 players might never hear: such as an earthfling saying, Ya got mud on your face, your a disgrace, 
 I will rock you. 
  
  The music itself is epic, and dynamic - as well as customizable if you'd rather listen to your 
 own music in the game. There are various tunes for the different landscapes, as well as various 
 battle tunes, which make battles even more intense.
  
  It can be said that Sacrifice is a game that still shines today, despite being released in 2000. 
 Sacrifice has a lot of flavor, and a great personality, as well as some good humor - what other 
 game lets you cast a spell to drop a gigantic cow onto the head of a foe? The game play is fresh, 
 untraditional, fast, and extremely unique, while the graphics remain visually beautiful thanks 
 to the amazing style and art. The sound is phenomenal and engaging, and the story has various paths 
 allowing for replay value. It even comes complete with a very impressive, yet easy to use level 
 editor to make your own multiplayer maps, or even campaigns. Sacrifice is a one of a kind game, 
 and a cult classic for those who fell in love with it. The game can be found on Amazon for under 
 5$ or even downloaded at http://free-game-downloads. mosw. com/ for a small fee. Anyone who hasn't 
 played Sacrifice is missing out on one of the most unique games released within the last 10 years. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  The game tries to be original and fun, and it succeeds for a time. The landscape is beautiful and 
 characters are great. The graphics were cutting-edge when the game was released. The world was 
 impressive, and the storyline was entertaining. You are basically a wizard outsourcing tasks for 
 the deities, and you really feel like a pawn among Greek Gods.
  
  Graphics
  Fantastic; while the character renderings are dated here in 2007, they still appear original and 
 crazy. The world is massive and really sucks you in. Great particle effects make casting spells 
 and siphoning off mana pleasing to the eyes.
  
  Sound
  Amazing sound with great voice actors and appropriate sound effects. The music typically keeps 
 pace with the mood without being annoying or invasive.
  
  Level Design
  Each stage is thoughtfully laid out with points of advantage during combat and strategic points 
 to hold out.
  
  Gameplay
  The A. I. is very good, too good for my liking. I found some of the battles to go one forever (meaning 
 4-6 hours) without any sort of advancement. The game was so balanced that the scales never tipped 
 either way. This hampered all of the other great factors going for the game (above) .
  
  Conclusion
  While the game was well constructed and is impressive to the senses, the gameplay 
 was inevitably frustrating and overlong. Still, there is no game like it to date, and it's worth 
 playing for a spell if you find a copy in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbobb23
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This is easily one of the best games ever made. Exceptionally innovative, clever, funny, and with 
 amazing gameplay. If you can still find it, it is worth the $5 you might pay. I can't believe I 
 only found it years after it was out. If you enjoy strategy games, or video games at all, you owe 
 it to yourself to check out this tremendous effort. A real gem of originality amid the stale genre 
 of RTS.
  
  This game combines lush first person graphics with a strategy to very good effect. Instead of being 
 the commander from the sky, you are the commander on the ground, leading troops into battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Balthazr
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 22, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  After a huge war, a wizard named Eldred recalls to a friend the horror and devistation of the Battles 
 that led to the final moment and possible the final day of the world to come. Rather you fight 
 for Persephone to gain back peace and purity, or fight for with James, the god of the earth, or 
 maybe you fight for Stratos and bring the world into a time of equal peace and war, or give your 
 hand to Pyro the god of Fire and Industry and let production not halt to a stop, or maybe give 
 your soul to Charnel and bring this world into chaos. The choice is yours, wizard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahatta
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 2, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  I just buy it but i immediately love it. In campaign, you begin by select one of 5 gods: persophone, 
 god of justice, james, god of earth, stratos, god of air, pyro, god of fire and charnel, god of 
 death. The special is that you can choose all 5 gods for 5 missions, example: the first mission 
 you choose james, the second mission you can choose stratos, and the third mission you can choose 
 charnel. This is great, you can have the most powerful army that has the best creature of 5 gods, 
 but notice that, if you always change, you can have an attention says you would lose your grace.
 
  The mission of some gods can be hard or easy, example i can complete the james' second mission 
 easily, but i can't do that with charnel's second mission.
  The graphic is beautiful (of course compare with games same year) , the sound is good too. You can 
 see scary faces on charnel altar, or hear the voice of zyzyx (a bird who going with you for help) . 
 The magic is also great, if you see volcano spell, you will shout: OH, what a scary, unbelievable 
 spell . You can see how dangerous is it if you look at that spell.
  So, come and buy it, you won't disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahad2mail
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  this is really amazing to play a charecter who have gods power! o yah, this is the game. here u find 
 urseld as a magicitian who lost his motherland n also his faith. n gods try to capture u! Here 5 
 gods play the whole world. like god of life, god of wind, god of chaos (fire) , god of earth n god of 
 death. u have to select any of the god n have to play many mission to achive victory all over the 
 world. for this reason, u have to beat other 4 god! each god has their own power n creature. n they 
 are totally different. u can cast various type of spell or can create many creature during the game. from 
 starting, u have an alter. thats ur selected gods alter. if any enemy destroys it, u will be elimineted. so 
 beware to protect ur alter. than go to mission. for cast spell or create creature, u need mana. n mana 
 can be regenarate by mana creature. every time u cast spell or create creature, they regenate ur 
 mana. each god have a unique creature (like level 4 or 5, black dragon ....) and an unique magic 
 spell. like god of chaos have the volcano power, god of death have the angel of death power. like 
 this. the graphysics is astronishing. n the sound is to well. n the gameplay is great tooo. those who 
 love magic n fantasy type game, i bet that they will become fan of it. a great game by shiny entertainment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordgodalming
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 21, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  Sacrifice came to PCs in 2000 courtesy of the same people who made Earthworm Jim and MDK. Shiny 
 Entertainment made it their business to alter genres, and Sacrifice is no exception. The lengthy 
 opening scene to the story, rendered in-game, shows a destroyed world. Apparently it is the homeworld 
 of the main character, a wizard who summoned the demon Marduke in his lust for power. Marduke proved 
 too powerful to control, and it slaughtered everyone on the planet. You can see fallen bodies all 
 over the landscape, complete with the hazy red and blue souls waiting to be used by the next powerful 
 wizard.
  
  The opening levels of Sacrifice teach you pretty much every skill you will use throughout the game, 
 just on a smaller scale. At its core, Sacrifice is a real-time strategy game where you are on the 
 ground with your troops instead of hovering above them, as in Warcraft or Command and Conquer. 
 You begin with your base or altar, and a few souls with which to summon some creatures to fight 
 for you. Your creatures kill some other creatures, which leave souls behind for you to convert 
 and harvest. If it's not obvious yet, Sacrifice carries some deep religious overtones. In fact, 
 the game's name comes from the only way you can win a level -- by sacrificing one of your own creatures 
 at your enemy wizard's altar.
  
  Sacrifice is designed for optimal replay. Before each level, you meet in the realm of the gods, 
 where five gods (one of whom is an earthworm named James...) sit and bicker about your next mission. 
 Whichever god you choose to serve for a particular mission dictates which world you will fight 
 in and which new creature you will be able to summon for the rest of the game. Especially near 
 the end of the game, the missions themselves will be very similar, but the creatures you recieve 
 are often vastly different. This is where the replayability comes in; you could go through the 
 game five times just to try out all of the different creatures.
  
  Lastly, it was obvious that Shiny wanted Sacrifice to look and sound good for a long time. When 
 the game was released, it supported graphical options that did not even exist yet! And instead 
 of having programmers or interns do all of the voice acting -- and there is a lot of speech in this 
 game -- they hired professional actors including A-listers like Tim Curry and Brad Garrett. With 
 Shiny's attention to every detail of aesthetics and gameplay, Sacrifice is literally the most interesting 
 and innovative RTS I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoldoAsesino
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Keeping themselves loyal to their tradition of radical originality, Shiny demonstrates with Sacrifice 
 that strategy games still have some very great things to say, even after the release of StarCraft. 
 For Sacrifice is, perhaps, the most innovative and original strategy game of the history.
  In Sacrifice, you play the role of a sorcerer who, having escaped from the collapse of his planet, 
 traveled through a portal and came to some kind of pantheon where there are five gods. They are 
 Persephone, goddess of forests and life; James, god of earth; Stratos, god of rational intelligence 
 and air; Pyro, god of industry and fire; and Charnel, god of death. Every one of these gods is 
 in desperate need of the services of a sorcerer. Thinking that its a real luck to be an illegal 
 alien (no pun intended) and nevertheless find a good job, you enter the service of one of the gods. 
 Soon, you discover that the five gods are into the dirtiest political struggle you can imagine, 
 trying to achieve supremacy over the land and over the other gods. And that you are their pawn. 
 Add to all of this a prophecy about the imminent end of the world you just arrived into, and you 
 will realize soon that youre into some really big trouble.
  If I had to explain how Sacrifice plays, I would say that it reminds me somewhat of an old game 
 by Looking Glass Studios, Terra Nova. Its a blended mix between strategy games and first-person 
 shooters. The objectives of each mission are varied, but they always involve defeating the sorcerer 
 of the enemy god. This is accomplished by performing a desecrating ritual that consists in sacrificing 
 one of your creatures at the altar of the enemy sorcerer. Of course, you must impede the enemy 
 sorcerer to perform this ritual on your altar. This is not easy, since every god has its exclusive 
 set of creatures and spells that are granted to every sorcerer at the beginning of each level for 
 making the attack and defense an easy task.
  Every strategy game commands you to gather resources in order to have something to spend for the 
 training of units, and Sacrifice is not the exception. Being more logical to a game that has its 
 roots on magic and religion, the resources are mana and souls. Spells cost mana, and creatures 
 are summoned spending souls and mana. In order to have an interesting supply of those, you must 
 claim the property of mana sources that are scattered through the land and you must retrieve the 
 souls of dead units in order to reutilize them summoning new creatures. Souls come in two flavors: 
 blue, corresponding to the souls of your creatures; and red, corresponding of those from the enemy. 
 While blue souls can be collected directly for your sorcerer, red souls must be purified first 
 with a ritual in your altar before being used.
  Plot develops consistently with every level you play and every cutscene you watch, and the narrative 
 is very well arranged in a cinematographical way. But the most impressive thing about it is that 
 you can construct it any way you want. Let me explain this. Each god has a set of nine levels for 
 you to accomplish. Five by nine makes forty-five. But the only requisite you must accomplish to 
 enter the final level is to complete only nine levels of the forty-five. What nine levels to complete, 
 its up to you. You may choose to remain loyal to one god from the beginning to the end of the 
 game. Or you may choose to constantly switch sides between levels. You decide.
  Perhaps, remaining loyal to one god through the whole game is best recommended to beginner players, 
 so they could learn and expertise themselves on the management of that particular gods creatures 
 and spells. After you complete the five campaigns, it is really recommended to switch sides: your 
 sorcerer will accumulate spells and creatures from every god, and its the only way to have THAT 
 excellent spell or critter instead of the lousy one that THAT god grants at the beginning of THAT 
 level. The only limit to this switching is the mood of the gods. Each mission you play has a positive 
 consequence on the mood of some gods, while having negative consequences on the mood of some other 
 gods. If you happen to boycott very frequently the interests of one particular god, he will get 
 angry with you and you wont be able to play his levels again. 
  With that on mind, you have complete freedom to make your way through Sacrifice the way you want. 
 And the impressive part about it is that the plot adapts perfectly to every decision you make. 
 Sacrifices script reminds me very much of those Choose Your Own Adventure books, where the general 
 story is divided on fragments that could be articulated the way the reader chooses. And just like 
 those books invited you to read them again in order to discover the different endings of the story, 
 Sacrifice has a lot of replayability. Just if you decide to remain loyal to one god, you must play 
 it five times in order to complete the level of each god. Imagine if you choose to explore all 
 the possible combinations of the levels. Add to this the premade scenarios and the level editor 
 that come with the game! The only regrettable thing is the complete absence of a randomizer, because 
 that would have been an awesome boost to the replayability of the game.
  About the graphics, they are absolutely impressive. Theres not one single scenario where you dont 
 yell Wow! at every panoramic view. The symphonic soundtrack is absolutely amazing and never sounds 
 pointless. The absurd surrealistic humor the guys at Shiny were so fond of is not absent on Sacrifice: 
 while other gods have Greek names, the god of the earth is called James and is... a giant earthworm 
 with bad attitude. Stratos, god of air, is an astronaut that has a spring on top of his head with 
 a junkie Smiley pin like the ones that were used by the band Nirvana back on the nineties. Every 
 nice Shiny Entertainment trademark is present on Sacrifice; but also is Shinys characteristic 
 frustrating difficulty. Level one is fairly easy, so you get in the mood; level two is a vicious 
 cudgeling. Sometimes, you lose not because of a lack of strategy from your part, but because the 
 game urged you to be at two different places at the same time or to react faster than is humanly 
 possible. Nevertheless, this frustration never matches that from Shinys previous releases, like 
 MDK or Messiah. As a matter of fact, Sacrifice seems better and more carefully designed than any 
 other game released by Shiny.
  To sum up, Sacrifice is perhaps the best game of all the career of Shiny Entertainment; and, although 
 it didnt sell very much at the time of its release, it was deeply influential on subsequent games. 
 After six years, it is still a very good experience to any gamer, and a real threat more than a 
 challenge even to veterans of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AID_Knight
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 23, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  This is one hell of a strange game. It includes mysticism, weird creatures and semi-visible familiars 
 set in its very own world so if you are the kind used to blasting stuff with rifles or rolling 
 tanks into battle, this RTS ain't for you. However, if you like casting spells to support your 
 creatures and desecrating enemy altars, then stick around.
  
  Story:
  
  Let me fill you in on a bit of the story. You start of a wizard wandering through a land filled 
 with death and slaughter. Bodies are common and the land is dead. This is obvious but unless you're 
 dim and blur your familiar Zyzyx will point this out. You find a prophet, Mithras and cure the 
 poor guy of his ailments. He asks you to tell your tale and the rest of the story is a flashback, 
 lead of course by you.
  
  The entire story is different every time giving it much replay value. This is due to the fact that 
 there are so many paths or gods you can choose. However, the God of Slaughter Charnel's missions 
 are a tad difficult.
  
  One of the first things you'll notice is the graphics. Today in 2006 you might either go, "Gee, 
 the graphics aren't too bad for a 6-year old game." or "OMG my eyes are burning out of their sockets!!! 
 The textures suck and the polygons are bloody visible!" I'll go on about the graphics later but 
 for now, lets stick with the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  You find that you the game is set in a Third person mode meaning you look from behind the wizard. 
 The camera control take some time to get used to but when you master them you find them extremely 
 useful in the three dimentional world. There is also a mini map with many icons to ease your management
 
  
  There are two types of resources in the game the ever recharging and omni-present mana, used for 
 spells, abilities and attacking (ranged units) . And the limited and invaluable Souls. Mana is usually 
 easy to get. Your starting altar produces little mana but mana fountains give the most. In order 
 to claim a mana fountain, you build a manalith. This makes sure you and ONLY you get the mana. 
 However when traveling the map, you can't bring a fountain with you. Summon a manahoar to channel 
 the mana to you. Souls are very rare. They are needed for summoning creatures. The only way to 
 get more is to collect lost souls, you own creatures souls, or convert heathen souls.
  
  Taking the tutorial will get you through the basics of the game. You will find this game to be 
 a wonderful mix between the RTS genre and RPG genre. Something that wasn't very common for its 
 time. Strategy lovers will be happy to know that different units have different purposes. Various 
 formations are supplied such as semi-circle, circle, line, phalanx, skirmish and so forth with 
 an added two, flank left and flank right, in the patch. The usual geographical strategies also 
 exist here, typically, hills offer better defense for ranged units against melee units, so on so 
 forth. Also the game uses a common triangle archer vs pikeman, pikeman vs knight, knight vs archer 
 except using its own variation.
  
  For the fantasy lovers, spells are really something to awe at here. Even your lvl 1 Wrath or Lightning 
 can kill low level units instantly. Just imagine when you get spells like volcano or death (my 
 fav BTW) . Also, most creatures have their own special ability like stealth and consume. These of 
 course take up mana and so do ranged units' attacks. There are five different gods each with their 
 own set of units, spells, and enemies. Ally one and fight another basically. Each god also has 
 a different personality which is quite humouress to watch when they argue but pick your sides carefully.
 
  
  One problem I have is that when moving up a mountain, the camera control gets screwed up abit and 
 is difficult to control. Also when battles become large I almost always accidentally target my 
 own units.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Now lets move on to the graphics. The graphics are outdated but for a 2000 game, it sure is good! 
 The entire world is 3D allowing you to explore and exploit everything you see. I still enjoy watching 
 the sky and clouds pass by and sometimes, the rain. If set to high, you can see the flowers on 
 the ground and the little village people gossip or run away as they see a fire ball headed their 
 way.
  
  The texture resolution isn't all that great. You can still see the polygons poke out every here 
 and there but remember, its a 2000 game.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound in this game is just great! The voice acting is oh-so-real and the sound effects are 
 enough to make you jump out of your seat. When casting a spell or summoning, you wizard mumbles 
 and chants incantations that are never repeated twice! I did notice that a few of the incantations 
 are Latin ex. Carpe Diem. The incantations also include clap trap and blather like pejorative and 
 sanctu or something, but it all fits.
  
  The music in the game seems to always fit. It just suits the atmosphere so well. Whether snow world, 
 grassy lands or desert rock the music just seems to seep in. However, when you start to fight, 
 the music becomes aggressive and bloody.
  
  Some creatures do sound a bit annoying and repetitive.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  The multiplayer 
 is good. It offers several gameplay modes such as, Slaughter, and Skirmish. You are allowed to 
 ally with other players who use other gods so you can combo different gods and get many cool things. 
 A basic example is using Charnel's Styxs to push while Persephone can use her Healing Aura or Rainbow 
 spell.
  Another good Charnel-Persephone combo is the plague-rain of frogs. Plague poisons and repeatedly 
 damages units in an area for several seconds while rain of frogs slows disables them from escaping 
 their demise. Quite ironic because Charnel and Persephone are natural enemies.
  
  The only problem I find in mulitplayer is the lack of Tcp/IP. However, this is fixed in the patch 
 also.
  
  Pros:
  -Replay value
  -Storyline
  -Many different spells and creatures
  -Perfect atmosphere
  -Multiplayer mayhem!
  
  Cons:
  -A few camera problems
  -Some texture 
 and polygon annoyance
  -Lack of Tcp/IP (fixed) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Sacrifice is kinda like the ultimate RTS Black and White produced by the amazing peoples of lionhead 
 studios (Creators of excellent Fable) . Sacrifice dosnt just make you point and click from a sort 
 of birdsye view... it actually puts you in the game. You are a mighty wizard who is kind of like 
 a fantasy mercenary who does different jobs for different gods! Basically in the midst of doing 
 these jobs you cant fight alone.... you need an army! The game is more fighting than it actually 
 is building the odd building. As a wizard you dont need to train your mythical army... you summon 
 them right then and there! Build the odd occasional little "Mana lithe" or "Summoning pool" but 
 basically you just summon an army. In order to be able to summon this army you need sould. You 
 can venture a huge battle ground which allows you to find corpses that have little soul floating 
 above them!!!
  A man come down and collects to souls for you! Its pretty in depth and hard to explain if you dont 
 actually have the game! Even though its pretty old its still a recommended buy!
  
  Overall with excellent similarites to black and white, violence, good sounds and music there should 
 be nothing wrong with this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahamut50
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  When your looking for a game, some people just want the usual. sequels sequels and yes, more sequels. but 
 there are others who want something new, something original and different from their gaming experience. 
 they look far and wide for these kind of games and usually, they are dissapointed. but then this 
 game came out of no where, and it was original, and it was different, and it was great. this is 
 a game for people who just need a change in their normal gaming experience.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this is definetly the best part of the game. a third person strategy 
 game, in which you collect souls from fallen enemies in order to summon armies of your own, crazy 
 creatures. the concept of fighting on a battleground while still maintaining that strategic element 
 with a hint of action? count me in. there are very cool and effective spells to be used here, like 
 a volcano to torch your enemies, or a tornado to send em spinning through the air. the story mode 
 in this game is fun, structured well, and you will want to play it again just to do things differently. 
 it made you want to try crazy amount of things, like having a regiment of mana creatures to keep 
 you casting those crazy spells and summoning those huge mighty creatures. there are 5 races of 
 creatures in this game, ranging from earth to fire to nature, to death and even ice/air. the gameplay 
 made this game fresh, and even now there isnt much like this. while you may like some other things 
 better, they will never be as unique as something like this. a big 10 here
  
  Graphics: Back then, this was actually a very high quality game in graphics, with a few little 
 flaws in frame rate, but mostly just great, strange looking floating islands. there are volcanic 
 areas, frozen tundras, large mountainous wastelands, green plains littered with trees, and different 
 towns to see. the creatures and wizards all look strange and unique, and they never get boring. 
 they change some normal design techniques and are much more interesting than some character design 
 from now. overall, graphics is a big sucess, and you cant contend with sucess. a big 9 here
  
  Sound: The voice acting in this is varied, delivered well, and makes you just want to listen 
 to the gods bicker and argue. each character is done well, like the main character and sidekick, 
 eldred and zyzyx. you just shouldnt miss out on the level of quality this game has in voice acting. 
 music is somewhat unique, but not on the level that graphics and gameplay has put up. it has the 
 basic scores that work well, but not exceptionally so. either way, this does not detriment from 
 the game. a good 7 here
  
  Value: like i said, unique games tend to have alot more value then your average first person shooter, 
 because its just so different to play a strange game and you just wanna do it again and again till 
 youve seen all there is to see. Sacrifice can easily last you a long time in gameplay, and it never 
 really gets boring. overall a fun game that can last you a long time. a 9 here
  
  tilt: i just couldnt get enough of the unique gaming experience found in sacrifice, and although 
 my cd doesnt work now, i plan to get another copy, and relive the magic allover again. this game 
 wont quit. not now, not ever. a nice 10 here
  
  in summary, i found this game to be of a quality rarely found now a days, with all these "great 
 and unique" games that come with next-gen, and i still feel that the next generation can not start 
 until games like this, amazing, strange and unique, come back into style. well done sacrifice, 
 and thank you for trying to be different 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mort2fire
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The world of Sacrifice is one of fantastic magical power and mysticism. According to the ancient 
 texts, the Creator -- in a strangely Biblical sense -- gave some of his own life-force to give 
 birth to the world and all its creatures. Everything was peaceful until the Fallen One predictably 
 came with destruction and chaos in mind, somehow managing to overthrow the Creator, banishing him 
 to the nether regions of the universe. Much of the land was laid to waste during this conflict, 
 and things began to go awry, with horrible mutations springing to life out of the ground. In the 
 midst of this peril, five new gods arose to fill the place vacated by the creator. Each of these 
 gods has a representative ideology such as nature, order, or chaos that makes them stand out from 
 the rest of the pack. Pyro, for instance, is the God of Destruction, yet he considers himself a 
 bringer of light and truth that perpetuates the advancement of society through conflict, in which 
 the weak die and the strong survive to become even better adapted. Each of the other four gods 
 suffer from similar arrogance, believing that the one right and true way is the one which they 
 advocate. Much like the Olympian deities of old, these beings are constantly bickering over who 
 is the greatest, or who has the best philosophy. From the arguments often rise heated battles, 
 wherein the gods send out their forces to battle. Thus far, no clear winner has emerged. Through 
 a combination of courage and cunning you will attempt to win a decisive victory, for whichever 
 side you decide to take. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yakkabe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This unique game combines a levelling up strategy and a very open-ended storyline with all the 
 army-building and strategic point-holding of an RTS, making for an extremely enjoyable and immensely 
 replayable experience.
  
  Graphics: It came out in 2000, but on a high-end machine, this game still looks spectacular. The 
 environments are staggeringly and distracringly beautiful, and the character shadows are superb. 
 However, there does seem to be an odd bug, where without the settings all the way up, a tree or 
 a building will occasionally try to realign itself, even when you're not moving, making it look 
 like someone's hitting it repeatedly with a baseball bat. You tend to get used to it.
  
  Sound/Music: Sacrifice uses orchestral music, written by Kevin Manthei and performed by the Laguna 
 Pacific Orchestra. The music is absolutely fantastic, kicking up from tranquil background music 
 into a riveting battle theme whenever you meet the enemy head-on. In the midst of combat, you can 
 hear your creatures exchanging blows, throwing taunts, and crying out in pain. It's quite immersive.
 
  
  Story: You play as a wizard named Eldred (You can change his name) who has apparently just fled 
 his old home and arrived at a strange new world, home of 5 quarrelling, bickering gods full of 
 personality. You are welcomed in, and begin to serve them, but soon, your past catches up with 
 you...
  
  Depending on which God you serve for each mission, some of them will begin to refuse your services, 
 and you'll eventually be left with only one that will still offer you missions. The story becomes 
 drastically different depending on how you play it.
  
  Gameplay: This is where Sacrifice is truly unique. Rather than control your creatures from high 
 above, you run amongst them as a spellcaster and supporter. You have a mana bar and a health bar. 
 In the campaign mode, you start with only 3 spells and 3 creatures, gaining a more powerful one 
 of each on each new level, but playing multiplayer, you gain experience by casting spells and killing 
 enemies.
  Other than your mana, your only other resource is souls. That's right, if one of your creatures 
 dies, you must run over to the corpse and grab his soul if you want to summon another one. Some 
 of the bigger creatures need more than one. You can only grab your own creatures' souls, but when 
 an enemy creature dies, you can try to convert it by sacrificing it back at your altar (This really 
 is quite pagan, isn't it?) . Also, in this game, death is not the end. When your health bar hits 
 zero, you die and become spectral. Then you can come back using any source of mana, regroup and 
 still win. To defeat your opponent, you need to desecrate their altar by sacrificing one of your 
 own creatures on it. It takes some getting used to, but it's an astounding concept. The only problem 
 is that a single battle can last for an extremely long time when there's a free for all with 4 
 different wizards in the middle of a melee dying and respawning nonstop.
  
  Fun: When the game starts, it's almost impossible to lose, but some of the last levels are nearly 
 impossible, especially if you made some poor choices along the way. And the open-ended story leaves 
 you coming back again and again.
  
  Overall:
  Highs: Beautiful graphics and music, challenging gameplay, very unique perspectives in every aspect.
 
  Lows: Minor visual glitches, annoying in-game advisor, hard as hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2004 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2000, here comes Sacrifice which is a fabulous evolution of the RTS genre not really matched 
 in its category for some time: fantasy worlds governed by sarcastic gods, inside where the player 
 must find his way to desecrate altars while commanding diverse armies of creatures. Each kind of 
 creature has its strenghts and weaknesses, being vastly representative of a RPG legacy, yet you 
 have to control them like a twisted battalion from a world war sim. Here however, you have to travel 
 within large imaginary landscapes, from bucolic to scorched depending for which god you ( try ) 
 fulfill the mission. The whole construct seems to be just right calibrated; the SP campaign is 
 greatly timed, and lets the player to choose gods and missions for a maximum representing a minority 
 of the total available: lots of replayability here. Some of them can be quite hard, if not frustrating, 
 particularly a couple in the Stratos govern.
  
  The graphics are just simply amazing with all the texturing and details for the release date, at 
 times when most PC owners weren't able to run the game properly at max settings. Even at medium, 
 some stuttering was not uncommon and sadly altering a bit an otherwise ambitious gameplay. The 
 characters are superbly animated within amazing colored meshes. The match is astounding. The sound 
 code is equally professionally done; the gods voiceovers are an entertaining audio show not to 
 be missed, while in-game coding is nicely toned. Some may remember having watched the lenghty ending 
 sequence, when the eruptions begin the framerates drop drastically to 5-10 fps! Ouch.
  
  The potential of all Sacrifice's mechanics is indeed impressive, adding a complexity to the genre. 
 This comes at a price to be overlooked by the mass of gamers, as it is the destiny for every gem 
 too hardcore, and hard to master. Regardless, it has a surprisingly good fun factor for every RTS 
 addict ( and RPG at some extent ) . The missions are varied throughout huge environments enriching 
 the progress. Clearly the design has some lasting appeal for the strategist spousing fantasy in 
 all lighting flashy aspects. Though Sacrifice remains almost alone in the gameplay compound, many 
 of the 2003-2004 MMORPGs are loosely reminiscent of it regarding the environmental design. Another 
 great title almost forgotten ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zechis
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 17, 2004 2:12 am PT
Review:  You play as a wizard, exiled from another world that has just been destroyed by a powerful being, 
 Marduk. You arrive on a new planet governed by 5 gods: Persephone, Charnel, James, Pyro, and Stratos. 
 Each god offers you tasks to complete, each with their own set of creatures and spells at your 
 disposal for the duration of the mission. The stories for the missions are all different but intertwine 
 at the end. You destroy all other gods but the one you work for the most often. The last mission 
 you go up against Marduk himself.
  A graphically rich, third-person, real-time strategy/spell-casting game. The main currency of the 
 game is souls. You use them and mana to cast spells that create your creatures. Mana regenerates 
 over time if you are nearby a mana spout, either unowned or one you have built a manalith or shrine 
 over. When you are far away from your manaliths, a manahoar creature draws mana to you. You must 
 attack the other wizard and his/her creatures. When your creatures die, make sure to pick up their 
 souls for reusing in another creature. When an enemy wizards creature dies, it leaves souls that 
 must be cleansed first. Cleansing is accomplished by summoning a sac doctor which carries the 
 soul back to your altar/shrine and sacrifices the creature to obtain its soul for you. When you 
 run out of health, you become ethereal, unable to cast spells, but still able to control your creatures. 
 You can return to the physical world by standing near your manalith/shrine/manahoars and acquiring 
 enough mana. You win the mission by desecrating one or more wizards' altars by sacrificing one 
 of your creatures at it, and killing the owning wizard.
  This is a very unique game with very interesting gameplay. Some of the dialog is simply hilarious 
 and you are able to take many different paths through the story by choosing the missions of different 
 gods in different orders. Unfortunately, controlling the creatures is a bit difficult (especially 
 when they are behind you) . It often ends up becoming a game of: defend your altar, kill the enemy 
 creatures, steal their souls until the enemy wizard has none left, and then systematically taking 
 over the enemy manaliths until you reach their altar. The other game modes extend the replay of 
 this game a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mozart
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 9, 2004 8:12 am PT
Review:  Although this is an ancient game, it is one of the best games I've ever played. Unfortunately, 
 it requires a great deal of patience when you first start off, but the rewards are plenty if you 
 stick with it. Since the replay value is nearly infinite, you won't have any trouble playing the 
 game over and over. Although the music is repetitive, it never gets tiring and the graphical effects 
 still are fun to watch.
  
  The gameplay is of the rock/scissors/paper concept, so you need to take this into account to enjoy 
 the game. As you play the game, you soon get use to the make-up of your enemies forces, so you 
 can create creatures that can counter these. If you build a certain set of creatures and they are 
 quickly crushed, then you have the wrong set. Adding spells and enemy wizards to the mix makes 
 it all the more enjoyable.
  
  The reviewer notes that it's tough to recover if the odds are not in your favor, but I've played 
 many levels where I was, what I thought was hopelessly down, but not out. It's cool when you win 
 these.
  
  It's too bad that there will probably never be a sequel to this game considering Shiny's future. 
 Nevertheless, I'm still glad I have the game and can play it even after all these years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMM-1
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2003 1:11 pm PT
Review:  At first I really enjoyed Sacrifice. Sure, combat was a little messy and confusing, but in the 
 end there seemed to be enough control to handle a battle and come out victorious. The graphics 
 were great and it was a very unique idea that offered a lot of varying ways to play. 
  
  But as time went on and the battles became more involved, the complexity of control became a significant 
 hindrance for me. Also, I started getting really annoyed at situations where logically I should 
 have no problem winning the battle but somehow (and I never figure out why) all of a sudden all 
 of my creatures are dead and I'm being overrun. I'm sure some folks reading this will say that 
 I'm just a sore loser, but I really felt that the battle logic didn't make sense in these situations 
 and after it happened to me about 4 or 5 times I stopped playing. I've had much greater (and funner) 
 challenges with Warcraft III or AOEII where logic prevails and your strategic competence is rewarded 
 by victory. Anyway, I might go back and try Sacrifice again, but with so many other great games 
 available, I might never make it.... and I won't be sad about it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
