-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sacred 2: Fallen Angel
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/sacred2fallenangel/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid, if mostly traditional game design.
 Wide range of quests.
 Good variety of enemies and monsters.
 Gorgeous visuals and offbeat audio.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bugs make the game unstable.
 World map is massive and convoluted.
 Poorly developed main plot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.1, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 690 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Ascaron Ent. GmbH
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Nov 11, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Although Sacred 2: Fallen Angel doesn't break any new ground, it does impressive work freshening 
 up an old formula. 

  Hack. Slash. Grab loot. Repeat. That formula is followed to a tee in Sacred 2: Fallen Angel, another 
 action-first RPG you can toss onto the pile atop Diablo, Titan Quest, and the first Sacred, now 
 more than four years old. But this isn't just another paint-by-numbers take on the fast-clicking 
 genre that gave too many of us carpal tunnel syndrome. While the new game hews closely to the modus 
 operandi of traditional hack-and-slash role-players, it offsets the lack of innovation with a monster-slaying 
 rhythm guaranteed to hook you so thoroughly that you might as well have been hypnotized. This, 
 plus a decidedly offbeat sense of humor and great multiplayer support, makes the game stand apart 
 from the pack.  

           Dungeon crawls in Sacred 2 are relatively rare, but always dramatic and spooky.      

 
  As usual with clickfest role-players, there isn't much here in the way of plot. Bad things are 
 going down in the D&amp; D-style land of Ancaria, and you play either the noble hero who can set 
 everything right in the light campaign or the evil villain who can wreak even more havoc in the 
 campaign of shadows. The main plot isn't well laid out at all, particularly in the beginning. You 
 can figure out on your own that problems are brewing with the High Elves and T-Energy, a glowing 
 blue substance pumped all over the land in what look to be oil pipelines, and hone in on the main 
 story by forgoing side quests for plot-oriented ones (which is easy to do as side quests are marked 
 with gray circles on the map and story quests are marked with orange ones) . But beyond that, nothing 
 is given any serious dramatic push.  

  At least the game keeps you busy. Running around handling tons of quests is always in the forefront, 
 which gives everything a hectic, odd-job feel. It's as if the game is constantly building toward 
 something, but never gets there. Just when you think you're going to finally find out what the 
 deal is with the elves and the T-Energy going nutso, you're instead hit with another apparently 
 random assignment to find rare herbs for a potion, search a graveyard for a lost chicken, find 
 somebody's missing spouse, kill a bunch of undead, or whatever. Only the sheer number of quests, 
 their good variety, and the way that the game constantly hits you with these rat-a-tat-tat errands 
 keeps you interested. It's tough to get bored when you have over a dozen quests on the go. Still, 
 the massive size of the map will occasionally annoy you. A lot of time is spent hoofing it from 
 Point A to Point B to solve or wrap up quests, as the game's teleportation system is awkward and 
 lacking in gates. At times, you'll think the world feels unnecessarily big, and that you're spending 
 more time in transit than you are killing monsters and collecting loot.  

  Most of Sacred 2's character is actually provided through visuals and sound. This is a real looker, 
 with gorgeous sylvan scenes that include flower-strewn fields, dense forests, and babbling brooks, 
 along with mountain and desert terrain reminiscent of postcards. Load times are practically nonexistent, 
 except for those odd moments when you venture below ground for a bit of dungeon-crawling. Added 
 details are everywhere, particularly in the towns and villages that seem to have been laid out 
 by master architects and landscapers. The only drawback to the countryside is that it is often 
 too meticulously sculpted. There are lots of impassable cliffs, uncrossable rivers, and impenetrable 
 bushes, forcing you to check with the full-screen map constantly to avoid wandering into a dead 
 end or cul-de-sac. Unless you're one of those people who never gets lost, you will run into a lot 
 of "can't get there from here" moments. Character art and animation are equally superb. Many creatures 
 in the game are given distinctive touches that separate them from fantasy archetypes. Kobolds here, 
 for instance, are wizened gnomes with massive schnozzes, not the little lizard-goblin things of 
 D&amp; D fame. Earth elementals are muddy flying spirits. And even more generic fantasy monsters 
 tend to show off at least one distinctive design element, such as the weird, spiky helmets on the 
 skeletal undead. Each type of creature also generally comes in a half-dozen or more varieties with 
 differing appearances and abilities, from grunts all the way up to bosses.  

           God-given powers like Will-O-Wisp come with blinding light shows befitting their divine 
 origins.      

  Audio adds even more personality. Background music and battle effects deal in the usual Renaissance 
 fair string plucking and sword clashing, but the game also has a unique take on some of the tunes 
 and the character voices. Part of the soundtrack consists of licensed songs from German hair-metal 
 band Blind Guardian, most notably a title track so gloriously stupid that you can't help banging 
 your head to the opening cinematic. Character lines occasionally consist of droll commentaries 
 that break the fourth wall. Dying enemies will mutter things like, "I knew it, I'm nothing more 
 than an extra" and "I know where you parked your car, player!" Heroes shout typical battle cries 
 along with comments such as, "My statistics continue to improve."     

  Game mechanics similarly blend the stereotypical and offbeat. There are six prerolled characters 
 to choose from when starting your adventure, ranging from genre standards like the High Elf mage 
 and the Seraphim battlemage to the decidedly weird Temple Guardian warrior, a robot version of 
 the ancient Egyptian god Anubis who clanks around Ancaria with a melee weapon and a laser blaster. 
 Basic character stats and skills are handled in roughly the same way as in any other RPG. You gain 
 experience, level up, dole out points to attributes like strength and charisma, and pick from a 
 skill tree that branches out to deal with everything from proficiencies with specific weapons to 
 foot speed to ability regeneration times. Each character class also comes with special abilities, 
 and can choose a god at the start of the game that bestows an added attribute. The latter powers 
 function a lot like souped-up smart bombs, and they take a long time to regenerate after being 
 used. They all come with big-time pyrotechnics and effects that can instantly end battles against 
 even the largest hordes of enemies. The Will-O-Wisp, for example, can incinerate dozens of foes 
 at the same time as it heals your friends.  

           Extra details that flesh out the gameworld can be found everywhere, like this candle-lit 
 roadside shrine that forms the perfect backdrop for a midnight duel with an elven thief.      

 
  You do get tossed a few welcome curveballs, however. There are no magic points or mana to manage. 
 Special abilities revive over set periods of time based on current skill level and the use of magic 
 runes found throughout the game. Loot drops can be scooped up with the single click of a button, 
 making the after-battle cleanup a snap. Mounts can be purchased fairly early on in the game to 
 crank up the offensive abilities of every character class. Many items come with penalties. The 
 protection of better armor, for example, is often offset by how it slows down hit-point regeneration. 
 Anyone with RPG experience will find this restriction hard to accept, as it runs just about exactly 
 opposite to every other game in the genre, where better equipment almost always improves your abilities 
 across the board. And the multiplayer is very thorough. LAN and online support is offered for up 
 to 16 players, and you can freely move in and out of multiplayer and solo campaigns with the same 
 character, keeping all items and experience no matter where you earned them. Online play is smooth 
 and lag-free, and feels like a natural extension of the single-player game, albeit with some connection 
 problems at present (see below) .  

  Unfortunately, a few unwelcome curves are also present in the form of a fair number of bugs. Characters 
 can fall through floors and get stuck in the scenery, or wind up jammed in apparently clear areas 
 and then have to stagger through them like they're doing some kind of staccato mime routine. Enemies 
 sometimes lock into an animation and continue to go through the motions of attacking even after 
 they've been killed and can't actually touch you. Allied artificial intelligence is very screwy. 
 Buddies with attacking abilities wander all over the place gooning packs of enemies best avoided. 
 Even worse, friends without combat skills act as catnip for monsters. Whenever you're escorting 
 some defenseless person to a quest, for instance, baddies often ignore you entirely and chase the 
 helpless character all over the map. This forces you to in turn run them down in what plays out 
 like an RPG take on an old Benny Hill sketch. Allies also often get mixed up with the scenery, 
 and walk around with their lower bodies well below terra firma. Resolving most of these problems 
 requires a save and reload, which is a pain because the game offers no save on demand. Instead, 
 you have to save and exit to the main menu, which can lose you some progress in the gameworld as 
 you get knocked back to the last resurrection monument when you restart. None of the problems here 
 is common enough to really destabilize the game, but there are so many different issues that you 
 can never quite relax and assume that you won't encounter some quirk or crash that will set back 
 your progress.  

           Gangs of goons attack you constantly, even when it doesn't make much sense. Should the 
 undead really be rampaging through grassy fields on a sunny summer afternoon?      

  Even worse technical glitches also plague the game in its current state. Crashes drop the game 
 to the desktop every so often. This typically takes place during transition loads when going from 
 one area to another while playing solo. Multiplayer is a little wonky online. It can be really 
 tough to get connected, as the servers seem to fill up pretty quickly during prime hours in both 
 Europe and North America. There are different servers for each region, although you still tend 
 to have to wait until the wee hours of the morning to be sure you can get in a game. The game also 
 has a tendency to reject legitimate user passwords, preventing you from logging in. These two problems 
 might actually be related, as many posters at the official forum believe that the "password not 
 found" error message pops up by mistake when the servers are full.  

  Although you've already seen just about everything that Sacred 2: Fallen Angel has to offer, the 
 game is impressive enough that it seems more exciting and fresh than dull and familiar. It could 
 use a patch to clean up some of the instability, and more efficient ways to move around the map, 
 but this is still the best action-oriented RPG to come along since Titan Quest, and a truly addictive 
 experience in its own right.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Prince_Reynart
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 27, 2009 4:07 pm PT
Review:  The original Sacred was a truly frustrating experience for players. It looked great, had a fantastic 
 new take on the standard  story, and gave some real depth and 
 intrigue to its characters. This was all there to enjoy if you could get over the bug-riddled game-play, 
 which no amount of updating seemed to fix. Eventually, with the release of Sacred Gold, the game 
 reached a point where the bugs could be tolerated enough to enjoy the game, but by that stage, 
 most players had given up.
  
  So, you'd think it would be safe to assume that the developers at Ascaron learnt from this experience, 
 and would work to ensure that their prequel  Sacred 2: Fallen Angel  would not fall into the 
 same trap, right? Wrong. Oh, so very, VERY wrong. The bugs and game-play glitches this time around 
 will actually leave players pausing the game to fondly remember the now-seemingly benign glitches 
 of Sacred 1. At least, it would if you could pause the game! Instead, you'll have to endure the 
 quests which automatically fail as soon as you accept them; frantically twirling your suddenly 
 invisible character around to escape the building you just entered; special mounts you spent hours 
 obtaining evaporating or getting locked into an un-mountable position; and various other annoyances 
 that accumulate to the point where pets, family members and other ones had better stay out of kicking-range 
 and get used to the crazed gleam in your eye that comes with spending a few hours with this game.
 
  
  Should you persevere with the game (perhaps take up meditating in between restarts from yet another 
 crash) , there are some engaging and enjoyable elements. The characters and environments look beautiful, 
 the 6 different campaign stories are engaging (I challenge anyone to not develop at least a small 
 lump in their throat when playing as the Temple Guardian) , and there are a dizzying array of side-quests 
 to keep you occupied. There's also action aplenty, and you'll find the temptation to be led astray 
 to yah mightily smite thy enemies at times irresistible.
  
  Sadly though, this just isn't enough to compensate for the mountain of frustrating bugs that beset 
 you. Once again, we may just have to wait until the arrival of an improved Gold edition to get 
 the game that this should have been from the start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zduartepereira
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 2:46 am PT
Review:  I like this game a lot and I have been playing it for the last two weeks. RPG is my favourite style 
 of computer games and this one is a good game. The only think that I do not like too much is that 
 sometimes it is very repetitive, specially in fighting too much along the way. For example, if 
 we get back at the same places we have been before, we have to do the same again, and kill everybody 
 again, thats the only point that makes the game a little boring. The rest is ok and simple. It 
 needs a very good video card, to appreciate the great graphics. Also very good game controls. Six 
 explendid characters with lots of different skills, many people and monsters to fight, fine and 
 exquisite equipment for every class, nice places to explore and lots and lots of quests to complete. 
 A very big world that seems to never end. In conclusion, and like I said before, it is a very addictive 
 game for all people that like big quests and have the time to explore a big world and play for 
 hours and hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gondor235
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 12:12 pm PT
Review:  So sacred 2 is an action role-playing game. it is the sequel in the sacred series but a prequel 
 game to the first. The game world is massive. Take Diablo 2 and multiply it by 10, that will give 
 you Ancaria. One of Ascaron's highly acclaimed features of the game proved to be its saving grace. 
 Let's start off with the bad things about the game to get it out of the way. The game is a bit 
 buggy, lets all face it, however i have seen worse. This game i would say definetley needs a clean 
 install of your OS, or just make sure your computer is clean from alot of junkie software. The 
 story of the game sounds quite riveting on the internet but is not told well in the game itself. 
 Prior to releasing the game Ascaron made a huge deal out of the side quests and how many there 
 were. Yes, it would keep gameplay going on for hours but unfourtunatley i found that all the side 
 quests burried the story of the main quest. And finally, the game offers multiplayer LAN but i 
 highly suggest that players take precautions before playing LAN games, it doesn't save quest data 
 only character data so every time you start playing the LAN game again you must re-do all your 
 quests again. (*BTW, apparently this wasn't the case before a few patches, hopefully they'll fix 
 this.) Now for the good things. Sacred 2 has great gameplay, i was a little dissapointed when all 
 the physical character customization such as the hair styles was not included in the game. But 
 it is still fun to play. The classes arent all exciting but are decent to play. The graphics are 
 stunning and would definetley recommend upgrading for this game because it is truly worth it and 
 it makes all the difference trust me. Some quests such as the character specific ones are a bit 
 interesting and make for some depth in the storyline. the spell customization is also a neat feature 
 as it helps players tweak their characters more and more to their preferences. The mounts in this 
 game are fun i wish however the high elves and inquisitors were more exciting and well cooler to 
 play with. Overall, the game is not a masterpiece but is a fun past time and is HIGHLY addictive 
 so i definetley reccomend it. Also another quick thing to know the game allows only 2 activations 
 with the one key code so just remember that.
  
  Enjoy playing :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: space_loner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 6:11 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people out there seem to think that action RPGs are relics from the past... a genre not 
 worth expanding upon. Certainly there are a lot of good things to be said about the new wave of 
 first person RPGs, but there is still something highly addictive about monster bashing and loot 
 whoring as you escalate to ever higher levels and begin dishing out ever greater damage. Even if 
 nothing really changes except the numbers on the screen it can still enthrall you for hours on 
 end. What I heard Diablo 2 still has a respectable player base? XD
  
  Of all the action RPGs out there, Sacred 2 is the one that got it right. Classes are well balanced, 
 different skills are well thought out. Everything in the game looks great and the sound track is 
 immersive and appealing. Best of all there is plenty of room for advancement with over 200 levels, 
 hoards of different beasts in a gigantic world map, and endless different kinds of loot.
  
  People who have played Diablo 2, or any of the other action RPGs out there, won't be surprised 
 by Sacred 2's bash-grab-repeat formula, and indeed the game feigns no effort at innovation. After 
 all, why fix something if it isn't broken? On the one hand you can scoff at the mindless tedium 
 associated with doing the same quests and killing the same monsters over and over again; on the 
 other hand you could actually play the game, and find it is impossible to stop.
  
  Sacred 2 does provide one very important innovation that is missed by pretty much every official 
 review out there. It takes some time to notice this, but, 20 hours into the game you begin to realize 
 Sacred 2 is a hell of a lot deeper than all the other ARPGs are there. Gone are the days of strictly 
 increasing skill levels and item quality. Everything good thing in Sacred 2 also comes with a drawback. 
 Spending too much skill points, investing too heavily into your combat arts, or always equipping 
 the ostensibly best armor could all end up coming back to bite you in the ass. The direct result 
 of this intricate balance between the pros and cons of each decision you make allows for a much 
 greater ability to customize your heroes. Sure, in other ARPGs you could also build your character 
 1000 different ways, but there is always just one "right" one. Not so in Sacred 2, as every build 
 has its own unique advantage it is actually correct to say that there are infinite viable ways 
 to play Sacred 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astrith81
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 2:32 am PT
Review:  I've waited for this game for a long time. Very long time. At first I was amazed. It looked just 
 beautiful! Great graphics, a lot of funny quests and Blind Guardian :) Ok, but, yes of course there 
 is a "but". So the game's crashing heavily, sometimes slows down, and gets boring or rather uninteresting 
 in some point. 
  Issues with crashes and slowing have been resolved by quite few patches (large ones) - I had a 
 feeling that a PC version is just a test before X-box, but maybe it's just my opinion.
  
  The game itself:
  6 chars, nice, but... but in my opinion they should be rearranged, the skills 
 I mean. Ok maybe not the sorceress, but Warrior and Inquisitor - definitely!! Inquisitor might 
 be the most interesting char to play but the skills have been misplaced and its not such a good 
 fun to play... 
  After 30-40 hours I had enough! Although I managed to finish the game with my Sorceress. The bosses 
 are rather weak, I was lacking a real challenge! Like in D2 trying to kill Diablo on my own! That 
 was hard! 
  
  Ok to summarize - it's nice game, really good-looking but I'm lacking something. Maybe the atmosphere, 
 maybe interesting characters to play with, maybe harder opponents. 
  The game is worth playing, it's quite good, but... but it's not Diablo... ;-)
  
  Cheers 
 
  Kuba 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ercan
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 11, 2009 1:54 pm PT
Review:  After 10 hours of play it got's boring. Walking is very difficult from all the various enemies 
 that attacks you all the time in a group of 10 or 15 every second. The transport system is very 
 bad so practically you'll have to walk wast distances for minor sub-quests. The map is very big 
 and there are millions of sub-quests did I mention the enemies? There is no interaction or a two 
 way dialogue with characters so the game feels empty.
  
  I failed to see the main storyline in the game so in short it goes like this: fighting, walking, 
 fighting, walking, fighting,... fighting, completing meaningless quests fighting, walking,.... 
 It reminds me of "Diablo" but with x 100 the enemies. So before you start playing make sure you 
 have a high quality mouse and prepare your your finger for extreme clicking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobk90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 5:29 am PT
Review:  I can't see how anyone can rate 'Sacred 2' lower than a 9.0! I bought my HP PC in December 2006 
 with a Intel dual core2, 1.86mhz chip, 2mb Ram and bought a GeForce 7100 card 256mb for gaming. 
 The game has everything you could want: Story, Graphics, Sound, Huge World, Online and tech support 
 that is unmatched. People who complain about bugs, story, gameplay etc. are just whiners! The Critic 
 Score of 7.0 by GS has no reviews and 7.8 by Users must be Diablo 1 or 2 nut cases, Titan Quest 
 losers or simply put, just haters!!! They are Totally Wrong and Incorrect about Sacred 2 !!!!! 
 There are plenty of games out there that are released but are actually Betas with crappy support. 
 Sacred 2 support for the game is unmatched and they listen to the users regarding any patches, 
 expansions and upcoming realeases. Check out Sacred 2 website and the user forums to see the truth! 
 This is a Great RPG Game bar none! Go buy the game and enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melaniebrian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I didnt like this game at first. In fact I played it for about 20 minutes and I thought it sucked, 
 was mad that I didnt get a diffrent game and planned to uninstall it. My roomate insisted I wait, 
 he wanted to play it because he loved Diablo and Titan Quest so he asked me to leave it on my computer. 
 So a few weeks go by and hes constantly on my comp playing it, he loved it! So, finally, because 
 i kept kicking him off he bought his own copy. So I ended up going back and playing it and now 
 im completely addicted. 
  This is an excellent point and click rpg, obviously in the style of Diablo. And if you liked Diablo 
 your going to like this. Graphics are great and the charcters and armor and weapons look awesome. 
 Mounts are cool, combat is fun and .... there is ALOT to do! Seriously, this game is huge. Im probally 
 50+ hours in now and ive barely scratched the surface.
  On the negitave side, you are going to actually have to read the manual, the in game tutoral is 
 weak and left me scratching my head. Upgrading weapons, magic for example are not explained. But 
 thats a minor gripe. All told this is a great game for its genre.
  One last thing, hardcore mode is by far the way to play this game. Permenant death really keeps 
 you on your toes and keeps things exciting. Unfortunatly the game can be a bit easy, but HC mode 
 makes up for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rotten_totem
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 11:59 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game for a few hours, n i just couldn't stop. XD. This game is definitely VERY 
 VERY long. You have to spend like 200 hours+ to bring this game to an end.
  
  My applauses for the game's following features:
  -good graphics
  -long story
  -just right 
 leveling rate
  -riding a mount while fighting (that's new)
  
  And a few of my boos for this game:
  -a lot of stuck point, I have to click the F12 (monolith 
 teleport) to unstuck my character : (
  -inability to use skill during mounting (mages will feel really suck about this)
  -100% instant 
 recovery by consuming potions, which makes me to be unable to die
  -confusing launcher (i have to turn off my internet to play this game, since it keeps on updating 
 if i am connected to the internet) , why don't ascaron make 2 launchers: update and game itself, 
 this is not an MMORPG game. : (
  -extremely lacking of tutorial, and i don't call the pop up window at the right side of the screen 
 as tutorial, runes and forges really confuses you at the beginning of the game, and i understand 
 it later by self-learning.
  -a world that is too huge. This game suits more to be an MMORPG compared to a single player game, 
 since the world is too big. But it doesn't really matter though, since portals are available in 
 capitals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asmoddeuss
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 6:52 am PT
Review:  I can call this game a "Masterpiece" ,it features 2 campaigns, nice graphics, great music and good 
 game-play. And the most great feature is the music contribution made by the well known power/speed 
 metal band "Blind Guardian" , also featuring a video clip of the song in game and members of the 
 band as NPCs characters that guide you in the quest of getting their instruments back , that after, 
 you can use them as unique weapons.
  
  Ancaria is a big world, big enough to explore and have fun , there are six different classes like 
 Dryads, Seraphims , Temple Guardians , Shadow Warriors , High Elfs and The Inquisitors. All of 
 them featuring their own skills , spells, mounts and game-play. 
  
  There are a lot of unique items and set items with beautiful design and the game is really in the 
 fantasy theme making it very addictive.
  
  The game can be played as single-player as well multi-player , the single-player offers you to 
 play with any of the classes and play any of the 2 campaigns , while multi-player offers to play 
 open-net, closed-net and single-player coop-mode. Open-net and Closed-net features 3 different kind 
 of servers ; Campaign Server , Free Server and PvP Server. Campaign servers offers you to play 
 the campaign and do quest in coop-mode with other players ,up to 5 players. Free servers offers 
 you to explore the world of Ancaria and kill bosses and enemies for items and experience points 
 , and is up to 16 players but quest are not saved. PvP Servers are for pvp but also you can create 
 a party and explore the world and is up to 16 players, but again quest are not saved.
  
  In Sacred 2 you can get Horses as mounts to explore the world quicker but also all classes features 
 an unique mount , like spiders , hell-hounds , etc. Also mounts have unique spells.
  
  In overall this game offers a lot , the graphics and physics are great , when a High Elfs cast 
 a Storm you can see the trees and grass moves , it is a great effect . Also the weather effects 
 are awesome, nigh effects are great too , the game have nice lighting effects.
  
  The reason I don't give this game a 10 is because there are still bugs , and at release date it 
 was very buggy, but developers are working hard on patches and I believe that soon this game will 
 be perfect.
  
  As a fan of Diablo 2 and Guild Wars (prophecies, factions , nightfall and Eye of the north) I highly 
 recommend this game , I even dare to say it will be hard for Diablo 3 to pull people from Sacred 
 2.
  
  Cheers.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbrunckhorst
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 4:46 am PT
Review:  Great role playing game with a lot of rough edges. The graphics are stunning. There are no shortages 
 of quests. The earlier versions were buggy with frequent system crashes. With version 2.34 the 
 game is now stable. Updating the digital version was problematic until I used the provided updating 
 program (duh) . Multiplayer version appears stable but I don't have many hours using the multiplayer 
 version. The world is huge. I have about 20 hours of game play with a level 19 character and have 
 only explored 10 to 15 %. Some of the character banter is corny but in keeping with the general 
 ambiance of the game. The quests can be somewhat banal. However there are enough choices that one 
 can forego quests that seem out of character. The variety of weapons and upgrades appears endless. 
 Like wise the magic armamentarium is rich and complex. 
  The game forum although new is very helpful. Most of my initial technical issues were addressed 
 in the forum. Also novice RPG players will find plenty of advice. 
  Overall this is a great game if you have the patience to sort through the technical issues required 
 to stabilize the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: katana18
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:54 am PT
Review:  This review will depart from my traditional style of going through the technicalities first, then 
 delivering on the story.
  
  Let's start with launching the game. The menu is beautiful, the characters are well drawn and have 
 on par voice acting. You pick a hero and choose which story (Light or Dark) you want to play, and 
 click start!
  
  After an equally impressive opening cinematic, you drop down to a traditional RPG viewpoint of 
 the game. I spent the first 5 minutes slashing throw everything along the way, then quit and went 
 to play something else worth my time.
  
  Let's look at this objectively: compare Sacred 2 to the likes of the Dungeon Siege games, and even 
 the original Sacred. The interface is just plain stupid. Case in point: press the Esc key and you're 
 greeted with only 2 options. Want to change the texture level? Quit the game. Want to turn off 
 subtitles? Quit the game. Want to do anything that involves the main menu? Quit the game.
  
  I'll admit the scenery really blew my mind away. It's comparable to such games as The Witcher, 
 especially when I turned every detail way up. But the interface just completely spoiled it for 
 me.
  
  I finished Dungeon Siege, and didn't ever grumble about the point & click gameplay, yet Sacred 
 2 just has me so frustrated with it's own mechanic that it's a wonder anyone can complete this 
 game, much less review it! Gamespot gave it a 7.0, which really means don't bother playing. That's 
 understandable since Gamespot can't dish out the real dirt on any of its games, otherwise it would 
 be out of business.
  
  However, 1up. com actually gave this game a rating of "A". I have no idea how that happened, but 
 I certainly think that reviewer must have been snorting something.
  
  Sacred 2 is a mess. The game expects you to play co-op the entire time, has a lacklustre story, 
 and a terrible, and in my case unusable, interface.
  
  Do yourself a favor and look for good old Dungeon Siege 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gustavomp
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Who didn't play a point-and-click RPG? Everyone.
  Who played an innovative point-and-click RPG? I didn't.
  
  Sacred is like any other RPG. You 
 get a quest, kill X monsters, go back to the quest giver and all the same again. But it has many 
 let downs.
  
  1- It's too big. The world is way too large and the roads are full with thousands of brainless 
 monsters. You will need many minutes to wall from one to village to another. And there are few 
 teleport locations.
  
  2- I want a male Seraphim... BUT I CAN'T CUSTOMIZE CHARACTERS!!! You can't get a male dryad nor 
 a female inquisitor.... that sucks.
  
  3- It demands a very good PC but it isn't soooo beautiful.
  
  4- Can't pause nor change settings 
 in-game.
  
  If you don't mind the letdowns, you will enjoy hours of an old-school RPG with thousand of quests 
 and many nice looking items. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andreicucuiet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  As i said i HATE point and click games.... tried WOW.... nope... tried Diablo.... no sir..... tried 
 the first sacred....... not even close. But this game is truly a masterpiece of the genre (not really, 
 but for my standards it rocks)
  
  Gameplay
  This game truly shines, for me, in gameplay. I have 3 characters a guardian, a seraphim, and a high 
 elf. And it is a blast to play with all of them. When i level up to my purposed level with a charachter (WRONG) 
 i switch to another, altough i could have continually played with him. I do it so my other characters 
 don't lose all the expiriance (WRONG) and i have one level 18 an one level 6. Every charachter (WRONG) 
 is highly customizable (WRONG) with a ton of "perks" and different talents in the magic arts that 
 can be upgraded even more. The ton of cool looking weapons, armor, mounts and incredibly cool loking 
 spells make the combat in this game always feel fresh and exciting, as every character has different 
 weapons, perks and magic skills. Really great gameplay and combined with the graphics this is trully 
 a heck of a experience
  8.9/10
  
  Graphics
  For a point and click game, this is completly awesome. The water looks fantastic, the day and night 
 cycle is beautiful, especially when it is enfluenced by a magic glare from your character that acts 
 like a lamp and as a buff that hurts undead. Or when you cast a storm over your enemies, as expected, 
 the trees start balancing and the grass starts to "shiver" in all directions from the wind. Buff 
 effects and spells look gorgeous.9/10
  
  Sound
  The sound in this game is really unique. The spells sound ok, the weapon attacks sound ok, and the 
 dialog from the npc is actualy a real thing. You hear them speaking real things in the game world. But 
 what is truly unique is your character. He says things like"i wont let these experience points slip 
 past me" or "this is fun, or would you disagree player". It's really funny and unique, especially 
 when you hear the guardian robot talking. Also to point out are the children who say"I coudn't get 
 any tickets to the blind guardian concert". Blind guardian, i think, sings in this game, but i heard 
 only tracks, not voices.9.5/10
  
  So it's a 8.5. Why. Because this is not my type of game, buy i still enjoy it. Rent or bought, it's 
 surely a good purchase, and you're hearing that from  
 a nice day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tig6
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I don't care for MMOs because of the time consumption involved. I love single player or games that 
 can be played over a LAN, or like this with a few others but not a large team. I played the original 
 Sacred it is what got me addicted to computer RPGs. I've played Deoblo, Titan Quest, HGLondon and 
 Witcher. So this is something new and fun. I like the new things added particularly the "dark side" 
 and how a few things are the same and I like the changes that were made for better game play. I 
 am really looking forward to finding the "Tiger" ride for my Seraphim! I think there could be more 
 portals and possibly a better map of the world. There are few bugs I've come across, but no enough 
 to deterred me from liking the game. If you are a hard core gamer you may not be too impressed, 
 but for those of us that enjoy fun and excitement are our own pace it's a wonderful and creative 
 game. I LOVE IT... thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  The PC market is full of western style RPGs. The system has had some extremely popular RPG games, 
 which at the time of their release were fresh. Companies now seem to have to borrow concepts and 
 ideas, or even go as far as to try and clone the successful competition to get some market share. 
 At this time it seems a lot of people are working towards breaking into the online RPG arena, a 
 place that World of Warcraft has dominated for the past few years. Not everyone wants to pay to 
 play online, or even play those types of RPGs in general.
  
  The other group of RPGs are the ones that are mainly played with a small group of people, or just 
 by a single player. Usually classed as action RPGs, it's a genre that can be said to be inspired 
 by Blizzard's other game, Diablo. Games are often given the title of "Diablo Clone." It is also 
 a genre that has seen countless games thrown onto the PC. It's as if companies thought the PC section 
 was Gemma Atkinson and she was offering herself up to people every time they created an action 
 RPG. Man I wish I could make games.
  
  Seeing the potential to be had, Ascaron Entertainment first released their attempted at a Diablo 
 clone back in 2004, entitled Sacred. While it didn't spark the world on fire, it was praised for 
 its graphics and the open world gameplay. Ascaron is back with a sequel that while trying to improve 
 on its predecessor, isn't going to change the well known tried and tested formula of the genre.
 
  
  In story terms the game is actually a prequel, not a sequel. It still set in Ancaria but 2,000 
 years before the events of Sacred. The world of Ancaria is powered by a mysterious force called 
 the T-Energy. T-Energy is the alpha and omega of all life and magic in the world. It was once watched 
 over by the Seraphim, but they got bored with the world and passed on their knowledge to the High 
 Elves. Becoming Knowledgeable of the T-Energy prepared the High Elves to become the dominate race 
 on the planet.
  
  From historical experiences we know power brings destruction and the same happened to the High 
 Elves. They ended up fighting between each other to see what to do with the T-Energy. In the end 
 they ended up creating a war so devastating it caused chaos in the land. Every other race tried 
 to get their hands on the T-Energy but alas the T-Energy went out of control, which lead to mutated 
 creatures and devastated cities.
  
  A cry for heroes is needed and that is where the player comes in. The game allows you to pick from 
 one of six classes. Technically you aren't really selecting the classes as the game is essentially 
 making you pick a character. The characters at the start cannot be edited, so they will always 
 look the same in terms of skin, face and the like. Each of the characters look entirely different 
 in design and features their own personality. When making a character you get to choose their campaign, 
 with a selection of light or dark. That is unless you select the Seraphim class. These girls can 
 only be taken through the light story. It's the same for the Inquisitor. He's so evil that he can 
 only play the dark side of the campaign. The other four characters are the alive but actually dead 
 Shadow Warrior, The High Elf, Dryad and the amazing looking Temple Guardian, who looks like some 
 freakily awesome looking dog faced robot.
  
  The differences between the campaigns mainly boil down to the quests for each one. If you are on 
 the dark campaign then expect this to feature quests that were on the light but altered to fit 
 the evil attitude of your character. There are also points in the storyline that cross over with 
 the light. So say in one campaign you had to protect a city from invasion. The dark one will have 
 you attacking that city instead. There's a few of these situations throughout the game.
  
  After you've made your hard decision whether to be good or evil, you then have to select your God 
 from a choice of six. Gods give your characters a powerful skill to use. If you select Ker the 
 Goddess of Chaos, then you'll be able to summon a demon who will fight for you. Other examples 
 are the God of Light, Lumen, who lets you shoot light beams for super damage. Some of these moves 
 look great and do crazy amounts of the damage. The last thing to select is the difficulty. Bronze 
 or silver are your selection for easy or normal. There's also an option to stick "Hardcore" on. 
 This is a mode that if your character dies, it's game over forever. No resurrections happen in 
 hardcore mode. Finishing difficulties unlocks even harder ones to play through.
  
  If you are a player who has played countless point and click action RPGs then as soon as the game 
 starts you'll feel right at home. The character can be moved by clicking the mouse on a location. 
 Ascaron have also allowed you to physically control the character yourself by the way of the standard 
 WASD keys. I found this to be more exciting than clicking where to go. When combined with the free 
 camera option, using WASD makes you feel there is more control. You still have to click on the 
 enemies to attack, but you are free to walk around while using the other hand to do all the clicking.
 
  
  Getting quests and missions are done in your typical way. Speaking to some of the NPCs (None Playable 
 Characters) in the game will give you tasks to complete. Directions are show on the map, so you 
 always know where you need to go.
  
  With all the types of spells and features you get in these games, you always need a good interface 
 to access everything. Sacred 2 has a small clear layout that doesn't take over the screen, yet 
 the interface isn't compromised because of it. The upper left of the screen contains a picture 
 of your character with bars around it. The red bar shows health, the green one is experience and 
 the little number at the top of it is your character's level.
  
  The top right shows your mini map with the options to change the size and scale with a simple click 
 on the icon next to the map. Using tab will also bring up a big box with a zoomed in version of 
 the map to be able to see roads and the things around you, very handy.
  
  At the lower right is one of the most used features if you are too lazy to learn all the shortcut 
 keys. It features a circle with buttons to access to different information. The book will bring 
 up your missions; the helmet shows your inventory, the eye for your character information and the 
 lighting shaped thing for your skills. The circles above this are there for you to stick in buffs 
 and to disable the mounts. The last corner is for your god spell and relics. Relics are little 
 items you can get to add resistances against properties. A funny thing is that I never saw a tutorial 
 explaining the interfaces. I started the game as a Shadow Warrior, got some introduction scene, 
 then murdered some guys in cold blood and off I was on an adventure. The game really should have 
 had an in game tutorial rather than making the user read the game's instruction manual.
  
  Sacred 2 is one of those games that you are always constantly getting items from enemies you kill. 
 There's a feature that with the quick press of the Q button, allows you to pick up all the items 
 in range around you. It's a good feature but you soon find yourself having to empty your inventory 
 or sell off items because you just can't carry enough of them. Speaking of armour and weapons, 
 they are plenty to find throughout the twenty two square miles of Ancaria. There are 40 different 
 classes of weapons and plenty of varieties of armour. Veterans will understand all the weapons 
 and items with coloured in. They are all here, your gray, white, gold, and green and so on. If 
 you don't understand what I'm speaking about, don't worry. Each item has a colour and depending 
 what colour it is depends how rare it is or if it is a set.
  
  Levelling up is done in classic fashion. Kill enemies and you get experience points. Once you've 
 got past the required amount you level up. This allows you to give new skills and stat increases 
 to your character. Mounts become available later on. They are even special mounts for each character, 
 so you won't be just limited to riding a white coloured horse.
  
  Another thing with the levelling up system is to do with magic attacks. Rather than levelling that 
 up with points, you instead level up with stones that you find from dead enemies. Every time you 
 find one that is of the same magic ability, it will level up that ability. All the character's 
 magic is found throughout the game like this. It's a bit different than the norm, but it also allows 
 you to get some high level magic early in the game by just going around killing enemies.
  
  Once you've explored the entire world, they won't be any more surprises. There's no randomly created 
 dungeons in Sacred 2. Everything is put there for a reason to make the world feel alive. Saying 
 that though exploring all of the game will take some time, with over 140 dungeons and 500 side 
 quests, there's plenty to keep you going well into the three digit hour mark. If you decided to 
 rush and just beat the main story, you'd be looking at around 20-25 hours. The world has this open 
 feeling to it as you can pretty much explore anywhere from the get go. It's kind of a feeling you 
 got from Oblivion, just not on as a grander scale as Bethesda's epic.
  
  A lot of readers are probably thinking "Well it sounds pretty cool, but it is still the same type 
 of gameplay that we've seen before" and that is true. There's something about hacking and slashing 
 enemies to get new items that stops it from kind of getting old. Ascaron Entertainment have tried 
 to make the players who enjoy that kind of stuff have something good to experience. One thing that 
 really stood out for me while playing Sacred 2 were the massive bosses you get to take down. They 
 tower over you and fill up your screen. They come across as epic monsters and it's certainly one 
 of the highlights of the game.
  
  If you've got a great gaming PC to be able to see Sacred 2 in all its glory then you'll be greeted 
 with some very nice looking graphics with some highly detailed textures. From an artistic point 
 of view the game is lovely. The world of Ancaria is vivid and full of colour. The vegetation, mainly 
 the grass looks gorgeous as you traverse through it. There's a lot of fancy light and shadow effects 
 going on, which when put together with the games fluid animation, makes Sacred 2 a very pretty 
 game to look at. There's also a full on day and night cycle and random weather effects for boot. 
 The specs are quite high for a game of this type, but from looking at it you can understand why.
 
  
  Audio is done quite well. The voice acting is fine, with lots of voices included for the characters. 
 The game doesn't take itself too seriously. This is shown from the get go when you are hammering 
 into the first enemies you encounter. One of the lines that comes out of their mouths is "I knew 
 I was just an extra" There's plenty of these moments in the game. There is a strange glitch I must 
 alert you to about the audio. It's only happen to me twice, but god damn it was annoying. I was 
 doing a quest which required having some help off some guards. The guard got stuck in a loop of 
 saying the same words, which lasted the entire mission. It was very irritating and I really wanted 
 to smack him down, but the game doesn't let you kill helpers, so I had to put up with it till I 
 beat the mission. This will probably be fixed soon.
  
  One thing that we haven't touched upon yet is the multiplayer. I ran into a bit of a problem at 
 first when going online. I was getting laggy servers, network errors and all the other nasty stuff 
 you really don't want when you want to simply play a game online. From browsing around some forums 
 I found out that I needed to update with a patch. The game didn't even tell me that I needed a 
 patch though, that was very bothersome. I've read that Ascaron are going to put an updater in the 
 next patch, which should sort that problem out.
  
  The multiplayer itself works fine. The co-op works just as you would expect it to. You and your 
 fellow team mates go around together doing the quests available. People can drop in and out at 
 anytime too. This means that if you make a co-op game and you keep playing, anyone can freely come 
 in and out to play with you. The campaign can be done with you and four other players. There's 
 another mode though where up to 16 players can work together. This mode is the free game mode where 
 you are all sent to an island. From there you can explore the world of Ancaria with generic side 
 quests to take on. If I was to make a complaint, it would be that at the moment there's no way 
 of telling how responsive the server is. There's no ping readout, so sometimes you enter a game 
 where it's just too laggy. Hopefully that will be added in a patch too down the line.
  
  Sacred 2 has come out at a really tough time in the year. The fact that this game plays like a 
 fancy looking old school action RPG doesn't help it in the wide range of classic RPGs that the 
 genre has seen this year. With the PC having the addition of Mass Effect, Fallout 3 and a World 
 of Warcraft expansion pack, you can see where I'm going with this. It's just not going to grabs 
 people's attention.
  
  For the people on the lookout for a new RPG to play and especially the ones who are awaiting Blizzard's 
 Diablo 3, Sacred 2 might just pass the time for you. It won't replace your Diablo 3 thirst, but 
 it will give you something to play in the meantime. It's a decent enough RPG that if you look past 
 the ancient style of gameplay will give you something entertaining. It looks nice, lasts long, 
 plays fine and it does most of the stuff it set out to do. So if you fancy spending hours smashing 
 people's face in and pimping out your character then by all means try it out, just don't expect 
 something overwhelming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  In short and to the point
  
  GOOD
  Big variety of spells and skills
  ---------------------------------------------
  --------------------------------------------
 
  BAD
  - Nothing new and exciting to the genre
  - Repeative combat
  - Some serious bugs
  - Poor story 
  - Speech is limited 
  - Requires activation.
  ----------------------------------------------- 
 
  CONCLUSION
  The game is nothing special... even the older Diablo series look way more interesting from this 
 new Ascaron title.
  The game is an average software and fails to provide to the player of what the company promised. 
 It also have some serious bugs and it is asking for an activation which i find ridiculous and absurb 
 for just a game.
  
  SCORES
  Graphics = 8
  Sound = 7.0
  Gameplay = 6.5
  FINAL SCORE = 7.0
  
  If you think that this is a Diablo killer you will be very disappointed... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kay262
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Sacred 2 is a welcome addition to the Diablo-like action/rpg genre. 
  It has great graphics (the environments and light effects are superb) , and its fully 3D with free 
 camera options.
  The gameplay is very good for this kind of games, all the ingredients are there and they are well 
 made and balanced for a very pleasing mix.
  The one thing deserving special mention is the character customization which is very good.
  The 
 game is simply fun to play, top notch graphics, lots of items that not only look different but 
 they actually have very different stats and specials and can even be further customized, lots of 
 quests, some good humor here and there, online play.
  
  There are minor things i dont like, the free camera takes some getting used to adjusting it all 
 the time, but its a small price to pay for having this feature and it works nice.
  Some classes are less interesting than others, (Dryad was a bit disappointing as opposed to Seraphim 
 that was great) .
  Some online technical issues, that given Ascaron's track record are not surprising at all, but 
 also given their record, its safe to assume they will be fixed sooner rather than later.
  
  I am enjoying this game a lot, definitely worth a buy for fans of the genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lobotomist
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  Combine Diablo hack&slash gameplay , world map 5 times size of Oblivion's , insane amount of loot 
 - and you got Sacred 2
  
  The game is HUMONGOUS in size !!!
  
  It is easily same level of content size as top of today MMO's.
  With huge amount of quests , 
 hidden places and alternative ways.
  
  Original Sacred was rated the best hack&slash game after Diablo series. And Sacred 2 does not disappoint. 
 It is basically all what Sacred 1 was but it adds more and more and more. Classes are very interesting 
 and each has few completely different ways to play them. Graphic is awesome. And there is so much 
 gameplay you will leave this game on your HD for a long time to come.
  
  All this comes with completely free multiplayer - with cooperative and PVP modes, and secure servers.
 
  
  Unfortunately the game is made in Germany - and there seems to be some kind of reviewer conspiracy 
 against games made in europe. Same thing happened with excellent game made in Poland "The Witcher". 
 Both games are poorly hyped and massively underrated on game sites.
  
  But both game feature one important thing:
  
  They are made for fans of the genre. 
  
  
 They are not vannila games made accessible and appealing to everyone.
  
  
  No...
  Sacred is game made for fans of Hack&Slash.
  
  It has complex skill system. Megaton of loot, 
 stats, drops, monsters and class builds.
  
  It is also game that doesnt try to make H&S in something it is not.
  Namely "Serious RPG"
  
 
  It is fun. And its story is ironical take on itself and rpg witting in general. Hence the reviewers 
 claiming that story is weak - obviously have no seanse or capacity to understand humour.
  
  
  In closing i can only say:
  
  If you are fan of Hack&slash. Want to do it without paying 
 15$ subscription - in a world easily same quality as top MMO's
  
  Than you will have this game installed on your PC
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: allinchrist7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Grapics are exellent.. best ive seen yet in an action rpg. More innovative than a lot of action 
 rpg's ive seen. The skill tree is really cool and the character customization, as far as spending 
 ability points goes, is really fun and addictive. You have lots of nice options in building up 
 your character that gives you that extra push in reaching the next level. the story and in-depth 
 questing could use some work but ive got a long way to go in the game to make a fair judgement 
 about that. If i would have rated this game within the first hour or so of playing it i would have 
 given it a low rating. But this is the type of game that deffinatly grows on you as you play through, 
 which is why I gave it an 8.5. If you gave it a low rating then you probobly just didnt give the 
 game a chance. And as for all of you out there who are iffy about getting the game... all i have 
 to say is DONT LISTEN TO THE CRITICS.. well at least in this game. I mean granted a lot of the 
 time critics are pretty acurate but this is one of those times when they are not. take it from 
 a person who plays a lot of rpg's, this game is definately worth playing and you will be more than 
 satisfied if you jsut give it a chance :) . Granted its not the best but it certainley isn't in 
 the category of passing up.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUnified
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I did not play the original Sacred, mostly because the graphics were very unappealing to me at 
 the time. I know it's a very superficial reason for not trying out a classic game in the genre, 
 but I have picky tastes.
  
  I have played a lot of dungeon hack n' slashes, since Diablo 2, and every time I try out a new 
 game I end up going back to D2 for a while. Sacred 2 finally fills the gap I have been looking 
 for, and does so without taking itself too seriously.
  
  S2's humor is part of it's charm. And it's readily evident even when you are loading the game, 
 as silly poetry or random comical puns show up in the loading screen.
  
  There is a wide variety of characters to start from. 3 females, and 3 males, plus joining either 
 side of light or darkness, plus choosing a God for different kinds of bonuses in game, make for 
 already hefty amounts of replayability. Two of the characters (the extreme good Seraphim and the 
 extreme evil Seraphim) are only allowed to play their campaigned side, while the other 4 can play 
 either Good or Evil.
  
  So far as I am playing (Level 14) , there isn't much difference between Light and Dark campaigns.
 
  
  Gameplay: playing the game is quite easy, you can use the WASD to control your character and click 
 to attack, or you can zoom out all the way and play point-to-move if you prefer. Although you can't 
 get as close as I would like to view your character, you can get pretty close. There are maximum 
 of 4 slots each for Weapons, Potions, and Skills (which are unlocked as you level) . There are also 
 gems that you can place in the lower left of the screen that have global bonuses, and there are 
 4 max possible sets for these that you can change at will. 
  
  Each character has 3 skill branches, each containing 4 skills. Each skill has 8 possible upgrades, 
 and can be leveled through finding runes from monster drops. You don't have MP, but rather each 
 skill has a recharge time that you must wait to use it again.
  
  There is a wide variety of different kinds of loot that drops, very reminiscent of Diablo 2. Not 
 too much and not too little, just the right kinds and amount of drops. There are plenty of sidequests 
 that will have you running around all over the landscape, they are of course optional, and only 
 the main quest will advance you further into the game.
  
  Fighting mobs is very fun, the glow of the target tells you how powerful the monster is in relation 
 to your level, (e. g. orange is a couple levels above you, white is several levels below you) . Sometimes 
 objects can get in the way of the camera, trees will allow some level of transparency, but it is 
 somewhat delayed. And bridges don't have any transparency, so it can get a little annoying, but 
 this has happened only rarely. Killing monsters is very typical to Diablo 2, in the beginning the 
 mobs are less and the strikes-to-kill are less, but as you level you start killing monsters in 
 fewer hits and the mobs get bigger and stronger.
  
  All this makes for very addictive gameplay.
  
  Sound: Sound can sometimes get annoying. Sometimes 
 when you have NPC's following you for a quest, they start talking endlessly and never shut up. 
 But the sound of rivers, trees, wind, towns, all sound exceptional. Music is ok, the battle music 
 sometimes can get a little repetitious, but it's not annoying.
  
  The voice over is decent, but this is where I find myself laughing the most. When you kill monsters 
 that are humanoids (kobolds, zombies, humans, etc.) they usually have several funny death voices, 
 like if you kill a Kobold, he might splurt out "Not good! Definately not... good!", or "I should 
 have listened to my wife!" And there is a good variety of these death voices, for every monster 
 type.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are great, the landscape is very good and the character models are good. This 
 game is one of the very rare games that has a near flawless day/night cycle, it's quite appealing.
 
  
  Bottom Line: If you loved Diablo 2 and are looking for a better looking version and with enhanced 
 everything like I was, you cannot go wrong with Sacred 2. It's simple point-and-click fare, but 
 it's done tastefully while enhancing everything that is good about the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standell
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Incredible graphics, easy to play and very impressive. Keep in mind that this game is designed 
 for high-end computers with a good graphics card.
  With this , one can select their graphics level to low, medium, high or extreme. The higher the 
 level, the slower the game depending on your computer.
  Initially, my logitec mouse ( using Setpoint ) caused a bit of a glitch during gameplay but after 
 unistalling this and using a regular mouse, the gameplay was normal.
  I assume that this bug has been corrected in the new patch.
  It is so nice to be able to navigate 
 with only the mouse as opposed to fumbling for different keys on a keyboard.
  Kudos to Ascaron on developing this much awaited RPG.
  So far, all I have to go on is the demo 
 with the full version coming to North America within the next few days. Having preorded the game, 
 I can hardly wait to receive and then install and play.
  My SYS: AMD Athlon 64 X 2 5200 CPU, 4G Ram, Nvidia GeForce 8800 GTS video card ( 320 MB ) and Windows 
 XP Professional OS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dev-null
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 1:08 am PT
Review:  While Sacred 2 will never be an innovating and/or genre-defining RPG like Diablo, World of Warcraft, 
 Baldur's Gate, or Neverwinter Nights, it's still a very enjoyable game to play.
  
  The game developers appear to have taken some of the best features from the most popular RPG/MMORPG 
 games of the last decade -- features that have almost become standards in the RPG gaming world 
 -- and included them in this game, and they work fairly well.
  
  For example, the inventory system is pretty much the same as every other modern RPG/MMORPG in existence 
 at the moment. The item naming conventions are very similar to those in Diablo (I/II) . The open 
 world and seamless transitions between areas (other than brief transitions into dungeons) and the 
 quest systems are very similar to those in World of Warcraft. The skills system appears to be very 
 similar to Neverwinter Nights.
  
  As for the game itself, the graphics are quite good, and run reasonably well on mid-range hardware. 
 While the voice acting is fairly ordinary, the sound is reasonably good. There are some issues 
 with framerates dropping in areas with large numbers of NPC's, or areas with extremely large numbers 
 of enemies, but otherwise performance is good.
  
  Another very good point of the game is that the developers seem to actually listen to community 
 feedback from the forums, and based on that feedback release bug-fixes in reasonably short timeframes. 
 Also unlike many other games these days, the bugfixes actually (though not always) seem to fix 
 the bugs they were meant to address, and not seem cause more issues than they fixed.
  
  The game also has a sense of humour, and it is very central/eastern European in nature. Anyone 
 who understands and appreciates such humour will enjoy what's been included here.
  
  Overall, if you enjoy the RPG genre, you will probably enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muldi_2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  This is an interesting game, this. I say that because on one hand it is a traditional clickety, 
 RSI inducing point and click RPG, but on the other, its novel approach to skills and attributes 
 and dry, often strange sense of humor give it an edge above the rest.
  
  I'll get the tech stuff out of the way first. The game looks great, has all the bells and whistles 
 you'd expect from a modern game engine. The grass and atmospheric effects deserve particular note 
 for looking excellent, and the shadows turn even an average sunrise into a beautiful landscape. 
 Weapon effects also warrant mention, changing depending on the weapons damage type. The first few 
 minutes of the game are simply marvelling at the texture detail. Stunning. Then comes the rest 
 of the game.
  
  Yes, the gameplay is very cliche, the voice acting so bad it makes me cringe. There is also a very 
 annoying (and i mean VERY annoying) bug with the NPC voices getting stuck in a loop. And yet, these 
 niggly little problems, though numerous, somehow do nothing to detract from the gameplay.
  
  The simple, Diablo-esqe mechanics of this game are executed almost flawlessly, with there being 
 an abundance of creatures to kill, virtually infinite loot to collect, and a good variety of skills 
 to level up.
  There are not as many combat arts as I would have liked, but the 15 per class fill all the gaps. 
 The interesting mechanic used with the combat arts is that you dont need to wait until a level 
 up to increase the level of the art, you level them up by using skill runes dropped by NPCs. This 
 adds pace to the game that makes it far mor enjoyable to work through the campaign.
  
  Sacred 2 offers not only a main campaign, but also your choice of side campaign delving into your 
 characters past. The main campaign is franky rubbish, revolving around some goo called T-Energy 
 (ahem) that has contaminated something, blah, blah, blah. Lets face it, The story is crap, and 
 its not the reason you'll want to play this game. There are two side campaigns to choose from, 
 the path of light and the path of shadows. The side campaign is actually a lot more interesting 
 than the main one, and i often found myself ignoring main campaign objestives in order to get to 
 side ones. These objectives, while numerous (after playing for two hours I had finished almost 
 forty side quests) , are fairly similar, ranging from Go Here to Kill This, right through to Bring 
 Me This Many Items. It is a shame that more time was not spent on the writing of the story.
  
  The game also presents several unique character classes. While these classes still fall into 
 the standard roles expected in this genre, they show a surprising amount of, for lack of a better 
 word: random. Seriously, a mechanical jackal with a gun for an arm. These characters are all different, 
 but all have one thing in common: Terrible voice acting.
  
  The reason this game is not getting terrible scores from me is the combat. The combat, and subsequent 
 gaining of loot and experience, more than makes up for the many other shortcomings this game has. 
 The game features quite detailed ragdoll physics, which exhibit different reactions depending on 
 the amount of damage done, and taking out four or five low level kobalds with one blow is incredibly 
 satisfying.
  
  There is also an improvement over the original in the experience system. Sacred one demanded many 
 days of your time in order to reach level 20. This was incredibly frustrating, as many of the ombat 
 arts were limited by attribute levels. Gone is that system and in comes the new much more user 
 frienly version. After only five hours of play, i reached level 15, and that is not even trying 
 particularly hard. 
  
  One of the aspects of the original that hasn't changed is the dry, un-subtle wit. The opening stages 
 of the campaign land yu in a graveyard, and reading the headstones of the graves is rewarded, eventually, 
 with epitaphs such as 'There really isn't an award for reading all the tombstones', and the like. 
 The character speech also leads itself to humor, sometimes even deliberately!
  
  All in all, if you can ignore the copious amounts of unnecessary rubbish, this proves itself to 
 be a solid, quiet achiever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 18, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  -- Introduction --
  I accidentally stumbled across this game a few months ago on GameSpot and instantly set it up for 
 tracking. I thought "Oh, this looks really interesting! A new Action RPG with some really unique 
 elements to it." So I waited, kept up with the trailers, the previews and finally, the game came 
 out. I didn't even bother waiting for a GameSpot review because I thought "It's alright, this game 
 looks really good!" Let me tell you, you should always wait for a review...
  
  -- Gameplay: 3/10 - Bad --
  I've come to expect that in Action RPGs, for the most part, you'll 
 be spending some time hacking and slashing away at your enemies. That's generally to be expected. 
 However I also expect it to be fairly interesting and enjoyable, maybe mix it up with some cool 
 skills? Too bad that doesn't work well in Sacred 2. You literally run up to an enemy and start 
 hacking away at it by holding down the mouse button. Maybe throw in a skill or two and then move 
 onto the next enemy. That might usually be considered "average" gameplay, but it's just really 
 dull here. It gets boring after killing less than 10 enemies, or it did for me anyway.
  
  I initially played as a 'Seraphim', so whether this is the same for other races, i'm not sure. 
 Here's how my first few minutes of the game went: Watched the awesome opening sequence and story 
 and was so excited! After some length loading, I made it into the game to see good graphics, but 
 not as good as I'd expect for the requirements. I'm not usually too fussed about graphics though 
 so I'm like "That's alright, as long as the gameplay's good." I then watched an in-game cutscene, 
 and it was a bad sign of things to come. I watched this woman dying in her room while everyone 
 just stood around, doing nothing, and not even trying to help! She kept grasping at a wound that 
 didn't exist and the same animation was recycled over and over. It was rubbish. She tells me that 
 some bad men have attacked her and that they'd be after me next! She didn't explain why, or who 
 these men were or even what I had to do! After she died, I left the building and found myself standing 
 in an empty town with no idea what to do. I checked by journal, which did give me a better description, 
 and I headed out of town. I was immediately confronted by some evil inquisitors and I took them 
 down. Yet as I headed towards my next location, there were more of these guys just wandering the 
 roads without purpose! It seemed like some dodgy MMORPG! I killed them as I went, which was rather 
 dull and came across some bandits outside the next town. Normally you'd expect bandits to be in 
 some kind of camp? Maybe have some low level of organization? Not here! They were just mindlessly 
 wandering the fields by themselves, with terrible, terrible AI.
  
  On the plus side, there are heaps of quests to do. There is certainly no shortage of them, but 
 with no real idea of what the main story goal was apart from "Kill those evil guys before they 
 kill you!" It wasn't much fun to kind of slow down in the town and find some side quests. The very 
 limited character selection choices don't help either. You can pick 1 of 6 races with only one 
 class for each and you can't customize anything else, except your God which gives your character 
 one unique skill. I really would expect more from anything with "RPG" in the genre.
  
  Oh, and just to mention, both the camera and controls are frustrating. The camera is difficult 
 to get in a good position and moving with WASD is just very awkward. At least you can mouse click 
 to move as that helps somewhat.
  
  -- Graphics: 6.5/10 - Good --
  The graphics are pretty good. There's no doubt about that. Environments are all vibrant and colourful, 
 though they do suffer a bit in terms of realism. But hey, it's fantasy, we can live without a whole 
 lot of realism. Character models are pretty well done, but without a way to customize your character, 
 they do seem a little boring and bland. When I picked my Seraphim I just looked at her, thinking 
 "I wish I could change her hair colour." Enemy models do suffer though as there is no diversity 
 in them. For example, each bandit looks exactly the same; each wolf looks the same etc. That is 
 generally acceptable to a degree, but when you're fight one every few seconds, it does get a bit 
 boring to look at.
  
  However, the system requirements for what you get are very heavy. They're far inferior to may new 
 release PC titles and still require much heavier specs. I managed to run the settings on high with 
 just a little lag, but if you have an average PC, you're going to be stuck on the bottom end of 
 medium, or just on low. I'd imagine the graphics won't look so good then.
  
  -- Sound: 5/10 - Mediocre --
  The sound is just average. Effects are generally pretty good, but 
 they're also all a bit similar. When I start hearing the same sound effects for different skills, 
 I do get a bit worried. But the effects are generally fine and nothing you'd think too much about 
 as you played. Same with background music, it's pretty dull, but mostly okay, although there are 
 a few moments where it just seems out of place.
  
  Voice acting is a mixed bag. For some characters it's decent, on others it just awful. There's 
 also a distinct lack of voicing as, in most cases, only important characters and cut-scenes are 
 voiced. This is usually fine, but it really takes away from the experience the game should have 
 presented.
  
  -- Value: 6/10 - Fair --
  The game is pretty long and there are a whole heap of quests to do. You can also play through both 
 the good and evil campaigns with different character races which does extend the time limit and 
 offer some replay value. But I think after playing it for a little while, you won't even want to 
 finish your first file, let alone go back and do it again. Admittedly though, I have not beaten 
 the game, only played a little over 10 hours. The only reason I made it that far was so I could 
 feel like I could write a decent review for it.
  
  -- Tilt: 4/10 - Poor --
  I really just didn't enjoy this game at all. Perhaps my expectations where too high, perhaps I 
 haven't played enough Action RPGs to get used to it, or perhaps it's just a really poor excuse 
 for a game.
  
  -- Overall: 4/10 - Poor --
  You can't help but feel disappointed as you play through Sacred 2. It could have achieved so much, 
 yet it fell way short of its goal, or the goal any game should try and achieve. I'm generally fairly 
 generous with my marks, if you look at my review page, I rarely score under 7. Yet this game doesn't 
 deserve a 7, not even close to it. If you're looking for a good Action RPG, try Titan Quest, or 
 even better, Diablo II. But don't waste your hard earned money on this game because it isn't worth 
 it.
  
  If you really feel compelled to give it a go, I urge you to at least download the demo first. I 
 haven't tried the demo, but i'm sure it would give you a fair idea of what to expect. Thank you 
 for reading my review, I hope it was helpful to you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
