-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sacred
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/sacred/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  6, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.6, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 2,422 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Software, Inc.
Developer: Ascaron Ent. GmbH
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Mar 25, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sacred is a great-looking, generally solid action RPG that provides a few interesting gameplay innovations. 
 

  Sacred is a great-looking, generally solid action role-playing game that provides a few interesting 
 gameplay innovations. It features an open-ended gaming world to explore, decent cooperative and 
 competitive multiplayer options, and a good mix of goal-oriented questing and fast-paced battles. 
 But its combat system is also somewhat finicky and unrewarding, which is a significant problem 
 for what's fundamentally a hack-and-slash RPG.  

          No cow level, but Sacred's detailed world features a good selection of ambient wildlife. 
     

  It would be artificial to describe Sacred without at least a cursory comparison to the Diablo games, 
 since Sacred was clearly heavily inspired by that series. As in the Diablo games, each of the six 
 character types in Sacred has a predetermined gender and a distinct selection of skills you can 
 choose to develop. Most foes only take a few mouse clicks to dispatch, but you'll encounter hundreds 
 of enemies, including types that will spawn more of their kin if you don't take them out. The monsters 
 are all classic fantasy stereotypes, such as undead, dragons, and ogres; you can use the Alt key 
 to highlight and quickly locate the seemingly endless bounties of loot they hoard. There's a huge 
 variety of magical items, including sets of related items to collect, upgradable socketed items, 
 and class-specific artifacts. You'll maintain a chest "stash" in towns, where you can store some 
 of your accumulated swag, and you can hook up with companions who will provide some temporary assistance, 
 though you don't directly control them. You can replay the storyline at progressively difficult 
 skill levels. Those features make Sacred sound very similar to Diablo II, and in many ways it is, 
 but Sacred also has its share of innovations.  

  The most notable improvement Sacred offers over other hack-and-slash RPGs is its huge, open-ended 
 gameworld. While other action RPGs funnel you through their settings in a linear fashion, Sacred 
 offers largely free-form exploration. Settings are largely noninteractive, but meticulously detailed, 
 and environments are well varied and consistently interesting to explore. Sacred's graphics are 
 a definite strength, and they're significantly better than Diablo II's aged visuals, although they're 
 not quite as good as Dungeon Siege's. Graphical resolution is locked at 1024x768, but Sacred lets 
 you seamlessly zoom in the camera perspective for a more intimate look at the action. While similar 
 features in other games have been of dubious utility, Sacred's variable perspective works exceptionally 
 well, letting you both view your predicament from a strategic, distant vantage point and then conveniently 
 adjust to a more rewarding ringside view of the battles. The auto-mapping function nicely complements 
 the open-ended gaming world design by granting you a thorough overview of the areas you've explored. 
 Sacred's interface includes convenient features, such as a circle around your character that graphically 
 reveals current hit points, so you don't have to take your eyes off the action to steal glances 
 at readouts further from the action.  

          You're given some significant inventory space to store your plunder, and a handy hotkey 
 automatically plucks available loot.     

  Several of Sacred's other distinctive features are interesting, but they aren't entirely successful 
 at improving gameplay. You can buy a horse to speed travel and garner an additional defensive bonus 
 in combat, but it's difficult to effectively engage opponents from horseback, and characters (with 
 the notable exception of the wood elf) lose access to several of their best character skills when 
 riding. A couple of the character types are particularly novel (the vampiress and angelic seraphim) , 
 but there is a considerable overlap of special attack skills among characters. Characters have 
 basic attributes, skills, and special attacks/spells. Increases to attributes are largely automatically 
 determined by character type, although you're given the nominal choice to increase one attribute 
 stat by a single point each experience level.     

  Skills are passive traits that grant characters additional proficiency in certain actions such 
 as horse riding. The skills are universally available to all characters; however, when they initially 
 become available is determined by character type. Instead of being allocated points to acquire 
 new special attacks or spells when you advance character levels, you bump up those abilities through 
 finding related icons as treasure drops or by trading in groups of other characters' icons. Improving 
 special attacks will make them more powerful, but the improvements are largely statistical rather 
 than visceral, and you won't be able to use upgraded abilities as frequently unless you also allocate 
 points to related skills. Special attacks and spells aren't organized in skill trees with prerequisites, 
 and you are never prevented from increasing those abilities, but that flexibility tends to just 
 make characters less distinctive and ironically makes the game less replayable.  

          While you control a single character, you can accumulate quite an entourage of companions 
 while solving quests.     

  Instead of allowing you to immediately hotkey your different special attacks/spells, Sacred effectively 
 restricts the number of available hotkeys based upon your character's level. Initially, you'll 
 be able to hotkey only a single special attack, although that number will eventually increase to 
 five. You can also hotkey a similar number of weapons to equip. In addition, you can group special 
 attacks into combinations, which sounds intriguing, but in practice there's little reason to do 
 more than combine multiple incidences of your best attack. There are no fewer than five different, 
 unstackable potion types, but the more original potions (there's one that keeps the undead you 
 kill in the ground, for instance) tend to annoyingly clutter up your character's inventory more 
 than they enhance gameplay. In order to ensure Sacred received a Teen ESRB rating, North American 
 purchasers have been provided with a version of the game that strips out the gore and graphical 
 violence that's a feature of the European version of the game. While that may not be a meaningful 
 deletion to some purchasers, it certainly would have been preferable to provide gamers with at 
 least the option of playing the game as the developers originally intended.  

  More importantly, Sacred's combat system frequently feels finicky, and if you don't micromanage 
 your character's individual attacks it's too easy for your character to either fail to line up 
 an attack (particularly on horseback) or to stop attacking altogether. The game doesn't effectively 
 convey a consistent sense that your character is hitting something, which is both dissatisfying 
 and occasionally frustrating. It's a significant annoyance, as your character is constantly fighting 
 and it's difficult to advance even short distances without becoming embroiled in battles with dozens 
 of opponents. Gameplay is never as addictive or rewarding as it should be, since combat is the 
 game's primary focus and it frequently becomes more of a tedious chore than a thrilling, fast-paced 
 experience.  

          The bigger enemy types look great and are formidable.     

  Sacred has a comprehensive suite of multiplayer options, including an Internet-hosting service 
 similar to Blizzard's Battle. net. You can team up with up to three other players to fight the game's 
 main campaign, or you can fight in up to 16-player hack-and-slash duels. Perhaps because players 
 are wary of the cheats that plagued Diablo II, it's difficult to find many open games at Encore's 
 servers. Multiplayer Sacred is lacking some polish in general, as lag occurs too frequently and 
 there isn't a decent trading interface. Sacred has a few minor bugs, such as broken subquests and 
 placeholder dialogue text, but bugs tend to pop up more frequently in multiplayer games.  

  In comparison to some of its hack-and-slash RPG peers, Sacred is in some ways definitely a deeper 
 RPG than Dungeon Siege or Diablo, since it's less linear and quests are more frequent and varied, 
 but its gameplay isn't as polished as in those games. Sacred is a welcome addition to the genre 
 that distinguishes itself by incorporating a few novel gameplay tweaks. However, the game's success 
 is ultimately limited by an unrewarding character development system and by combat that is too 
 frequently tedious rather than engaging.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (75 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2009 5:24 am PT
Review:  Before Sacred, Role Playing genre had developed into two separate branches: Action and Traditional 
 RPG, so-called. Paragons of the first type including Diablo, Dungeon Siege and Divine Divinity 
 emphasized on combat/action over character development, therefore contrasting games which have 
 complicated skill, attribute sets and class systems like Neverwinter Nights. Although overall Sacred 
 did not surpass these monuments, it did contributes some new features to the genre.
  
  Sacred brings us to the realm of Ancaria, a fantasy world full of wonders. Once day Ancaria's peace 
 is endangered by Shaddar, an evil and ambitious wizard when he summons Sakkara, an offspring of 
 the Demon King Worganar from the realm of darkness. Unfortunately, the rite is interrupted by one 
 Shaddar's servants and the demon escapes from his control. Ancaria, of course, falls into misery 
 until the Advent of a Messiah.
  
  If you expect something revolutionary in this game, you should be disappointed, for Sacred still 
 follows the regulation that earlier Action Role Playing have formed. The developers' effort is 
 mostly spent on renewing features at detail level of game play, hence, players can not see it at 
 once. As a result, you still start the game with a familiar procedure: creating a character which 
 falls into one of six classes (Gladiator, Battlemage, Dark Elf, Wood Elf, Seraphim, Vampiress) 
 with different skills and talents. One thing to notice is that this part has been considerably 
 simplified so that it should take only one or two minutes (a striking difference from Dungeon and 
 Dragon RPG which overwhelm its players with cumbersome class and skill systems) . Afterwards, you 
 go straight to fighting, which actually means clicking as much as possible without any concern 
 for complicated rules governing the game, for this type of RPG usually dismisses these rules from 
 its game play. Unfortunately, it is here that several annoying flaws defect the quality of combat 
 in Sacred. For example, your character's AI is so low that it usually stands still taking damage 
 when you stop clicking; on the other hand, while there is an obstacle on the path to the target, 
 it usually fails to find another way and gets stuck.
  
  For an action focused game like this, prolonged dialogues do not usually appear because their role 
 is instead undertaken by the drag and drop feature, which allows players to get what they want 
 as quick as possible. However, item upgrading often plays an important role. Good execution of 
 this will make the game much more interesting. Sacred offers a plessant surprise here when players 
 can upgrade their equipments by talking to certain smiths while rune stones are used to unlock 
 different combat arts. One character can only use the runes of its own class, leading to the need 
 for exchanging runes throughout the game. Furthermore, spending time collecting runes of the same 
 class can be rewarding since you can later combine them to unlock special attacks called "Combo". 
 Nevertheless, it is really sad that these Combos only look great but prove somewhat useless in 
 battle. Your enemies are usually stay out of the radius of the combo you are using and once you 
 finish it, they will come to finish you! Because you already spend all your mana on your performance, 
 the only way to survive is running away. Therefore, my advice is to use runes separately rather 
 than combine them.
  
  As for the control system, though Sacred bears striking resemblance to Diablo, it still has something 
 of its own. The control panels consists of two areas: the left part for weapons and right part 
 for magic and specialities. Each part contains a number of slots you can assign your favoured abilities 
 to. The interesting point is that this number will increase up to five when your character progresses 
 in levels and thereby allows more talents to be used at once. At high difficulty setting, you will 
 certainly feel a great satisfaction whenever gaining a new slot, since it opens up more alternatives 
 in combat and raise your chance to survive.
  
  Another strong point of Sacred is the huge world it builds up. Instead of restricting you to certain 
 areas and gradually opening up new ones after you fulfill some quests, the game allow free travel 
 throughout over 70% of its realm. Only 30% left is quest-restricted. Not only wide, Ancaria also 
 contains 16 small regions each with its own terrain, climate and
  bestiary, from boundless deserted waste land to frozen snow snow-caps... However, a large portion 
 of the scenery is covered with the green of forests and meadows. Though all background scenes are 
 designed in 2D, they are still beautiful and show carefully taken care in details. Contrary to 
 the background, character models are all in 3D. Camera in game allows adjusting view angle rather 
 freely as well as zoom in and out in its perspective, hereby makes it convenient for players to 
 enjoy every detail of their character model, from costumes, facial features to muscles and lissome 
 movements.
  
  There are several other small, intriguing features differentiating Sacred from previous Action 
 RPG. The most remarkable is travelling part. In addition to teleporter scheme like in Diablo, the 
 game allows you to obtain horses to ride on. On horse back, the time spent on travelling will reduce 
 considerably. Your horse can also fight the enemies though not very effectively since they are 
 easy to die. Hence, it is wiser to keep them away when you are engaged in battles. It is not simple 
 to travel by horse. Not only money to buy one is required, but you also need proficient riding skills 
 (more than level 2) . Besides, you can tame a wild horse for yourself. Supporting NPCs is another 
 thing Sacred implements in its own way. Players can provide them with some equipments but it is 
 not possible to buy a escort. Certain NPCs only appear during a quest and leave you afterwards, 
 and not all of them can fight, so you become a baby-sitter sometimes.
  
  Though it can be compared to Diablo and Dungeon Siege in terms of originality, Sacred is a solid 
 Action Role Playing which offers some worthy innovation in detail level of game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacredKing
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  At the beginning of the game you choose from 6 classes; Gladiator, Dark elf, Seraphim, wood elf, 
 battle mage and vampire. They all have their own unique set of skills and weapons. There are lots 
 of quests involving hunting down beasts or just looking for lost people. The Combat is pretty basic 
 as you only do one type of attack unless using skills. As you venture through the world you level 
 up spending points on strength, vitality etc. After a while it all looks familiar and gets a bit 
 boring, but if you can find it for around 5 its worth the price. Also as you struggle to get to 
 the next level it all seems pointless when you get there because the monsters all become too weak 
 and the weapons and armour become ridiculously expensive like 500,000g for a full suit (bare in 
 mind you get about 40g per kill) . Overall good game play, mediocre graphics but its a good way 
 to kill time on a Saturday afternoon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haegint
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  I got it for free on a DVD in a game magazine. I enjoyed it for good for a few weeks but it got 
 too repetitive quickly. I did not finish the campaign, only played through about 75% of it. The 
 game world is actually really big, you can do a lot of exploring, even though the game is essentially 
 linear in progression. The main campaign is very long. The game is rather easy (playing on normal 
 setting) . With all the gadgets and weapons etc you find, you will not have much trouble winning 
 your battles after a short while. One or two battles were more difficult, but you won't be reloading 
 often. Eventually I just got tired of running around and killing all these creatures and drowning 
 in their dropped stuff. You can collect and find nice items and build awesome weapons. The inventory 
 is a bit messy and relatively small, so you need to make decisions on what to take along and what 
 not. The graphics and effects I found fairly good considering their rather old age. Controls are 
 good, no problems there. I quite liked the game for a while but just got bored eventually. It's 
 good for casual gaming in between, you can play it in short spurts and you need not think a lot. 
 Just hack and slay. The hardest decisions are how to level-up and what weapons and armor to build. 
 So I'd say it's all solid but a bit one-dimensional. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FM_Kilgore
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  The gamespot reviewer nailed it; the major problem with this game is that combat is just too tedious 
 and isn't very satisfying.
  
  Combat feels slow, and you really don't feel like a hero. One problem is that mobs scale with the 
 player so you never get that feeling of being powerful. Mob scaling is just really bad idea game 
 design, it just makes the game feel really bland.
  
  Game control really could use some work. Plus there are line of sight issues where you can't see 
 some doors and at time lose complete view of your character.
  
  Itemization isn't very exciting. Good items are extremely rare and hard to get. Which would be 
 more bearable if there was the ability to buy and sell via a permanent player auction.
  
  There is no ability in multiplayer to start your own game. 
  
  One nice feature is the shared 
 stash, which is a game feature that should be standard in all these types of games.
  
  Overall the game lacks rewards and combat just isn't fun.
  
  This game is no Diablo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xDeadP00lx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  First of all, people need to get off Diablo's ass. Seriously. That was 4 years ago to the release 
 date of Sacred. Some of you have a hard time separating yourself from old games. It's like asking 
 what was better, your 3rd car, or your 1st car? 1st car is nostalgic, memorable, no matter how 
 ugly it looked. Your 3rd car was newer, better, faster, but still kind of boring after a while.
 
  
  That sums up Sacred compared to Diablo. The learning curve doesn't take long to learn for the game, 
 but the story drags to a halt after about 15 minutes of game play. I didn't even know what I was 
 doing or who I was helping 20 minutes into the game; just running around completing pointless side 
 quests.
  
  Like other people have stated the NPCs lack any personality, and you could care less whether you 
 want to help them or not. Despite NWN's flaws, I felt at least emotional attachments or interest 
 in the plots of the NPCs when I played it. It just had that special feel. It's devoid in Sacred.
 
  
  While the graphics are pretty good and the sound FX are great for the monsters and enemies, it's 
 fairly linear and traveling across the game world is just incredibly tedious. Go 10 minutes to 
 the right, 15 minutes down, 10 back up, 5 to the right. It becomes mind blowing after a while.
 
  
  The loot system is fun, but your inventory fills up QUICK. While people complain about the 5 slots 
 for weapons, I thought it was cool because your equipped weapons in those 5 weapon slots DID NOT 
 take up inventory space as well (a la every other RPG) . However you never get backpacks or other 
 items/containers to store loot, so the whole game you're killing enemies and selling. W.. T... F?? 
 Why have every enemy drop 50 items so you're full after 3 minutes? This should be called "RPG merchant".
 
  
  All in all, the combat is cool, the spells are nicely animated, and the weapons and armor switch-out 
 is really detailed and beautiful. It seems the game was well thought out and animated, but never 
 fully came to fruition.
  
  The monsters respawn in crazy record numbers, but unlike other people's reviews, the monsters are 
 super easy after about level 18 for me. The only enemies who gave me a challenge at all were the 
 giant dragons. It makes it hard to go from point A to B, which is already tedious, through never 
 ending groups of monsters. Horse control is horrible, mounting/dismounting is buggy and annoying. 
 Takes 10 minutes to get off and on. No key binds.
  
  All in all, this is a cool game, but defintely has its limitations. Pick it up and play, have some 
 fun, but don't expect an epic classic or too much from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 6
  Graphics: 8
  Sounds: 6
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 8
  Actual score: 7.6
  
  1996 was a fantastic genre breaking year. On one hand you have Quake that revolutionised FPS as 
 we see it today, Tomb Raider placing smooth action/adventure in 3D with the leading star a female 
 protagonist and Diablo which brought in real-time RPG. Naturally with these successes arrives clones 
 and these clones are still being used today. For any game to overcome this clone 
 attribute needs to be unique enough to stand out in the crowd so in 2004, the German developer 
 Ascaron Entertainment released the action based RPG named Sacred and within itself have some revolutionary 
 aspects however overall still an orc-stomping, undead smashing and easy to pick up RPG.
  
  With any good RPG needs a good story as there will be many hours of traveling with your alter-ego 
 throughout the lands of where they hailed from. In Sacred I feel that the storyline is a bit weak 
 as the intro explains that Shaddar a necromancer and due to his many mishaps of trying to take 
 control of Ancaria (the continent which Sacred takes place) got a little desperate and decided 
 to summon a great Sakkara demon, yet all goes off beam as the protective pentagram wasnt 
 set-up correctly. Well, like all demons I presume, get ticked off and decided to go on a rampage. 
 Well, guess what your task is
  
  To start things off, Sacred has six characters to choose from however sadly these characters are 
 static meaning you cannot choose the sex or even the looks of the character. However all is not 
 lost as these characters will display a good blend of different styles of game play; that said 
 the heroes-in-waiting are the Gladiator (male fighter) , Dark Elf (male poison using warrior) , Wood 
 Elf (female archer) , Battle Mage (magic plus weapons  a nice combo to oppose that dreaded 
 stereotypical mage) , the ever so popular Seraphim (similar to a female paladin with very revealing 
 attire) and my character of choice the Vampiress (a female knight that can turn into a vampire 
 with minimal penalties) . Logically these different arch-types will process different skills and 
 combo arts (combining up to four different spells and/or maneuvers into one massive swipe) therefore 
 considering the static character creation approach there are still many options to 
 make things interesting.
  
  Another good approach to avoid this static creation is that all starting characters 
 will have a different beginning quest and location. Even though all characters locations are in 
 close proximity to each other, this makes the opening sequence individually tailored (e. g. my Vampiress 
 started out in a haunted mansion whilst the other character I have played, the Gladiator started 
 in an arena, some five minutes real time running distance away) . Yet once completed the first couple 
 of quests it eventually merges into the single main quest. Speaking of which, you can play the 
 game three ways: completing the main quest, completing the side quests (which can take time as 
 I recall there are over 300) or do both (which I have done) all with three levels of difficulty 
 being bronze, silver and gold therefore wander your heart away. There are two additional difficulties 
 being the Platinum and Niobium levels however these needs to be unlocked by completing the previous 
 level difficulty. Yet dont expect the quests will fall on your lap as exploration is the 
 key with plenty of easter eggs (e. g. I saw Tristram (the town that Diablo is based on) and a Pac 
 Man cave to name a few) . 
  
  Speaking of which, the continent of Ancaria is hugely detailed in every aspect of the word. All 
 beautifully presented and logically placed (as in river flows from the mountains, deserts next 
 to shrub lands, forests locations, towns and so forth) the attention to detail is by far the best 
 I have seen in a very long time. This also extends to villages, towns and cities as some buildings 
 are multistory high, impressive castle structures, fortifications and so forth (as a sidenote my 
 favourite being Icecreek Pass and the Volcanic Planes) . Take note that all of these structures 
 are in a well designed 2D format yet the characters and beasts are in 3D and you can zoom in three 
 times to get close to the action. Also considering the vastness of Ancaria, Ascaron had made this 
 simple to map via the auto-map feature and quest markers throughout by a simple click of the button.
 
  
  The developers Ascaron also made some changes to make this game a memorable experience and not 
 just another clone. The first being the combo arts where each character possess different skills 
 yet can combined up to four (by an approved magi) to complete one devastating blow, yet the more 
 powerful the art the longer it takes to regenerate (yet there are stats that can assist in speeding 
 up the process) . Another one actually stems from Diablo II is the concept of imbedding items to 
 weapons and armour to make them more potent and lastly the notion of horseback combat. Sadly though 
 this idea is good yet its really too cumbersome especially when collecting loot (that involves 
 getting off the horse, collect it then hop back on  all this takes approximately three seconds 
  now times that by killing literality ten thousand foesyou get the idea) .
  
  With all of these features naturally there will be problems yet Im surprised for the amount 
 of things that can go wrong and looking at the big picture there are not so many bugs to be too 
 concerned about. I will however discuss the more problematic ones. The first being the collision 
 detection; on the surface it looks like you can free roam Ancaria however all is still based on 
 an invisible hexangular grid therefore where you think you can swipe or move to a certain location 
 youll get this pause treatment where the PC is calculating what the do next 
 (not a biggie however can cause serious issues when encountering a boss battle like a dragon or 
 entering a dungeon) . The next is the concept of spawning enemies where you think you cleared out 
 a bunch of critters, in no time they are back in full vengeance. Yet to avoid all of this is to 
 slaughter the nominated amount displayed for that region but the issue here is that humans have 
 only seventy plus years of living time. I have cleared just one of the smaller ones and it took 
 me an entire day (as any saving will reset the counter again) and not going to worry about clearing 
 out the other eight plus regions.
  
  The sounds for Sacred are a mixed bag. Musically the tracks are professionally composed and well 
 suited for any given situation yet considering the majority of the tracks are quite short in length 
 and trampling through Ancaria involves plenty of fighting, expect more combat tunes 
 than exploration ones therefore it can be quite annoying. On the other hand and this 
 one is a major no-no is that any good RPGs needs a good story therefore voice acting is a must. 
 Unfortunately for Sacred its a joke as it seems that the developers used their own staff 
 to complete this (and they should be sticking to what they do best  programming) .
  
  In Ancaria there are literally plethoras of things to do and tinker around. As mentioned before 
 about the free roaming, side and main quests and collecting goodies will determine the time taken 
 to complete this monstrous game. The recommended hours are around sixty however for me Ive 
 clocked just shy at one hundred and ten hours. Mind you I have discovered the majority of the land, 
 side quests and naturally completed the main one but just because you finish the single player 
 there is still the multiplayer aspect where you can play either co-op (up to four players) , hack 
 and slash (up to sixteen players wreck havoc anywhere in Ancaria) and Player Vs Player and of course 
 you can play the game at a higher level (which gives the player better experience and equipment) 
 and dont worry, the online community is still strong.
  
  Therefore on the surface, Sacred may look like a Diablo clone however there are some aspects that 
 makes Sacred a world on its own. The concepts of horse combat (buggy but its still there) , 
 free roaming, beautiful scenarios, a great blend of land and dungeon combat and the simplicity 
 of the interface certainly enriches the game play. However because of the story and voice acting 
 is on the weak side, Sacred is really for the person who simply like plenty of action  and 
 action is what this game is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owl_of_minerva
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 21, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  Sacred can only be considered a disappointment. In the not-so-proud tradition of action RPGs ripping 
 off Diablo, Sacred comes close to being a very good game but never quite makes it. 
  For one thing, despite having such a massive gameworld, the world in Sacred is terribly uninteresting. 
 Morrowind had more variety, and even that only trotted out the same cities and dungeons time and 
 again. At least it had guilds with proper quests. Sacred has moronic side-quests that go no deeper 
 than fetching items, rescuing moronic NPCs, or attempting to herd NPC cattle back to town even 
 though though they throw themselves at well-armed enemies like lemmings, which is deeply frustrating. 
 The only sign of novelty in the game whatever was this weird town where the villagers lured you 
 to a 'feast' before turning into flesh-eating zombies [edit: Azgouls has aptly pointed out that 
 this town is a reference to Diablo. Consider the game as containing no original content whatsoever. 
 You have been warned.] .
  The gameplay itself is fairly enjoyable if you don't mind mowing down thousands of enemies. I liked 
 how there were quite a few characters to choose from with significantly different skills and play 
 styles. Similarly to Titan Quest, you have combat skills you put points in and developing the perfect 
 mage/warrior can be amusing. But killing hordes of respawning enemies can be a real pain. Especially 
 when you're trying to pathfind in this beast of a game: it's ridiculous how slowly the "percentage 
 of world explored" goes up. One point of novelty was the sheer amount of statistics concerning 
 your play experience. If you like numbers, Sacred gives them to you.
  However, one of the crippling flaws is that the story is beyond token to the point of vacuity. 
 It's a good thing the gameworld is massive because the main storyline is 5-10 hours at best. A 
 necromancer has done some nasty stuff and, oh yay, you get to make amends for that idiot's mistake. 
 This contributes to the aimlessness of the game. What is worse is that a lack of story highlights 
 the unoriginality and repetition inherent in the gameplay. 
  Numerous minor niggles are also frustrating. The game has stability problems, which leads to slowdown 
 during battles. Controlling the character with the mouse is difficult to the extent that getting 
 up stairs is a nightmare. The game itself is virtually un-navigable. Despite being large, there 
 is usually only one correct path to get to where you want to go.
  If you're in desperate need of an action RPG, Sacred is ok but on the basis of its numerous flaws 
 I can't recommend it. I really despise the moral bankruptcy of the action RPG genre with its emphasis 
 on the accumulation of goods and the 'farming' of enemies - what a waste of time. That said, fans 
 of the genre will probably find something to like here. If you're not sold on the concept of action 
 RPGs I would play Diablo instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronsplace68
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I happened to be burning out with Hellgate London and finished Mass Effect (a game that was way 
 toooooo shoort, not to mention the price) and wanted a change. I saw this game in my collection 
 and decided to give it a second try. I liked the game before but now have a Quad Core and a decent 
 video card. I had a great time. I still thought riding the horse was a problem as you are limited 
 in your choices of skills you can use. I was a Dark Elf and liked all the mean things he said but 
 still helped people on side quests. The graphics were fair to good and the game kept me interested. 
 After playing newer games with better graphics and tools to play the games, I still had a good 
 time with the quests and characters along the way. It may be dated in many ways compared to games 
 like Mass Effect and the Witcher but if you like RPG games, it is still fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsedai
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  The inevitable comparison to Diablo continues to this day. So I recommend you go ahead and get 
 all the Diablo out of your system first. Then you can install this game and truly appreciate the 
 game. 
  
  This was my first game really fighting a tremendous huge dragon in desert and being surrounded 
 by dangerous blue dragons while running around trees. 
  
  Somehow, they pulled me out of the dungeon mentality and opened up the world. I could ride on horseback 
 and do some romping on the spectacular maps. Notice the screenshots and see the difference now. 
 The graphics are stunning and the music is adequate. 
  
  The gameplay is quick and intuitive while the loot system is okay. 
  
  I would certainly recommend 
 this game for any fan of the action RPG genre. If you want to sound like you know what you're talking 
 about when you mention Diablo, then play this one too. You won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newsygal
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  An RPG fan from way back, I love games that let you explore, monsters that are a challenge and 
 finding cool items in chests. This game provides all of that and much more. The world of Sacred 
 is absolutely huge and exploring it at different difficulty levels with different characters makes 
 the replay value of this game very high. The game also fits anyone's RPG style - hurry through 
 completeling only the main quests or taking hours and hours to explore every nook and cranny picking 
 up tons of loot. The game is fairly easy to learn (the in game tutorial is excellent) but mastering 
 your character will take time and patience. I'm currently playing as the Wood Elf on bronze but 
 may import her to silver at about level 25 and start with the Battle Mage or Gladiator again on 
 bronze. It will be interesting working with different equipment. I only wish that equipment you 
 cannot use would not be dropped. It's annoying and it will fill your inventory very quickly. With 
 top-notch graphics, fairly non-linear gameplay and tons of quests, I highly recommend this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Mataeus
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  Well, I haven't written a review on Gamespot before but as every review I've read on Sacred is 
 written with unintelligent, broken English I thought I'd up the ante a little :)
  
  First thing: You can now buy this game for budget price as 'Sacred Gold'. This includes the 'Plus' 
 pack (extra missions and areas) and the 'Underworld' expansion - a whole new plot to follow which 
 concludes the original story. So if you ARE going to buy it, go and and get 'Sacred Gold' for the 
 full experience. Brand new it's about ten quid. Anyway, onto the game it's self...
  
  I was disappointed to read Gamespot's review, especially the part about the combat being unrewarding 
 - on the contrary, I believe Sacred's combat is very rewarding indeed, especially if you are using 
 ranged weaponry: You never run out of arrows this being an action RPG (just like in Baldur's Gate: 
 Dark Alliance II in fact) and I find little more satisfying in the game than sneaking up on a group 
 of Goblins and unleashing my burning arrows upon them, each one hitting it's target with a satisfying 
 'Thwump'. It's very easy to fight, you simply hold your mouse button down over a character. If 
 you have 'follow' mode on your character will continue to attack the enemy over which you originally 
 held your button down on, so you don't have to trace the enemies around the screen you can be lining 
 up for the next one. Blood and Gore abound when you kill enemies, critical hits causing them to 
 explode and some kills leave the body on the ground spurting blood in the air like there's no tomorrow. 
 On the whole I find this extremely satisfying!
  
  The levelling system is excellent too. The cap is set to a whopping level 250, but I think the 
 most anyone's ever gotten to (judging by the on line leaderboards) is about 217. At first you level 
 up thick and fast, I got to level 5 in about and hour. In combat, a cool little feature is that 
 every time you strike an opponent the hit point damage you've done floats up above their head for 
 a second so you can judge how well the fight is going. Also, when you kill things the experience 
 points you get do the same thing. Quests and subquests reward you with much experience too, and 
 then there are Oblivion-style freeform quests - in other words, there are random magical items 
 and secret weapons and very strong opponents that you will occasionally happen across by accident 
 with no quest script associated with them - just cool secrets that you can spend hours and hours 
 looking for yourself.
  
  Making money is ridiculously easy in this game too, although some items cost tens of thousand of 
 gold pieces so it's no hardship ;) . Nearly every creature you kill will leave some kind of weapon 
 behind, with great names such as 'Short Bow of Oblivion' or 'Helm of Cinders'. Because of the limitations 
 of your character (different characters can only use certain armour that's designed for their race) 
 you are never short of things to sell, as the game will still throw items at you that you cannot 
 use at all.
  
  Wandering the wonderfully looking countryside (with all manner of environments from open planes 
 to snow covered plateaus) and finding loads of stuff to kill and freeform quests to happen upon 
 is a great experience. And the best part of this? You can play the entire game, quests and all, 
 on line with a mate. Oh yes indeedy. The monsters are levelled up per the number of players you 
 have going so as to keep things well balanced, and characters are saved straight to the server 
 so there's no need to worry about overwriting your single player game, the two are kept entirely 
 separate.
  
  All in all, Sacred has great graphics, great and intuitive gameplay, lots and lots to do, it's 
 all co-op if you want it to be, the only let down is the sound... Sparse music and too-quiet amateur 
 sounding voice-overs (inspired by the Monty Python films by the sounds of them) let it down somewhat, 
 but the atmosphere isn't spoiled too much... As you'll see when you obliterate an army of Orcs, 
 with a Halberd of Flames, in a forest ,as the fog rolls in, blood everywhere, your character scream 
 'Vae Victis!' (or something similar at least. Sorry about that, Kane :D )
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 25, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Sacred is a mixed bag. Some things make it stand out in the sea of Diablo clones, while others 
 leave you with a sick taste. The game focuses on action/rpg gameplay while trying to present a 
 massive world to explore. The problem is that most of this world is just the same thing with a 
 lack of interaction. Along with a boring story, the game contains plenty of side quests which have 
 no impact on the world. The big kicker is the lack of much needed key bindings, which make the 
 UI horrid to say the least.
  
  If you just couldn't get enough of Diablo 2's gameplay, then you can expect more of it in Sacred. 
 The game sends endless spawns of creatures at you, some reused too often and replaced with higher 
 levels. After you clear a section of land, the game will respawn this area rather quickly which 
 makes gameplay long and drawn out. Often times you will need to backtrack previous visited areas 
 to partake in a quest, forcing you to kill off the area again. This is a great way to level your 
 character, but after you become too strong for the area, monsters will still snare and force you 
 to kill them. 
  
  The world in Sacred is massive and could take you days to explore. The problem is that most of 
 the world is not worth exploring, as you will tend to see the same pattern of monsters and a limited 
 amount of objects to open for loot. For a game that tries to steer clear of linear gameplay, it 
 fails as you find yourself doing the same things all too often. The main storyline drags out and 
 is hardly worth noting, as it draws on your typical fantasy fiction clichs. There is only so many 
 times that one can save the kingdom from a power hungry villain before it all becomes stale.
  
  One of Sacred's major drawbacks is the lack of customizable key bindings. You are forced to 
 use the numeric keys 1-0, which leads to frustration. The switching of weapons from 1-4 is fine, 
 but when you constantly have to go from AQEWR to 7-0 to invoke skills, it becomes a hassle. Allowing 
 the option to customize keys is by no means an old concept, and makes Sacred feel that much more 
 like a failure.
  
  My best advice is to stay clear of Sacred. It starts out with a lot of promise, but quickly leads 
 to a mess of repetition and poor gameplay. Diablo 2 is number one for a reason, and no matter how 
 many times a rival company tries to come up with something better, it just makes the original more 
 and more of a legacy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guzganu2006
Rating: 7
Date: May 18, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  First off, Sacred is not a bad game, but some of its aspects make it require a lot of patience 
 and that lowers the rating greatly. It builds on the lines that Diablo 2 and perhaps Divine Divinity 
 left off. It has some improvements, but even with these, it's still a diamond in the rough. When 
 I remember Diablo 2, the first thing that comes to mind is the inability to properly save. This 
 particular aspect ruined much of the Diablo experience for me and it was great to see it fixed 
 here. However, along with this, I half-expected that the frustrating respawning of monsters would 
 have also been elliminated. Sure, it gives you a chance to level up faster, but knowing that you've 
 cleared a whole forest of orcs and goblins for example on the way to the big orc boss makes you 
 feel safe about the journey home. Wrong, th path that you've just cleared just fills up after a 
 short while, usually the time it takes to kill the so-called "boss". At least in Diablo you could 
 just run flat out to the exit of an empty cave or to the safety of a city. It's good to see that 
 riding a horse to increase speed was implemented; even so, the fact that it's harder to kill when 
 mounted makes the riding almost absent as you'd have to dismount every time the ever-present critters 
 jump you in large number if only to avoid getting the horse killed. I don't argue about the spatious 
 inventory, and quick-clean of drops, but I do argue about the short life-span you can sometimes 
 have if you're not carefull. On the whole, Sacred is worth playing, but without getting your hopes 
 too high. It's a nice pass-time activity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamefreak
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  boy what a game when i first laid eyes on it i new this game will rock and it sure did everyone 
 talks about how this is a daiblo clone but it is not it is better trust me this is the game you 
 will like i just cant wait for sacred 2 and 3 and all the others damn i cant stop playing this 
 game will someone help lol the way the world was made is cool and it is huge you can never search 
 every corner of the map because it is the most large and combat system is good graphics great much 
 better than diablos and i dont know just about everything in this game is perfect and trust me 
 if you have not baught it yet you simply have to if you dont like it just try it and you will be 
 sucked in its world and its charecters you have a variety of choices wich you can choose from gladiator 
 to battle-mage you will have many skills to choose from a lot of weapons to try and many many quests 
 to acomplish 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dozzpot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  This game is not bad. I have had it installed on my PC for about a year but for whatever reason 
 I only played a few days the first time and have just come back to it now. Last week I had a look 
 at Nevewinter Nights 1 but found it very dull and overly complicated so I took it off after a few 
 hours. Maybe I did not give it enough of a chance but anyway, I did not like the D&D rules being 
 implemented via a computer generated dice roll for every hit and counter-hit taken in a battle. 
 This shows as a display at the bottom of the screen; I know you can switch it off but anyway, what's 
 that about?
  Also the graphics were appalling, I know its an old game but I thought I would try 1 not 2 as it 
 is supposed to be a 'classic' and has had years to have the bugs ironed out through patches. Graphics 
 aren't everything but they were pretty poor and this brings me to my first point: so what about 
 3D graphics? Sacred is 2D and like other games such as the Divinity ones it looks fantastic for 
 it; a real work of art. Rotating the camera is not always needed when a game looks this good. I 
 could do that in NWN but the sacrifice was characters that looked like a geometry problem.
  On the same subject, Titan Quest looked incredible as a 3D game but in that the game play involved 
 a linear run through a valley so that got dull very quickly and I gave up half way through.
  I had better say something about Sacred I guess. Buy this game if you want an easy to run , easy 
 to learn RPG without all the nonsense. The characters are diverse and you can customise as you 
 play anyway. It also offers some new ones (e. g. the Seraphim babe) and this gave you horse riding 
 before Two Worlds was even thought of. Another good bit is that you get runes that you add to your 
 special abilities but to keep it simple you can also use them to mod equipment and weapons. You 
 can also use rings and amulets to mod them as well, all of which keeps it simple and keeps it fun.
 
  The combo moves are also good, I am just making sense of them this time around and have learnt 
 a move sequence that can dispatch enemies very effectively.
  My only gripe is that the manual is not very good, which may be why I dropped the game the first 
 time but now I am getting the hang of it a lot more.
  Worth buying.
  
  UPDATE:
  Okay, after playing for a few days I realised why I didn't complete it the first time: It is rather 
 dull after a while. Playing as the Seraphim I discovered the Rotating Blades of Light spell can 
 be used to pretty much kill everything you run into so there is no real combat any more. Also the 
 much publicised idea of starting in bronze difficulty then moving up to silver when you get to 
 level 30 or so is all very well but you should realise you have to start the game over when you 
 export the character like that so that's pointless and add to the dullness. I therefore knock it 
 down from 8.0 to 6.5. It's still very pretty, massive and a free-roamer so if you like Diablo there 
 is not much to complain about (I didn't by the way, so now I am complaining...) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Sacred, I haven't finished the game, and I doubt I will.... There are certainly some things to 
 like about Sacred; it's got decent to good looking graphics, fairly good voice acting, but above 
 all it's boring and repetitive. It's clear Sacred was professionally made, but it's bland through 
 and through. When you start off, it's hardly clear why it is that you feel the need to be a hero, 
 something about a loose demon... so what, that's a dime a dozen in a game where there are more 
 magic items then normal ones, no? The game doesn't begin to try to pull you into the story. You're 
 just sent criss-crossing the map simply so that you will encounter the different enemies that populate 
 different regions. And guess what, turn around and voila, new cannon fodder.
  
  Just about every weapon and item in the game is cramped with magical properties, so much so that 
 their descriptions fill a substantial amount of the screen. It's tedious to even look through the 
 endless stream of loot and decide what is worth a damn. Numbers also go through the roof in this 
 game before you know it, 3 or 4 digit statistics all over the place.
  
  As a battle mage I was very frustrated with the inability to access all the spells easily; the 
 only way to cast spells is to use the slots in the interface, you start off with 1 and it looks 
 like there are 5 at max. Firing off the most appropriate spell when you need it is therefore impossible, 
 you are forced to stick with a handful of the most generally usable spells. You can't remap the 
 keys and using the spell hotkeys 6-0 while holding Ctrl to prevent your mage from charging into 
 battle, and using the right mouse button to fire spells, requires three hands, which is impossible 
 for normal human beings.
  
  Once you get a little into the story and before you bore of the game it's certainly addictive, 
 so if you just can't get enough of the same routine this may be just the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  I had some time to kill this last while so I finally got to playing this. This game is very easily 
 comparable to Divine Divinity in its look and gameplay. Specifically the 2d backgrounds, which 
 were mixed with simple 3d characters... actually they were mixed well and difficult to tell apart 
 to their credit. I probably would rate divinity divinity a slight bit higher than this game... 
 however both are very boring.
  
  I didn't really like the 2d backgrounds much, they chugged along far too much when running around 
 making it painful to see. Its too bad the game ran at such a low resolution, I think it would have 
 helped a lot more having it run at least twice as high.
  
  Gameplay is frustrating and lacking. Some good things, mostly not. You are constantly frozen for 
 a second or two when trying to run to the next enemy, and a lot of enemies have cheap attacks that 
 freeze you and force you to kill them. The combat is just boring and not fun... and theres nothing 
 but endless enemies to fight which makes it worse. The quests aren't all that much fun either. 
 All the characters you help are pretty nameless and as are the towns you visit. Instead of flooding 
 the world with nameless NPCS, they could have tried to give each one a real personality.
  
  I wish they had made places to make keybindings for your attacks, you had to click on the very 
 few they had.
  
  This game at times feels great, but when you are seeing the next mission after mission of backtracking 
 all over the place and trying to get around the maze they have created in the linear map, its too 
 much.
  
  I have a lot of confidence the sequel will beat this game and really be worth playing. Hopefully 
 the world itself will be filled with more interesting things and easy to explore... since in this 
 game its pretty boring and pointless to explore much of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaremathras
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Sacred is a great game, very similar to Diablo II. If these 2 games were combined it would be a 
 masterpiece. Diablo II has easy combat, which makes people happy. Sacred has great optional quests 
 and horses that you can ride. In fact, Sacred has the greatest quests in these types of games that 
 I've ever seen. Diablo II has good optional quests too, but they are only about 2 per world. Sacred 
 has at least 5 quests per village, and there are a lot of villages. Also, Sacred has a HUGE world 
 to explore and conquer, with tons of monsters and items, while Diablo II only has limited small 
 maps. Also, in Sacred, you can easily switch between spells and weapons in a mere keystroke, making 
 it very comfortable to fight. But there is usually a long delay between attacks, so it'll take 
 about 30 seconds to kill a monster at your level, unlike in Diablo II, it's about 5 seconds per 
 monster. In Sacred though, you have abilities and spells which you can quickly switch trough, and 
 kill about 10 monsters and heal yourself twice in about 20 seconds, therefore making spells and 
 abilities more valuable than weapon combat, unlike in Diablo II, where a sorceress can easily kill 
 a Darkling in 3 hits. Diablo II is a very fast-paced game, where overnight you can beat half of 
 it if you are skilled, but in Sacred you can take as long as you want. The only bad thing about 
 Sacred is the storyline. Every character starts differently and the beginning for most is interesting, 
 but then as the story clashes and becomes the same for all classes, it is mainly Go talk to some 
 guy on the east side of the world, after you talk to him, Go talk to some guy on the south side 
 of the world, then Talk to the guy at the north of the world. Once again, it is an exceptionally 
 big world in Sacred, so it takes a long time to talk to everyone, but this is only the first of 
 4 chapters, where the rest get a lot more interesting. Maybe Ascaron (the company that made this 
 game) wanted you to first explore the world before really playing. Another problem that I had was 
 with glitches. There were very many of them. Some were horse and mount/unmount glitches. It was 
 very irritating, for example, you were in combat, about to be killed, so you wanted to retreat. 
 You clicked on your horse, or on the mount icon, and you just couldn't get on your horse, and you 
 got killed, which was very disencouraging. Also, if you owned a horse already, and then mounted 
 a weaker horse (yes, the horses do vary) and got off, you couldn't get back on your stronger horse, 
 unless the weaker horse gets killed. Another problem was if you equipped your horse with a saddle 
 and sell it, the saddle stays on the horse, and you can't keep it. These glitches may have been 
 fixed, since I haven't updated at all, and I'm still at version 1.0. The game gives you a mischievous 
 feel to it, and it feels good. Also when you play it you can tell that the makers worked really 
 hard on it. The graphics are a bit better than average, and the sound is great, other than the 
 music, which is average. The gameplay is the best I've ever seen in these kind of games. I happily 
 recommend Sacred to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 28, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This game had a lot of promise for me. I love large expansive worlds, and was really looking forward 
 to a large scale open-ended Diablo clone. It's got some interesting ideas like horses. The character 
 classes are fresh and interesting. The problem is that it is a beast to control. The game is buggy, 
 and the controls are FRUSTRATING. This was the least responsive control system I think I've every 
 played. The mechanics were ok, it just didn't FEEL right.
  
  You click on a monster to execute your special attack and.... nothing.... nothing happens, so you 
 click again... and again.... finally after a few of these, it executes. Even when they do, it's 
 like there is this delay between it starting, and it actually happening. JUMP ATTACK!!
  
  Pause....
  
  Prep.... Pointless animation....
  
  FINALLY it executes!!
  
  I really 
 don't understand why they couldn't implement a more fluid control scheme. The interface is a pain 
 too. You can't customize controls. You have to earn slots to assign power to hotkeys. But even 
 this is lame. You eventually get five slots for weapons, and five for powers. WHY do I need five 
 different weapons ready to go? I NEVER had enough room for my powers.
  
  Dumb.
  
  In the end what did me in WAS the huge world, even though I was looking forward to it. It's enormous. 
 Looking at this huge map after hours of gameplay and realizing how little I've covered is scary. 
 This is especially considering the careful pace you have to take with all the enemies that respawn 
 WAY too fast, infrequent potion drops, and the previously mentioned interface killing you faster 
 than the monsters, and you have a frustrating combination.
  
  This game could be good. It need to be FIXED, but what is there could be interesting if it didn't 
 drive you crazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Compared to most Diablo-Clones Sacred is a nice addition. But in the grand scheme of things it 
 falls more into the category with the others rather than being better than the rest.
  
  Sacred starts you off with a choice of six characters. Each has there own abilities such as magic, 
 fighting, etc. The character you pick affects your whole game by limiting the types of skills you 
 can level up later on. If you choose a warrior don't expect to do so well in the archery tree, 
 this is pretty obvious.
  
  The combat in Sacred is very easy to pick up and learn. All that you need to do is click on the 
 enemy you want to attack and hold or repeatedly click. This happy for every single enemy in the 
 game. While this may be simple it is amazingly tedious and annoying, so much that I had to take 
 many breaks from playing just to let my hand rest. So the combat is pretty mindless and it all 
 depends on your skills and feats.
  
  There are numerous quests in Sacred. Each has its own back story but after the 5th Go get this 
 or Kill this person you will be wanting new types of quests. If you complete a quest you get items 
 and experience. Though the reward items are nice you could just as easily kill an enemy for it 
 seeing as the drops are plentiful.
  
  Sacred's graphics are nothing to brag about. I know the game was made in 2004 but I mean come on, 
 Ascaron could have used a little better looking graphics engine. The environment is pretty detailed 
 but still falls to the bad looking 2d graphics.
  
  Sacred is a fairly long game but throughout the experience I only want to end the game. The quests 
 may keep you happy for a while but after a few hours of mindless clicking and drops it gets boring. 
 Sacred may be your type of game if you like lots of clicking and good RPG elements. If not I would 
 recommend you play something more worth while. Pros+ Lots of Quests, Drops, Character Skills
  
  Cons- 2d Meh Graphics, Simple but tedious Combat, Can get Boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maedhros925
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  When I say action RPG, most likely you have a good idea of what's in store. As expected, Sacred 
 is a clickfest with the goal being to kill enemies, pick up loot they drop, and get stronger so 
 that you can kill more enemies. If you've played Diablo or its sequel, then you've experienced 
 the seminal game in this genre. That said, Sacred is more than just a been there, done that kind 
 of game. While the above formula holds true, there are enough improvements in store to warrant 
 pouring nearly as many hours into Sacred as you have into Diablo II.
  
  The best way to explain what makes Sacred unique in the genre is that it emphasizes its RPG elements 
 more than most. Games like Diablo and Titan Quest are fairly linear. You follow a specific path 
 laid out for you, going from area to area and killing everything you see. Well, in Sacred you still 
 kill everything you see, but the linear nature has been completely removed. The world of Sacred 
 is completely open, more similar to a world that you would find in the Elder Scrolls series: Oblivion 
 or Morrowind. You can travel to any town you'd like in nearly any order, or even just wander the 
 countryside. This truly gives you the feeling that you're in a world, playing a role, not just 
 gaining ground as you progress to the next area. There are plenty of out-of-the-way caves and dungeons 
 to explore, and even the occasional to find just by exploring.
  
  Of course, there's a main quest to follow, which will take you throughout the game world, but there 
 are nearly countless additional quests to find and complete. True to the genre, quests don't have 
 much creativity. Most quests will be along the lines of go kill this creature , but there is at 
 least some variety. Some quests will have you collecting specific items, some dropped by specific 
 creature classes, and others will require to provide protection to an NPC while they travel with 
 you to a specific destination. Still, it's pretty standard action RPG fare.
  
  What keeps Sacred's gameplay from becoming repetitive is that it does what it does exceedingly 
 well. The automap system is espcially tremendous. Initially covered by Fog of War, the world of 
 Ancaria unfolds around you as you explore. Your character is a yellow dot, enemies are depicted 
 by red dots, and NPCs are depicted by blue dots. Important quest-giving characters are designated 
 by a white dot, and after their quest is complete they will become blue dots like everyone else. 
 This is tremendously helpful in weeding who you need to talk to and who you can ignore - not always 
 easy to tell in games like Oblivion and Morrowind. Once a quest has been granted, your quest destination 
 will show up as a green map marker, or yellow for the main quest. When a quest is selected as an 
 active quest, an arrow will appear at the edges of your map to point you in the right direction, 
 in addition to the compass available on the HUD of your main screen.
  
  Another feature that Sacred executes well is the journal. Quests are clearly laid out, and easy 
 to browse. A picture of your next destination will be provided in your journal, and just clicking 
 on a quest is all it takes to make that your active quest. This checklist makes it easy to stay 
 organized, and play with a goal in mind. That's not all that the journal contains, though. You 
 can also view detailed statistics about your character, even view a graph charting your experience 
 and gold against your time spent playing. There are even opportunities to collect scrolls and other 
 reading material during the course of the game, which when activated will add to your collection 
 and can be read in the journal.
  
  Like other action RPGs, there are several character classes to choose from. You can select either 
 a brawling Gladiator, an angelic Seraphim, a sun-weakened Vampiress, a bow-wielding Wood Elf, a 
 Dark Elf skilled in poison and traps, or a spell-casting Battle Mage. Each character will have 
 some skills in common, such as a multi-hit and critical hit capability, but each character has 
 many more skills that are exclusive to their class. For example, the Wood Elf can shoot an arrow 
 that will circle back around and continue to strike your enemy repeatedly, or the Vampiress can 
 leech the life from her opponent. Each skill is improved not by leveling up, but by collecting 
 skills that are dropped by enemies. Every skill is character specific, but even skills you cannot 
 used can be exchanged for one that suites your character. Also many of the items that you'll find 
 throughout the game will be exclusive to specific characters, such as wings for the Seraphim or 
 a two-handed blade for the Dark Elf that looks like something a Kilngon would wield. While the 
 world of Sacred is always the same, the uniqueness of each character does add to the replay value.
 
  
  Of course, being an RPG game there are some shortcomings that are hard to avoid. This can truly 
 become a clickfest, as the enemy encounter rate is quite high. As you gain levels, weaker enemies 
 will eventually stop attacking, which is a relief, because traveling even one screen will require 
 you to kill a handful of enemies every time. Another frustration is that your inventory will often 
 fill up quickly. There are five different types of potions to collect, and since they don't stack 
 each potion takes up a block in your inventory. That doesn't leave a whole lot of room for equipment, 
 and since nearly everything you kill will drop an item that means you'll leave a lot of equipment 
 lying around. Getting back to town every time you need to sell your stuff can also be a hassle. 
 Sacred provides teleport portals, but these are only present within towns, and go from town to 
 town. There are horses that you can purchase, which will allow you to cover ground much faster, 
 though trying to fight from your horse is extremely cumbersome, and with the encounter rate so 
 high fighting is unavoidable. There's nothing like a scroll of town portal to instantly whisk you 
 away to a merchant, an option which can feel almost like cheating at times, but would probably 
 be welcome when you find yourself way out in the countryside, and having to hoof it back through 
 yet another large numbers of enemies. All things considered though, this is a tremendous addition 
 to the action RPG genre. It's clearly a generation ahead of Diablo, and that's true for the improvements 
 it offers, as well as the outstanding look and feel of the game. If you don't mind games that require 
 endless use of the left mouse button, then Sacred has hours of enjoyable gameplay to offer. This 
 game is truly underappreciated, and I'm looking forward to see what the upcoming sequel will have 
 to offer, as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunnyHath
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  Sacred is a Diablo-esque action role-playing game, set in the world of Ancaria. The combat system 
 is similar to the Diablo series, hack-n-slash the enemies as fast as you can, gain experience to 
 kill the tougher boss enemies, and increase your attributes and skills until you can dominate all 
 opposition. Having over 300 unique NPCs, 30 main quests, and 200 sub-quests, Sacred promises to 
 be a very highly replayable, large-scale RPG.
  
  Overview
  
  You, the player, are destined to explore an expansive, lush, and diverse world, rampant with sinister 
 trolls, ogres and fearsome dragons. You will travel across sun-baked deserts, a tropical archipelago, 
 dense forests, and icy mountains. Sacred's single-player scenario is dauntingly large at first, 
 but the game eases you into the role fairly gently, slowly teaching you the skills needed to progress 
 through the rest of the game. The multi-player aspect of Sacred looked very promising at first, 
 and proved very enjoyable, the only complaint I had was that for whatever reason, not very many 
 people are playing Sacred online, hopefully that number will increase, as this game deserves a 
 wider fan base. I personally (1mbps cable connection) experienced only slight lag while playing 
 online (Closed Multi-player) , but the game remained playable and the players themselves seem very 
 friendly and willing to help for the most-part. Sometimes the players are just too busy hacking 
 and slashing away at the hundreds of enemies, to hear your pleas for help, and youre left to fend 
 for your meager self. By far the most alluring multi-player aspect to me was the co-operative mode. 
 Games with well implemented co-operative play modes are few and far between on the PC. The last 
 enjoyable co-op game I recall had to be Quake 2, even on 33.6k I spent hours upon hours fragging 
 with buddies. Sacred's co-op at first glance looks extremely rewarding, and for the most part it 
 is, except the minor network lag and number of players issues. The internet multiplay aspect of 
 Sacred takes you through the standard account creation, character creation, and login sequence 
 familiar to Diablo 2 players. You find yourself in the lobby, which can be confusing at first. 
 But the sections are set up to cater to beginners and veterans, a level 200 can't join a beginners 
 game and vice versa. There is also a Local Area Network (LAN) mode for those of you with a home 
 network.
  
  Graphics
  
  Graphically Sacred is up to par, but nothing revolutionary. The graphics are pretty, although the 
 animation is sorely lacking at seemingly the most crucial times. One interesting feature is the 
 ability to zoom in and out so you can see much more of the area around you. It has 3 zoom levels, 
 the default, zoomed in (shows you and the immediate area around you) , and zoomed out, which shows 
 more but likely will bog down slower systems. The v1.7 Patch is to be released soon and is supposedly 
 going to address some frame rate issues. Diablo 2 only let you zoom out if you had installed the 
 expansion pack Lord of Destruction which allowed you to use the 800x600 resolution, effectively 
 increasing your field of view (giving an unfair advantage in multi-player as well) . I ran the game 
 comfortably at 1024x768x32bpp on an Athlon XP 3200+ with 1,024MB Corsair XMS 2-3-2-6 DDR-400 and 
 an ATI Radeon 9800 Pro All-In-Wonder using Catalyst v4.2. Even zoomed out the game ran smoothly, 
 though I would expect it to run sluggish on lesser systems I cannot verify this first hand.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The control system is basic yet advanced, while remaining familiar to PC action 
 RPG players. You left-click to attack, and right-click to use your selected special ability, but 
 Sacred makes constant use of the hotkeys. Keys 1 through 5 are your melee or ranged weapons, 6 
 through 0 are your spells and abilities. The equipment screen is very simple, made even easier 
 by simply right-clicking any weapon, shield, or ability and automatically equipping, or learning 
 it in the case of a spell or ability. Only minor complaint is the path finding is horrible, you 
 click to walk and your horse goes in 50 different directions, yet in the correct one, which makes 
 attacking enemies quite difficult as the screen is jerking all over the place. It is interesting 
 to note that the Armor and otherwise worn items are shown on the right side of the Inventory screen 
 when equipped, on their respective places, i. e.: helmet (on the head) , boots (on the feet) etc. 
 Weapons and shields however, are put in the 5 sockets at the bottom left of your screen. You may 
 have 1 shield and 1 weapon in a slot, or 1 two-handed weapon. At the beginning of the game you 
 start with one weapon slot and one skill/spell slot. I played as a Battle Mage, one of 6 fairly 
 unique character types you can choose from. You can also purchase a horse to cover great distances 
 faster (very handy for the long walks between towns, but they seem to die too easily.) Among these 
 classes are; Dark Elf, Gladiator, Vampiress, Seraphim, Wood Elf and the Battle Mage. As a Battle 
 Mage you begin with a standard Staff that glows eerily and leaves a trail as you move (nice eye 
 candy I thought) . You can whack your foes with it and it enhances some stats. You also start with 
 a level 1 Fireball spell. You learn more spells by reading Runes which are little square pages 
 that remind me of the spells in Dungeon Siege. As you learn the same spell repeatedly it gets stronger, 
 instead of paying points into it you simply learn it repeatedly as you find more runes of the same 
 type. The same goes with special abilities of other classes. The fireball you begin with does little 
 damage, but more than you physically beating on the enemies with your staff. In the beginning you 
 fight mainly small goblin-type enemies and wolves. By themselves they're no match for your furious 
 thwacking of the staff and fireball combos, usually a couple whacks and a fireball takes down most 
 enemies in the beginning, however to my initial dismay, 2 or 3 enemies at a time can easily reduce 
 your measly hit points to zero, causing you to reload a quicksave (you did save right?) . Once you 
 get the hang of the combat system it becomes very enjoyable. Later on as you gain levels you get 
 up to 5 slots for weapons and spells. This becomes extremely important for spell casters, making 
 use of your hotkeys will be the difference between failure and success, and there are many many 
 enemies to dispatch along the way so get used to your hotkeys early on. I have it set up so 6 is 
 healing, 7 is an ice spell that slows the enemies down plus deals some damage, and 8 is a flaming 
 ring that burns them to cinders while they're slowly trudging through the ice towards you. One 
 other interesting thing to note is the Combo system, while I have yet to figure out the intricacies 
 of it, in theory you can attach up to 4 abilities or spells to one combo, one right click could 
 cast 4 spells in succession, the possibilities are numerous.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound in Sacred is nice, rivers bubbling, horses clopping, children laughing. However (this 
 may be due to my onboard ALC650 audio) , the voices of some people who I believe you are supposed 
 to be able to hear, as an ambient sound, seem so faint you can barely make it out. Other than that, 
 the combat/voice system sounds just fine. Again up to par with the genre but nothing that stands 
 out as amazing.
  
  Conclusion
  
  To say I enjoyed the open-ended gameplay of Sacred would be an understatement. At the time of this 
 review I have just reached Act II, which left me with a feeling of achievement, yet there is much 
 to see and do in the world of Ancaria. Battling a dragon at level 15, that could kill me within 
 1 second, and succeeding put a big smile on my face. Sacred is not the best RPG of all time by 
 far, but it is a very enjoyable and replayable game Ill keep in my collection for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Technically, this is a solid hack'n'slash game meant for anyone who loved the Diablo series. It 
 served as a visually stunning (though still retains the 2D isometric interface) and impactful sounding 
 piece of work with a challenging gameplay formula. The characters look good too, especially theprovocatively 
 dazzling Seraphim. As exciting as it may sound, you may get bored with the hacking and slashing 
 eventually midway through the game.
  
  One problem here is that there is simply little incentive in killing everything you see. Leveling 
 up doesn't really make a difference in your fighting prowess as the enemy gets stronger as you 
 level up, and quite a number of unique skill abilities known as combat arts are similarly shared 
 by all the 6 different characters, like Attack and Multi-hit, which makes these skills seem less 
 interesting. Also, there is no really special strategy or twist in the hack'n'slash formula, just 
 hacking and slashing. Everything is straightforward clicking of the mouse even with the use of 
 magic combat.
  
  The side quests are dull too as it's either kill this or fetch that and the rewards you get for 
 doing so are just uninspiring, for they are either gold or experience points with a few occasional 
 random gear thrown towards you. At the end of the day, you get to amass absurd amounts of gold 
 and experience points that you find that there is no meaning to it anymore. And when you think 
 you finally had enough of the mindless killing thanks for the ridiculously fast spawning time and 
 decide to just make a dash through the crowd, you meet some reeaallly nice magic dudes and dudesses 
 who keep stalling your footsteps by casting hold spells on you, forcing you to hack'n'slash again 
 through the surrounding mass of enemies whom you passed by. Great. Mind you too, these magic casters 
 have some of the weirdest voice-overs to irritate you further.
  
  Well, enough about the **** One of the elements that I enjoyed is the map exploration. There are 
 some interesting places to encounter upon with easter eggs here and there, making fun of the fantasy 
 world with modern day jokes. The 2D landscape is lush with 3D lighting and detailed features which 
 gives you a little incentive to explore as much as possible. After clocking around 100 hours of 
 finger-hurting gameplay and finally made my Seraphim through the Silver stage, I can finally put 
 the game box permanently on the shelf.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up a copy of this game upon release I was amazed to have in my hands a diablo-esk 
 game. Sure there was Dungeon Siege and Divine Divinity.. but this game actually let you ride horses.. 
 I was also pretty amazed about how massive the game was. It gave you free roam to explore at your 
 own pace without restrictions. (very few like 2 restrictive areas) This, and to find respawning 
 enemies.. no longer just beat an area and move on.. you can actually stay and level if you want.. 
 The game also presented 4 difficulties when it was released.. (Niobium was added in a patch) with 
 each patch the game got more interesting.. with the release of Plus and in-game improvements of 
 weapons and quests. Plus the max level cap of 206 increased the amount of play you got from the 
 game. The skills maxed at 255 at first and if upgraded once more would warp back to 1. This has 
 been fixed though.
  
  As I enjoyed the game immensely, I finally got to Niobium and played through it.. I let the game 
 rest for a year or two.. picking it back up to get Underworld. but when I did return the game felt 
 sterile as if this wasn't the game I left behind loving every second of. This did not occur to 
 me with Diablo 2.. even though I left the game for years before coming back to play once more.. 
 I tried to go back to the world of Sacred again ... and I still felt a tug holding me back.. Maybe 
 the game is best played through once.. in its entirety and then left to rest.. Sure it has replay 
 value up the wazoo.. but after battling through each difficulty with one character you really tend 
 to hesitate in creating yet another.. For the Value Sacred is a great buy.. I got hundreds of hours 
 of play out of it.. but in the end you will find that once played through throughly there is little 
 else than to abandon it forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_orb
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 7, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  Sacred is a point click RPG game that was released back in 2004. It borrows heavily from games 
 like Diablo and Dungeon Siege where the gameplay is concerned. The end product is a game that looks 
 very good and plays very well until you've been doing the same thing over and over for a week or 
 two.
  
  Visually Sacred looks very very good for a point click RPG. In fact is looks better then most of 
 the major point click games period. It's a blend of 2d and 3d elements, the ground and characters 
 being modeled in 3d and things like trees and buildings rendered in 2d. You can see the difference 
 when you zoom in all the way as plants and buildings become heavily pixilated while the player 
 character still looks quite nice. However when you are zoomed out, which is the only way to really 
 play the game, the world of Ancaria is a pleasure to quest about. And on your travels you quest 
 through deserts, forests, snowy mountains, swamps, and blasted wastelands. All the while with a 
 nicely done day and night cycle and weather effects like fog, rain, and snow. It's also very noteworthy 
 that the world of Ancaria is enormous. After my first play through i had only seen about 15% of 
 the world map.
  
  As for as for what you can do in this huge world full of life, well, questing is really the only 
 thing you can do in Sacred, which is where the game fails. There is the main quest which your free 
 to pursue at your leisure, and then there are countless side quests that you can take on in the 
 games massive world. All of these quests are the standard kill this, find this, escort me here, 
 or find somebody and escort them here. Every now and then you'll get a quest that involves more 
 then one of these but not very often. This is fine for the first twenty hours or so, but by late 
 game your probably going to be tired of it. To explore the entire world and complete every quest 
 would take you months and would become an almost mind numbing task. You'll be doing a lot of killing 
 in Sacred and like any game in the genre you'll be carrying around a lot of loot. You'll sell most 
 of it but the game does feature an interesting item customization/upgrade system that you can make 
 use of in towns.
  
  You play Sacred as any one of six (eight if you have the Underworld expansion) character classes. 
 Each plays a bit differently and are customizable through their skills as you gain levels. At any 
 point you can export your character and use them again in a new game.
  
  Sacred focuses heavily on combat and you can tell as the world is covered with monsters and enemies. 
 Outside any town you can only walk a few steps before your mobbed by whatever is populating the 
 region. The monster count in most areas is very very high and what's worse is that they respawn 
 once you go so far from the area. I realized this after spending some time killing what i though 
 was everything near a town and as i came back i found the monsters had returned in force. Luckily 
 if you are so many levels higher then the monsters in a given area they leave you alone for the 
 most part so if you are backtracking you won't have to move across land you've already covered 
 at the same snail pace. The combat itself is very satisfying for the first little while and after 
 a week or so becomes something you wish you could skip like the quests. Each of the character classes 
 play a little differently and they all have different skills to dole out death en masse. Like any 
 point click RPG you need to click on your enemies to attack them though and this is sometimes easier 
 said then done. Resulting in your character running around like an idiot while other enemies attack 
 from all sides. However once you do manage to get your mouse over that retreating archer all you 
 have to do is hold the mouse button and your character will continue to attack till they are dead. 
 Your own death is as final as most of the monsters you slay. If you end up getting killed you'll 
 be returned to a previous area (usually a town) full of health and just a little poorer.
  
  Your reasons for doing anything in the land of Ancaria are not very well presented either. The 
 games core quests will take you across the land doing the same things like: meeting people, finding 
 things, and the always original killing people. The story involves an evil mage that has summoned 
 a demon and you have to destroy it. Your character never questions any of this, and in fact there 
 there is very little role playing to be had in this RPG. Your responses are limited to Yes! I'd 
 love to do that for you kind of responses and No, i cant do that for you at the moment responses 
 that leave the quest open if you want to come back to it. The games main quests do feature some 
 voice acting but it's mostly terrible and in fact you could just skip over the story entirely as 
 your compass and map tell you where you have to go.
  
  The sound in Sacred is a mixed bag. The game does feature some very nice music in some places, 
 especially in towns but you usually have to be in the town for a while for it to kick in and you 
 seldom are. Voice acting is hit and miss across the game, some enemies sound ok while female members 
 of a certain cult are just annoying. The sound effects are what you'd expect to find with the clang 
 of swords, the howl of wind, and the chatter of of city life.
  
  After you finish the main quest you can start Sacred over, from the beginning, on either the same 
 or a harder difficulty. The higher difficulty settings will reward you with better loot but if 
 your already sick of the game by the time you finish it the first time through you'll be ready 
 to move on to something else. Sacred has a multiplayer but it's not as good as battle. net and doesn't 
 have the same community as games like Diablo II. None the less, if you have a friend to play it 
 with there is some fun to be had.
  
  In the end Sacred is a good game and could have been an amazing game had it not become so repetitious 
 and stale. And the game is recommendable to any fan of point click RPGs (especially if they havn't 
 played one for a long time) . What it does it does very well, it just does the same thing over and 
 over. However those looking for an engaging story or a variety of gameplay will find themselves 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_devils
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  An open ended rpg with several playable races including elves, vampires, and humans. Races include 
 different playable characters. Each race has its own unique weapons, armors, skills and abilities. 
 Along with main quest almost over 200 random npc quests which powered the sacred game play. Main 
 quest leads you to defeat a powerful summoned demon. Sacred land is being ruled by hundred of monsters 
 including Giants, Trolls, Wolves, Bears, Bandits and several others. For traveling over lands horses 
 with different kinds are available to save time. Leveling system based on xp gained by killing 
 monsters. Sacred world is big enough and a challenge to explore, including day and night cycles 
 with cutthroat deadly enemies. Sacred proves not only an excellent single player RPG but also it 
 is a one of the best mmo rpg. Sacred combat system includes dual weapons wielding, Daggers, Maces, 
 Tridents, Mage Staffs, Magically enchanted weapons and much more. Graphics are not an awesome but 
 better then Diablo, Characters/Enemies detail sounds just ok but Sound effects overall the game 
 and Music is pretty nice with short npc dialogues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLAZZING
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 2, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  Sacred is really fun for it's gameplay. I never seen this type of good gameplay system that time, 
 now every RPG follow this type of gameplay.
  Like Mapping system, Quest, Level up, etc. For all combination Sacred is great for all time.
 
  The main thing is when playing this there are no boring things, I want's to tell that this just 
 a plane fun for ever.
  Another good site is Character levelup is realy very big. Max 255 level!!!
  For this reason game 
 is very big for playing. Lot's of quest for activate, story line is not really a great, but that's 
 not a problem.
  After all this RPG game is great &amp; hope Sacred 2 will be PERFECT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goN_PL
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  Sacred is a typical action RPG, but it's awesomely done. The whole world is beautiful. In my opinion, 
 everything, and absolutely everything, was made by a rule of What was dark in Diablo, it's shiny 
 in Sacred . E. g. Diablo was full of dark corridors, dungeons and fields. In Sacred, there are 
 dungeons too, but they are made fantastic. They might be small (not like most of those from Diablo) , 
 but they are made with care of a detail.
  
  The game world is amazingly great. There are countless towns or major cities in the thriving world 
 of Ancaria. There are tons of side quests; ones are extremely easy, ones are a bit harder, but 
 all of them are perfectly designed.
  
  In Sacred, you can play as six characters: a brutal Gladiator (typical jack-of-all-trades warrior) , 
 the Seraphim (a naked half-angel warrior with celestial spells at her disposal) , a Wood Elf (quick 
 and agile archer/sorcerer) , a Dark Elf (brutal and quick assassin) , a Battle Mage (a spell-caster 
 with ability to wield a sword) and the Vampiress (violent half-vampire warrior) . All of them have 
 their unique skills and abilities (except most of the warrior-concentrated ones) .
  
  The main story is simple but it is two-threaded. The first one is finding new heir to the Ancarian 
 throne (the old king Aarnum I lies on the bed of death already when you start the game) and the 
 second one is finding the reason of strange massive Orc attacks on southern borderlands of Ancaria 
 and defeating the master of black arts -- Shaddar, and his puppet -- the Sakkara demon.
  
  The game keeps good balance between its addictiveness and its linear campaign. When you have beaten 
 up the game you can always try it from all over on higher difficulty level or start to play it 
 with your friends on LAN or online in three game modes. Co-operative mode speaks for itself -- 
 you play through all the story but you do it up to 4 players. You can play in unrestricted game 
 play on Hack and Slash (up to 16 players) or test your mettle by challenging the other players in 
 PvP mode (also up to 16 players) .
  
  Graphics are quite good as for a two-year old game. It might look like a pixel attack when you 
 zoom in on max, but it's said that Germans are masters in pixel art. The animation of waterfalls 
 is poor. It's about 4-5 FPS (but rest of the game runs smoothly on GeForce3) . Sound is good too. 
 I recommend you place your hands on it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfox62
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  Diablo is a great game game. It's easily one of the better games to be released and even now i 
 believe it to be a better game than the more recent Titan Quest.
  
  However, it is not the greatest Hack n Slash RPG ever made, for that title belongs to Sacred, and 
 here's why
  
  I believe a fantasy game with swords and sorcery should have a traditional fantasy setting. I want 
 to see Dragons and Elves in a beautiful landscape. I want to venture into dark dungeons one moment 
 and then walk in the sunlight the next. Don't get me wrong, i love to battle the undead, fighting 
 skeletons and mummys (which is still possible in Sacred) but nothing beats fighting a Dragon!
 
  
  I want to go inside houses and shops unlike Diablo, Titan Quest, even Guld Wars. Why? ... because 
 i do.
  
  Another thing that appeals to me is the different landscapes, mountain, forest, desert. I remember 
 fighting some mummys in the desert thinking 'this looks so right'. Even the different types of 
 trees just add that certain something. Sacred has beautiful art. Castles, houses, farms, even walls, 
 they're all drawn perfectly. It's a pleasure just to travel through a town or pass a farm or enter 
 a building.
  
  Sacred makes Diablo look drab.
  
  One thing that let Titan Quest down was the character selection. Both Diablo and Sacred are vastly 
 superior with a good choice of character types. It's a personal thing, but i believe Sacred has 
 the upper hand. For instance the mage in Sacred looks to me more how i imagine a mage to look. 
 Gameplay wise Diablo and Sacred are both Hack n Slash and on the surface it would seem that all 
 you do is left click on the enemy. Sacred has a little more to offer. For instance, nothing beats 
 being an elf when using a bow save being an elf whilst riding a horse and using a bow!
  
  The skills are better and i like the fact you have to find them on your travels. It gives the game 
 more depth. Even the spells are better. Just watch a mage in action to see how awsome spells look 
 in the game. With the expansion playing a Dawrf in Sacred is probably the best character design 
 i have ever seen in a game. He can fight, he can shoot and he can even pull out a flame thrower!
 
  
  Combinations of skills and weapons in Sacred is the real draw of the game and will keep avid players 
 glued for a long time yet to come. That is until Sacred 2 is released.
  
  So where was i? ......... oh yes, i remember .......... why is Sacred the better game? ............. 
 simply .......... everything in Diablo has been done better in Sacred and then some. The rest of 
 you can stay in your dark holes trying to kill the devil, good luck to you. It's like comparing 
 Doom to Far Cry. As Legolas once said 'Elves do not walk in the dark earth'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2009 5:51 pm PT
Review:  A lot of Action RPG titles have been made throughout the years, such as Diablo and its sequel, 
 Darkstone, Space Hack, Divine Divinity, Nox, Titan Quest etc. It's perfectly possible to compare 
 the similar features between these games. Ascaron's Sacred doesn't stay too far from the usual, 
 although you can easily notice its uniqueness if you play it exhaustively.
  
  Sacred is set in the huge world of Ancaria. Here you can choose between six classes to play: Gladiator, 
 Dark Elf, Wood Elf, Battle Mage, Vampiress and Seraphim, each one with particular abilities. Your 
 mission is to kill a wrongly summoned demon, but to do so you'll have visit a lot of different 
 places to solve step-by-step the main quest. While traveling through Ancaria, you'll find cities, 
 castles, villages etc, and each one has a respectable selection of side quests. The secondary missions 
 are a bit generic, but it will reward your character with all the important things in this game: 
 gold, experience, items and runes.
  
  The runes in Sacred are the only way to improve your special moves and spells of your character. 
 Here is where this game really shines, because the characters don't have any kind of energy to 
 cast them. The use of special moves and spells is limited to a regeneration time. So, if you use 
 a hard blow (special move) or cast a Fireball (Spell) , you'll need to wait some seconds to re-use 
 them; so it's a good idea to let your regeneration time as low as possible. To achieve that you 
 can wear magical items (such as rings, amulets, weapons, torso armor, boots etc) that give some 
 bonuses to the regeneration time, as well some specific Skills that also helps about that.
  
  The skills in Sacred are improved by leveling up your character. All classes have particular 
 and general skills. For example, both Gladiator and Seraphim share Weapon Lore, but only the Seraphim 
 have Heavenly Magic. There are also the attributes that will be automatically improved as your 
 hero gain levels, although the game also allows you to put a few points and increase a particular 
 attribute of your choice.
  
  The only thing that will make you feel a deja vu is that you'll pass a lot of your time killing 
 monsters, just like any other game of the same genre. In Sacred, however, the enemies are ludicrously 
 numerous, and your main activity here is killing the hordes of creeps, instead of spending your 
 time with puzzles or lengthy secondary missions. The side quests are as numerous as they're fast-to-solve: 
 defeat a beast, kill a specific number of monsters, recover an artifact, find a treasure, scout 
 a noble or a beautiful lady etc. What makes Sacred a singular game is that it have a huge world 
 that is free to explore. You don't have a particular way to reach your objectives, as you can travel 
 from different paths in the Ancaria world. Only 30% of the map is locked, and you need to solve 
 the main quest to reach these areas. So this game is grossly like this: a exaggerated version of 
 the other regular Action RPG titles. What many other games have, Sacred has just more of it.
  
  The gameplay is OK; it becomes a little boring at some particular places. For example, the 
 desert is a huge place to explore, and there is nothing cool about it, only an endless amount of 
 sand. It would be nice to find a city or an oasis sometimes, but the lack of detail makes that 
 region a bit boring. Nonetheless, there are a few cool features that make Sacred fast paced sometimes. 
 For instance, the 'Collect All' button is used to pick up all items on the ground. Also, the information 
 function is actually very intelligent and useful, which shows all the objects on screen that you 
 can interact: people, chests, items and enemies. The shortcuts are nice too: five slots for the 
 weapons and another five ones for the spells. I don't know why, but you start the game with only 
 two slots of each type, and you'll receive additional slots as your character is improved (at level 
 30 of character you'll have already all the ten ones) .
  
  Sacred offers a good replay value as well. You can finish the campaign up to five times, as there 
 are five difficulty levels: Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinium and Neobium. You'll unlock the higher 
 difficult levels when you beat the earlier ones. 
  
  Graphics are fine, but this is a very subjective concept, especially if it comes from me. I simply 
 love 2D isometric projections in games, and Sacred is the one featuring the most beautiful engine 
 so far. Naturally, the characters are 3D models, but they fit perfectly fine with the static scenario.
 
  
  Multiplayer mode works fine. It's possible to save and load the progress any time you want. There 
 is also the option to play in both cooperative and competitive games, and if you have a fast connection, 
 you'll not experience any serious lags while butchering the goons over the net.
  
  The real problem with Sacred is the bugs, which will force you to update the game as soon as possible 
 after the installation. The 1.0 version is glitched as ****, and I had the unfortunate opportunity 
 to play it when the game was released. Nevertheless, the updated game works a lot better. Don't 
 forget to apply the free official plus version of Sacred to add more cool places in the world of 
 Ancaria as well.
  
  I found this game very entertaining and it's indeed a solid Hack 'n Slash for fans of the genre. 
 If you liked similar games such as Diablo and Dungeon Siege, you'll find almost everything you 
 need in Sacred. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvdre
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 30, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I have played through one complete game of Sacred as a battle mage, and in many ways, it was a 
 hoot. But it is a long game, and gameplay does not vary greatly through the game, so I am now pretty 
 dang tired of it. Yes, I can export my battle mage to play the game on the silver level, but why? 
 I would rather play a Dark Elf, because at least the gameplay would be different. So my level 46 
 battle mage won't be of much use. (Sequel? Now you are talking.)
  
  After the first couple of hours, I don't feel like my character was seriously challenged. I died 
 about five times the first two days, and maybe once or twice over the next month of gameplay. The 
 end boss was ridiculously easy. The ending was disappointing. Sure, I might play the sequel, but 
 I deserved a real ending.
  
  Game hint: If you can, devise a strong attack skill to kill a single opponent, but also have a 
 strong area attack as a backup, to handle times when foes swarm in. My battle mage leveled up fireball 
 first, then lightning strike (great area effect in higher levels) and also ghost meadow and a bit 
 of fire spiral. Fire spiral is a hoot, but you don't need a lot of levels in it. Fireball is super 
 wicked for long-range attack, and it packs a massive punch.
  
  My biggest problem in gameplay was finding the route to the next milepost. There are red dots on 
 the map to help you, but the route is not always intuitive. I wasted a lot of time searching and 
 doubling back for the route. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jean0rogue
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  In "Sacred" you assume the role of one out of five pre-created characters and journey through a 
 world that you will ultimately have to save. They would like you to think that each of the five 
 characters has his/her own path but the only difference between their stories is the first quest. 
 After that their path is the same. Depending on your preference, you can choose from a Gladiator, 
 a Seraphim, a Dark Elf, a Wood Elf or a Battle Mage. Although they each have their own unique way 
 of fighting, it basically comes down to the same thing: killing the horde of enemies that come 
 in unlimited supply.
  
  Thus, the gameplay gets boring after a while, even though your gain new and more powerful abilities. 
 Seeing as the map is huge and you will be required to walk a lot, the enemies become annoying very 
 soon, and the battles tedious so naturally you will resume to take the fastest way to your goals, 
 which isnt neceserally the best way.
  
  An interesting innovation is the use of combos to link your attacks/spells together and create 
 a more devastating move. While this is useful for the melee characters, I saw no reason to link 
 the magic of the battle mage together.
  
  Character development is satisfying, you are given a numer of points to spend each time you level 
 up, and at certain levels you are permitted to choose another ability, like Riding, Dual Wielding, 
 Constitution etc.
  
  As I previously said, the map and the world in "Sacred" is huge, which is a good thing and a bad 
 thing. The good thing is that you are able to explore a vast ammount of land. Do not be surprised 
 if you uncover a location bearing riches, a lost Dragon or many caves leading to secret locations. 
 In all the time I have spend playing this game, I did not uncover everything or explore every inch 
 of the map. The bad thing is that your quests will always be miles away from where you are, requiring 
 you to deal with countless opponents before you arrive at your destination.
  
  The main quest of the game can be finished rather quickly, but there are numerous side-quests that 
 can be aquired by talking to NPCs. They are diverse enough requiring you to either look for some 
 missing relative, find and escort a merchant, kill bands of thiefs, rescue damsels, find missing 
 swords/shields etc. Although the quests are optional, they provide a good ammount of experience 
 and are a nice distraction from the main quest. Towards the end, most of them will have a time 
 limit (usually 1 day) and you must complete it before the time runs out. Some of the quests I have 
 seen do not work, but it is a small ammount and can be overlooked.
  
  The game's graphics is one of its strong points. The world looks vivid enough, with plenty of animals 
 to populate it. The animations are also very good, especially if you are playing with a battle 
 mage.
  
  "Sacred" has a beautiful soundtrack that doesn't always stand out. It is more obvious in key-moments 
 and certain battles. Although it's not always there, when it is it manages to create some atmosphere. 
 The voice acting isnt always satisfying and the voice of certain characters does not quite fit 
 them. 
  
  What this game seriously lacks is heart. You do not feel as though you are the main character in 
 a story of epic proportions. The characters mostly seem blank and yours will seem the dullest, 
 with no personality at all. If you are looking for an RPG with lots to do and lots to kill, I recommend 
 you try it. But if you want something more than just killing enemies, this may not be the best 
 game for you. It is still a better-than-average RPG, but it just doesnt quite manage to keep you 
 interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3t3t3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Wow!!! i bought this game a week ago i thought it would be like Diablo 2 like everyone else says 
 but Sacred is way better! There are some simalarities but Sacred took Diablo and kicked it up 5 
 knotches in graphics and gameplay. 
  
  The graphics and sounds are absolutely amazing in this game and gameplay also matches up to it 
 . The campaign is well thought out story with alot of twists and turns. At the start of the story 
 you are placed in a huge map where you are basicially walk anything and kill anything you want. 
 Through out the game you go through a story plot that will take you about 12 hours to figure out 
 and complete it but with the side quest that everyone wants you perform it's about 60 hours of 
 pure fun.
  
  After finishing the campaign you can go online and either kill monsters with others or pvp. Overall 
 absolutely amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthijstol
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  This game really is a great rpg, it may lean heavily on the whole diablo concept but a lot of rpg 
 games do that and there's nothing wrong with that because both diablo games were great. The engine 
 from Sacred makes the game look a lot like diablo but with far better graphics. 
  
  The playable races in Sacred are nicely done, you can from six different classes which all have 
 there own advantages and skills. If you like to play melee combat than you can choose the gladiator 
 but if you like magic than you can always play as the magician.
  
  The world you can expore in Sacred really is HUGE, you can spend hours in a row just exploring 
 the map and the hidden caves and bonuses hidden. The interesting thing is that you find far better 
 equipment in hidden chests and from opponents on hidden locations so it's really worth it to check 
 almost every place there is on the map.
  
  There are tons of different armor and weapon sets in the game so that there is plenty to choose 
 from for your character. The only downpoint for me was that my mage was far weaker than my gladiator 
 at the same level, and i'm not talking about strength but about the damage done by the skills. 
 The gladiator easily dit 4 times more damage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmaster14145
Rating: 7
Date: May 27, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  if you liked diablo sacred is all that and MORE. it has a lot of little things that make it different. 
 the horse for distance travel is nice, different scenery on the map is nice, lots of different 
 enemies. only thing i really dont like is selling items. it is a bit slow.... you can only trade 
 1 item at a time... if your backpack is full it gets frustrating. i play the vampire .. at first 
 i did not like that clas too much. when i started leveling up i put all skill points on BLOODLUST 
 and VAMPIRISM. then this class becomes a force to be reconed with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilillo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  Sacred is a rol game that distinguish by its very good 3D graphics. However it's impossible to 
 avoid the comparison with the best game of this kind (Diablo: LOD) , since Sacred copy many aspects 
 and characteristics of that game. But still Sacred is a good game and it will give you many hours 
 of entertainment.
  
  The best of the game are graphics. The characters, the scenarios, the enemies, everything are well 
 designed (especially some of the female heroines) ; Some characters are very original the scenarios 
 are diverse, from desert, to jungle, forest or snow. The enemies are well designed, but it would 
 be better to have a bigger variety of them.
  
  The sounds in the game are good, but the music results boring after a few hours, cause is almost 
 the same in all the game, just some variations when you'll fight vs a strong enemy or many of them.
 
  
  The history is regular, but not original. There are many optional missions that doesn't affect 
 to the principal line, but if you finish them your experience will grow up faster. The difficulty 
 is easy, but when you finish one time the game, you can started again in a higher level that result 
 too difficult, and you'll lost your items.
  
  The playmode is regular; you will find some problems trying to select some things in the screen, 
 like a cave or some items in ground. Also some times you'll feel a little stupid your character 
 in the middle of a battle.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Habetsas
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  I've been both crying and laughing with Sacred! The dudes on Ascaron have a gigantic sense of humor. 
 The best example is all the graves in Sacred. If you read one it could say:
  "Here lies the guy that thought that dragons are great playmates"
  Everyone that has played Sacred, 
 knows that dragons are one of toughest creatures to kill in Ancaria.
  On another stone it says:
  "There is always room for one more"
  In these occasions a zombie 
 could pop up and try to kill you, so you should always be prepared. 
  
  A good tip:
  Always level up as much as you can! Because your enemies spawns faster than yourself and they keep 
 growing all the time!
  
  Another good tip:
  Stay away from the quest called "Ilim Zhurag-Thar", if you're on the lower levels. The object of 
 the quest is to kill a giganting spider. If you still decide to kill it, you should stay away from 
 the poisonous balls it keeps shooting at you. If the spider hits you two times, you're dead!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruekilla69
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good game no dought but i recomend playing the demo to see if u can play it i went 
 and spent 50 dollers on the game and played it but it was fun for about an houre then it gets old 
 so the game gets old fast i recoment just geting the demo i get hooked on a lot of games like this 
 but this just dident have what it takes to hook me like most others do i cant explane what it is 
 but it just needs more filling things to do not the same stuff over and over agen makes it boreing 
 fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  Like others say This game is by far way better than Diablo! Maybe I'm just tired of playing Diablo 
 after so many years, and having this game a change from the usual helps. The graphics, and sound 
 are ok. The game handles exactly like diablo with the inventory, and potion drinking. Equipping 
 equipment, and buying/selling. The storyline is yet unique. It's a little more harder than Diablo 
 which is't saying much. The dying, and having to get your body is out of this game which is great! 
 That can get tiring after awhile. Yet again I'm not into this game far, but had to add my opinion 
 of it so far. I'd definitely recommend this for a Diablo lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianpoetzel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  This world is just plain beautiful. Its also HUGE! You can wander around this stunningly detailed 
 environment for hours and still not see it all. The skill sets and weapon crafting is all very 
 satisfying. I played for hours with each character just to try out the different skills and weapons 
 that are unique for each. There are just so many options that it makes my head spin. The characters 
 were all pretty well balanced to so it really just came down to preference to decide who you wanted 
 to be.
  
  I really only have a couple complaints about this game. You could only choose from six pre-made 
 characters. It would have been nice if they allowed you to take a certain gender and body type 
 model and then choose which of the six classes you wanted to be. That wouldnt work for the dark 
 elf class though. But all they would need to do is rename him the assassin because thats really 
 all he is.
  
  The second complaint I have is that it got repetitive. The enemies pretty much all look the same. 
 The bad guys you see in act 1 are the same through the whole game but just a bit stronger. And 
 there are swarms of them everywhere! Any way you decide to travel has dozens of roving bands of 
 clone marauders. I would have preferred fewer enemies but stronger and more varied.
  
  It is a great game. It kept me busy for about two solid months. If you like the Diablo format you 
 need to get this game. Its the closest thing to Diablo since, well, Diablo!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Vampire
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  The games somewhat very demanding. But it still a great game.
  The graphics are great. And the sounds are really cool. When you engage into combat you will hear 
 a great sounds of combat. Sword piercing shields and so on. The storyline is simple but really 
 cool, side quests are many and varied. 
  You can ride a horse if you feel its just too boring to travel the road at the same time. Armor 
 and weapons are really cool. 
  
  Overall the games graphics, sounds and quests are great. But its try to be Diablo II.
  
  If 
 you like Diablo II and other RPG games you should own this game, period! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buster4
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  Sacred the Game
  
  The game sacred is not where in the league of neverwinter nights and Diablo hint hint if you want 
 a good role playing game you should go and play them but more to the point. sacred's character 
 detail is too detailed competed to the rest of the games world it seems out of place and when you 
 zoom in too far you can see the individual pixels (very low resolution, what you cant change) . 
 The screenshots dont really do it justice (low res screens with low res game = bad impression) 
 but all in all the game play is good and multiplayer is worth a few hours. like all good rpg's 
 there are spell casters, the first spell you get is fire ball (surprise surprise who could of guessed) 
 I really had a bad impression on the spell caster class, this coming from a person who always plays 
 spell casters also there is an externally limited number of spells. I suggest trying the vampire 
 class there interesting and hardly use well except from the elder scrolls series and maybe some 
 other titles I dont know about. In conclusion the graphics are disappointing, spell classes lacking 
 and if it was up to me I wish I did not buy it. 
  
  If you into RPGs and you have not tried nwn or Diablo I suggest going in that direction
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DKAssasinIndy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 15, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  The Diablo started something big. Myself i like to call such games as a "RPA" (role play action) . 
 The RPG elements are strong, but player is concentrated on the destruction of many small angry 
 and complexed beasts.
  Question is... what about the Sacred, it is a winner in this RPA discipline?
  The Sacred "is" 
 very close to the capturing of the flag "RPG drug". Still, this game could be a little better.
 
  Why better? After all, the followers of "the Diablo pact" could be much moore original. Yeah, 
 yeah - runes, combos, other classes and small upgrades on everything has been done, but I will 
 be straigth. I was awaiting greater revolution. I mean... where is the originality of such games? 
 The days, when the games was full of new gameplay ideas are long gone. But the most interesting 
 thing about games is that they should entertain us. The Sacred in this works well.
  The story is as always based on "go to the hell, there will be diablo and you should kill him". 
 Of course, this demon has a brand new name - Sakkara's demon along with small bony type - necromancer 
 Shaddar. But the story is not in such games the main objective of designers. But to be honest, 
 the game is full of interesting humor and jokes, wich "is" important. That is shinig on game, like 
 optimistic beam (just read the tombstones) .
  The game has many interesting role playing principes and is worth of buying, if you are hungry, 
 hungrier than 789 trolls on some quick and "role play action game". If you are hungry on some Diablo.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krondor13
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I played this game all the way through and had a lot of fun with it. The up is that it has a vast 
 land that you can travel any place you want right from the beginning. The down is the story really 
 sucks and you repeat through a lot of the same looking armor. This game i think is great for someone 
 who hates to read through hours of story but love's to fight hordes of monsters.
  I believe the this game has a lot of potential to be a really good game but lacks in full customization 
 and more in depth. The one thing i have to say i loved about this game was the monsters were pretty 
 cool and they had huge dragons that were fun to fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 3, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Sacred features a large, open-ended world. And by 'world', I mean an entire continent for you to 
 freely explore and roam, taking side quests as you cruise the various terrains, be it grasslands, 
 rocky landscape, snowy ridges... With an excellent assortment of realistic wildlife and natural 
 (static) elements of nature, Sacred is indeed innovation on many levels. However, the game grows 
 in difficulty and most of the time throws at you creatures whose levels are usually above yours. 
 This brings to memory the first Diablo, which Sacred borrows from a lot.
  
  The gameplay is overall good. Like any decent RPG game, you will collect items, take quests, kill 
 overpowering opponents and gain lots of experience to level up and add skill and ability points. 
 The negative aspect of Sacred is that combat feels heavy and there's no real feeling that you're 
 actually hitting someone. Also riding your horse is pointless because opponents will keep re-spawning 
 and thus you will get caught in hordes of monsters as your poor horse gets hacked to the ground, 
 then it's only a matter of seconds before all those monsters annihilate you where you stand. It 
 will take you weeks if not months to finish the game, and once you do that, you can start again 
 with any of the other 5 characters.
  
  Graphically, and to my amazement in this time and age, Sacred's environments are two dimensional! 
 This only adds to the beauty of the graphics as they are excellently rendered almost like the Commandos 
 series, and sometimes even better. The characters, however, are 3D and really look realistic and 
 are properly drawn. You can enter almost all houses uncovering the roof and seeing all the details 
 that the artists meticulously placed here and there. Zooming in with your mouse wheel doesn't distort 
 the view whatsoever.
  
  The sound is ok in Sacred and the interactive music changes when you shift to battle, if sometimes 
 too rapidly and queerly.
  
  Overall, this game is overly underrated but it a good addition to your long shelf of decent RPGs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 26, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  If you are lookng for a good old fashioned RPG where the aim of the game is to bash monsters, collect 
 equipment and explore a massive continent then this may be the game for you.
  
  You start the game, as in all of these types of games, with nothing but your own skill and wits 
 and embark upon a journey to make a name for yourself and a bit of cash along the way.
  
  First impressions are that it is a bit 'old school', the graphics look nice but are not spectacular 
 and the game play is a bit basic. But as you begin to peel away the layers you find that there 
 is a lot more than meets the eye to this game.
  
  For starters you can form parties with other computer controlled characters, you get to ride a 
 horse and fight from the back of it, there are plenty of dungeons to explore and the loot system 
 is great.
  
  As in all of these games, there are different character classes you can play. Wizards and warriors 
 and other classes in between are all available and each has its own strengths and weaknesses.
 
  
  Gameplay, for me anyway, is a bit frustrating. To hit something you have to continually click on 
 it, which is a pain when you are being mobbed or if you click on some dropped loot by mistake when 
 being attacked. But you sort of get used to it and try to be a bit more careful.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoyed the Diablo series of games or even the Dungeon 
 Siege games as the gameplay is quite similar. All in all, a pretty good game and one that is keeping 
 me entertained for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goNPL
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  In Sacred you can play as six characters: Gladiator, Seraphim, Wood and Dark Elves, Battle Mage 
 and Vampiress. Each character has numerous of abilities and skills, both magic and melee. There 
 are four Combo Runes, too. Gameplay in Sacred is great. Its replay-ability is HUGE. Graphics are 
 sweet too. The looks of spells is totally stunning. Music is great. Dag Winderlich did a very good 
 work. Value is big 'cause it's cheap and very good. Online play mode is free and it's very good. 
 There are still not enough servers and the TinCat solution is buggy. But in Sacred sleeps very 
 big power to blow off. And when you said: "I've got enough of it!", Ascaron Entertainment gave 
 you expansion set called Sacred: Underworld. Definitely, a game to keep your eyes on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosman_mng
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  realy perfect the sacred underworld is.
  i like this game
  it's my easy gameplay first shooter like dat
  ha ha i like dat
  
  When writing your review, 
 remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try 
 to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you 
 will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review 
 in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the 
 posting box below. 
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godling69
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 11, 2005 11:36 am PT
Review:  I think this game makes a valiant effort towards the genre I love so much, DIABLOesque.  . I have 
 not played the expansion (Underworld) , and have not read any reviews for #2, but if this is any 
 showing of the game's ability to make more versions, then I will prolly buy them as I beat them. 
 Now building two more machines to lan from my apartment to let my friends in on the action!! If 
 you love Diablo, and got tired of beating #1, #2, and LoD, then I would suggest SACRED to you!! 
 Go ahead, take my word for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2005 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Sacred it's just a great game, though it got only 7.6 but the game is far more
  better than this score. If you like exploring a huge world and lots of enemy and
  hundreds of 
 quests it's the game for you. The graphics of the game is just 
  superb and sound is also up to the mark. There are 6 character and each
  posses different powers 
 and ability to use many types of weapon. The map of
  the game give you clear idea about your position so you don't have to spent
  hours for just finding 
 the correct area. The main problem of this game is some
  bugs-it sometimes spoils the gameplay otherwise it would be one of the greatest RPG game. Last things 
 its online play option is fantastic and i am sure you will spent hours in playing that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeherr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:06 pm PT
Review:  When first playing Sacred, I found the game really fun. I liked being able to dual class my character 
 to do a bit of fighting as well as the combat magic. Until you build up your character, the easy 
 level monsters are a bit hard and I found it frustrating to have to continually back track and 
 kill off about 50 monsters just to walk about .5 mile in the game. Took forever to arrive at the 
 next destination. Also, if you like collecting items, this game has a ton of them. Got tedious 
 though managing inventory. The combo combat skills were supposed to be a highlight of the game, 
 but I didn't really use as it took too much time for my character to initiate the sequence of each 
 combo move. By the time he triggered them, I had already taken a million hits from the enemies. 
 Lots of NPCs to talk with, but their comments were so repetitive that I just by passed them all 
 together after about the first fourth of the game. Environments looked good, even though only 2D 
 backgrounds. But didn't like the pixelation when you zoomed in closer. The amount of gold I found 
 during game play seemed unbalanced. I had more money than I knew what to do with - more than I 
 could spend on items. I would recommend this game, but probably only to die hard role playing gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonsarik
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 6, 2005 12:06 am PT
Review:  Great hack-and-slash game. Has an excellent interface and a huge universe to explore. Biggest gripe 
 about the game is the constant flood of monsters who attack as you try to move between towns, especially 
 in areas you've already explored and supposedly "cleared out." I hope this is addressed in future 
 titles as it got to the point that I was running to avoid monsters for sake of brevity and continuation 
 of story/gameplay. Also would have been nice to have a pause feature during battles, especially 
 when I get swarmed and can't find the pointer! But these are just minor complaints about an otherwise 
 immersive, fun game. Yes, it is a Diablo clone but for $20 you get a fun game, great story, and 
 a chance to just kick some butt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFlower9
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 7, 2005 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Nun ist es endlich soweit. "Ascaron" gab uns freund- licherweise eine Review Version zum Rollenspiel 
 Spektakel Sacred. Nach dem der Beta Test erfolgreich zu Ende ging, war es endlich Zeit das Spiel 
 in seiner ganzen Pracht zu genieen. Der Hoffnungstrger wird hier in Deutschland, von einem Mix 
 aus Ascaron Mitarbeitern und ex-Mitarbeitern der Software-Schmiede "Ikarion", entwickelt. Doch 
 worum geht es in "Sacred" ? Wie im Intro zu sehen, beschwrt ein bser Magier einen Furcht erregenden 
 Dmonen, den er eigentlich zu eigenen Rachezgen missbrauchen wollte. Doch etwas geht schief. Und 
 schon wird die Welt mit unzhligen Monstern und Mutanten berschwemmt. Wer kann da wohl helfen 
 ?! Genau, IHR! 
  
  Charakterklassen und ihre Unterschiede: 
  
  Doch bevor die Welt vor dem Untergang bewahrt wird, msst ihr euch erst einmal fr einen der insgesamt 
 sechs Charakterklassen entscheiden. Da fllt die Wahl wirklich schwer. Zur Verfgung stehen: Der 
 typische "hau drauf" Protagonist Gladiator, die wunderhbsche aber dennoch Magisch starke Seraphim, 
 der Kampfmagier (typischer Magier mit zustzlichen Kampftalenten) , die Waldelfin (Jgerin mit Bogen 
 im Anschlag) , der Dunkelelf (welcher des Nahkampfes ausgebildet ist und jede Klingenwaffe bedienen 
 kann) und zu guter letzt die geheimnisvolle Vampir-Lady (welche Tagsber heldenhaft und mutige 
 Kmpfe bestreitet und sich Nachts in eine blutrnstige Vampirin verwandelt welche den bsen Schergen 
 mit Kratz- und Bissattacken den Gar aus macht) . 
  
  Die Welt "Ancaria": 
  
  Habt ihr euch endlich fr einen Favoriten entscheiden knnen, geht es raus in die riesige Welt 
 namens "Ancaria". Auf eurem Wege durch die fantastische Welt stehen euch abwechslungsreiche 16 
 Regionen zur Verfgung. Die gesamte Spielwelt lsst sich grob in einen Nrdlichen und Sdlichen 
 Teil aufteilen. Der Norden der Karte zeichnet sich durch grne Wiesen und Wlder aus. Stdte im 
 Ritterstil sowohl wunderschne Straen und Grnanlagen lohnen einen Abstecher. Im Sden hingegen 
 klaffen riesige Fellswnde aus einer heien Wste heraus. Aber auch dieser Teil ist nicht unbewohnt. 
 Siedlungen, Bauernhfe und etliche alte Grenzfestungen zeichnen diesen Abschnitt der Karte aus. 
 
  
  Quests und Neben Quests: 
  
  Das Spiel zeichnet sich auch durch seinen groen Umfang aus. Neben der eigentlichen Hauptmission, 
 die euch mit rund 30 Missionen bis ans Ende begleitet, gibt es noch zahlreiche Nebenquests die 
 euer Interesse wecken sollten. Ob ihr nun einem kranken Mann auf der Suche nach einem Medizinmann 
 helft oder einem Dieb sein Leben aushaucht, bleibt letztendlich euch berlassen. Wer jedoch hilfsbereit 
 und ordentlich die Bitten der Dorfbewohner erhrt wird neben Gold und Erfahrungspunkten auch allerlei 
 interessante Gegenstnde, Waffen, Trnke und Spruchrollen finden. 
  
  Die Kmpfe: 
  
  Auf den Fhrten des bsen Magiers stot ihr immer wieder auf massenhaft Widerstand in Form von 
 fiesen Orks, Dieben, Magiern, Zombies, Skeletten und vielen mehr. Grund genug euch mit ein paar 
 schlagkrftigen Argumenten zu bewaffnen. Diese findet ihr in Sacred noch und ncher. Wie wre es 
 mit einem frisch geschliffenen, scharfen Schwert welches noch so butterweich durch jeden Ork Kopf 
 hindurch gleitet. Oder seit ihr lieber auf der magischen Seite aktiv. Dann solltet ihr euch an 
 eine der vielen Spruchrollen und Zauberstben probieren. Damit ihr eure Finger ein wenig schonen 
 knnt, hat jeder Charakter bis zu 4 verschiedene Special Moves. Diese knnt ihr im Laufe des Spieles, 
 mit gefundenen Bchern oder Schriftrollen auffllen. In den Stdten und Drfern Ancarias findet 
 ihr mchtige Magier, die euch dabei helfen werden, die gefundenen Special Moves zu starken und 
 effektvollen Combos zusammen zu fgen. Wem dies immer noch nicht genug sein sollte, kann sich beim 
 Lndlichen Schmied die ein oder andere Waffe mit besseren Schutz- / Angriffswerten aufarbeiten 
 lassen. 
  
  Grund genug fr uns die Welt endlich auf eigenen Beinen (Mausklicks) zu erforschen. 
  
  Auf 
 unserer Reise durch Ancaria begleiten wir den starken und mutigen Gladiator welcher in Schnblick 
 sein Abenteuer anfngt. Kaum sind wir im Spiel, erwartet uns schon ein echter Augenschmaus. Wir 
 befinden uns mitten in einer geheimnisvollen Gladiator Arena. Unsere erste Mission soll es sein, 
 einen Mitstreiter in der Arena zu erlegen. Ist dies geschehen, machen wir unserem (Ex) Ausbilder 
 klar, das wir fortan auf eigenen Fen stehen wollen. Da dieser scheinbar andere Plne mit uns 
 vorhatte und pltzlich Handgreiflich wird, muss er kurzerhand umgelegt werden. Nachdem wir uns 
 mit einem Gleichgesinnten verbndet haben, machen wir uns auf den Weg in die Stadt Porto Vallum. 
 
  
  Auf dem Weg durch die wunderschne Welt "Ancarias" werdet ihr allerlei Ungetm antreffen. Deshalb 
 solltet ihr euch vorerst ein kleines EXP (Erfahrungspunkte) Polster aufarbeiten. Fr jeden getteten 
 Feind gibt es EXP die ihr (nach ausreichender Anzahl) fr ein Charakter Upgrade verwenden knnt. 
 Egal ob ihr euch fr Strke, Widerstand, Geschick, Charisma, Physische oder Mentale Regeneration 
 entscheidet, ihr werdet schnell merken wie viel Spa es machen kann einen "Normalo" Charakter in 
 Top Form zu bringen. 
  
  Der Suchtwert: 
  
  Wo wir schon beim nchsten Schwerpunkt des Spiels angekommen wren. Der Suchtwert ! Mir persnlich 
 macht es einfach Spa mit meinem Charakter durch die Welt zu schlendern, fiesen Orks, Drachen, 
 Diebe etc. den Gar aus zu machen und mir von der verdienten Ausbeute (Gold, Items) neue Ausrstung, 
 Waffen, Gegenstnde kaufen zu knnen. Der klare Pluspunkt in Sacred geht an die schier unerschpfliche 
 Item-Vielfalt ! Fast jeder Gegner lsst diese zu Mengen auf dem Boden liegen. Egal ob brauchbar 
 oder nicht. Gold bringen diese Sachen in jedem Fall ein. Und wenn man schon mal bei einem gemtlichen 
 Stadtbummel dabei ist, kann man auch gleich noch eine neue Rstung, Helm, Schuhe, Schulterpanzer 
 und noch zahlreiche andere anziehbare Dinge erwerben. 
  
  Die KI (knstliche Intelligenz) : 
  
  Die Gegner in Sacred verhalten sich im Groen und Ganzen 
 annehmbar korrekt. Bei einer berdosis Schwerthieben verschwinden diese des fteren und tauchen 
 nach kurzem verschnaufen wieder am Bildschirmrand auf. Obwohl der Teamgedanke bei kleineren Goblins 
 und Orks kaum eine Rolle spielt, merkt man manchmal schon eine gewisse Intelligenz. Nicht nur das 
 sich die Monster eigenstndig aus dem Kampfgeschehen zurckziehen, nein. Auch Kmpfe "Monster vs 
 Monster" sind des fteren zu beobachten. 
  
  Die Gegner: 
  
  Wie schon im Vorfeld erwhnt, bietet die Monsterschublade in Sacred zwar nicht sehr viel Neues. 
 Dennoch knnen sich die zahllosen, auf der Karte verteilten, Orks, Dmonen, Drachen, Wlfe, Goblins 
 etc. sehen lassen. Doch damit noch nicht genug. Im weiteren Spielverlauf trefft ihr auch auf Menschliche 
 sowie bermenschliche Gegner die euch mit fiesen Attacken und Magischen Kunstwerken euer Leben 
 aushauchen wollen. Die Gegner sind alle samt gut Designt und leicht erkennbar. Leider kommt zur 
 Halbzeit etwas Langeweile auf, da sich die Gegnervielfalt selten neue Kreaturen ausdenkt. 
  
  Die Steuerung: 
  
  Das simple "Point&Click" Verfahren ermglicht jedem Spieler eine einfache 
 und ausgeklgelte Steuerung. Zwar fehlen dem Spiel an gewissen Ecken und Kanten ein paar Wegpunkt 
 Finder jedoch knnt ihr diese mit gedrckter Maustaste ganz einfach manuell umgehen. Auch die Tastatur 
 ist nicht zwingend notwendig (ich hab es ausprobiert) . Das "Klick wie wild drauf rum" Prinzip macht 
 auch in Sacred eine gute Figur. 
  
  Musik / 3D Sound: 
  
  Kommen wir zum akustischen Unterpunkt des Spiels. Auch hier hat sich Ascaron nicht lumpen lassen 
 und prsentiert dem Spieler eine Mischung aus verschiedensten Instrumentalen Soundkulissen. Kommt 
 man beispielsweise, vllig geschafft vom letzten Kampf, in einer Stadt an prsentiert das Spiel 
 einem eine wohltuende und beruhigende Musik. Geht es auf dem Schlachtfeld so richtig zur Sache 
 kommt, durch die pltzlich ndernde hektische Musik, schnell Schlachtfeldfeeling auf. 
  
  Auch im Punkto 3D Sound konnte ich keine Mngel feststellen. Bei unserem getesteten 5:1 Souround 
 System wurde jeder Kanal (FL, FR-C-HL, HR) direkt angesteuert und akustisch ohne jegliche Probleme 
 wiedergegeben. Dieses Feature gibt dem Spiel eine erweiterte Tiefe. 
  
  Fazit: 
  
  Nach Tagelangen testen der Beta und schlussendlich der Review Version steht fr mich eins fest: 
 Alle Rollenspiel Fans kommen um diesen Titel nicht herum. Das Spiel bietet eine farbenfrohe Palette 
 an Gegenstnden, Gegnern und Grafik. Obwohl die Story nicht so gut gelungen ist, macht es trotzdem 
 Spa das Spiel mit jedem Charakter anzu- oder gar durchzuspielen. Ein groes Lob auch an die RIESENGROE 
 Spielwelt und die zu Haufen antreffenden (Neben) Missionen. Auch Spieler denen das Genre nicht 
 gerade in die Wiege gelegt wurde, sollten einmal reinschnuppern. Neben geballter Kampf Action gibts 
 nmlich auch noch eine ordentliche Prise Humor. 
  
  Positiv:
  - Riesen Spielwelt
  - Etliche, schier unerschpfliche Quests sowie Nebenmissionen
  - Umfangreiche Gegenstandsvielfalt
 
  - Toller Soundtrack
  - (versteckter Humor)
  
  Negativ:
  - an einigen Stellen zu leicht
  - Gegnervielfalt nimmt ab
  - Waypoint Finder an manchen Stellen 
 lckenhaft
  
  
  Systemvoraussetzung: 
  Mindestens:
  - 600MHz
  - 256MB Ram
  - 1,8GB Festplattenplatz
  - Ab GeForce 2 gut spielbar
  
  Optimal:
  - 1,8 Ghz
  - 768 MB 
 Ram
  - 1,8 GB Festplattenplatz
  - Radeon 9500 
  
  Wir wnschen uns eine Fortsetzung die uns erneut in die Welt von "Ancaria" versetzen wird. Bis 
 dahin wnsch ich euch viel Spa beim erforschen und retten der Spielwelt.
  
  4,5 / 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 1, 2005 1:53 am PT
Review:  Definintly a Diablo like game (of which Sacred does not deny) , though not quite up to Diablo II's 
 quality (yes, even though it was released several years later) , so if you're looking for a game 
 to beat out Diablo, this won't be it. Before I get started, I'd like to mention that if you absolutely 
 hate bugs and games that feel like they're incomplete, Sacred definently falls into that category 
 and as such may be completely unenjoyable to you. 
  
  The gameplay is much the same as Diablo (left-click untill it dies, or right click for some interesting 
 effects) , though not as enjoyable/satisfying. Sacred offers a few improvements over Diablo, and 
 as usual, a few annoyances. Floating numbers show how much damage you deal, the damage you take, 
 the damage your allies take/deal, as well as the experience gained. 
  
  Many of the characters are the same as Diablo II's with only a few differences. However, the characters 
 are not as fun to play as Diablo II's. Mainly due to the accesability of spells, and a spell/skill 
 casting system that is slower than Diablo II's. Spells and Combat Techniques must be found, and 
 when you use them, they become harder to find. This is extremely annoying for classes that NEED 
 those spells. As for the system, instead of having mana to cast spells, you must wait for the spell 
 to 'regenerate'. Unfortunantly, whenever you cast a spell, ALL other spells must be regenerated 
 before you can cast them. 
  
  The world is much bigger than Diablo II's with numerous cities and locations, which are fun to 
 explore for a while. However, after a couple of days (or hours) you realize there really isn't 
 any point to exploring besides gaining experience and sometimes a new item now and then. Most cities 
 have a few people who hand out quests, which give a nice experience reward, though I must say none 
 of the quests are truly 'fun' or entertaining. 
  
  Other annoyances appear throughout the game, such as, instead of the health bar of your currently 
 selected enemy appearing at the top of the screen as in Diablo, Sacred has made a circle under 
 the opponents feet. The color changes depending on how hard the oppenent your facing is, which 
 is somewhat nice, but often times objects and the character itself cover up the circle making it 
 hard to tell how much you've damaged the opponent. 
  
  Pathfinding is also sub-par, which is really annoying considering how much running around you'll 
 be doing. Even a change in which enemy your attacking could have your character running in the 
 complete opposite direction. Or running through town will get you stuck behind buildings and again, 
 running in the complete opposite direction. 
  
  There are some other rare bugs that are just as annoying, but for the most part the game consists 
 mainly of humorous bugs. 
  
  There are many wording mistakes when talking to NPC's, and there are a few glitches with items 
 being too powerful for their level, or the other way around. Then there are a few items that get 
 really weird, which you'll just have to find out for yourself should you buy the game. 
  
  Diablo II wins in just about all aspects besides graphics and statistics (Sacred gives alot of 
 information about your character, which is quite nice) . It comes down to: If you want a game that's 
 better than Diablo, Sacred is not it. If you want a game that is relativly bug free, Sacred is 
 not it. If you want a game to get addicted to, Sacred is not it. If you want a game to play every 
 now and then that follows the same hack-and-slash as Diablo, give Sacred a try. I would suggest 
 either playing the demo and seeing how much you like it, or waiting for the price to drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 4, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Sacred is a fun game. How Dungeon Siege could score higher than this game, I have no idea. Im 
 not really much of a fan of Diablo-style games, because they are usually so repetitive and unrewarding. 
 But Sacred manages to break out of those doldrums in a few ways.
  
  The first way is with the graphics. Sacred is a beautiful, and it seems highly inspired. The game 
 looks a lot better in motion than it looks on the screenshots. The scenery is all pre-rendered 
 2D stuff, but its highly detailed, and there is a lot of variety to it. You never really get the 
 feeling that you are trudging around through tilesets like you do playing Diablo 2, Dungeon Siege, 
 or Neverwinter Nights. The running and horse riding animations dont look very good, but the fighting 
 looks really cool. Spell effects are impressive to watch, and so are ordinary hack-and-slash animations. 
 Some of the games bigger monsters are also very menacing. Also, your character is highly detailed 
 and stylish. And since lots of weapons and armor have a unique look to them, your appearance changes 
 throughout the game. Your equipment is highly detailed, and magical items glow distinctively. Sacred 
 is the ultimate example of art direction overcoming the limitations of average technology.
  
  The games audio is also impressive. Battles sound very fierce. Your character has all sorts 
 of battle cries and taunts and you hear them along with the usual variety of enemy monster sounds. 
 The game has a pretty satisfying blade-on-flesh noise when you score a hit and youll sometimes 
 hear monsters taunt you or scream in pain. Likewise, your character emits a variety of battle cries 
 and taunts. When youre not in battle, your character has lots of other little comments. I played 
 the Vampiress through the campaign and she was never lacking in a cynical remark while encountering 
 helpless villagers or finishing off a bunch of enemies. Each class has a lot of voice-acted lines 
 in the game, which is a pleasant surprise. The music is fairly low-key, but chances are when you 
 notice it, youll enjoy what you hear. 
  
  But the best, and most important distinction, is Sacreds huge open-endedness. The world of Sacred 
 is massive and open-ended in the same way that Divine Divinity and Morrowind were. The world feels 
 very alive and immersive. You can generally head in any direction that you want at any time, although 
 youll have to be careful to avoid places that are too powerful for you. In some ways, Sacred picks 
 up where Divine Divinity left off. Its too bad that open-ended games like this have almost disappeared 
 from the PC.
  
  The conventions of sword, staves, and sorcery are here, but there are some interesting additions 
 as well. Namely, the skills system has lots of creative and unique powers. The classes are substantially 
 different, although there are some balance issues. Overall, Sacreds character development system 
 is average to above-average. The same can be said for the battles, which usually involve repeating 
 your primary attack over and over again while sprinkling an occasional special ability. This is 
 the convention for hack-and-slash RPGs nowadays though, as are the ordinary kill monster, get 
 item quests that dominate the game.
  
  The game has respawning enemies, and God are they annoying -- probably the worst part of the game. 
 Some of the games quests require you to traverse across an area more than once. Clearing the area 
 isnt too bad the first time, but doing it a second or third time gets especially tedious. This 
 is even worse if the level of the area is so low that it doesnt even provide you with any challenge. 
 Sacred, actually, is too easy of a game. Even with the latest patch (version 1.7) , it is still 
 somewhat easy to find exploits that can make you overpowered for whatever point you are at in the 
 game. 
  
  Its very easy for games like this to get boring, but Sacred avoids that by giving you a huge variety 
 of monsters to fight and environments to explore. For a game that will take you 70+ hours to play 
 through once, thats saying a lot. This game isnt immune to the shortcomings of the genre, but 
 it does have enough strengths to separate it from the pack. I highly recommend the game to satisfy 
 your hack-and-slash desires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underdark944
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 21, 2004 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Sacred is a RPG that was surely a lot inspired by Diablo 2, the classic. I'll tell you that, right 
 now, this game doesn't stand long against Diablo 2. First of all, this game is bland repetitive 
 and there's no fun at all. Plus, the scenario is a copy of Blizzard's marvel. Even if there are 
 things that are pretty fun and unique in this game, the fact that it is not fun overwhelms everything.
 
  
  The combat is so much repetitive, you'll want to not play again until 1 week. You advance, kill 
 some monsters, heal yourself, and continue. Plus, the quests are not original at all, they just 
 require you some frustration at reaching them. I went until the Act 3 of 4 then decided to stop 
 playing this because it cause only frustration. The awful save system killed me. I never found 
 how to do a quick-save and was then obligated to save manually after nearly every monster because 
 I didn't wanted to go all to way back to the city, all the monsters spawned back ( grr....) In 
 fact, you just go straight for 2 min killing monsters, then stop and go back all the way to where 
 you came, but all monsters are spawned back, it's really bad to play.
  
  There are 5 classes in the game, Barbarian, Seraphim, Dark Elf, Wood Elf, Battle Mage who all have 
 there unique spells and equipment. To gain spells, you must find them and cannot upgrade at will 
 when changing level ( like it was in D2 ) . This could've been good. But the spells are really rare 
 so you're caught with low-level spells which forces you to use a weapon, whichever class you are. 
 I tell you, when you are a mage, this sucks.
  
  Otherwise, the skills development is okay. You can choose to put a point on a skill you already 
 have or to choose a new one from a selection list. This is pretty normal fare, but it's okay.
 
  
  You also gain access to horses which you can buy at stables. Yes, it's every Diablo-fanboy dream 
 but it's badder than you thought it would be. At the beginning, it's okay but later in the game, 
 you buy a horse, it resists to like 10 minutes then it dies and you're caught to walking back to 
 the nearest town.. which is probably not that near.. yeah happy dull combat all the way!!
  
  A good thing for most persons, but bad for some reasons, is that the map is huge. At the beginning 
 you're happy cause it makes you think of Morrowind ( which i recommend very much ) . But the quests 
 are so far from one another that it means lots of bland combat all the way there. Plus the money 
 you get from them is totally unuseful since you can't buy anything very useful except some health 
 potions which they don't have in big quantities.
  
  Sacred is a major disappointment for me and I won't buy Sacred: Underworld. You'd better go back 
 to Morrowind, it's way better, or even Diablo2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianD
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 30, 2004 9:48 pm PT
Review:  I should start off by saying that I am not generally a big fan of action-RPG games. I have never 
 played Diablo because it never sounded like my kind of game. I am a big fan of adventure-RPGs like 
 Planescape: Torment, Baldur's Gate II and Wizardry 8.
  
  That said, Sacred is almost all about hack-and-slash. The game is geared toward fighting through 
 armies of monsters, gaining experience points and acquiring random loot items. The game is even 
 designed so that once you finish the game, you can play it again on increasing levels of difficulty 
 with more powerful items and more experience points for each difficulty level.
  
  The graphics in the game are just fine and what one would expect from today's RPGs. One thing that 
 does help the game stand out from other RPGs is that the world is quite large. The entire surface 
 world of the game is one giant map with no loading zones. You are highly unlikely to explore the 
 entire explorable area (I think I was at 30% when I finished the game) .
  
  In my opinion, the worst part of the game are the quests (both the main quest and the side quests) . 
 The story of the main quest is not particularly captivating and I often found myself forgetting 
 (and not caring) what I was trying to do. The side quests are terrible. They are obviously randomly 
 generated and every one of them follows the same boring formula of "go here, get this thing/kill 
 this thing, come back here". If I hear, "Time is running out. Be back in a day or it will be too 
 late" one more time, I'm going to scream. Not only that, but the quests aren't about hunting around 
 trying to find the solution because the map marks the location of all of the quests. When you get 
 a quest to go kill a monster, the map is marked with the exact location of the monster. When you 
 kill the monster, the exact location of where you have to return to claim your prize is then marked. 
 The same is true of the main quest where the exact location you have to go is marked on the map.
 
  
  The items also aren't terribly captivating. Unlike games like Baldur's Gate where as you progress 
 through the game, you acquire more powerful and interesting items, each with individual stories. 
 In this game, all the items you acquire a randomly generated with random stats. No special items 
 to be found. There's also no purpose in opening every barrel and every chest in all the towns and 
 in the wilderness because none of them contain anything special. In fact, there's really no reason 
 to go into any of the buildings in the towns unless the map has a merchant marked you want to visit.
 
  
  The combat is also a little frustrating in that it's repetitive and the game doesn't make it easy 
 for you to use all of your skills. I played as a Warrior Mage and in the game, you get 16 different 
 spells to use, but to actually use them, you have to assign them to one of (up to) five spell slots. 
 The game doesn't make it terribly easy to quickly switch to other spells so you find that you play 
 the game with the five you like the most.
  
  The magic system works a little differently than most RPGs I've played. Instead of having a fixed 
 number of spells or mana, each spell has a regeneration period attached to it. Once you cast a 
 spell, all your spells are reduced by the regeneration time of the spell you cast (but not below 
 0) and once any of them regenerate, you can cast that spell. For some spells, the times are generally 
 sub-second and they don't usually get to more than a few seconds (unless you use combos) . This 
 means you basically have an infinite amount of magic to use.
  
  I didn't really use weapon combat since I was a mage, but from what I know, it's just a matter 
 of clicking on the enemy you want to attack and holding down the mouse button to continue attacking.
 
  
  Gold is also totally irrelevant in this game as you acquire a large amount early in the game (not 
 there's really anything interesting to buy) and end up with an obscene amount at the end (I had 
 10 million) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_elusive
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2004 2:01 pm PT
Review:  If you are a RPG fan, you will probably like this game. It has its own feel and a unique system 
 of combat, defense and magic, and that takes a while to get used to. However, it is fairly functional 
 and there are alot of different components. I have been playing as a Battle Mage, so I can fight 
 and I have quite a bit of magical powers, so that creates some diversity. I have noticed the game 
 is a little buggy, sometimes my player will get stuck next to a object and bounce back and forth 
 for a while. Also, sometimes you have to click on objects a few times before the unit will do something.. I 
 downloaded that latest patch and saw no fixes for that issue. Overall a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-miller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2004 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Once again another RPG creeped up from behind me and so I bought just to see if it can run on my 
 computer. Luckily I managed to figure out the plot, controls, graphics, ect and I was impressed 
 for many reasons.
  
  Gameplay: 8 out of 10
  Just like Diablo except costumizing your character is alot harder than in most RPGs.
  
  Graphics: 
 10 out of 10
  More 3 dimensional than Diablo 2.
  
  Sound: 7 out of 10
  Oh don't get me started with the horrible voice acting and aweful music.
  
  Value: Confusing 
 at times but very addictive!
  Score: 6 out of 10
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10 out of 10
  Be sure to eat this one up before Guild Wars arrives.
  
  Overall Score: 8.5 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeyondZork
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 16, 2004 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Games are supposed to be fun to play. Thus the term "gameplay." WhileSacred looks good, sounds 
 decent, and offers several features enticing to any RPGer, ultimately it is hindered by a clumsy, 
 point and click interface and the lack of a pan / rotate camera feature.
  
  I've heard alot about how good Sacred looks. C'mon. It looks decent, but it is not mind-blowing. 
 No amount of gorgeous graphics can make up for frustrating, tedious gameplay, and while I haven't 
 spent alot of time with Sacred (so take this for what it's worth) the little time I did spend playing 
 after my install was more than enough to demonstrate that, for me, Sacred could never be fun. The 
 point-and-click attack feature is standard, but the problem is that, when using my Wood Elf with 
 her Bow, I found myself frantically trying to click on approaching monsters before they closed 
 ground, only to find that OOPS! my click was off by a hair, and instead I'd ordered my character 
 to CHARGE! right into the midst of close combat. The lack of an auto-attack feature (ala Shift+Left 
 Mouse) is puzzling.
  
  Also, any 2d/3rd person RPG with an overview of the battle field simply must have a smooth pan 
 feature IMO. While the zoom in/out feature is nice, I found that rarely did I have a chance to 
 zoom in and appreciate the graphics because, (since I couldn't pan the camera and look around the 
 environment) I had to stay zoomed out to see approaching monsters, pathways, loot, etc. 
  Where Divine Divinity had the pan feature, it was way too herky jerky to be visually calming. Sacred 
 has NO pan feature, and that is frustrating for me to play. 
  
  Ultimately, for me, no amount of loot, no gorgeous armor, no amount of experience and leveling 
 and side quests etc. could make up for poor gameplay. I'd rather have a 5-10 hour game with 5-10 
 levels of XP and only a few quests, that plays fantastic, than 40 hours of tedious, point and click 
 frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aamos
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 15, 2004 9:50 am PT
Review:  Sacred is a good action RPG. There is a story that ties it together, but mostly its hack, slash, 
 and spell cast your way through hordes of enemies to reach your next destination. Where to go next 
 is always clear, and if you aren't in a hurry there are plenty of side-quests to occupy your time, 
 and help level you up. After a while the continuous grind of killing enemies, thousands by the 
 time you finish the game, gets to be a bit much. Also re-spawn rates are very high, don't try to 
 go back the way you came, you have to fight your way back. Fortunately "portals" are opened so 
 that you rarely have to.
  
  I marked off on the graphics, they are pretty, but are locked to 1024x768. I would have liked to 
 see more. Sound is also ok, but nothing spectacular, voice acting is also acceptable. Its a good 
 value with a low price a long main quest completion time, and fair repeatability. I chose to move 
 on to another game, but there were large areas of the game world I had not visited, and I could 
 either have picked a new character type, or chosen to replay again with my old one, but starting 
 at the level I was after completing the first run through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thornorway
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 8, 2004 12:11 am PT
Review:  Ascaron is not one of the most well know developers of games but this one is an action packed game 
 in the same genre as for example Diablo 2. In the beginning you can choose from 6 different playes 
 including a gladiator, a forrest elf, night elf, battle wizard and two special characters Seraphim 
 and Vampyr and ofcourse all the different charachters have different abilities you can use on your 
 quest to conquer this game.
  
  Sacred is very good to look at. It always is nice lil details to look at from moist fog to over 
 hundred different armour or small lil bloodspot on the clothes after a hard fight, the list is 
 long.
  
  The game have some bugs both in the singleplayer and the multiplayer so be sure to patch this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdhas
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2004 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I finally just finished my first game of Sacred with a Barbarian, and I can't wait to go back for 
 more! From the level of detail put into the appearance of each and every item that you equip your 
 character with, to the random and very funny little comments that s/he will make while venturing 
 trhrough this remarkably huge land, Sacred is a game loaded with tons of juicy gems.
  
  The graphics are excellent and functional, the spell and skill system are unique if a bit limited, 
 and the story line is no worse than any other action RPG, and better than many.
  
  Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evarmy98x
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 2, 2004 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Initially Sacred looks like the kind of game Diablo II should have been years ago. It's the same 
 isometric viewpoint cleaving-skulls-in-twain rpg/adventure game. Unfortunantely the balance seems 
 to be way off on the first difficulty setting, Bronze. Playing as the combat-heavy Gladiator it 
 should only take a few hours of playing before your character can cut through dozens of foes without 
 suffering much more than a scratch. The first parts of the game are especially easy on the Bronze 
 difficulty. The next step up, Silver, is the reverse. Enemies are -much- tougher and the vital 
 potions that appear in abundance on the easier setting are mostly absent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaincat
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 13, 2004 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Sacred is an entertaining Diablo-esque game. The problem is that Sacred lacks the depth of Diablo 
 when it comes to character customization and treasure hunting. While there are uniques and set 
 items you don't really find really cool items that get you hooked on the treasure hunting aspect 
 like Diablo or DII does. Leveling isn't really important so that aspect of the game feels a lot 
 like treadmilling. There isn't a whole lot of anticipation for the next level as about the only 
 thing that happens is that you get more hit points and a little bit better stats. 
  
  The graphics are ok but not amazing. There isn't a whole lot of variety when it comes to the monsters 
 that you fight. One thing that IS cool is that you do fight some truly enormous monsters but they 
 are too few and far between.
  
  In my opinion the online aspect, the best part of Diablo II, is terrible in Sacred. The interface 
 is extremely flawed, often during multiplayer games I find myself wondering what the heck the programmers/designers 
 where thinking or if they had even played the multiplayer side. A couple examples are: In single 
 player mode you can press 'a' to automatically pick up all of the items from recently slain foes 
 near you. This removes a lot of tedium but that functionality is turned off in multiplayer mode, 
 ostensibly because other people might steal your stuff (which they can do anyways...) Another half 
 baked idea in multiplayer is riding horses and fighting on horseback. In single player this can 
 help quite a bit adding speed and defense but in multiplayer it is completely pointless. Everytime 
 you want to open a chest or interact with an item in the world you have to dismount, often you 
 must do so to pick up items from the ground as well. While that makes sense it negates any benefit 
 riding a horse may have as getting on and off your horse is time consuming and anoying.
  
  Finally there are fairly signifigant stability problems in multiplayer and some fairly major glitches 
 in single player. Connecting to multiplayer games can be a pain and the games themselves tend to 
 be laggy and overall just anoying. The single player mode is much better in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gryn
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 28, 2004 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is very promising and follows in the footsteps of games like Diablo. If you liked Diablo 
 or Diablo 2 you will enjoy the gameplay found here. The leveling system takes a unique twist which 
 allows the players to continually add to their skills or combat arts by using runes dropped by 
 monsters or npcs. The more runes you use the more effective your skills/spells will be, however 
 you will have to wait longer for them to regenerate. This game does not use MP or mana found in 
 other games of the genre but instead your skills regenerate naturaly and you can decrease the waiting 
 time by adding points to various attributes when your character levels up.
  
  You can customize some of your weapons and armor at a blacksmith using amulets or rings found in 
 the game. You can teleport instantly to other members of your party by clicking on their names 
 at the edge of the screen. The world is open from the begining allowing you to travel anywhere 
 you want, and horses provide additional speed for getting around quickly.
  
  Sacred however is buggy. It would seem the game did not undergo extensive beta testing. Hosting 
 a server sometimes causes your characters name to disapear permanently. Some players report exessive 
 crashing when applying new patches, and some of the side quests cannot be completed because the 
 NPCs don't alway acknowledge that you've finished their task. 
  
  This game is promising and definitely refreshing if you've enjoyed Diablo and games like it, but 
 the bugs and current state of the game (1.66) make for a very frustrating experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkali
Rating: 7
Date: May 7, 2004 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I really want to like Sacred. I fell in love with the demo and purchased the game, and had great 
 fun playing it for a week or so. Then the problems started. I downloaded a patch. The patch broke 
 things. Now the game crashes every time I go to a certain area. Hmmm.
  
  Firstly - character creation is very cool. You have very different, but all very enticing, character 
 types to choose from. The gladiator, battle mage, dark elf, seraphim, vampiress, and wood elf all 
 have beautiful graphics and their skill sets are all different. The world is very engaging - nice 
 music, breath-taking graphics. The addition of horses is also welcome. The interface is slightly 
 clunky, but it's workable.
  
  In fairness - if it weren't for this latest patch-induced bug, I'd have given the game much higher 
 tilt and value - probably bringing the score up to a 7.9. However, in its current state, I just 
 can't bring myself to do it. 
  
  Final opinion - if you like Diablo, get this game, but wait for the next patch (1.7) Right now 
 you'd just be asking for frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediLord
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2004 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Very addicting game. First of all, the world is huge. You'll spend hours upon hours and only found 
 out that you've explored but a small portion of the world.
  Items system is great, though the item names are sometimes stupid and repititive (probably because 
 of the translation) . Many different modifications can be found on items, such as critical hits, 
 percentage increase in length of day/night (particularly useful if you play a vampiress) , and a 
 percentage chance that damage taken will reduce gold but not hit point (good if you have a lot of 
 gold) .
  Monsters are generally interesting, prepare to fight zillions of them. There are dragons, undead, 
 and all sort of traditional fantasy creatures. Certain creatures can fly pass obstecles and attack 
 from above, so be prepared!
  Combat arts are generally interesting and fun to use. 
  This game however does have some shortcomings. There are many bugs in the first version, though 
 some are fixed in the patches, there are still many left.
  The game also suffer from periodically crashes, so be prepared to get frustrated once in a while!
 
  However, the developers are working hard on cranking out patches to fix all these! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiggywiz
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2004 8:53 am PT
Review:  Sacred is a great hack and slash RPG game, and in many ways is superior to Diablo 2
  
  The game is HUGE. You will spend HOURS exploring all the nooks and crannies and finding the hidden 
 dungeons and bosses and quests. 
  
  Quests are random (some are borked yes but there is work being done it)
  
  The devs are listening. 
 Diablo 2 had TEN PATCHES before it was done.
  
  And they gve it a high review because its Blizzard. This game is a ton better. The combat is better, 
 the abilities are more fun, and the atmosphere is fantastic. Right down to kids that cahse you 
 around in towns heckling you.
  
  To quote the devs on the forums:
  
  We are currently working on many improvements for Sacred. You can bet that we will do our homework.
 
  
  BTW.:
  
  Thanks to all of you for your great feedback.
  
  That is why this game is a FANTASTIC BUY and will continue to only get better.
  
  Desslock, 
 why is he considered the King of RPG knowledge, honestly?
  
  The guy gets free games to review and play and that makes him a "king"?
  
  I hardly think so. 
 Most of us older people have been around CRPGS way longer than him so I hardly think that qualifies 
 him as an expert.
  
  Personally the review I think is a tad off on the score.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arune821
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2004 8:51 pm PT
Review:  OK, I was watching out for this game since I played the demo.
  
  I never really cared much for the dated graphics of Diablo, so I was happy to play a game that 
 had the game play of Diablo with MUCH better graphics.
  
  My only real complaint is the game is soooooooooo buggy. Especially out of the box, I had just 
 installed Windows XP service pack 2. The insane CD verification conflicted with the new security 
 feature of SP 2. Now Im all for companies trying to make sure their game isnt pirated, but I 
 thought that CD verification was just a little much. The game also has a few glitches like character 
 misplacement, a weird animation to get off of the horse when attacked, and just overall, it has 
 way too many obvious flaws.
  
  The extra potions are DEFINITELY kool. And one of my favorite graphical enhancements is EVERY piece 
 of armor show up on my character, and the graphics are all cosmetic.. not based on the level of 
 protection. And some of the spells are very pretty to look at.
  
  Other than that, I pretty much agree with Gamespots review but I thought some of the scores should 
 have been higher.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fosternicholas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2004 7:19 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I never was a Diablo fan. The game was too repetitive and just down right boring, 
 so when I heard that Sacred was going to be another Diablo clone, pretty much paid no attention 
 to it. I ended up not spending any money on this game, in fact, I won it, so I thought that I would 
 give it a try, and I loved it!
  Where Diablo was repetitive, this was original. The only draw back that I have to the game is the 
 sound. As I was playing the voice acting for my main character was a little off. He kept saying 
 these weird statements that were supposed to be funny, but in the wierdest locations. For instance, 
 he says "What wonderful architecture, I wonderful if I can get my tower to look like this" in the 
 middle of a field!
  This game has incredible reply value. It has 6 characters and each character can be developed differently 
 eachtime.
  I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingCobraPHX
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 4, 2004 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Addictive! This is a fun, involving game. Ascaron has blended Diablo II and Baldur's Gate with 
 a dash of Ultima thrown in. It's a solid game with solid features. Sure there are a few glitches, 
 but the developers have been quick to listen to the players and have corrected their errors. I'm 
 impressed. The graphics are solid and are surprisingly beautiful to look at. I guess it's the little 
 details that impress me most - the rabbits that run around or the deer that get startled as you 
 ride by. The sounds are crisp and clear and the music is appropriate to the mood. The only flaw 
 I would even hint at would be the lack of random maps - BUT, the game world is amazingly extensive 
 and it's easy to "forget" about previous locations. The 6 character classes each offers their own 
 unique twist, making the game playable at least 6 times. Overall, 'd say that Ascaron has once 
 again created an in-depth, detailed, playable game. Guten Job, meinen Freunden! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catdoglee
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2004 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Well , to start off , I am a huge RPG FAN ! And "SACRED" is one of the most enjoyable RPG's I've 
 ever played ! The graphics ,sound, etc. , are great but not unbeliveably amazing. What makes this 
 game so fun is all the different aspects of it and how they work together. All the different types 
 of characters you can play , riding horses , doing all the quests ....... it all comes together 
 to really be a blast to play ! I am referring to the single player game and if you like RPG's you 
 need to try this game.... you won't be disappointed...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Treadstone71
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 29, 2004 10:58 am PT
Review:  After 50 hours of playing through Sacreds Multiplayer Coop with a friend, I have come to the conclusion 
 that Sacred is akin to an abusive relationship. The defining characteristic of an abusive relationship 
 is that its actually really good for a while before it becomes abusive  so when the abuse starts, 
 the person on the receiving end thinks, This is really bad, but I know that if I stick through 
 it long enough, things will be good again. And in this way, abusive relationships are a trap  
 because if they were continuously abusive 100% of the time, it would be very easy to leave
  
  What does this have to do with Sacred? I will first say that Sacred is incredible. It is hands 
 down better than Diablo or Diablo II or any other 3rd person Isometric view CRPG ever created - 
 when everything is working the way its supposed to.
  
  That being said, the game is plagued with bugs. While they are not show stopper bugs, they are 
 numerous enough and prevalent enough to be really heartbreaking. And yet, there are times when 
 the games plays perfectly as it should and the gameplay is awesome. So as youre sitting there 
 gritting your teeth over something that isnt working the way it should, you keep thinking to yourself, 
 well I know the gameplay will get better if I keep playing  i. e. an abusive relationship.
  
  What bugs? Ill preface the answers with the fact that all of my experience is with the Multiplayer 
 Coop LAN version of the game. I have not played single player, nor have I played Internet Online, 
 so I cant speak for those. Also I am running version 1.5 of the game having downloaded the patch 
 right away. 
  
  For starters, if you are the host for a multiplayer Coop game, after the first time you save and 
 then reload your game, your character's name disappears. Never to be heard from again. Zippo. Nada. 
 Nichts. Nichevo. From then on you are known as   or Dark Elf or whatever character class you 
 chose, depending on the games mood. Not a show stopper, but mildly depressing, as (for me anyway) 
 the creation of the character name takes up 90% of the time involved in creating a character. To 
 have it so suddenly yanked out from under you is annoying to say the least. But I can live with 
 it because after all, it is only a couple of 1s and 0s encoded on a disk somewhere.
  
  Horses. Absolutely awesome idea, really fun to ride around and just a generally cool thing. When 
 they work. Number one: When you load a saved game  your horse is gone. Never to be heard from 
 again. Zippo. Nada. Nichts. Nichevo. If you saved out in the middle of nowhere, youre stuck having 
 to walk back to a town with a stable and buy a new one. Number two: whenever you come out of a 
 house or a dungeon, or what-have-you (anything that requires the game to load an area from disk) , 
 about 40% of the time, your horse is stuck. You get on it and it wont move. Its dead in the water. 
 I have found that if you hop off the horse, walk off the screen and whistle for it, it will come 
 to you. You can then hop on it and try again. But it probably still wont move. However, if you 
 do the walk off the screen/whistle for your horse enough times, it will eventually work again. 
 It just may take four to ten times to get it going.
  
  Next up: Lag. You should _never_ experience lag on a 100 megabit switched home LAN. Ever. Period. 
 Zippo. Nada. Nichts. Nichevo. But in Sacred, you do. Quite frequently. The game will slow down 
 to a crawl. Itll become incredibly choppy, the connection between local PCs will lose sync and 
 the other player will start jumping all over the screen. This happens about once every ten minutes 
 or so. Again, you think, man this is terrible, but if I just wait it out, the game will get better 
 again... And for those wondering, I'm not running any network intensive apps in the background. 
 I keep both boxes lean and clean for the sole purpose of having good gaming experiences.
  
  The developers added a nifty device for allowing your players to stay together. If you want you 
 can CTRL-Left click on the players name at the edge of your screen and youll be instantly teleported 
 to their location. However, due to the bug where your character name disappears after the first 
 save/load of the game, the click space for the other player teleporting is about two pixels wide. 
 Not a big deal but annoying. However, again, about 40% of the time when they teleport to you, they 
 appear in the middle of their horse and theyre permanently stuck there. No amount of clicking 
 or action will free them. You have to save and reload again to get them unstuck.
  
  There are other numerous little things like the other players appearing standing on their horses 
 or standing offset from their horses but clearly the game thinks theyre riding on the horse so 
 their standing figure is ripping around the screen with the galloping horse off to the side. Horses 
 continuously appear with quest symbols (a ?! icon) over their heads and you cannot get rid of them. 
 Quest characters that you have to escort to a specific place continue to follow you around even 
 after you get them to where they need to go. The only way to get rid of them is if they die in 
 combat and then the quest changes to incomplete. Some quests dont appear to complete correctly 
 even when you do complete them.
  
  All of these issues are so minor individually but they add up as a whole to make an abusive experience, 
 because, as I said, when the game works, when it plays the way its supposed to, its just incredible. 
 And its so good that youre willing to overlook all the pain of these bugs to keep playing it. 
 Because if you play long enough, you know the game will work the way it should for some unspecified 
 period of time.
  
  Hopefully Ascaron will release more patches because as it is, this game is still in need of some 
 serious patching. If they do fix the bugs, this game will become the greatest action oriented multiplayer 
 CRPG romp ever. Nothing else would come close. Zippo. Nada. Nichts. Nichevo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WilOTheWisp
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 27, 2004 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely awesome fantasy RPG on all levels. Where to begin due to how well rounded and polished 
 the entire game is as you progress through it.
  
  There are over 200 mini-quests and 30 main quests that should take at least 80+ hours to finish. 
 70% of the world is explorable without needing to do the main quest that slowly unlocks the other 
 30% of the game world. There are 6 different classes to play. I chose to play a Dark Elf. As you 
 level you get to choose what main attributes you raise and every so many levels you get to choose 
 a new skill to form how you want to play your character. For example, I took duel wielding at level 
 3 but could have chosen weapon lore to give an edge on hits with a bladed weapon/shield combo instead.
 
  
  The graphics are fantastic and barely break down when you play completely zoomed in. You have the 
 option of zooming out which gives you about a two square city block view of the world around your 
 character or all the way in for a close up view. The water looks particuliarly amazing. I should 
 mention I am running ATI's 9800 Pro Card with 256MB of Ram tho. I imagine the level of detail could 
 very if you don't have the horse power to have everything turned on and checked. 
  
  Gameplay is quite simply FUN. The interface is easy and quick to learn giving you shortcuts to 
 your journal, inventory, options menu, and all potion types in game along with weapons and combo 
 moves/spells. You can create your own combo attacks. As you progress and find new combat skills, 
 you can then visit with a combo master. So for example, with one shortcut button push or my right 
 mouse button I activate a combo I made. It gives me a hard hit (1 enemy) , a multi-enemy hard hit 
 spinning attack pushing all enemies away from me, I then throw a magical trap followed by a 2nd 
 exploding trap. Based on the level of the combo you design and your attributes dictating regeneration 
 time will determine how often you can use your combos. Weapons and armor are random drop on statistics, 
 a la Diablo II or Asheron's Call online. Weapons have upto 4 slots that allow you to upgrade magical 
 stats and properites to your choosing when paying a weapon smith for the work. You can purchase 
 a horse to use to get around the world quicker. You can even trample your enemy or dismount to 
 engage normal. There are portals that quickly transport you around the world so you aren't spending 
 endless hours crossing the HUGE world.
  
  What seems to excite most is the online aspect of the game. You can play on your local LAN with 
 upto 4 people choosing to do the actual single player campaign together or playing in the 70% of 
 the world unlocked by default. You can also choose to play with upto 16 people online and opt for 
 Player vs. Player. Needless to say there will be a lot of online play that will extend the life 
 of the game greatly.
  
  Overall I thoroughly enjoyed the demo and now the full game and look forward to the increased difficulty 
 after finishing it. You can start at either bronze or silver difficulty. Only after finishing silver 
 can you choose gold, then platinum. Each time greatly stepping up the difficulty. The silver is 
 recommended played after you make about level 20. You can at any time import/export your character. 
 So you can make 20 levels in bronze then export to play in silver if you find it too easy in bronze. 
 Or simply finish each level of difficulty. The game experience is different depending on the character 
 class you choose so there should be great repeat game play for those who thoroughly play over and 
 over. The devs announced there is no level cap. So hopefully this will mean high level expansion 
 packs later!
  
  If you enjoyed Dungeon Siege or Diablo II, then you will also enjoy Sacred. I highly recommend 
 it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
