-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sacred Underworld
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/sacredunderworld/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid-action role-playing gameplay.
 Ramped-up difficulty for high-level characters.
 Looks good for a 2D game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat still finicky.
 Hacking your way every 10 feet can be a chore.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  6, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.3, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 625 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ascaron Entertainment GmbH
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Aug 16, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sacred Underworld is an example of a Diablo-like action role-playing game taken to the extreme -- and 
 that's both a good and bad thing. 

  Sacred was one of the better action role-playing games to come down the pike in recent years. Released 
 in March 2004, Sacred delivered solid, Diablo-inspired gameplay along with a few innovations thrown 
 into the mix. Approximately 18 months later, we now have Sacred Underworld, the expansion to Sacred. 
 As expected, Underworld delivers some high-level gameplay for Sacred fans as well as a few tweaks, 
 though everything that we liked and didn't like about the original game remains pretty much the 
 same.  

          Get ready to hack your way through a whole lot of monsters.     

  Picking up immediately where Sacred left off, Underworld introduces a new threat, as well as new 
 environments to explore. Basically, Prince Valor was killed in the Pyrrhic victory of Sacred. At 
 the beginning of Underworld, his widow, Vilya, is kidnapped by a monstrous demon. Before you know 
 it, you're off once again to plow through a ridiculous number of monsters, pick up mountains of 
 gold, and collect a bewildering amount of equipment, all in the name of slaying the latest evildoer. 

  Since Underworld was designed for high-level characters, you can import your existing Sacred character 
 (so long as he or she is at least level 25) , or you can select one of the two new characters introduced 
 in the expansion, the daemon and the dwarf. As with the characters from the core game, the new 
 characters have predetermined genders (the daemon is female, the dwarf is male) , but they also 
 start at a very high level, allowing newcomers to jump into the fray immediately without having 
 to build up a new character from scratch. Don't worry, though -- you'll still have plenty of opportunity 
 to customize your character, thanks to the wide range of equipment and skills that you can select 
 from in the expansion.  

  One of the nice features of Sacred is the fact that it's set in a predefined world, unlike the 
 randomly generated levels of Diablo. There's a real feeling that you're exploring a coherent world, 
 though you'll be far too busy slaying monsters to admire the scenery. As with Sacred, everywhere 
 you traverse in Underworld outside of a town is crawling with monsters, ranging from large worms 
 and gigantic mutated antlike creatures to insect-like demons and more. And then there are the humanoid 
 opponents, clad in arms and armor, though it makes no difference, because virtually every type 
 of enemy is able to drop various types of loot. Before you know it, you'll pack around hundreds 
 of thousands of gold pieces, as well as a several pack mules' worth of gear.  

  In a way, Underworld almost goes out of control in terms of scale, though if you like gathering 
  stuff , then this is your game. Since you start the expansion at level 25 or higher, it doesn't 
 make sense for the loot or experience to start small. So, before you know it, you're dishing out 
 hundreds of hit points of damage for every hit, and amassing hundreds, if not thousands, of experience 
 points for every minor kill, though you'll certainly need them, since it takes a mountain of experience 
 to level up. And virtually every item in the expansion packs a slew of modifiers that can affect 
 any of your character's abilities, meaning that you can spend a lot of time analyzing which combination 
 of items to go with. Items can be upgraded or enchanted through the use of sockets, or by finding 
 the nearest village smith and getting him to improve an existing piece of equipment.  

          There are some big enemies in Underworld, but don't worry -- your high-level character is 
 a lot tougher than he or she looks.     

  Alas, the combat system is still a bit finicky in Underworld, particularly when you're trying to 
 engage a flying unit. Basically, it's hard to line up an attack properly, and it's easy to lose 
 track of what's going on in a fight. A bigger issue is that you still can't walk 10 steps without 
 getting caught up in yet another melee with a half-dozen opponents. This makes getting anywhere 
 in Sacred almost like a chore rather than an adventure, and you'll get to the point where you will 
 simply want to bypass most opponents. You can purchase and ride horses to get around the world, 
 though it's still not much faster than walking, and you have to dismount every single time to pick 
 up an item. And judging by the rate at which monsters drop loot, it's probably more efficient simply 
 to pass on the mount altogether.  

  Graphically, Underworld does introduce a few new interface tweaks, but it's still got the pretty 
 2D graphics engine that blends in 3D lighting effects. The game still runs at a fixed resolution, 
 and you can still zoom in to get a close-up view of the action or zoom out for a big-picture view 
 of the world. Meanwhile, the animations and creatures remain strong. The multiplayer is pretty 
 much the same, though it does feature some tougher dragons to make team play much more important. 
 When you get down to it, if you enjoyed Sacred, then you'll no doubt enjoy Underworld; it pretty 
 much offers more of the same, but at a ramped-up level.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 8
  Sounds: 8
  Value: 7
  Tilt: 7
  Actual score: 7.2
  
  When Sacred entered the ever-so-crowded action RPG scene back in 2004, it became a pretty big hit 
 especially in Europe. Tagged as a Diablo clone, Sacred still managed to carve itself as another 
 contender due to its innovations and considering the good success it had, there was little doubt 
 the continue saga will be announced. So within a year Sacred Underworld was unleashed to the world 
 with more monsters, items, quests and locations in addition two playable characters being the Dwarf 
 and the Daemon.
  
  On the surface, Sacred Underworld feels just like Sacred as the story continues immediately thereafter 
 where Sacred left off (and I wont say how it ends otherwise I will spoil it for you) . Yet 
 the immediate changes that will come about are the minimum level requirements being twenty five 
 and the two additional characters (Dwarf and Daemon) ; thus far everything else from the menus all 
 the way down to the controls themselves remains the same (and so it should be as it was very easy 
 to manage) .
  
  To those whos familiar with the Sacred lore, the two new characters the dwarf and the daemon 
 plays an important part of the history of Ancaria as the dwarves should be totally annihilated 
 from the face of the world and the daemons are the servants of all things bad so introducing these 
 two characters creates a fresh approach to the game play. Yet, if you prefer to keep your original 
 Sacred character, can be easily import into Sacred Underworld with all items tacked (as long they 
 are at least level twenty five) . Lastly like any good RPGs, if you are impatient you can still 
 play Underworld using only the two new characters.
  
  Once entering the new lands of Ancaria, even though the controls are practically untouched, the 
 entire landscapes feels different, almost alien-like. Your character will trot through ancient 
 Dwarven municipalities, skirting above the tree lines through the Dryads forest, scuttle 
 through moon-like fungi infested countryside, catch a ray or two on Pirate Isles, witness the undead 
 city of Darkwood and even tread carefully through the barren regions of Hells Ridge and 
 the Valley of Tears therefore human settlements are pretty much a rarity. Coming to think of it, 
 any settlements is a sign of relief so cashing in those items stashed in your backpack needs careful 
 planning otherwise it will fill up before you can say golly gee.
  
  Graphically, and considering a year after its release still looks beautiful; 2D backgrounds with 
 3D characters seamlessly interact with each other with little reload time. In addition the attention 
 to detail is still evident as really pays to explore the vast lands to see more of those peculiar 
 locations (e. g. someone getting hanged, demon sacrificial alters and even those little park benches 
 being placed in an odd location) will guarantee a quizzical thought in your mind.
  
  Similar to graphics, the quality of sounds hasnt changed much from the original Sacred game 
 yet this does not mean its a bad thing as the eminence is by far beautiful. That said, it 
 really pays to invest in a decent pair of headphones or surround sound speakers as the game can 
 support 3D sound effects. Imagine the sounds of battle going from one speaker to another as you 
 hear the thuds, screams, squeals and anything imaginable right down to the footsteps, spells and 
 the occasional flutter of birds to say the least. The musical scores are nothing short but divine 
 but sadly the combat sequence can be very repetitive as warfare will take up most of your playing 
 time and just like Sacred, the voice acting still remains poor.
  
  Theres plenty of things to do in Sacred Underworld and just like its predecessor, you are 
 free to roam the vast countryside without any invisible barriers yet this can turn 
 out for the bad as a wrong turn could spell disaster as the re-spawning of monsters are more frequent 
 and considering the minimum level being twenty five, theres no weak critters about. This 
 unfortunately is the downside to Sacred Underworld as even the devotees of hack-and-slash can only 
 take so much. For example, it took me fifteen minutes to move from one side of the screen to the 
 next as there are way too many boss equivalent monsters bunched up in one area and 
 really doesnt make any sense. Maybe the developers regarded this a challenge  I call 
 this a royal pain in the rear side.
  
  Yet, Sacred Underworld has an additional act (Act V) which consists of over twenty main quests 
 and over fifty side quests so theres no real arguments about the extra material presented 
 in this game. That said, you can easily clock up thirty plus hours however (and sadly so) add another 
 fifteen plus hours of hacking your way through the countless of monsters.
  
  Sacred Underworld is a prefect continuation for the original Sacred game as the story is so well 
 interlocking as you may discover hints from the original Sacred that just didnt 
 appear at all (e. g. the Nuk-Nuk, the Dwarven ruins, the Pirates Cove, the Dryads 
 forest and so forth) . Thankfully the expansion pack was released with these rumours 
 squashed as there will be many times you will experience that nostalgic feeling when seeing or 
 visiting these rumoured areas. However the downside is the repetitive combat is far 
 too much to handle as the critters are not only ramped up but re-spawning all too frequent; so 
 its the immeasurable hack-and-slash is the thorn between the two Sacred roses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaremathras
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  The Good part of the game is that you can go around killing monsters, gaining levels and gold and 
 new items however long you want with no consequences. 
  
  The Bad part is that you have to play at least for 3 hours to get from one Main Quest to the next. 
 Even though there are many Side Quests, most of them a dull. Another bad problem is that you'll 
 lose count when you try to count the glithes in this game, even with the latest patch. And if you 
 update when you are in the middle of the storyline, your Savegames won't work, and you'll have 
 to start over again. Also, all the monsters are the same.
  
  But over-all, the game is addicting because of the great melee set up, and the fact that you can 
 ride mounts. Battles are fun with the Combat Arts that are offered, and I'd recommend this game 
 for those who have played Diablo before! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Sacred is a pure Action RPG that allows you to play with six unique characters. By upgrading to 
 Sacred Underworld you add two more heroes: the Daemon (a hybrid of knight and demon) and Dwarf 
 (a warrior that uses powder weapons) . Each one has different Combat Arts and skills, been the latest 
 the generic abilities, such as Weapon Lore or Magic Lore, respectively used to increase weapon 
 damage and spell power. Two or more heroes may share skills between them. For example: Gladiators, 
 Wood Elfs and Dwarfs already come with Weapon Lore. Your abilities are increased when you level 
 up your hero. To the contrary, Combat Arts are improved by learning from runes found in dead opponents 
 or after accomplishing quests. For example, one of the Dwarf's attacks called Cannon Blast, which 
 is developed only if you find the corresponding Cannon Blast rune. Leveling up your avatar doesn't 
 add points in combat arts, meaning that the development of your hero depends on a bit of luck to 
 find the needed stuff.
  
  In the Underworld expansion you'll only be able to play the new campaign if your hero is level 
 25 or above. If you never played the game before and want to see the new content, the game already 
 comes with a Daemon and a Dwarf to choose, both on the required level. You start the expansion 
 in continuity to the ending of the original game, after you've defeated the Sakkara demon and his 
 conjurer. In this add-on you'll have to save baroness Vilya, a known character from the first game, 
 now captured by an evil entity.
  
  Here goes a list about some of the nice concepts I found in Sacred Underworld: 1. Ancaria is a 
 huge world, and with the expansion set it becomes even larger. The different scenario settings 
 add fun to the game, and you'll find that exploring the numerous natural places of Ancaria is particularly 
 interesting; 2. Eight singular classes, allowing different combat art combinations and characters 
 builds; 3. Good multiplayer support for competitive and cooperative games. Playing on Hardcore 
 with teams is definitely a nice way to enjoy Sacred; 4. Probably the best 2D graphics out there, 
 although I found the zooming feature a bit difficult to get used to. It seems that the camera never 
 is in the right angle, although after some hours I preferred to let the farthest vision of the 
 screen; 5. An impressive menagerie that keeps you interesting while visiting the different scenario 
 settings in Ancaria. Expect some serious big monsters around, and don't forget to pay attention 
 to the nice animation they all have, especially when you gib their heads. =)
  
  If the character customization wasn't enough, Sacred Underworld also delivers a mighty blow on 
 most similar games when comparing them with the huge selection of the arsenal available in this 
 one. The coolest part here is to find the perfect set for your character build, and differently 
 to Diablo II and Titan Quest, you'll find the set pieces pretty fast. It's depressing when you 
 have to spend a lot of hours to find just one special item, but in Sacred this stuff is quite easy 
 to find. Ascaron certainly knows what fun is all about!
  
  If you think that this game is too easy, you're right. Although it features five difficulty levels, 
 your character is always overpowered if you develop it right. This isn't really about surviving; 
 it's about how faster you can kill the pack of goons creeping around.
  
  But not everything in Sacred Underworld is sunshine and rainbow. The game fatally becomes boring 
 over the time. This may sounds ironic to me because I love butchering monsters, but in this game 
 this concept is taken to the extreme. Every step leads you to a struggle against five or six opponents 
 at a time, and traveling through long distances may be a pain.
  
  The side missions are also a drawback. They are just too simple and generic, and you really don't 
 need to complete them all. It's so frustrating to finish a quest and earn only a common item or 
 some little gold as a reward. Nevertheless, don't get it wrong: Sacred Underworld is so good that 
 you can easily overlook this issue.
  
  Another annoying problem is your gold, which is almost useless in the entire game. You cannot buy 
 sets or unique items from the merchants, neither the so important runes to improve your Combat 
 Arts faster. You can only find these things after looting corpses, which makes gold a futile thing 
 for your character. It could be nice if the Trading skill allows you to, at rare occasions, find 
 the top stuff in merchants for a very high price.
  
  I can't forget to mention that the items, such as armor, weapons, rings etc., aren't visually very 
 different from each other. You can find a sword that deals 1000 of physical damage and another 
 one that deals 200 of physical damage, and they may look exactly as the same weapon. A bit of variety 
 is something that the Underworld add-on could've been improved.
  
  As I said, surviving in Sacred is pretty easy. Your avatar becomes very powerful just too early, 
 and the hordes of enemies will not add any difficulty. If you were coherent while selecting your 
 skills and Combat Arts, you'll find that your hero is just trampling your enemies like they were 
 ****. It's still fun for the most part, but it may become boring after a while. In general, you'll 
 find that spell-casters alike are often far better than melee builds. They'll never miss a target 
 with a spell (unless you can't point the mouse properly) , while melee and ranged characters can 
 miss due to the "attack vs. defense" thing. But this is only a temporally problem, because sooner 
 your melee or ranged character will reach high skills levels that greatly improve your attack rating. 
 It's just a matter of time to end the unbalancing issue between melee tanks and magicians.
  
  Sacred Underworld still has bugs, even with patches applied. I noticed some annoying problems 
 with stability and gameplay in earlier versions; however the last update (so far v2.28) will correct 
 almost all of the issues. But we've waited a long time for this one...
  
  Ascaron missed the opportunity to improve the gameplay mechanics with the Underworld expansion; 
 they preferred to just add some content to the original game. The biggest problem with this game 
 is the dull moments, although you can ease this problem by playing with some friends on-line. There're 
 many games mimicking the Diablo's formula, but Sacred Underworld effectively managed to shine over 
 its competitors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  For what it's worth Underworld is a good expansion.. turning Sacred Plus into even more. Sure the 
 graphics are a bit better.. but you will find the game is still stale.. devoid of that special 
 touch D2 offered. When compared to LoD .. you can see that Sacred Underworld doesn't offer all 
 that much after Plus. It extends the playability a ton.. that is for sure, but it doesn't offer 
 much depth . I found myself fighting the urge to stop playing.. this is probably due to playing 
 too much of the original.. but nonetheless the game is pretty choreish.. but that is the nature 
 of most hack and slash games.. even MMO's are accused of the same thing grinding . I just wish 
 Underworld had been more like the shots of Sacred 2 ... than what it turned out to be.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goN_PL
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  Sacred Underworld begins where original campaign left the player -- Shaddar (and unfortunately, 
 you) -- falls into the depths of Ancaria's Underworld - the world of Menelgond. Menelgond was once 
 inhabited by dwarves, Garems and many other creatures that have been incinerated by Anducar - the 
 one human who entered the Underworld through a magical warp gate. Your primary goal is to stop 
 the invasion of Hell by closing the warp gates Anducar has opened (by killing his minions -- Subcars 
 and then collecting the runes) .
  
  The rest of the game has changed and has not changed at the same time. What I mean by these changes 
 is more hardcore and totally different feeling of Sacred. You don't feel like a good hero trying 
 to save the world from bad ruler/powers of black arts but more like a baddie or an avenger.
  
  There are two new characters: Daemon (aka Succubus) and Dwarf. Daemon is an expert of transforms 
 and black arts from Hell itself and Dwarf is capable of killing his enemies from distance using 
 medieval-like firearms or he can deal with them by huge two-handed hammers (kinda 2-3x larger than 
 him) . Dwarf can also use his cannon he wears as a part of his armor. The cannon has three fire 
 modes: it can shoot one enemy directly like a classic cannon, it can set fire to few foes like 
 a flamethrower or it can shoot a long-range grenade to a single enemy.
  
  Graphics are same as it were in Sacred; just the spell effects are a bit prettier. Sound is great. 
 Now you feel like you are really in hell. Gameplay can be both disappointing and great. Disappointing 
 because of its sensible change of feeling compared to the original. And great, because the game 
 looks like Diablo but with even more pure action included. So, the more delicate RPG fans would 
 find Underworld as one of these bad expansions for good games and these more hardcore ones will 
 find it as one of generally solid and good expansions.
  
  Enough of word for now. If you like more hardcore games you would love this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittencrusher
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Sacred Underworld is actually the expansion pack to the original game, named simply Sacred. Underworld 
 is a great addition and adds new content and two new character types; the Demon and Dwarf.
  
  The variety amonst the characters is probably what sets Sacred most apart from Diablo and its 
 kind. Everything from Demon, to Seraphim, Vampiress, etc., there is just a bunch of unique and 
 interesting characters to play. And of course there's the traditional Gladiator/Warrior type if 
 you just want to hack and slash your way through.
  
  Next up, the graphics. They are actually quite detailed. Much moreso than say Diablo 2. And the 
 particle and lighting effects for spells and such is really cool looking. That's half the fun of 
 being a Battle-Mage; just watching your spells go off.
  
  You can also string together combo-moves from the combo master trainer. This is a very interesting 
 and unique dynamic.
  
  The weapons offer a good variety. There are a ton of unique weapon models, and various attributes 
 assigned to the weapons to further customize them and make them unique from one another. There 
 is a lot of variety to be found and pick from. You can even buy a horse if you so desire and engage 
 in mounted combat. It's really quite amazing the features that are offered in this game.
  
  Sacred is probably the most under-appreciated action-RPG. Not very many folks talk about it or 
 probably even play it, but that's a shame, because they are missing out on a great game.
  
  The world of Sacred is also HUGE. One look at the in game map will let you know that it will take 
 you a very long time to run through all of the content this game has to offer. There are plenty 
 of side-quests in addition to the main quest as well, which is always a good thing. The more the 
 merrier.
  
  All in all, I'm still playing Sacred, and IMHO it's a great game. And considering that you can 
 purchase Sacred Gold (Contains Sacred and the Underworld expansion) for probably dirt cheap nowadays, 
 you owe it to yourself to experience this wonderful gem.
  
  In many ways, I consider it to be superior to Diablo 2. Do yourself a favor and pick up a copy 
 :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronsplace68
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 18, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for five bucks at a retail store as new (I don't think so) . I read a few reviews 
 in the past and the game was not a high priority. Then I had to play a Dwarf. I wasn't so hot on 
 that in the beginning. Never the less, the more I played, the more I enjoyed the game. I did like 
 Sacred, even the horse, and had fun. After ES Oblivion, this game held my attention. There are 
 hidden gems when the characters make some brash statement. The snakes, pink at that, I found I 
 did not like, reminds me of how much I hated those flying monsters in Morrowind, but othter creatures 
 were fun and some kicked my butt before I found a way to kill them. The graphics were fine and 
 making different combat combos was fun too. One combo made my Dwarf look like he was doing a silly 
 dance. I also liked upgrading armor and weapons.
  
  This is not the greatest game on the market but worth playing if you liked Sacred. The map could 
 use some improvement when underground, it didn't help much, and I couldn't find a way out a couple 
 of time until going around a cave a few times. But I would recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiden-grave
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 27, 2006 1:44 am PT
Review:  If youve played the original Sacred or even Sacred Plus then you will know then are beyond just 
 an average diablo clone, they are much much more. If you havent played Sacred or Sacred Plus, then 
 you would appreciate this even more, especially with the available set with sacred plus + underworld 
 called Sacred Gold, this set can be purchased very cheap these days and features both the original 
 and the expansion pack of sacred as well as some bonuses. 
  
  To start off in sacred underworld their are 2 new characters as well as about a 40% addition to 
 the world size. 
  You will need a character at at least level 25 to start the underworld campaign, most players of 
 the original should have a character at this level, if not you can start a new character in the 
 original campaign and level him up, or you can use one of the two expansion characters provided 
 at level 29 with skills and equipment to jump straight into underworld, the choice is yours.
  
  Once in game you will notice their are alot of different items and many new monsters and areas 
 with totally different designs to explore, as well as alot of new secret/bonus areas to explore. 
 
  
  The graphics for this game are similar to that of diablo 2 : lord of destruction but have their 
 own feel, as i said before this game is IN NO WAY a spinoff or copy of any other rpg i have seen 
 and features almost 100% original gameplay and rpg gaming style.
  
  As in the original sacred, sacred underworld is online compatible with Open Servers (import your 
 single player characters) , Closed Servers (save your characters on the ascaron servers for maximum 
 security) and LAN Play to play against people on your own LAN network.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledoantri
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  It just like Diablo but of coust it has another thing good than Diablo. It 's more beautifull , 
 more .. I don't know :) ) But I think it's good for you to try a game like that . It 's SO GOOD 
 . Thank for created this game !!! By the way , is there any one completed this game ? It's not 
 too easy to play right ? I 'am playing the Dwarf , he's quite strong , and I got the 45 level, 
 It's a long way to get that level . And I have a lot of excelent thing for all kind , wanna trade 
 ???? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruca
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:28 am PT
Review:  The "eye candy" is much more impressive here that in the initial game. The monsters are SUPERB. 
 I really those new characters and the gameplay is much more impressive. The new weapons and armors 
 have a very good design. The graphics might not changed much but it is a little better than before. 
 The environment is simply the best in all of the SP RPG's i've seen (some MP RPG's have it better 
 :p) .
  A real RPG fan should NOT miss this game. I heard something about Sacred 2... if it's true then 
 a new age of RPG's is coming ;) . 
  
  What can i say, the game kicks Diablo's @ss (and the other RPG's) :D
  ( 2 bad that not many people 
 play it online : ( ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goNPL
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 21, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  Sacred: Underworld is an expansion pack to the award-winning Action-RPG made by German Ascaron 
 Entertainment. It expands the story told in original Sacred and adds two new characters: Succubus 
 and Dwarf. Graphics are still great. Music composed by Dag Winderlich and Matthias Steinwachs sounds 
 really good. The music theme is now a bit darker. Generally, almost all of the game visual elements, 
 such as HUD etc. are now typical to underground and darkness. The very big minus is the installation 
 time. On some old PCs it can install up to 3 HOURS! Plus the StarForce protection is very bad. 
 I hate it when I don't wanna scratch up my original CDs and play it via virtual drive. Value is 
 good. On multiplayer there's still that crappy TinCat client... hate it. There are rumours that 
 Sacred 2 will have TinCat 3 client. Hope it will be clean of those bugs... Game is very superb, 
 anyway. If you liked Sacred, then go to shop and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paulusirom
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 7, 2005 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This expansion pack is most of the things I had hoped it would be.
  Basically it is just more of the same.
  
  But I am not writing this review just to say what 
 everyone else is saying.
  My main point is that there is a HUGE mistake in GameSpot's review of the game:
  
  You DON'T 
 have to dismount every time you want to pick up an item!
  You can simply press the "loot all" button!
  
  Apart from that, the new dwarf class is really 
 cool. He does feel and play different than the other characters. The new sets are pretty cool, 
 the voice-acting is still absolutely horrible, and you still couldn't care less about the story 
 in the main quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: var1000
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 6, 2005 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I played Sacred all the way through and had a lot of fun, even though the game was buggy, once 
 they started coming out with patches, etc. the game was really cool. I like how there is so much 
 to explore and you can go anywhere at your leisure. I thought the entire game was well done. I 
 have been playing Underworld for a few days now and I am not as happy w/ this expansion as I was 
 with the first game. The monsters are very generic looking and move like monsters in an arcade 
 game. Its the quick side to side movment that looks like an 80's arcade game. Plus, there are a 
 ton of monsters surrounding you through the entire game. I do not think a minute goes by where 
 I am not surrounded by multiple monsters. I have been playing with a dwarf. I started out with 
 the dwarf in the Anarcia campaign, once he was L25 I imported him into the Underworld campaign. 
 He can kick some butt but there is not much you can do when there are few towns available and you 
 are fighting the whole time. I know the first game was kind of like this, but it just didn't seem 
 as annoying. 
  I do like the new interface though. Even though there is not much practical value add. I am not 
 sure if this game will be something that Sacred fans will enjoy or not. Personally, I do not even 
 feel like playing this game anymore.. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
