-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Safecracker: The Ultimate Puzzle Adventure
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/safecracker2006/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Challenging collection of logic puzzles.
 Good variety of puzzles that are tough but solvable.
 Attractive visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Could use more variety in puzzle settings and goals.
 Total lack of narrative gives the game an aimless feel.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 23, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 196 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Kheops Studio
Genre: Puzzle
Date:     Aug 2, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As long as you're not too hung up on variety and plot, these breaking-and-entering brainteasers 
 will delight puzzle fans. 

  There are no surprises in Safecracker: The Ultimate Puzzle Adventure. The ode to high-stakes robbery 
 from French developer Kheops Studio (Return to Mysterious Island, Voyage) stays true to its title 
 with gameplay that has you breaking into safes of all different shapes and sizes. But any bonus 
 points earned by the company for not trying to fool people with a more grandiose and less-accurate 
 name are largely lost by the game itself, which is a set of mostly interesting brainteasers draped 
 around a pointless plot.  

          You can say that again.     

  You can't call this game an adventure. Although Safecracker has been constructed in the genre's 
 standard modern style, with static camera views courtesy of QuickTime VR and clickable hot points, 
 the total absence of any captivating narrative or characterization makes it feel like a collection 
 of unrelated puzzles. For what it's worth, though, the story has you breaking into gimmicky safes 
 in search of the last will and testament of the apparently recently deceased oil tycoon Duncan 
 W. Adams. He was a bit of a kook and was into safe collecting, so the family assumes that the document 
 was hidden away in one of the many elaborately locked safes scattered throughout his mansion. You're 
 presumably some kind of kingpin burglar or locksmith (although it's hard to imagine what good a 
 regular locksmith would be here; you'd be better off hiring somebody who's really good at Myst) , 
 so the family has turned to you in its hour of need.  

  Good B movies have been made based on even dumber plots, but Kheops doesn't do a lot with this 
 premise. You aren't provided with much background on the goofy millionaire, the missing will, your 
 motivations, or anything else. The mansion is beautifully realized (if lifeless, due to the static 
 scenery) thanks to top-notch visuals that provide rooms with intriguing features like ornate fountains, 
 miniature museums of African artifacts, leather furniture that looks so plush you want to skip 
 the puzzles and sit down for a while, and music that evokes a whodunit atmosphere. But even though 
 you're wandering through tastefully appointed settings, you're still in a big deserted house with 
 the one-dimensional task of gathering clues and solving logic puzzles to pop open safes. One safe 
 inevitably leads to another, so you end up following a rigid path of acquiring information (no 
 more than a few safes are accessible at any given time) and useful items that eventually take you 
 to the grand pooh-bah of safes, who is evidently holding the will.  

  Kheops livens things up by going beyond the usual hidden-behind-a-painting combination safe and 
 into the sci-fi realm of safes secured by slider puzzles, magnetic blocks, lasers, and banks of 
 colored lights reminiscent of Scotty's engineering panels on  Star Trek . You do nothing but bang 
 your head against one logic puzzle after another, most of which are tricky but solvable as long 
 as you remain patient and open to taking the time to experiment with different solutions. Many 
 are quite enjoyable, and provide a great "Hey, I did it!" sense of accomplishment. Seeing a green 
 light come on or hearing a lock click open is always a satisfying moment.  

  Clues never walk you through the process of opening safes, either, so while you collect scraps 
 of paper with numbers written on them, electronic gizmos, keys, and other useful items, in the 
 end it's your brain that will be sorting through patterns and figuring out codes. Solutions always 
 take more than a few minutes to suss out, and even after you realize what you're supposed to be 
 doing, it sometimes requires more time to maneuver puzzle pieces into place.  

          Scotty didn't have panels with that many lights on the Enterprise.     

  But even fans 
 of puzzle-heavy games might find Safecracker slow going, as the focus is always on opening safes 
 and retrieving their contents. The puzzles themselves are different enough so that it feels like 
 you're involved in various sorts of tasks (although there is a certain Rubik's Cube vibe to just 
 about everything) , and the challenge is reasonably high throughout. Still, since the end goal is 
 always the same old acquisition of clues and goodies, you quickly begin to feel like you're on 
 a treadmill, going from one room to the next and checking out one crazy safe after another. It 
 would have helped if Kheops had tossed in the odd puzzle that was totally unrelated to safecracking, 
 with all-new objectives. Making the safes more of a rare thing would have helped, too. Cracking 
 even a laser-locked safe by playing a magnetic version of the kiddie board game Labyrinth can seem 
 a bit ho hum, considering that you knock off one of these elaborately protected babies every half 
 hour or so.  

  At its heart, Safecracker isn't a game so much as it is an assortment of logic puzzles as repetitive 
 as those found in magazines, or in the paperback Sudoku collections cluttering newsstands these 
 days. That approach will nicely do the trick for patient players who want to idle away their spare 
 hours by solving such brainteasers, but those who want a more interesting adventure or more involved 
 puzzles are best advised to look elsewhere.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 10Footpole
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  Kheops does it again! We have all played Moneky Island and thought it was nice with all the fun 
 puzzles, well, Kheops Studios has taken puzzles to a new level!
  
  I started out with Treasure Island and fell in love with the grapichs, the background music, the 
 scenery, but most of all, their ingenious puzzles!
  
  In Safecracker you REALLY have to mold your brain to solve each puzzle, and every single one of 
 them is a brainteaser. They get harder and harder, and just when you think you got it, you don`t 
 :D
  
  There are alot of various puzzles in Safecracker, some you have seen before, others are just amazing 
 and creative! Every time I got stuck I knew I could figure it out if I tried harder, and I did 
 every time :) )
  
  Inpredictability is what I love about Kheops` games, they are fun, challenging, short; puzzles 
 for adults :) ) 11
  
  I had alot of fun with safecracker, and now I`m gonna buy their new game; Dracula! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameQueen1975
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  I can't say enough about this game I love it. The safes themselves are ingenius. They will leave 
 you mind bottled!!! I really enjoyed playing this game. I won't give away any secrets but. This 
 game really had me thinking. It gives no clues and will keep you guessing for days if not weeks 
 on how to open these wild and ausome safes. I personally cracked 9 of the safes by myself. You 
 will never use your brain harder then you will with cracking the safes in this game. The sencenery 
 of this mansion is breath taking . With a good graphics cards it rooms of smoothlines everywhere. 
 I only hope they make a part II to this game and soon!!!! I would have great fun exploring and 
 experiencing the game and all it's wonderful tricks and ticks. I woule like to give credit to GameBoomers 
 for there terrific walkthroughs. I would have never completed this game without it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skitzo1720
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  This game has great puzzles, sometimes hard but solvable, the storyline is quite good and the visuals 
 are great.
  In this game you professional safecracker, hired by a dead rich man's family to found his will. 
 The thing is this man secure his will in a complicated but fascinating safe system.
  As the game flows, we will find secrets about the family, which make the game really intense.
 
  Some safe are very hard to break, while other are so easy that you not see through it's simplicity.
 
  
  This game is perfect for all puzzle lover, but quite enjoyable if you want to spend a good time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  I have played alot of puzzle games in the past. The Myst series, 7th Guest and more. This game 
 is very similar to those types of games. If you love mystery/puzzle games... this is for you.
 
  
  First of all the storyline is very basic but well written to keep one interested in why you are 
 doing the job you are doing. You are a Safe Cracker that has been employed to go thru a mansion 
 and find the last will of a man whom has passed away. It is locked in one of his many creatively 
 manufactured safes in the house. The mansion is quite large with several rooms to keep you ocupied 
 for hours. The gameplay in the beginning is pretty straight forward. You need to open a safe to 
 unlock a door to a new area of the mansion. As you progress thru the mansion... you then find larger 
 open areas with multiple safes, therefore adding to the puzzle of the order of which one must be 
 cracked first in order to advance. No two puzzles in the game are alike... thus making each new 
 safe interesting for the player. Some are very easy... while some may require you writing down 
 information to figure out the sequence. You also may unlock a safe that has information you will 
 need further down the road in the game. This keeps the player interested in the game... very nicely 
 done. The graphics are just awesome. The artists who rendered the games graphics did an outstanding 
 job of generating a real feel to the game. From the spackled ceilings to the pollished floors... 
 you really do get the feeling you are actually in the mansion and not in a computer generated game. 
 There are no cutscenes in this game (people comming up talking to you or asking you quiestions) 
 it is just you and you alone in the manion and that I just loved. It allows you to stick to the 
 task at hand and not be interrupted by annoying side conversations. The game does have letters 
 scattered about the mansion that give you clues to puzzles and things that you need to know. Movement 
 is done completely with the mouse so therefore making gameplay pretty basic. You just turn in the 
 direction you wish to go and click. All interactions with objects are also done with the mouse 
 as well. Definately no complicated gameplay here... again which makes it fun to play. Simple sleuth 
 detective work at it's finest.
  
  The sound quality is nice but there is not alot going on here in that department. The occasional 
 clicking of a lock or opening of a drawer is about all you have here. There are a couple of scenes 
 where you activate water and that effect was done very nicely. There is a soundtrack in the background 
 that changes as you advance thru the game but it is very basic. Being you are the only one there, 
 the only sounds you hear are the ones you make working on the safes. There are some safes that 
 are very well made and have cool sound effects... but overall the sound is the weakest part of 
 the gameplay here.
  
  In conclusion, this is a great game for puzzle enthusiast as it will keep you entertained for hours. 
 I personally completed the game in on afternoon but had alot of fun doing it. The game could have 
 been alot longer and that would have made it worth the price I paid. The gameplay is nice, the 
 graphics are awesome, the sound (or lack there of) is the weak part of the game. Personally I would 
 recommend getting this game if you love puzzle games... but I would wait for the price to come 
 down before doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mydrael
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  It has been awhile since I have played the adventure, or as my friend termed them, interactive 
 screen saver. Most of my problem solving these days comes from the newsprint books available at 
 the supermarket. So, playing this game was a pleasant mix of memory and reality.
  
  The game is rather intuitive, as I do not feel compelled to read the instruction text file included 
 on the CD. Gameplay was as expected, with no need to keep utter concentration like in some RPGs 
 with puzzles.
  
  The puzzles themselves were a mix of figuring out a numerical code, to more interactive slider 
 puzzles. Most were a matter of patience, with no one puzzle being too outright difficult. The variety 
 of puzzles presented also keeps one from feeling didnt I just do this puzzle?
  
  Ultimately, though, the game became a matter of wondering when the end was coming as the story 
 itself was very straightforward with no substantial hook to keep one interested outside of the 
 puzzle.
  
  But, all in all, for puzzle aficionados, this game will be of interest, as not much gets in the 
 way of the puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  I love The Adventure Company. Nearly every game they release is a compelling and fun amalgam of 
 puzzles, mystery, intrigue and a good storyline. This re-release of a major success from the 1990s 
 is no exception.
  
  Although light on the setting -- it's just you and the safes into which you break -- the title will 
 give you its fair share of usage hours. You must roam a tycoon's mansion and undo all the various 
 types of safes. To do this, you will have to go through complicated puzzles mimicking everything 
 from bank vaults to wooden toys to who knows what. Sometimes the simplest-looking ones are the 
 hardest to do. From math problems, to hidden levers, there's always some other piece to the answer. 
 You start out thinking it'll be too easy, but soon you've got to take a shot at this one again.
 
  
  Those who love elaborate space and fighting games are probably barking up the wrong tree. For those 
 of us who love wit and plotting, though, it's a refreshing treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smogman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 9, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  I totally disagreed with GameSpot's review of this game. What the game lacks in grapics, it makes 
 up for in gameplay and sound. The sound adds an air of mystery and a sense of urgency to the game. 
 It will get your adrenaline pumping as you get frustrated trying to open locks and safes. The gameplay 
 is superb. Some locks and safes are easy, but to get to them, you must go through some hard ones 
 first. Also, for those who like the flavor of story and mystery, don't get too caught up in the 
 locks, puzzles, and safes. Look around and read the various pieces of paper strewn around the mansion. 
 This game is also a great value for what you get. The replay value may not be immediatly evident 
 since you'll want to let the game sit for a year or so after beating it. Then come back to it and 
 have fun trying to remember how to solve all those puzzles all over again. I gave this game a high 
 tilt because this game is the most underrated game I've ever played and it really is a masterpiece. 
 As the old saying goes One man's junk (Gamespot) , is another man's treasure . If you like puzzles 
 and mystery, then this game is for you. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabarbar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  well but actually the idea doing this turned out great.... for me at least...
  the fact that its mostly logical is quite a nice thing... the puzzles though relatively hard and 
 time consuming... (due to them being hard or u not knowing what to do or the rules of the game in 
 the 1st place... the hints are usually akward) ,,,
  
  but after each safe u crack... especially the hards one u get a great feeling of satisfaction...
 
  
  the graphics are ok... nothing high tech ofcourse but quite enough for such a game... music is not 
 that memorable.... the voice acting is great.... no bugs that i can think of. thus stable... there's 
 a slim chance of replayability value if u wanna bend ure mind after a while from finishing the 
 game..
  
  The Adventure Company is quite respected by me for trying to keep the genre from dying since i 
 love those games.... u can recommend this to all non gamers who love a mental challenge... thhis 
 thing is short .... but really time consuming adventure/puzzle gamers..... enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helldancer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 23, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Well u read the name u think its about opening safes, listening to *ticks* using gadgets or whatever. 
 But NO, u open safes, safe like containers, or safe like panels, using only logic, commonsense, 
 and to some extent previously given hints. The story is very very very very very weak, the game 
 is about puzzles and only puzzles, it would have been much more fun if u were hired by many different 
 persons, and thus it becomes more like missions. But here ur only hired by one rich family, and 
 ur only in one house, but u face an overwhelming number of safes and puzzles (35 or so as I remember) . 
 Now the puzzles, the problem is not solving the puzzle itself, the main issue is 'WHAT TO DO', 
 if u know what should be done, then ur relying on ur logic or trial and error, if u don't know 
 what to do, and u will waste quite some time figuring that out. There aren't alot of hints (which 
 is a very serious defect) , and if found the are direct to a stupid degree, I thought some vague 
 hints would've been left near the safe, and u try to figure them out, but NO. The game is very 
 hard, and very time consuming, not because its long, but because u will take a relatively long 
 time figuring out what should u do. Other than that, the game is very fun, the graphics are amazing, 
 and u will come to liking the safe cracking thing after a very short time of playing. Oh and the 
 music is super useless. but since there's no story or suspense u don't need it that much anyway. 
 So get ur self a paper, a pen, some patience, make trial and error ur best friend, and go on a 
 cracking rampage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LV_KING999
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I thought that it will be something like real safe cracking with tools and 
 all other things. When I started to play I was surprised. But it was good suprise, because game 
 provided me good graphics, hard, but logical quests. Big plus was the main characters voice, it 
 was perfectly selected.
  The game also was very short, if remember correct then I went through it in 15h, and I've seen 
 people who did it in 8h.
  Storyline was good, nothing too strange.
  I got fun of thinking how to open each safe.
  So enjoy this good game ;) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
