-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Saints Row 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/saintsrow2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tons of variety.
 Zombie Uprising is awesome.
 Co-op mode is a blast.
 You can throw people 20 feet.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frame rate issues and tons of pop-in.
 Friendly AI is frustratingly stupid.
 Multiplayer is forgettable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 12, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 659 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Volition Inc.
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Jan 5, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Technical problems mar this delightfully crass, immature, and over-the-top sandbox game. 

  When the original Saints Row came out two years ago, it served to placate fans until Grand Theft 
 Auto made its next-generation debut. Saints Row's deviant destruction didn't push the boundaries 
 of what to expect from a free-roaming urban assault game, but it did provide an enjoyable outlet 
 for consequence-free chaos while never taking itself too seriously. Since then, Grand Theft Auto 
 IV has injected a dose of maturity into its typical sandbox fare, removing many of its outlandish 
 behaviors to create a more grounded portrayal of the gangster lifestyle. Saints Row 2 is not concerned 
 with growing up. It is a morality-free alternative to GTAIV, an unremorseful descent into mindless 
 mayhem. The lack of any major advancement in gameplay or storytelling may elicit a few flashes 
 of deja vu, and the technical problems will haunt your every turn, but the unrepentant joy of terrorizing 
 this humble metropolis makes Saints Row 2 a viable palate-cleanser for anyone willing to embrace 
 the role of immoral dirtbag.  

           Never has one measly trashcan caused so much trouble.      

  Unleashing unprovoked 
 havoc on the streets of Stilwater can be as much fun on the PC as it was on consoles, but while 
 the core elements have made the transition intact, the visuals have taken a serious hit. On a PC 
 that exceeds the recommended requirements, Saints Row 2 has a choppy frame rate and jarring pop-in 
 that make driving around this busy metropolis a pain. The forgiving driving physics make it possible 
 to get from one point to another without too many of crashes, but vehicles and even buildings pop 
 in and out of view with regularity, and any element that requires precise maneuvering will torment 
 all but the most patient players. Firefights are particularly agonizing -- trying to mow down a target 
 from afar, even a stationary one, is a matter of luck more than dexterity. If you're running a 
 machine that far exceeds the recommended specs, you'll experience a sometimes choppy but ultimately 
 playable thrill ride through this open world, but anyone with a more modest configuration should 
 proceed with caution.  

  The story begins in a jail hospital, where you've been in a coma ever since a gigantic explosion 
 at the end of the first Saints Row nearly ended your criminal actions permanently. After easily 
 escaping from this lightly guarded compound, you set off to recruit more people to your gang and 
 retake the city of Stilwater. The overarching story is derivative and not easily relatable, but 
 there are some interesting episodes. The Brotherhood missions in particular are dark, documenting 
 a tale of vengeance that is sickly satisfying. After putting nuclear waste in their leader's tattoo 
 ink, you find yourself in a constant battle of one-upmanship. Deaths are taken lightly, propelling 
 you to even more outrageous behavior, but it fits within the context of this over-the-top gameworld. 
 The story never reaches beyond the barbaric needs of its protagonist, but the missions do contain 
 a few worthwhile cinematic payoffs.  

  While you may not be able to affect the outcome of your story, you can design your conqueror in 
 whatever image you desire. The character creation tool is quite extensive. You can drastically 
 change the weight and age of your character, pick from four different races, mold facial features 
 in whatever manner you desire, and even choose if you want a male or female protagonist. With only 
 six voices to choose from, it can be difficult to accurately match one to whatever look you happen 
 upon, but it's a small price to pay for the wealth of creative options. You can visit a plastic 
 surgeon at any time to tweak your features, but the process is so in-depth that it's easier just 
 to choose a look at the beginning and stay with it.  

           Even a sluggish frame rate can't prevent you from hitting someone from point blank range. 

  The missions are predominantly of the drive-and-shoot variety that has become commonplace in the 
 genre. Though there are three gangs opposing you, as well as various law enforcement agencies, 
 the only difference between them are the colors they wear and the scumbags who lead them. The majority 
 of missions boil down to raiding a building and killing everyone who moves. While these excursions 
 are usually entertaining, taking place in a variety of locations against increasingly ridiculous 
 odds, the repetition of the actions is undeniable. Some objectives do provide an opportunity to 
 do something a little different, though. For instance, when asked to rob a bank, you find out your 
 prize is not a vault of money, but an even more valuable hostage. This leads to a strong detour 
 in both the story and gameplay and serves to keep things fresh. And since most missions have a 
 midway checkpoint, you'll rarely have to start at the very beginning if you make a mistake.  

 
  The controls that were so smooth in the console iterations feel uneven on the PC. You'll have 
 no problem running around the city using either a controller or a keyboard and mouse combination, 
 but the subtle combat maneuvers that were possible in the console versions have been hampered here 
 because of the inconsistent frame rate. Before, it was possible to target specific parts of your 
 enemies' bodies with ease, letting you cripple your opposition with a happy smile on your face. 
 But long-range fighting is now a painstaking affair, forcing you to make the fights much more intimate. 
 Because the aiming is unreliable and there's no lock-on ability or cover mechanic, fights generally 
 devolve into running up to enemies and seizing them for temporary cover or to quickly dispose of 
 them. It is still extremely fun to grab enemies and hurl them 20 feet in the air, but the other 
 aspects of combat are too inconsistent to be rewarding.     

  The main reason the missions are still fun is the unrestrained freedom in how you can complete 
 them. Enemies can be killed at any time, using any weapon in your arsenal. For instance, the bosses 
 in the game are all just normal human beings. You can choose to pepper them with your pistol if 
 you choose, slowly witling down their life bar as you carefully dodge their attacks. Or you can 
 just ignore typical video game logic and kill them with a few glorious shots from your rocket launcher. 
 This freedom extends to every element in the game, letting you mow down enemies in whatever manner 
 you see fit. Saints Row 2 fully embraces its sandbox moniker, letting you carve your own path of 
 destruction without any arbitrary strings tying you down.  

           Pedestrians are so easy to run over, you'll swear they have magnets in their pants.   
    

  Aside from the main missions, there are a bevy of side quests to take part in. These are much more 
 original than the standard missions, so it's easy to get distracted by these for a while and forget 
 about the story. These activities are where Saints Row 2 completely ignores reality and lets you 
 have some ridiculous fun. Trail Blazer is probably the most chaotic. Here, you'll ride an ATV wearing 
 a flaming, fireproof suit. You get a time bonus for lighting cars and people on fire, so you just 
 set out to cause as much destruction as possible. There's little challenge here (who would oppose 
 a man wearing a flame-drenched suit?) , but lighting the world on fire is utterly satisfying. There 
 are a few other tasks that arent as fun, but overall, the minigames in Saints Row 2 are excellent 
 and imaginative additions that go a long way toward extending your gameplay.  

  The best diversion is the terrifying zombie uprising. You can access this on the big-screen TV 
 in any of your cribs, and it provides some of the most exciting moments in Saints Row 2. As opposed 
 to an emulation of a 2D arcade game from years past, this is a 3D adventure to save your soul from 
 bloodsucking zombies. It takes place in the dilapidated hotel that serves as your headquarters, 
 and you have to mow down wave after wave of these undead creatures. With a limited amount of ammunition 
 and melee weapons that break after a few hits, you'll have to constantly run around to evade the 
 threat of these relentless demons. The slow-moving zombies may not seem too scary at first, but 
 as more fill the screen, this becomes an intense and oftentimes exhilarating experience. Being 
 surrounded by a group of zombies as you try to push them away to resurrect your fallen pals is 
 an awesome divergence from the typical inner-city mayhem.  

  If killing zombies alone sounds too frightening, you can play through Saints Row 2 with a friend. 
 The co-op is extremely well implemented here. You can hop in or out at any time, and there aren't 
 even any chains tethering you to each other. The entire city is open to your crime-wave whims. 
 You can partake in missions and minigames together, or, if you're not feeling very cooperative, 
 one person can tackle missions while the other drives aimlessly around town buying gas stations. 
 There is a little bit of lag and some problems with cars and pedestrians popping in directly in 
 front of you, but the experience of teaming up with a friend makes these slight hiccups easy to 
 ignore. Just make sure you have an understanding with your cooperative pal; one person's violent 
 actions will set cops loose on both players, so it's easy to ruin your buddy's fun if you set the 
 police on him while he's peacefully trying to spray-paint walls. Regardless of your friend's penchant 
 for attracting unwanted attention, it's preferable to the atrocious friendly AI you have to put 
 up with. These morons get stuck on doors and benches, can't figure out how to get in your car, 
 and lag far behind you in firefights. Teaming up with a friend makes the already great campaign 
 even better.  

           Zombies are the best dressed undead monsters out there.      

  Competitive multiplayer isn't quite as engaging as the cooperative portions, but it does provide 
 some excitement in brief bursts. The main mode here is Strong Arm, a team-based affair that tests 
 people in a variety of events. You'll randomly be assigned to many of the activities found in the 
 Campaign mode, and you have a few minutes to best the other team before you move on to another 
 event. The racing and capture-the-flag variants are fairly standard, but there are unique events 
 that add some life to these matches. Insurance Fraud is quite chaotic. Here, each team tries to 
 get into the most horrific car accident. The best way to play defense is to simply shoot them dead, 
 so it's a matter of quickly getting hit by cars before you're unceremoniously dispatched by your 
 competitors. Strong Arm also uses the spray-paint mechanic in a novel way. If you successfully 
 tag a wall while everyone else is worried about killing one another, you grant bonuses to your 
 team, such as more health or causing smoke to pour out of your enemies, making them easier to see. 
 The only other mode is Deathmatch, which is just too hectic to offer long-term appeal.  

  It's a shame the PC port is so poor, because the core of Saints Row 2 is still a blast. The great 
 cooperative integration, unique activities, and super-cool zombie-slaying mode are just as creative 
 and silly as they were in the console iterations, but everything is hampered by severe technical 
 problems. If you have plenty of patience and a powerful gaming rig, you'll happily create havoc 
 in Saints Row 2 for a long time. But for everyone else, this lazy port should be avoided.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is not a serious game, and it does not take itself seriously. It basically encouredges 
 you do drive about causing mayhem, which is usually main attraction of big city sandbox type games. 
 The story is silly, the characters are silly, the whole city is just plain silly. But thats what 
 the game is trying to do. It removes the serious aspects of the GTA games and replaces them with 
 humor and madness. The difficulty is forgiving, you receive powerful weapons from the start of 
 the game, driving is forgiving, fighting is forgiving, this game is not meant to challenge you, 
 but instead to entertain you. 
  Now the downside. Its a crappy port. it looks pretty bad and it runs pretty bad. The upside is 
 that it ran very stable on my unstable machine. The downside is that it lags whenever you are driving, 
 running, or shooting outdoors, which is most of the game. Luckily, many of the cutscenes dont have 
 this problem, and they are often hilarious and intense. If you want a fun, silly game to play with 
 friends, Saints Row 2 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STR33TFiR3
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 10:26 am PT
Review:  If the game had played even at 30 FPS, I would have probably given it 8 or 8.5. But the game is 
 simply unplayable even on a machine that played Crysis more than smoothly!
  
  Saints Row 2 could be a gem of a game for any GTA lover. A straightaway GTA clone, but much more 
 fun. Only if it was playable!
  And for such low frame rate, specially while driving, the graphics is not anything to write home 
 about.
  
  The storyline drags and is not interesting. The side missions, however are really fun. Special 
 mention for the side activity "FUZZ" where you impersonate a Police Officer (vigilante mission?) 
 and beat the hell out of rule breakers to gather enough gory footage for your cameraman buddy.
 
  
  The AI is horrible! Your friends can not fight, take cover, follow you or even get into your car! 
 Why I have to save their asses?
  
  The driving physics is another letdown. I did not expect realistic cars, but such driving experience 
 (along with horribly low frame rate) makes any driving & shooting mission a chore! I hated it so 
 badly!
  
  Played it for 4-5 Hours, then I had to uninstall this damn thing called a PC port. Did they really 
 expect us to play this?
  
  Don't go near this if you are not an avid GTA fan and umm, have a supercomputer for a PC.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 1:19 am PT
Review:  lol just joikin bout the title but yeah it quiet obvious its GTA. this game obviously dosnt take 
 itself seriously and thumbs its nose at GTA
  
  Good: its not serious at all. A massive fat man can run like superman. Graphics are quiet impressive, 
 but still nothing close to GTA IV. All guns feel powerful, unlike some games. ZOMBIE UPRISEING!!!! 
 koolest game in the world. combat is great. you can throw people!!! the many stores is alot better 
 compired to GTA, many clothes shops, CD shop and even an emo shop..... CO-OP is great but.....
 
  
  Bad: You cannot find anyone to play with. frame rate drops like a bombshell, drops for no reason, 
 sometimes so much, it makes it immposiable to drive. i ahve a pretty powerful system, but it still 
 drops. AI is useless. they shoot but not stright. what is the point of AI. Story is quiet stupid. 
 many texture pop ups.
  
  cant really talk much about this game. its basically a bad version of GTA. some of the things like 
 the combat is good but tats about it. it jsut dosnt do anything new or anything exerlent.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anacardo
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 10:03 am PT
Review:  The first saints row was the first sandbox game to be released on the Xbox360, and despite some 
 childood missteps, it was definitely a good game. Direction was good, acting, while over the lines, 
 was definitely fun. The sequel had decided to drop any idea of being realistic and moved definitely 
 over the realm of crazyness and grotesque. But while this is somehow a bit of a letdown for some 
 (me included) it's definitely the least problem of this game by far. Everybody seemed to enjoy 
 a lot SR2 on Xbox360, and judging from the direction and the dialogues I've seen, the material 
 seem to be at least on par with the previous episode. But when I ran the game the first time onto 
 my notebook (a pretty updated and decent piece of machinery that runs most games with all the settings 
 maxed out) I was shocked to be presented with graphics way below the average game nowadays and 
 even iferior to the visuals of Mafia I, a game four years old. But it's when I thought of a mistake 
 and tried to customize the graphic settings a bit that I really couldn't believe my eyes. Whenever 
 I tried to get something decent or simply visually not revolting, I couldn't get past the 12fps 
 mark. All this onto a machine that runs GTAIV completely maxed out well over the 24fps. But I was 
 sadly just scratching the surface. Whoever decided to port the graphic engine from the xbox360 
 to the PC without any kind of tweaking, did just the same with the controls. There's no other explaination 
 for the left and right browse commands in the interface to be mapped to two keys that are one on 
 top of the other on any PC keyboard. Driving is no fancy story either, pressing any driving key 
 to result in a 100% pressure of the 360 stick. It's like going onto a rollercoaster ride made of 
 bursts of acceleration and 90 degrees turns. It's bad beyond recognition. Controlling the character 
 is a little better, but don't think of anything great. It resembles much more Secondlife than any 
 modern third person shooter. Sadly the environment looks bland and sparse as well, the textures 
 repeated and unimaginative, the cars seldom and simple.
  The story? giventhe fact that this game is almost unplayable, it's really diffficult to figure 
 that out, or even care, for that matter.
  And it's a real shame, since in a few glimpse here and there, from time to time in a cutscene or 
 in the dialog, you'll see that the direction is good, the characters are fun, and that you would 
 really like to enjoy this game experience in full. Sadly you can't.
  Summarizing: an incredibly lame port of an otherwise good game. Buy GTAIV instead, or buy Mafia, 
 or buy GTASA, but believe me, avoid this thing at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiphops_savior
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  When GTA IV finally come on the PC, there are complaints everywhere about the poor optimization 
 job that Rockstar did on the port. The developers does have an excuse why it was poorly optimized, 
 aka "future-proofing". Saint's Row 2, having already carved a niche into the sandbox genre with 
 their PS360 version, is over the top, crass, and borderline ridiculous, have a chance now to really 
 make a name for themselves from bitter PC fans angry at the poor optimization of GTA IV.
  
  The verdict? Saints Row 2 on the PC chokes miserably, running at a 32 fps cap (removed in the first 
 patch) , high system requirements, and I'm running on a Q6600 Quad Core, 4GB of RAM, and a HD 4870 
 512mb DDR5 video card. Considering that the background textures of this game looks borderline San 
 Andreas, this is just flat out inexcusable. I would rather wait for another year just so the game 
 can at least be optimized well.
  
  What it doesn't have in terms of presentation and technical achievements, it makes up for it by 
 just giving you an overwhelming amount of side missions to do while you're out there running people 
 over, killing cops, and taking down rival gangs. The story isn't that great, but when you're doing 
 ridiculous side missions like spraying human waste all over the city to lower property value, posing 
 as a cop for a show and stopping criminals by any means possible, which includes chainsawing protesters, 
 and even smashing streakers with sledgehammers, why would a story matter when you're having so 
 much fun?
  
  Unfortunately, as I mentioned earlier, a lot of the fun is ruined by the fact that the game runs 
 horribly for such mediocre graphics and at times, the poor framerates makes some sidequests unplayable. 
 Add pop ins, a rather loose driving mechanic, and there's going to be a lot of times where you're 
 going to be cursing in front of the monitor. 
  
  The gunplay is typical run and gun, and instead of hiding behind cover to avoid damage, you grab 
 hostages and yes, you can actually throw them into crowds, or even down a cliff. It's not the most 
 memorable action, but it fits in with the over the top style for Saints Row 2. You can dual wield 
 pistols and SMGs, but apart from that, it's just typical running and gunning your way from Point 
 A to Point B. 
  
  If you're going to compare GTA IV to this game, it's like comparing apples to oranges. Saints Row 
 2 for the PC is an over the top, immature, and fun game that is ruined by the poor optimization, 
 while GTA IV is a serious game with more focus on storyline also ruined by poor optimization (abeit 
 on a smaller scale, and having a convenient excuse) . 
  
  Overall, this is a game that is a patch or two away from being a great GTA alternative, or for 
 those who are craving for the older GTA action (Vice City and San Andreas are both considered the 
 best in the GTA series) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asestar
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 4, 2009 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This game promised lot of fun. Its like a bit crazier, more adult themed GTA style world. 
  
  There is a lot to be liked here. Character models are generally very good, music is alright, 
 gang customization is a neat idea, lot of freedom, missions are crazy but fun and just plain silliness. 
 
  
  Problem is.. 
  1: it comes across as GTA clone. And isnt polished enough to shake off that image. Neither does 
 it try to be as creative as GTA-SA.
  
  2: Performance. This might be a fun game on PS3/XBX360 but on PC it is nearly unplayable with high 
 quality lighting enabled. And thats on a GTX280 with 3.4ghz E8500. Thats just broken, no other 
 excuse for it. 
  
  Which means you will have to play this game on either lower resolution (i want my games at 1920x1200) 
 or reduce image quality. You cant play on lower resolution! This game is stupid enough to lack 
 MOST COMMON wide screen resolutions. Where are my 1440x900 and 1680x1050? 
  
  And with medium image quality, this game looks about same as GTA-SA. Which was horrible even when 
 it came out on pc.
  
  In short: You might enjoy this game after about 3 patches (IF it ever gets patched) or in 2 years. 
 After mainstream hardware is twice the speed of current top-end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slim_shady2142
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 6:54 am PT
Review:  it's just some thing like GTA sananders and there is nothing special. the only new part is that 
 you can desinge your house. it means that you can change your houses furniture and buy new things 
 like LCD television computer and...
  the game is the same as GTA series. special effects of the game is awfule almost there is no special 
 effect. grafic of the game is good but there is a problem with it, whene you are going to turn around 
 every thing mixes up with each other and you can't see what's going on around. cars and motorcycels 
 are good desinged but they're not so fast and if you find a fast car you can't control it and hit 
 the other cars and wall. weapones are great and powerful you can kill a person with shutgun with 
 one hit. missions af the game are hard and vaery long i mean when you start a mission you have to 
 spend almost 20 minutes to pass it and earn some money. it was all i can say about saints row 2. thanks 
 to gamespot group. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 9:30 am PT
Review:  Maybe it's time we retire the phrase "GTA Clone." The type of open-world sandbox gameplay that 
 Rockstar pioneered with that game has become so commonly aped that it's almost become a genre unto 
 itself. In addition to plenty of excellent variations on the theme of "go anywhere, do anything" 
 gameplay in games, such as Mercenaries 2, is the fact that so many upcoming games like Far Cry 
 2 and Prince of Persia are adopting the sandbox structure. 
  
  But still, the Saints Row franchise is pretty obviously still the closest thing to GTA's original 
 urban crime simulator in setting and theme. In fact, the first game's main claim to fame was that 
 it beat the GTA franchise to the next-generation consoles, giving gamers the first opportunity 
 to jack cars, shoot cops and create general mayhem in a large open city environment on the PC. 
 But to suggest it is a clone was to maybe give it too much credit. 
  
  Saints Row aped a lot of GTA's main features-the third-person view, the car-jacking, the radio 
 stations playing real licensed tracks, etc.-but obviously didn't do it as well. The first game 
 felt somewhat clownish in its depictions of inner-city life, what with the Huggy Bear-inspired 
 pimps and gratuitous use of bling. It was easier to feel sorry for their cluelessness than be offended 
 at its stereotypes. 
  But a funny thing happened on the way to the sequel. While GTA IV moved into a grittier and more 
 focused storyline (while still remaining incredibly funny) , Saints Row 2 has taken the ridiculousness 
 straight over the top and into the self-parodying stage. As a result, Saints Row 2 seems to be 
 in on the joke that it is, and that makes it somehow endearing. That plus the fact that it gives 
 the player so much to do outside of the main mission thread, so many diversions and activities 
 and collectibles, that it now seems the polar opposite of the GTA franchise. And that's a good 
 thing. 
  
  If GTA is a juicy filet mignon served with a nice bottle of red wine at an upscale steakhouse, 
 Saints Row 2 is a platter of potato skins slathered in cheese and bacon served with a gigantic 
 margarita at T. G. I. Friday's. That latter meal may be cheap and bad for you, but it doesn't mean 
 it isn't really good to pig out on some times. That's exactly what Saints Row 2 is: pure videogame 
 junk food. And if you say you don't enjoy that sometimes, you're either a liar or a hippie. 
  
  Saints Row 2 gives the player so much to do, so many different types of missions to engage 
 in, customization features to play with and dumb stuff to collect, that you'll find yourself wallowing 
 in it for quite sometime. I just can't bring the snobby critic in me to slam itI had fun. 
  
  And in some ways it actually does innovate. The cooperative and multiplayer modes were approached 
 from some really fresh directions, and do some things that make you wonder why no one else had 
 done them before. They're actually designed with the viewpoint of, what would be fun to do here, 
 what have I always wanted to do in a mode like this but couldn't before? That, and the ability 
 of the designers to plant their tongue in their own cheeks more firmly this time around are the 
 best things about the game. Of course, there are some other core mechanics of the game that don't 
 get innovated upon and in some cases are just outright poorly designed, and that holds everything 
 back considerably. But still this is junk food; you should know what you're getting. 
  
  It's been written about before, but the basic plot of Saints Row 2 is a direct sequel to the events 
 in the first game. Your character wakes up from a coma in prison after getting blown up at the 
 end of the first game. You're quickly filled in on events by a fellow prisoner whose older brother 
 was in the Saints with you before and regards you as a heroas do all the ex-Saints, apparently. 
 Once you fight your way out of prison, you return to the city you knew and begin your rise to the 
 top once again along the road of revenge. 
  
  The fact that you're supposed to be the same character from the first game presents some interesting 
 problems of continuity. Saints Row 2 allows you configure your character almost any way you want, 
 and definitely more than you could in the first game. You can play as a female this time, most 
 notably. But there's no way to import your character from the first game. If you're super anal 
 about it, I suppose you could take the time to try and meticulously re-create your character, but 
 truthfully, the design options this time around are so much more numerous and result in characters 
 that are so wildly different, that it's almost better to start from scratch. Older characters are 
 just going to comment that your hair looks different anyway. 
  
  The other main thread of continuity from the first game that really works, though, is the city 
 of Stilwater itself. Sure, it's changed in the "X" amount of years you've been in your coma, especially 
 the old neighborhood of Saints Row, which has been taken over by the evil Ultor Corporation and 
 transformed into a more swanky area, with its own well-equipped private security force (slash army) . 
 There are more areas that have developed, too, but the main layout is the same, and should be familiar 
 to players of the first game. This, and the fact that the GPS system unlocks shortcuts as you find 
 them makes it much easier to get around quickly. 
  The basic structure of the game remains the same, too. Story missions unlock by you building up 
 your reputation through doing activities in the game, with style bonuses added for the way you 
 dress as well as the things you do, such as driving and killing enemies. Kind of like Burnout, 
 you get bonuses for weaving through oncoming traffic and nearly missing other drivers. Similarly, 
 when you're shooting it out with cops or other gangs, you can get bonuses for head shots, one-shot 
 kills and the like. 
  
  But, still, this method of forcing you off the critical path to play minigames is something that 
 some gamers might not like. Some prefer the direct approach, but I think the design and concepts 
 behind the minigames are so much fun, that their diversionary nature is a good thing. They force 
 you to mix things up, sure, but rarely does the game get sluggish or feel like I was grinding. 
 It helps that the new activities keep with the tone of outright silliness. They include: 
  
  Crowd Control-You're a bodyguard to a celebrity, and as they walk down the red carpet, you 
 must grab the crazed fans trying to attack them and then throw them into various objects for bonus 
 points. For instance, when you're at the airport, you can throw the stalkers into a jet engine 
 to be chopped up or onto a luggage conveyor belt to launch them in the air. This mode is cuter 
 in concept than it is fun in execution, especially in the later rounds when the celeb is getting 
 mobbed by crazies with baseball bats. 
  
  The basic structure of the game remains the same, too. Story missions unlock by you building up 
 your reputation through doing activities in the game, with style bonuses added for the way you 
 dress as well as the things you do, such as driving and killing enemies. Kind of like Burnout, 
 you get bonuses for weaving through oncoming traffic and nearly missing other drivers. Similarly, 
 when you're shooting it out with cops or other gangs, you can get bonuses for head shots, one-shot 
 kills and the like. 
  
  But, still, this method of forcing you off the critical path to play minigames is something that 
 some gamers might not like. Some prefer the direct approach, but I think the design and concepts 
 behind the minigames are so much fun, that their diversionary nature is a good thing. They force 
 you to mix things up, sure, but rarely does the game get sluggish or feel like I was grinding. 
 It helps that the new activities keep with the tone of outright silliness. They include: 
  
  Crowd Control-You're a bodyguard to a celebrity, and as they walk down the red carpet, you 
 must grab the crazed fans trying to attack them and then throw them into various objects for bonus 
 points. For instance, when you're at the airport, you can throw the stalkers into a jet engine 
 to be chopped up or onto a luggage conveyor belt to launch them in the air. This mode is cuter 
 in concept than it is fun in execution, especially in the later rounds when the celeb is getting 
 mobbed by crazies with baseball bats. 
  Chop Shop stuff is better now, too. Once you unlock the lists of each chop shop (by simply visiting 
 them) , any time you hop into a wanted car, it will let you know and instantly set the GPS for the 
 local shop. This can even happen when you're in another mission, presenting you with a choice. 
 Returning the cars to any chop shop is also a nice touch. 
  
  Other activities have been upgraded in little ways, but the best is still Insurance Fraud. Probably 
 the most fun activity from the first game, Insurance Fraud now has an adrenaline meter that you 
 can build up by getting run over in really specific areas. Once your adrenaline is maxed out, you'll 
 go super-flying when you're hit, and in the air you can control your direction some. Set up in 
 the right spot and control your body correctly, and you can keep getting hit by the same car over 
 and over for a combo chain that will send your points through the roof. It's a bit reminiscent 
 of the original crash mode in Burnout, requiring you to strategize a bit. Not only is it fun, it 
 looks totally brutal. 
  
  In addition to the activities, there are a plethora (if that's even enough of a word) of other 
 diversions to take part in. Jobs like Fireman and EMT, not to mention Ho-ing. Gambling games in 
 the casino. BASE jumping with the parachute. Flashing and streaking unsuspecting citizens. The 
 list goes on and on and on. If you're one of those completist type of players who has to get 100% 
 in every game like this, collecting every last collectible, you're going to be playing this game 
 for weeks on end. That either excites you or pisses you off, I'm sure. 
  But if you're the online type of player, the options Saints Row 2 has for you are pretty solid, 
 too. Co-op can be played from the beginning to the end of the game, or you can drop in and drop 
 out at any time. Story missions scale up or down for difficulty, and many involve the two players 
 doing very specific things. For instance, there's a mission where you're being chased in a truck 
 full of fireworks. Play single player and you'll be in the back, heaving exploding boxes while 
 the AI drives. In co-op, one of the players does the heaving, the other the driving. Completing 
 a mission in a friend's campaign completes it in your own as well, though you have the option to 
 replay. 
  
  The two co-op diversions are fun, too. If one player kills his teammate-a frustrating occurrence 
 that's quite common if you're friends with a lot of griefers-you can jump into one of two diversions. 
 You can either go head to head in a little two-player deathmatch or you can face off in vehicles: 
 one person in a high-powered race car, the other in an attack chopper overhead trying to stop player 
 one from escaping. These co-op diversions add a whole new facet to the game and are a total blast. 
 
  
  Multiplayer on the other hand is still fun, but maybe a bit more chaotic in its execution. It basically 
 consists of a group of players being placed in a confined part of the map, where they'll play a 
 series of modified versions of the game's activities. Things like Insurance Fraud and Races are 
 definitely a lot of fun, as are races, too, and the pre-level waiting room where you can run around 
 and beat on each other or shoot baskets can be a minigame of its own. It's definitely different, 
 that's for sure, but worth your time if you're going to invest in the game. 
  
  All this talk about features and game types, and I still haven't said anything about the story 
 missions. They're really good; varied in what they require you to do and the enemy gangs are interesting 
 and totally fantastical. Getting away from the bogus-street life of the first game, Saints Row 
 2 invents some gangs who are totally absurd (riding a motorcycle around with a samurai sword on 
 your back seems really dangerous) and imminently likable. The cutscenes are really well done, too, 
 with some surprisingly good writing. I was not expecting Saints Row 2 to feel fresh and fun in 
 that department, but there you go. 
  
  Even though there's all these things I like about the game, there's plenty I don't. Graphical glitches 
 abound once again, and pop-in can be downright outrageous at times. The physics engine punks out 
 with some frequency, too, causing cars to get stuck on six-inch high curbs and helicopters to flip 
 over for little or no reason with some regularity. While these incidents were isolated, many times 
 they ruined an activity I was working on and drove me nuts. This game could have used some major 
 tightening in the technology department. 
  
  But creatively, it's all good. And you couldn't have asked for more things to do in a game. It's 
 like a ginormous buffet of junk food. So bad, but so good. I think I've found this year's ultimate 
 guilty pleasure. Funny thing is, I'm not feeling that guilty about it. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _HAV0C_
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 5:28 pm PT
Review:  The number of technical issues makes me want to vomit. I just have to begin my review by saying 
 that. Seeng $*** like this  
 sends an electric current of rage through my body (Yea, thats a dude stuck half way through a car) . 
 And here is a video of what happened to my player when i drove my car into water  
 These two examples are but grains of sand on a very large beach compared to the total number of 
 glitches I've seen. By far one of my favorite ones is where you have to drive your car to a destination 
 point; destination point happens to be in the middle of a lake... that one caused a good laugh, 
 too bad I didn't cap a screen of that. As you can probably guess, bugs mess with missions you're 
 doing at the moment. ALOT. I also cant forget to mention that game isnt optimized for PC at all. 
 Its running 15FPS medium-low setting on 8800 series graphics card... thats some $***. So how was 
 this pile of "art" even allowed to hit the store shelves? What was quality control doing at the 
 time?
  
  Now the story. Nice try, but a miserable fail. There is nothing connecting the sub-plots, and final 
 part of the story just kind of pops out of nowhere... Even the damm missions for the same gangs 
 are connceted among each other only about half the time or so. Oh, and did I mention that its linear 
 as hell? Who wrote this???? Was he\she seriously paid money for it? What a horrible injustice!
 
  
  Car handling is more realistic in GTA3 (released in 2001) than in this game. Sports cars are uncontrollable 
 with a keyboard, which once again screams out "STAY ON CONSOLES". Bikes are just uncontrollable 
 PERIOD. Heli will flip over as soon as it hits a surface while angled, and it will stay flipped 
 over until it blows up. Awesome. The only thing that handles properly is the boat....
  
  So, creators of this game forced PC gamers wait several months after its console release, and during 
 that time didn't even bother making a descent port. Bottom line: this glitch-infested GTA knock-off 
 will stay in the shadows of this industry and fade from public's memory in a matter of months, 
 and by no means is it worth your time or money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McMo0
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2009 12:45 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to the debate of which is better, Saints row 2 or GTA IV, you need to ask yourself 
 one question: Did you prefer GTA: San andreas or GTA: IV?
  
  I enjoyed my play through of GTA IV. But to be honest thats all i did, played it through, occasionally 
 some side missions along the way, but once i finished the story, i was finished with the game. 
 San andreas kept me playing through and generall continuing my reign of terror for years.
  
  Saints row 2 gameplay wise is exceptional. Its quite simply a large bag of fun. Whether coating 
 people in sewage is your idea of fun, or running up to the cops completly naked wielding a rocket 
 launcher, or seeing exactly how much propety damage you can cause in an area. This game gives you 
 free roaming fun, and irrelivant missions built simply with fun in mind.
  (This next paragraph is anti GTA IV babble so feel free to ignore it)
  Generally the missions 
 in GTA IV for me were quite generic. Drive, shoot, beat someone up, drive. Walk for a while. Buy 
 some clothes (though choices were few) , rage at the fact someone wanted to play pool with me (and 
 for the record that was a weak mini game) . Overall i completed GTA IV feeling... unfufilled. I 
 wanted his brother to die so very badly, mostly because he spends the entire game blaming me for 
 his situation, situations that could've been avoided if he wasn't an idiot. Two he never stops 
 calling you. I mean i know you could turn the irrelivant phone calls off, but then the game loses 
 that sense of reality.
  
  Stupid thing was, i thought it was a good game till saints row 2 came out. Yes GTA IV was pretty, 
 but it lacked so much of what san andreas brought to the series, it felt like they'd exchanged 
 the gameplay features, for graphical prowess.
  
  Saints row 2 in comporaison was visually meh. No drastic improvements that i can see, but severe 
 frame rate issues for the PC version, even with a mighty machine. Spider senses say that a patch 
 will fix this eventually, but my spider senses are usually wrong. Dropping a couple of the more 
 taxing settings brought about a steady game and i was away. Firstly you have a highly customable 
 character, which is awesome. I did some bits but i just wanted to get the game under way, and so 
 my insane hippy cockney gangster just simply had to do. The breakout mission was good. Strange 
 to have an intense mission, that wasn't really challenging. Then it was onto rebuilding the saints. 
 To start off i had to get out of prison gear, so i did, and completed my fresh from festival look. 
 Then promptly went and bust... whatever his name is from the first one. After that i went straight 
 onto activities, so i flung some sewage at some buildings and cops, Blew up the vast majority of 
 a few areas, imitated the cops, and gave police brutality a new meaning.
  
  So far, not played many missions. I know it seems stupid to go and review a game before i've finished 
 it, but its just that good. In this modern age of technilogical wonders, it really feels like most 
 games take graphics and physics as primary features. Saints row 2 took gameplay first and worked 
 up from there.
  
  Technical issues as stated before are quite severe. Sound quality is poor. If thats because i have 
 onboard sound then something is seriously wrong because the sound quality in this is simply terrible. 
 Most of the tracks sound like their low quality MP3's. This occasionally slips into vocals, and 
 there seems to be no sense of atmosphere. Graphically the game isn't great, and the doesn't show 
 from the frame rate you get with max settings. Some features turned off increase the frame rate 
 a fair bit, but thats nothing to worrying. The main concern from me is sound, as i have got some 
 excellent speakers, and ok i only have onboard, but that card has produced high quality from games 
 like crysis, F. E. A. R 2 demo, the half life 2 series etc.
  
  In summary this game should have only come out for the consoles, as i'm sure that the framerate 
 and sound issues are non-existant on the console. Theres no way of reffering to Saints row 2 without 
 thinking of GTA. This game essentially goes in the opposite direction from GTA IV. It shuns realism, 
 removes modern day graphics, but gives you something far greater. Fun. The day games stop being 
 fun is the day they stop being games, and become sports. Saints row reminded me what a good sandbox 
 game is. FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 10:07 pm PT
Review:  THQ and Volition couldn't let Grand Theft Auto IV steal the limelight last year and so released 
 Saints Row 2. The console versions came out in early October but the PC version was held back for 
 "tweaking" and wasn't released until January 6, 2009. Saints Row 2 is sometimes incorrectly called 
 a "GTA clone" but this would be doing the game a disservice. A more correct way is to say that 
 it's inspired by GTA. While the game has lots of content packed in, you'll face a slew of PC-related 
 problems that largely stem from unoptimized coding. It runs worse than GTA IV! Taking place a few 
 years after the original (which was only a 360 exclusive) , you'll find the main character (that's 
 you!) waking up from a coma in Stillwater Prison. After going through the robust character creation 
 system, you're let loose upon the city of Stillwater after a bloody escape. From there you'll have 
 to rebuild your gang, the Saints, by eliminating three other rival gangs, the Ronin, Brotherhood, 
 and Sons of Samedi. Finally, the Saints face the full fury of the Ultor Corporation and must defeat 
 them in order to take back their city. The story is largely irrelevant but it'll keep you going. 
 While the entire city is unlocked from the beginning, you'll have to do activities. These activities 
 give you respect and filling the top-right bar allows you to move forward. Most of the activities 
 are varied and they include Septic Avenger (you spray crap everywhere) , Mayhem (you destroy everything) , 
 FUZZ (dress up as a cop and beat people) , Trail Blazing (race through the city while blowing up 
 everything) and a myriad of others. They're scattered all over the city so you really won't be 
 bored. Missions usually involve chasing cars, shooting people, and blowing up people. There are 
 also some boss fights. In total you get around 45 missions which should last you 25 hours, including 
 some activities. Technically, the game looks unimpressive, both in the graphics and sound department. 
 It looks like a game from 2005 despite having options like HDR lighting. Sound is sometimes too 
 loud or too low. They also seem to be encoded at a low bit rate, probably a holdover from the 360 
 version. Upon release the game was capped at 32 frames per second and while driving, would stutter 
 constantly to load the city. Forums were full of complaints but Volition recently released a patch 
 that fixes some bugs, improves performance, and removes the framerate cap. The patch does improve 
 things somewhat but it still chugs while driving. A patch can't really solve most of these problems 
 since they're code related. With an Intel Core 2 Duo E6750 2.66 GHz, 2 GB RAM and a 512 MB Geforce 
 9600 GT, I only get 25 to 30 frames and while driving around 15. Before the patch, it went as low 
 as 10. It's a shame really, because Saints Row 2 is an incredibly fun game that doesn't take itself 
 too seriously and allows you to revel in the violence that you cause without too many consequences. 
 Most PC gamers might not be able to look past these issues but if you do, you'll enjoy the game. 
 It also uses Steam as DRM and most people like Steam so it shouldn't be a huge issue. THQ and Volition, 
 if you can't make a proper PC port, then please don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myogaman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 11:35 am PT
Review:  This game blows away GTAIV with over the top stupid hilarity something that GTAIV lost. By taking 
 the RPG elements (such as completing missions to upgrade your dude or dudette) and customization 
 to the max, this game is a win no matter what!
  
  The patch that was just barely released gets rid of all my hateful slowdown errors so now I can 
 play maxed without fear of slowdown. With online multiplayer almost completely free, 2 players 
 can do whatever they want!
  
  My only problem is that multiplayer can't be ramped up to more players. All restrictions on co-op 
 make sense like only the host can buy hoods and invest in shops. Free form aerial battles and car 
 battles between friends just make it all the more fun.
  
  If you are a hardcore GTA fan, try this game. It takes everything that made GTA great and adds 
 to it. All problems I encountered were fixed making this game one of my favorites ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gosova
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 29, 2009 3:58 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is way better than this game, this game has many bugs and very poor graphics.
  
  1st i'll talk about the characters and people in the streets, they're all like a piece of paper 
 beside the cars are very stupid 
  
  seriously if this game was released like this in year 1960 people wont like it, how about releasing 
 a game like this in 2009? 
  
  The vehicles are sooo stupid they're like controlling a car made of paper seriously i dont call 
 this a game for year 2009 what a shame?
  
  i dont know about the Xbox version but i heard its fun
  
  my advise: do not buy this game for 
 PC
  
  well, i dont have more to say so i am going to spam...
  well, i dont have more to say so i am going to spam...
  well, i dont have more to say so i am 
 going to spam...
  well, i dont have more to say so i am going to spam...
  well, i dont have more to say so i am going to spam...
  well, i dont have more to say so i am 
 going to spam...
  well, i dont have more to say so i am going to spam...
  well, i dont have more to say so i am going to spam...
  well, i dont have more to say so i am 
 going to spam...
  well, i dont have more to say so i am going to spam...
  well, i dont have more to say so i am going to spam...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2009 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game even with all the negative reviews and preformance problems many players were 
 having. This is mainly due to upgrading my computer to a Core Duo proccessor and a 9800GT card 
 with 2 gigs of RAM and another 4 gigs for backup in case I need it.
  
  The game for me runs smoothly for the most part on the highest settings and with 1280 x 1024 resolution 
 even though I have a wide screen monitor. Really, if you know anything about PC's like the guy 
 below me stated in his review you can get this to run with a little tweeking at decent FR however, 
 don't bother with this unless you have a good PC with at least two cores and updated hardware including 
 2 gig's of RAM. 
  
  This game runs smoother at max settings except for resolution than GTA IV which I can only set 
 on medium settings but with wide screen resolution support.
  
  Now on to the game play. SR 2 is a interesting game where you can do just about anything you want 
 in. You start out the story breaking out of Still Water Correctional Fac. and then buy some street 
 cloths to get the orange jump suit off your body. I played through about a third of the story and 
 got side tracked playing the numerous side missions that are just as fun or more than the story 
 line missions. You can spray paint tags like in GTA SA around the city, fight rival gangs which 
 is really fun, go to strip bars, tatoo shops, porno stores, the mall, downtown entertainment districts, 
 a pirate ship, light house, the board walk on the beach or a red neck trailer park to raise some 
 kane. 
  
  The games strong point is full charactor creation in which you can create a man or women, makeup 
 color, body size - shape, head and face features, it's endless. You can even up grade your crib's 
 that you unlock throughout the main story line. 
  
  Still Water City is alive with many people walking about like you've seen in the GTA series but 
 unlike GTA this game is more forgiving when it comes to car crashes, killing people on foot, and 
 even cops which are laughable since they're so easily defeated or out ran with a vehicle. 
  
  I bought GTA 4 and SR 2 playing through them both and I have to say I like this game better 
 because it's more fun letting the player do just about anything rather than the real life simulation 
 GTA 4 seems to be.
  
  THQ needs to work on a patch for this game though. If they tried to work out some of the performance 
 issues then I believe more people would play this to see why others on this site like this game 
 so much. I do recommend playing this game if you have a highend gaming computer even though the 
 FR drops sometimes when driving fast around the city but it's well worth the money because of it's 
 fun factor. I found myself losing track of hours with this one.
  
  Even though the graphics are not near as beautiful as in GTA 4 and it's performance issues SR 2 
 is pure just gaming fun so try it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  First off, the important part: I realize people are pissed off. Perhaps a swarm of angry people 
 will rate my review as unhelpful simply b/c of its higher number score. But the funny thing is, 
 I'll allow it. It's fine, I totally understand. And the reason why I say this is because IT IS 
 a crap port.
  
  The only reason why I rate relatively high is because it is MY personal experience; in my case, 
 I had a good enough PC that after tweaking the graphic settings (such as changing the lighting/ 
 advanced settings etc) that I got the game to work at a decent fps with relatively good looking 
 graphics. But at the same time, I realize how pc-draining the port is, and how HORRENDOUSLY optimized 
 the game is. Therefore, I'm not a bit upset at the angry people; whatever, they are ALLOWED to 
 be.
  
  Yes this review is based off my personal experience, after tweaking settings and getting it look 
 decent. (That was the worst part of the game for me) . After all this crap, I eventually started 
 to find this to be a great game. Surprisingly so at first.
  
  I went in expecting a horrid game, but I was pleasantly surprised (though I advise you to buy the 
 xbox360 version to avoid the annoying port issues) . The story was VERY good for a game of this 
 genre; I dare say it even had endearing characters. By the end of the game I was relatively attached 
 to my gangmembers; this alone was very impressive.
  
  Another thing is SR2 was such a great sandbox game for ME personally. I hate how in GTA you have 
 to drive long distances every time you die, when retrying a mission. I hate the tedium of losing 
 life. I hate all the realism; it just drained on me when I played San Andreas.
  
  the reason why I loved SR2 so much is b/c it's so stress-free. Life refills akin to Halo, police 
 are laughably easy, and the game lets you CHECKPOINT your way through missions. That's right; no 
 more driving 3,000 miles just to get somewhere after you die.
  
  SR2 is made for FUN; it sacrifices realism for enjoyment, and this was what I loved most about 
 it. Add in some awesome characters (pierce was SO funny) , a great story (honestly pretty good) , 
 and some crazy side missions (like blowing stuff up with a flaming kart) , and you got SR2. Just 
 pure, stress-free, empowering fun. I also liked customizing your own gang, making your own character 
 (been a fan of that since Oblivion) , and just overall being kick-arse. In addition, I was very 
 impressed with how my custom character moved/talked (ex: facial animations) . I was confused when 
 this 'being' started to seem unbelievably real; the great voice acting helped.
  
  Once again, SR2 is just plain fun.... uhm.. EXCEPT the porting issues. Once again, I sympathize 
 with those that wasted money and had to deal with all that crap. I was personally lucky to have 
 a strong computer and advanced tweaking knowledge. The average gamer, however, has every right 
 to complain and I'm truly sorry that they dumped all that crap on you. I, personally, was just 
 lucky to enjoy the true SR2 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggoldsmith
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I'm been going back and forth as to whether I like this game or not. At first, I was amazed at 
 how badly it ran on my (somewhat dated) AMD Dual Core @ 2.8mghz and 8800 GTS 320. But I was also 
 amazed at how cool the game was. So I played for long stretches enjoying the game and telling myself 
 that I will someday upgrade my system, but in the meantime, I'll find a lower setting But after 
 much experimentatation I found that there IS no lower setting that gets this game to play right... Oh 
 well, I'll just settle for a choppy experience. But that's not working. I'm getting more and more 
 exhausted in trying to control the cars, characters, and the action on the screen. OMG, Now I'm 
 hating this game. But now I'm liking it again as I found that driving is now much more fun after 
 I stopped trying to finesse the road. Paradoxically, I found that by not tring to control these 
 cars, I was able to drive better. You see, screeching around corners is kind of fun now. YEA, IT'S 
 STILL A CRAPPY PORT but definitley worth the $40.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bark00000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very lazy port of a console game (so much so that it does not have native xbox360 
 controller support, just gamepad support, yet clearly uses the radial menu graphic of a friggin 
 xbox360 controller)
  
  But it is not fair to blame the game itself for its flaws... you wouldn't blame a retarded kid 
 for being retarded just because mommy smoked crack while pregnant would you?
  
  If a magical patch was released that would fix the:
  
  -performance issues (9800gtx, low settings, 
 20fps?)
  
  -controls (keyboard mappings are frustrating, and with a gamepad one must choose if he would like 
 to be able to shoot OR drive...)
  
  -crappy graphics (actually WORSE than saints row 1, even on high)
  
  - TOTAL LACK OF EFFORT 
 IN PORTING THE GAME (clear evidence that this is a simple port of an xbox game... why not just 
 give us an emulator and not bother with porting huh?)
  
  
  
  
  All in all however, this game would actually be more fun than any GTA game if it were not for its 
 many issues... so i plead on my knees FIX THIS GAME PLEASE!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Van_manowar
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 12:40 am PT
Review:  1. Graphics - 6/10 - The graphics could be a lot better
  
  2. Optimization/Performance - 3/10 - Bad frame rate even on fast PCs
  
  3. Audio - 9/10 - Great 
 selection of songs in the radiostations
  
  4. Gameplay - 10/10 - The best thing in the game is the gameplay. You will never get bored playing 
 Saints Row 2. You can play cop missions, wrestle, make a brutal mayhem and get paid for it, be 
 a bodyguard of celebrities, saving hos, racing, moding vehicles even bikes, customize your gang, 
 changing the appeal of your hero, buying new clothes and a lot more activities. 
  
  5. Story - 9/10. The storyline is great and the main missions are very fun.
  
  6. Artificial 
 Intelligence - 6.5/10 - Your enemies are always exposed during a fight. They don't take cover and 
 are very easy to be killed.
  
  7. Physics - 7/10 - Not very realistic, especially while driving. But throwing people 20 feet is 
 fun, right? :-)
  
  8. Total - 8/10. If you ignore the technical difficulties this game is really great and very entertaining. 
 There's always something to do in this game and you will never get bored. Some activities are very 
 challenging and always very interesting. Saints Row 2 does not have the realism, graphics and the 
 physics of GTA IV, but the Gameplay is better and more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drugstein
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 14, 2009 1:55 pm PT
Review:  O jogo tem muitas novidades e tal, em alguns pontos chega a ser melhor que GTA (pouquissimos pontos) , 
 mas os Frames so muito instaveis, variam de 35 pra 9, nunca vi algo parecido,
  usando windows vista, C2D 2.6, 4Gb 800MHz, 9800GTX, e ter graficos ruins mesmo no low!! ??! 
 
  num adianta ter um PC top de linha, no vai conseguir rodar suave, a no ser que liberem um patch, 
 mas com certeza vai ser um grande patch, pra resolver todos os problemas desse jogo, espero que 
 a verso pra console tenha agradado, pois a do PC decepcionou e muito...
  
  Estava super ansioso pra jogar Saints Row, mas me decepcionei.
  Jogabilidade fraca, som de baixa 
 qualidade, totalmente sem noo, as vezes penso por que uma produtora libera uma verso destas 
 para PC...
  
   isso aew...
  
  O jogo no merece ateno 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Computerbits
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 9:20 am PT
Review:  Tried the game for a couple of hours and the intro looked promising as the graphics arent quite 
 GTA quality but yet the game is more easily driven and doesnt require a ton of vram, gpu power 
 etc.
  
  That said when i first moved around in the prison i was confused, the movement and handling are 
 totally uncontrollable.
  
  The whole game look and feel "plastic"-ish like all the ambition was there but the skills when 
 it came to the crafting wasnt.
  
  Cars are even worse to handle than being on foot, they have some weird super acceleration feature 
 and the sticky cam makes it impossible to avoid crashing into everything when turning.
  
  Theres no realism in the handling part at all, and a small part that really made me mad was if 
 u attack a ped and the ped starts to run, you cant knock'em down, because when u catch up with 
 the ped and press lmb to hit, your char stops and then makes the attack while the ped gets away. 
 :sighs:
  
  A few features i like is that you can smash the parkometers, phones etc and collect the cash from 
 it, not that its too usefull but its a nice little detail.
  
  So the game seems to be holding a lot of other nice details that one would miss in GTA, but as 
 the game is being rather unplayable due to the massive flaws in the handling and physics engine, 
 its all worthless.
  
  Too bad as the game imo got a lot of potential, but the project seems to be like if you took the 
 best architects in the world to sketch up a building and afterwards had the architects due the 
 actual construction rather than hiring a team of real crafters to do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrikerX1992
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2009 8:56 am PT
Review:  As i said in my main statement "A game that had great potential ruined by performance issues" & 
 yes everyone here will agree with that.
  
  Putting performance issues aside for a sec its a very fun game, i played it for 20hours+ & it was 
 really fun apart from when driving a car in densely populated places OR when driving a fast car 
 & making turns.
  
  Sound tracks are pretty sweet too. Radio is i wont say better than GTA IV but it was still good.
 
  
  Graphics hmmm what can i say if i compare it with GTA IV it just suxx, with those performance issues 
 my fps at full low settings were the same as they were on high settings.
  Reso on low setting=1024*768
  Reso on high setting=1280*1024
  My PC Specs
  AMD 64 x2 5200+
 
  2GB RAM
  XFX 9600GT
  
  as u can see these specs are around about the recommended specs given by Volition.
  
  
  This 
 game had great potential & still has, if volition can get it all together with some patches.
  
  In Short a bad port from consoles to PC yet again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 brings back most of what the previous game had to offer, and thanks to the addition 
 of tons of new unlockable and customizable content it is clearly the better game. However, the 
 PC port of the game seems to suffer largely from crippling video limitations that can actually 
 adversely affect frames and ultimately enjoyment. While this version is not as good as its console 
 counterparts it can still be recommended to those who do not own a major console that supports 
 it.
  
  Gameplay in the game is actually identical to its predecessor in that the whole theme is gang-based 
 which includes drug-running, shootouts, car chases, etc. The storyline picks up about two years 
 after the first game which ended with the supposed death of the player's character. He had been 
 in a coma in a prison and the story begins with him suddenly waking up with the intention to escape 
 with another inmate. The beginning contains an optional tutorial route through the prison for neophyte 
 gang wannabes or a straight-shot route for veterans. After you and your partner officially escape 
 the prison is where the game begins. The story is basically all about the 3rd Street Saints making 
 a comeback in the city, and you soon become the default head of their resurrection. The story is 
 engrossing, and bits of appropriately-placed humor can be found throughout it. The gameplay itself 
 involves mostly driving, shooting weapons, evading police, evading rival gangs, and performing 
 various activities around the city. The driving aspect functions well even without a gamepad, and 
 some cool new tricks can be used in all vehicles that are actually brand new to the whole genre. 
 Once you acquire a vehicle you can press a button to apply the brakes but then you can hit the 
 accelerate button to perform a burnout. After a few seconds release the brakes and you get a nice 
 boost. Another extremely useful mechanic the game provides for driving would be cruise control. 
 Now this might seem like a no-brainer for drive-n-shoot games, but I have never seen it implemented. 
 In Saints Row 2 you press C to enable cruise control and you can accelerate, decelerate, and even 
 fishtail around corners with cruise control active. This mechanic makes shooting while driving 
 much easier, though if you are being chased you still have to swerve the camera all the way around 
 so it is facing backward. Regardless, the mechanic is sound and it makes chases much easier. This 
 time around Saints Row 2 features many more weapons than its previous game, some being standard 
 and some being special. The selection includes pistols of different variations, some handheld machine 
 pistols, assault rifles, thrown weapons, and special weapons like RPGs and flamethrowers. The two 
 smaller types of firearms can be dual-wielded for double the fun in firefights. The weapons feel 
 that they are accurate representations of their real counterparts because the damage they inflict 
 is realistic. A single pistol shot to the head will kill someone and a shotgun blast a few feet 
 away causes tremendous cone damage. Aside from just using guns all the time the game allows a more 
 physical approach to killing people. And it is melee, which in the game involves a simple block, 
 and upon using a chain of buttons you can execute a grapple attack. Another method is grabbing 
 someone and using them as your human shield, and this mechanic is especially satisfying because 
 you can either execute them quickly or literally throw them. You are even able to pick up items 
 around the world like cinderblocks and trashcans and use them as melee as well. All in all both 
 melee and gun combat is fun and exciting, though there is no cover mechanic. Fortunately the game 
 is not too awful hard most of the time but once in a while there will be more difficult obstacles 
 to overcome. This game on PC is actually a better alternative than Grand Theft Auto IV because 
 this game has so many things to do from its activities to a ridiculous amount of customizable content. 
 The beginning of the game allows you to create your very own custom gangster, and the developers 
 have left no stone unturned with the available options. Like the previous Saints Row you can choose 
 from several different nationalities and go from there with body type, hair, facial hair, body 
 size, etc. And the second one actually takes it a step further by allowing you to adjust your character's 
 personality and even voice. The great thing about creating a character in Saints Row 2 is that 
 you can tweak him or her whenever you please thanks to the handful of plastic surgery joints around 
 the city. These places basically return you to the complete character creation screen seen from 
 the very beginning, and you can do whatever you wish with the character. Though it costs $500 just 
 to access the screen it is worth it if you want to make extreme alterations. And naturally along 
 with creating of a character you can clothe him, put on hats, jewelry, etc. Aside from just customizing 
 the character you can even customize your gang; a certain place in the game allows you to give 
 your "homies" their own look, taunts, and you can even choose what kind of cars you want your people 
 to drive around in. I mentioned the game is better than Grand Theft Auto IV and the real reason 
 is not only the amount of customization, but it is really all the extra things you can do and unlock. 
 The game offers several activities which include snatch, destruction derby, pit fighting, drug 
 running, helicopter assault, insurance fraud, and some others as well. These activities allow you 
 to earn money and respect, and if you do well enough in a given activity then you may unlock something 
 special. The respect thing is very important because the more respected you are in the gang community 
 the more missions you are able to attempt. Earning respect comes through how you dress, your success 
 in activities, the slaying of enemy gang members, and even how you drive. A purple gauge on your 
 HUD measures how much respect you have, and if you fill it up you get a "x1" which means you are 
 able to accept a single missions. Thankfully the respect builds on top of each other and it is 
 possible to earn tons of respect which is equivalent to several missions. And fortunately you cannot 
 lose respect. Saints Row 2's gameplay is golden because of the entertaining story and exciting 
 gameplay, though I have noticed little things here and there that someone caught from Grand Theft 
 Auto. And this occurs when a car flips on its top and then it ultimately explodes, but one thing 
 that was clearly lifted from Grand Theft Auto IV is the appearance of "TW@", which I saw on the 
 side of a semi truck trailer.
  
  The term caveat emptor means "let the buyer beware", but I am going to add the line "to those who 
 own high-end computer systems" because in graphics lies the game's biggest problem. The crippling 
 problem would be the strict limitation of the game's frames, which is only around thirty, and the 
 graphical options must be set just right so the game does not try to pull off better visuals at 
 the expense of frames. My computer is a high-end system and when I tried to maximize all of the 
 game's graphics it chugged horribly in both cut scenes and gameplay. And may I add they were so 
 bad that the game was nearly rendered unplayable by just about anyone's standards. So needless 
 to say I was forced to toggle off/down many of the display options in order to find a "happy medium" 
 in which I could both play the game and find the display setup acceptable. I did find that "happy 
 medium" but I was disappointed and a little shocked that there was this pathetic display conflict. 
 So when I said caveat emptor I was trying to get the attention of high-end PC owners because it 
 does not matter what kind of machine they have because the game will not run unless on certain 
 settings. And even after attaining this "happy medium" I realized there were still performance 
 issues most often occurring with the frames and some distance rendering. This frames issue is a 
 huge negative for an otherwise well-designed game in terms of display, and hopefully the developer 
 will be coming out with a patch or something to address this. The frame rate aside the rest of 
 the game looks great for the most part; cut scenes are probably the best element because they are 
 sharp, clear, and they look like they should. The city of Stilwater actually looks very similar 
 to the previous city, but it actually is considerably larger than the first one. The city is not 
 as visually impressive as a Liberty City, though there are plenty of things to see and many places 
 to drive. There are hundreds of locations that are hidden when the game first begins, but you can 
 uncover them when you go near them. The city is large and teeming with life such as cars and pedestrians, 
 and you might even run across a barbershop quartet. Despite the sometimes horrible frame rate the 
 game does come through often with very nice graphics. Weapon animations are very well done, and 
 even with a new zoom feature active. Heat and muzzle flashes will often radiate very fluidly from 
 your gun during even in hectic situations. And other things such as fire and explosions are rendered 
 well as well, looking as they would on higher display settings or even on a console. Just know 
 that while these periods the game is likely to chug because they are more taxing than for just 
 a joyride. The game features a good many NPC models including gang members, hobos, police officers, 
 punks, prostitutes, pimps, etc. The wide variety of the models are recycled but there are so many 
 of them one would hardly notice. The only time you will notice any recycled models will be with 
 gang members who tend to dress and look the same from time to time. The nice thing about this game 
 is the freedom to do really whatever you please with your character fashion-wise, and that entails 
 you even being able to streak butt-naked. Car models also look fairly well, but thanks to the display 
 problems they sometimes look ugly. Damage effects look nice as dents and bullet holes are rendered 
 upon them, and other effects like flat tires sparks also appear. Ultimately graphics are bitter-sweet 
 because they could have been amazing, probably surpassing their console counterparts, but this 
 tale does not end well. The game as a whole suffers immensely from this very painful frame limitation 
 and hopefully the developer does something about it very soon. Though, if you are not particularly 
 particular about a game running as smooth as butter all the time this game can be recommended.
 
  
  Sound is great in this port. Voice work stands out here because the voice actors do an admirable 
 job of sounding menacing and convincing. While there is the constant aura of "attitude" there it 
 never seems to be gratuitous even in the expletive, and this is good because who wants to hear 
 constant swearing? The attitude it enough, however, to convey a rich and believable world which 
 is permeated by gangs that each have separate (and often opposing) goals. Like the original Saints 
 Row this one has a wide collection of tunes that can be either heard on the public radio or on 
 your personal radio featuring bought tunes from in-game music stores. The music range is enormous 
 and this caters to just about anyone's taste, and it includes classical, funk, electronic, rock, 
 etc. And after you buy tunes you can add them to your custom sound track and you can listen to 
 them on the radio. And furthermore there are fifty hidden CDs around Stilwater that, when picked 
 up, are unlocked and can be listened to. So needless to say there is plenty of music in this game. 
 Guns sounds are some of the best sounds in the game because they are very realistic. In a game 
 like this great gun sounds make it because you will be doing plenty of shooting, and nothing beats 
 the sound of your character firing off an RPG. Overall sound in Saints Row 2 is wonderful.
  
  Saints Row 2 can be a great and enjoyable game if you allow it to be. If you are able to look 
 past the terrible frame limit and likely graphical issues then you will be able to get a lot out 
 of this game. The action is fun and exciting and the story is interesting and actually the game 
 can be very humorous at times. And if you are on the fence about Saints Row 2 or Grand Theft Auto 
 IV for the PC, definitely get Saints Row 2 because you will get much more for your money and not 
 at the expense of high system requirements. And to add to Saints Row 2's appeal would be its automatic 
 installation to Steam, which will allow you to play it without the CD. So ultimately Saints Row 
 2 is a great game despite its glaring issues, and I can safely recommend it to those who do not 
 own a major console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Dmajid2008
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:37 pm PT
Review:  i want to preach THQ company :
  - please make this game nicer than this version in next decade !! - please take help of RockStar 
 company programing and make a good AI for you'r game. (make a good ... we don't expect that make 
 a great AI)
  - please don't think that you can break GTA IV or RockStar.
  - please make a better engine for make this game in next version ... you'r game work slowly in 
 2GB ram and 8400GS and CPU 3.0 when have a bad graphic and textures.
  - please learn to you'r 3D modeler that how they can to make a real and good modeling cars in a 
 city ! and also learn to you'r textures makers that how can to make a good textures for 3D models.
 
  - please told you'r game mission designers that make missions hard and attractive in next version.
 
  and other ...
  
  Leave it ...
  
  I only enjoy this game when make you'r player character and go to city for fun and in some of movies 
 actions ... i think that 7 is a good score for this game.
  notice that i never say to you that this game is very bad but i know that THQ can to make it better. 
 I play this game and love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuriousBR
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 13, 2009 2:59 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately I expected more of that game, expected a MINIMUM OF QUALITY, but was not that that 
 happened. The game in itself has good ideas, has personalized satisfactory the personage, and some 
 different things as home, does not go very beyond that, drive a car is HORRIBLE, and including 
 I found similar to another game of the publisher (THQ) , the Juiced 2, the cars saw the a lot curve 
 easily, like itself had not some weight, you ally in speak in that, to the Another car looks barely 
 cardboard flying, beyond the half speed lost control. The difficulty of the game is so drops that 
 I leave for the city killing, and driving a car, stealing the car of the polices in the environment 
 I shoot it to you and killing gangsters of the streets. Oh yes, the history? hehe, a lot tuxedo. 
 
  
  As itself did not be enough to, the game is full of bugs grave of polygons upon hitting cars, and 
 others kinds, beyond do not have resolutions widescreen 16:10 as 1280x800, 1440x900 (is possible 
 obtain for a publisher in the internet) and other, the game is super dull-witted independent of 
 resolution and even in the low the FPS are presented well short, running in a car then neither 
 is spoken, that everything being Considerable that rolls crysis well graphic in the high one, and 
 of the for play with FPS acceptable (18~30fps) the GTA IV in the medium and resolution 1440x900. 
 
  
  PC: -Intel C2D e4300 1.8ghz 
  -3gb ram
  -ECS 9800gt 512mb 
  -Windows Vista Ultimate- SP1 (64bits)
  
  I understand that my processor already is old, but 
 wait, I running Crysis better that that trash, I running The Witcher, Gears of War, GRID, Devil 
 May Cry 4 tranquillity. 
  
  And still some they say that that franchise arrives to compare with GTA... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 11:04 am PT
Review:  Ill put it like this, the first thing that needs to be addressed is how the game runs... i have 
 a VERY good system, i play crysis and mass effect flawlessly on highest settings... this game i 
 cant even run it on highest... very disappointing... i run it on medium and still see lag every 
 so often but its still very playable. "DualCore 4GRam user"
  The only real flaws in this game compared to GTA4... is that its not as easy to get ahold of ammo, 
 the sound quality isnt as good, you cant play the pool table as far as i know, and its very hard 
 to drive and shoot... they didnt do a GREAT job at giving the character a background other then 
 he/she was the previous saints leader... if you play as a female shes kind of comes off like shes 
 into women they should have made her seem bi instead of lesbian... but aside that this game is 
 really quite good...
  
  The things it has better then GTA4 is the handling on vehicles is MUCH easier!! The manual target 
 on guns feels perfect!! Much better customization properties which i personally love in games!! 
 Pretty good voice acting not GREAT but good, people show you more respect then in gta4, you can 
 run around nude if you want, cut scenes are FAR  Guns are cooler, 
 unlike in gta4 it feels like every weapon is special.. i haven't gotten attached to a single weapon 
 cause there all good, probably because the ammo is well distributed... Also i loved how badass 
 they made Gat and the Saints leader!
  
  Things i would change in saints row are... well for female characters they should let us mess around 
 with the breast size.. hell if i want to be a slut i should be damn well able to be one! lol no 
 jk not a big deal... i would however add more feel to the game other then the missions, the activities 
 just didnt feel cool enough to keep doing them... other then fight club that was the only one that 
 i really liked... sorry = [
  
  
  (Conclusion)
  If they make a Saints Row 3, im confident enough i would go out and buy it again without even needing 
 to see a preview... so yeah its a good game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlieprince
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 3:01 am PT
Review:  In the world of saints row, you cruise around shooting everyone, and it has a considerably good 
 plot. Now in SR2, you cruise around, shoot everyone, and you get cribs that you can buy, and upgrade 
 custom clothes, more custom character features than little big planet, CHAINSAW (wich gtaIV left 
 out....) and more cars each with their unique customization, but sr1s story had more realistic 
 gangs (i'd rather have kings over ronin) and it's story was better than sr2 *SPOILERS* carlos dieing 
 is the only dramatic part, apart from killing julius *no more SPOILERS* i honestly liked this game 
 on the 360 most because its controlls are good (besides for car breaking.... wtf) and it looks 
 AWESOME in hd. overall:
  
  SR1: (wich was made in 06)
  graphics: (10/10)
  story: (9.5/10)
  gameplay (11/10)
  customization: (10/10)
  OVERALL: 9
  and sr2:
  graphics: 
 (10/10)
  story: (9/10)
  gameplay: (9.8/10)
  customization: (11/10)
  OVERALL (with elements from game boosting it) 
  9.5
  
  thanks for reading, i thought this 
 game would be a 10... but because of the breaking and lack of cover besides for hostages, this 
 game got -.5 off of a perfect 10. which is actually pretty good because gtaIV's controls and lack 
 of chainsaw got a 8.5 from me. cya in my next review! (wich will be mass effect 2 or ... what games 
 are coming out for 09? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cc3d
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 9, 2009 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I was sucked in by the hype. I admit, I love GTA IV and this is NO GTA IV. Game looks like something 
 from around 2003 period. Amazingly, when you crank graphics all the way up, game runs like crap 
 and still looks worse! Environment is dull, cars are just crap and no fun to drive. Fighting is 
 as lame as anything else. Controls are uncomfortable and just plain stupid. Doesn't support XBOX 
 360 controller on PC like other games do and setting up this controller ends up requiring you to 
 use a goofy keyboard / controller combination that still doesn't work well. Using only keyboard 
 / mouse combo is goofy as well. When going through the game menus you have to use CTRL and SHIFT 
 to go left and right instead of using the arrow keys (which won't work) . Just friggin lame!
  
  What a waste of $40
  
  graphics 1/5
  animation 1/5
  audio 2/5
  fun factor 0/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Lykouleon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 5:45 am PT
Review:  The term GTA clone is so common these days, but it tends to lose its meaning. A much better reviewer 
 than I once said you wouldn't call Halo a Doom clone.
  
  Saints Row 2 is the fun counterpart to GTA IV. Where as GTA is staggeringly realistic and almost 
 painful, in the sense that everything is so restrictive, SR2 is about options.
  
  I created a gay British tough guy with a pink and blue spiked haircut, fruity dinner coat attire, 
 and spent the first hour of the game beating people with my bare fists, because it was fun. I took 
 a swing at a prostitute and she maced me, making the screen go fuzzy. It was about this time I 
 pulled out a firearm and wanged her one good over the head, crushing her limited brain into her 
 throat.
  
  Saints Row 2 tells a better story than GTA because, presumably, you played the first one. I did 
 not, but I read the Wikipedia summary of the story, and so, I felt suitably invested in my avatar. 
 Whereas we're supposed to start loving Niko Bellic unconditionally, you tend to have a more vested 
 interest in a character you've already used, and you've customized yourself. The most I could ever 
 do with Niko was give him a suit. The missions in GTA tend to be realistic, but it felt like a 
 chore to me. I was never really having fun, I was simply doing things to unlock more things. Saints 
 Row is more interesting, and its got funnier moments.
  
  Saints Row 2 is not without its flaws. The game struggles even on medium settings on a high end 
 rig, and will need a patch. The shooting can seem a bit too loose at times without a lock on, and 
 I would have preferred having the bumpers control acceleration and reversing as opposed to the 
 A and X buttons on my wired 360 controller for the PC, but we have to live with it. 
  
  The game is almost unplayable with a mouse a keyboard, just a warning.
  
  But in the end, a 
 game boils down to one question. Is it fun?
  
  And yes, it is.
  
  I can heartily endorse Saints Row 2 for a purchase, without any mixed feelings about it. GTA failed 
 to live up to the hype, and perhaps because nobody expected much from Saints Row, it exceeds all 
 expectations.
  
  Try it, love it, enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigblunt537
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 7, 2009 1:52 am PT
Review:  Being a Saints Row 1 fan I was extremely excited for the second part of the game, but this year 
 when they announced a part 2 for PC as well I decided to skip the consoles version and get the 
 superior PC version. Huge mistake! I will explain why in all major categories.
  
  Port Quality: Horrendous is one way you can describe it. The menus don't offer any mouse support 
 at all. Display categories completely leave out 16:10 and 16:9. Drastic frame rate drops (Specs 
 at the bottom) make GTA4 look like a very well polished port. Overall this game should not have 
 been released in it's current condition or maybe a different team actually capable of porting a 
 game to PC should've had the job. Overall I am extremely disappointed in the overall quality of 
 this port. 
  I'd give the port quality a 5 at best due to the fact that it can be played on older systems despite 
 looking very ps2'ish or even worst.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 
  These graphics would be "decent", but the two graphic options that make the game look "decent" 
 make the game completely unplayable. Dynamic Lighting and Ambient Occlusion make this game look 
 "decent" at best. With those two options on, my solid 30 fps (it's capped at 30 even without v-sync 
 on) drops to an abysmal 5-15fps. With those 2 options off it makes the game look equivalent to 
 Grand Theft Auto San Andreas. The vehicles graphics are decent, but the player models took a nose 
 dive from the first game. I bought this game thinking there would be some sort of visual improvement 
 over the first Saints Row and I was REALLY disappointed. The character models look very dull and 
 the city is completely dead. People are either walking or standing still waiting to be ran over. 
 The physics which I loved in the first game are completely changed with the exception of your own 
 player model. When you ram into cars they go flying 40-50 feet in the air. The car handling is 
 completely changed and despite being very enjoyable in the first Saints Row the driving in this 
 game feels very similar to True Crime Streets of L. A., which even that game was a bit better when 
 it came to car handling. Overall the graphics/physics quality I'd give a 5.
  
  Sounds: Sound was done pretty decently and has some good tracks on the radio and many stations 
 to choose from. The pedestrians/cops say stupid things, but that adds to the like ability factor 
 of this game which it actually did better in the first Saints Row. The Sound gets a solid 7.
  
  Gameplay: The golden question lies here with the main question everyone wants to ask. Well 
 hows the gameplay? The gameplay is the best part this game has to offer. The combat system was 
 done very well from the shooting to the melee. Doing drive-bys is extremely easy and quite enjoyable. 
 The gunplay (mouse and xbox controller) is great and you actually enjoy shooting people and the 
 sensitivity is almost too perfect. There are a few problems which need to be addressed. Shooting 
 through windshields/windows does absolutely nothing to the driver or the passenger, which defeats 
 the purpose of shooting through the windows in the first place. The game also offers many different 
 activities to keep you busy throughout the story. Also without Protect the Pimp (online mode from 
 part 1) the game just doesn't have that online addiction factor Saints Row uno gave me. Overall 
 I'd give gameplay a solid 8.
  
  Replayability: With a solid online mode and with a pretty big city with many things you can do, 
 this game offers many reasons to come back to it if you can get over many of its technical problems. 
 
  
  Closing words: Many of us were hoping for a game which offers us the fun which GTA left out. Many 
 of us hardcore gamers wont experience that unfortunately, but If you do find a way to get pass 
 the technical glitches and the mediocre graphics, AI, and physics there can be an enjoyable experience 
 to be had here. My opinion do yourself a favor and save your money or go buy GTA4. Although GTA4 
 isn't as fun as GTA: SA and doesn't offer as many fun activities as Saints Row, it's less taxing 
 on the system, offers visuals about 20 times better and offers a good story if you get pass the 
 few stages of absolute boredom towards the middle of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddman19
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Running a alienware Dual core with 2gb video memory and sli, game installs fine, But still lacks 
 the smoothness to run on a dual core, Secondly the No sensitivity settings for the overly twitchy 
 vehicles, Along with the fact that there is no crossing between 1st and 3rd person. although 3rd 
 person is highly playable within a mission and while aiming a weapon. so thats a plus.
  
  Yes there was shown a great deal of detail to the world, the characters, and many different games 
 types and missions in the game. but if doesn't run smooth it still sucks trying to play it.
  
  Several issuse with Non xbox 360 controllers for this game. like uncontrolable scrolling and 
 No reconition of controller.
  
  also the Seletion circle of weapons and health items is over sensitive, makeing it very difficult 
 to select items.
  
  Other than these few minor complications at the moment Saints Row did a hole lot better at pleaseing 
 the gamer with haveing a more finished product for sale. THX THQ, but like most other games waiting 
 on the 1st patch. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
