-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sam & Max Episode 101: Culture Shock
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/sammaxep1/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Really funny dialogue.
 great, expressive characters and graphics.
 fantastic music and voice work.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Limited inventory makes puzzle-solving pretty easy.
 short and easy enough that you might not want to replay it.
 Car Bomb is not included.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 8.1, 47 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 488 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GameTap
Developer: Telltale Games
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 18, 2006

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sam and Max return to the PC scene with the same great sense of humor and solid production values, 
 but some may be turned off by the game's episodic nature. 

  One of the many gems of the big LucasArts PC adventure game boom was 1993's Sam &amp; Max Hit the 
 Road, a hilarious adventure about a couple of private-eye types who travel the country to solve 
 a mystery, hitting up carnival freak shows and other roadside curiosities on their quest for truth. 
 Sam (a dog) and Max (a hyperkinetic rabbity thing) got their start in comic book form, and that 
 dark humor carried over nicely into video game form. The adventure game was quite well received, 
 and the characters went on to star in a cartoon years later. But the sequel to the game never materialized. 
 LucasArts announced a planned return back in 2002, but in 2004, that game was canceled. But now, 
 Telltale Games has picked up the Sam &amp; Max torch, and the company plans to release individual 
 episodes of a new Sam &amp; Max adventure game over the next several months. The first of these 
 episodes, Culture Shock, is now available, and if you've been looking for a good, funny game, you 
 should definitely check this out.  

          When Sam and Max hit the road, you can take your car over jumps or shoot at cars just for 
 kicks, all with the click of a mouse.     

  As an adventure game, Sam &amp; Max is all about solving puzzles, and the game begins with the 
 most diabolical puzzle of all: Sam and Max's telephone has disappeared, and you're going to have 
 to find it if you're going to take a case. The control in the game is really streamlined and makes 
 interacting with objects easy. Things you can interact with -- anything from a person to speak with 
 to a TV to watch -- light up with their name as soon as you run the mouse over them. Clicking on 
 the object or person lets you interact with that object in the most natural way. So you'll speak 
 to a person, watch a TV, turn on a light, and so on. At the bottom of the screen is a cardboard 
 box that represents your inventory. If you want to make two objects interact, first you click on 
 the object in your inventory, and then you click on the item to use with that object. One of the 
 items you get right off the bat is a big revolver, which lets you attempt to shoot anything you 
 want. None of the puzzles are particularly difficult, and even if you stop to hear everything all 
 the characters have to say, you should probably be finished in a couple of hours.  

  So the interaction is nice and smooth, but really, an adventure game is only as good as its storyline. 
 In Culture Shock, two freelance police are out looking at a trio of '70s child stars called the 
 Soda Poppers. For some reason, they've all become mindless drones who can't stop spreading the 
 word about Brady Culture, a failed '70s child star who is now marketing eye exercise tapes called 
 Eye-Bo. Surely there can't be some sort of devious link between viewing the tape and hypnotizing 
 the Soda Poppers, can there? The good news is that even though this Sam &amp; Max series comes 
 out in episodic chunks, each episode (well, the first episode at least) wraps up quite nicely at 
 the end, giving you an episode in the purest sense -- as if it were an episode of Scooby-Doo with 
 a more intelligible dog and much smarter dialogue. Without giving too much away, let's just say 
 that the story is compelling and fun to follow.  

  Conveying humor in games is tough, but the original Sam &amp; Max game did a fantastic job and 
 is probably still among the funniest games ever released. Although that's a hard act to follow, 
 Culture Shock has plenty of fantastic lines in it. The characters set each other up very well, 
 and the punch lines are usually great. However, timing is a huge part of comedy, and occasionally 
 the characters' lines will bunch together or slightly overlap. It's a technical glitch that steps 
 on a joke or two, but that's the exception and not the rule. The sequence where Sam must overcome 
 the hypnotic programming in his own brain and the final confrontation are two pretty funny standouts, 
 but the game is so packed that you'll find yourself needlessly clicking on every single dialogue 
 option and every single item just to see what Sam or Max will have to say about it.  

          If you loved their last PC adventure, chances are you'll enjoy Culture Shock as well.  
    

  It also helps that the game is really easy on the eyes. The fully polygonal game matches the style 
 and detail of the comic books quite nicely, and the characters are really well animated. The voices, 
 while not done by the people that voiced the heroes in the LucasArts adventure game, are styled 
 in a similar way and fit the characters just fine. And the music is also a great fit, mostly consisting 
 of jazz music that complements the game's private-investigator motif.  

  Culture Shock is great, but it also feels like it ends just as it really gets going. The game, 
 and all the later episodes, will debut on Turner's GameTap service for no additional fee. They'll 
 also be made available individually for $8.95, not long after their GameTap debut, and also as 
 a "Season 1" package that includes all of the episodes as they're released for $34.95, with an 
 option to get the whole season sent to you on a disc for a small additional fee once they're all 
 out. Subscribing to a service with a monthly fee seems like a bit much to go through to play this 
 game, but Episode 1's few hours of gameplay are worth the nine bucks if you're wary about jumping 
 into an adventure game series. And, if the quality of the humor and gameplay stays at or above 
 this level throughout the whole season, the $34.95 rate for the full season sounds like a good 
 deal too.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (34 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PlasmaBeam44
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Sam & Max Episode 1: Culture Shock is the first episode of 6 that takes PC gaming back to it's 
 roots. This is a simple point and click adventure game that plays just like they used too back 
 in the early 90's and even before that. There's no health bar or boss fights like most games of 
 today. You solve puzzles by talking to people and getting clues or using items to get the job done. 
 It's a great and rewarding gameplay experience that, while short, does what it sets out to do and 
 ends up being a memorable experience.
  
  In Sam & Max you play as Sam. He's a humanoid dog creature that just happens to be a freelance 
 police officer who takes on cases for the money. With his on his adventures is his humanoid rabbit 
 sidekick who offers up some really strange dialog. The game opens up with your phone ringing and 
 it turns out the office rat has stolen it and he demands some swiss cheese for the phone. You don't 
 have swiss cheese but you do have a closet full of regular cheese and gun. Well you get the picture. 
 This is how the game plays. You get items and you use those items to get through the story.
  
  There is also a lot of talking in this game. Everyone you see you can talk to and you pick 
 from a list of things to say to them. You'll have to do this to get more information out of people 
 that give you clues as to what you need to do next. Thankfully the game sounds wonderful with a 
 great soundtrack and some suburb voice talent.
  
  Length wise the game is pretty short. The bulk of the game is talking to people and solving the 
 puzzles. If you know what to do and skip all the dialog you can get through the game in about 30 
 minutes to an hour. But you won't know exactly what to do your first time through and you'll need 
 to talk to people since that's were all the fun is. So your first time through will take you 4 
 to 5 hours. But thankfully this is episodic. So once your done with this game you can move on the 
 next and continue the story.
  
  It's a great adventure game that anyone should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryaz_weaponx
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  Story  Sam and Max was a popular old school comic book series, game & animated T. V show of the 
 early 90's. The story revolved around two freelance police namely Sam (a dog) and Max (a rabbit) 
 and their hilarious adventures of crime solving. In 2005 Telltale games decided to pickup the mantle 
 and start off with new adventures of Sam & Max. The game is released as six short episodic features, 
 each episode being released one after another in the following months. Out of which, the first 
 episode is "Culture Shock". In Culture Shock, you take on the role of Sam (a dog) and Max (a rabbit) , 
 two freelance police, who are looking into the case of popular 70's child stars "The Soda Poppers". 
 For some reason, they've all become mindless drones who can't stop spreading the word about Brady 
 Culture, a failed 70's child star who is now marketing eye exercise tapes called Eye-Bo. Mysteriously, 
 people who watch the tapes start to behave in the same manner as the Soda Poppers. So it is up 
 to the crime fighting duo to find out the mystery behind all the mishaps.
  
  Sound  Sam & Max are just hilarious. The situations and dialogues will keep you giggling and smiling 
 throughout this fun filled adventure. Voice acting's are just brilliantly done whereas the background 
 score, consisting mostly of Jazz is soothing and feels like a feather on the ear.
  
  Graphics  The game looks and feels like eye candy. The 3D designs match mostly every aspect of 
 the Sam & Max comic books. Well designed characters and locations make even simple graphic styles 
 look beautiful.
  
  Gameplay  The game play is quite interactive. The simple point and click method used in the game 
 makes interactivity easy and fun. Culture Shock, features fun elements of puzzle solving, which 
 makes listening to dialogues quite essential. You have a gun, boxing glove, car, and a lot of accessories 
 to get the dirty job done. All in all the game is relatively quite easy if you know how to interact 
 with objects well. The disappointing aspect of the game is its short gameplay, you keep craving 
 for more towards the end but unfortunately you would have to wait for the next episode. The game 
 ends pretty well giving you a little hint of the next episode. Culture Shock is really worth a 
 play and with a really low tag price it is worth a buy.
  
  Thumbs Up  Lovely Graphics, Hilarious, Fun filled Game play
  
  Thumbs Down  Only 4-5 hours 
 of game play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjadxt
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  Sam and Max: season 1-part 1
  Sam and Max is funny adventure of two detectives, rabbit and a dog. The story is about raging of 
 three television stars, which are shining under windows the office of Sam and Max. From unknown 
 reason, this group advertise next star- Brady Culture. Brady Culture works on tv programme about 
 eye exercise, and this exercise have to control all people and then Sam and Max must to street.
 
  
  Game is very, very funny with lots of gag and other jokes. Things you investigate via mouse, but 
 interactive thing find only a few times. The game is very short, because it was cut on episodes 
 (six episodes) . Beyond jokes is graphics good, too, which is in 3D style. Good is jazz music and 
 dabbing.
  
  The good/bad
  Good:1. American jokes and gags
  2. graphics, volumes (+dabing) and music
  3. low hardware requirements
  4. episode
  
  Bad-1. short 
 (1 episode) and easy
  2. episode
  
  This funny game for you can be good, a really recommended to you all six episodes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  Back in 1993, LucasArts released a game involving a dog and rabbit crime solving duo. With its 
 humour and story, the game was a hit, so imagine fan's delight when LucasArts announced in 2002 
 that they were releasing a new Sam and Max adventure, this time in 3D. Then imagine the disappointment 
 when LucasArts cancelled the title. In fact, you don't need to imagine it - there was a petition 
 put online that over 32,000 people signed. Luckily Telltale acquired the license and is now bringing 
 out Sam and Max games in an episodic format.
  
  The story is that three '70s former child stars called the Soda Poppers seem to have gone into 
 some kind of trance and now worship another former child star, Brady Culture, who has released 
 a video on eye exercising tapes called Eye-Bo. The Soda Poppers love Brady Culture so much that 
 they have taken to spray painting his face on walls and sneaking his videos into the local store. 
 It is now up to Sam and Max to figure out what is going on and what Brady Culture is up to...
 
  
  The interface is fairly simply. You click to where you want Sam and Max to move to and you can 
 interact with someone or something by clicking it. Your inventory is displayed in a cardboard box 
 at the bottom left hand side of the screen. The inventory is fairly simple however, as you cannot 
 mix items together and there is only a limited amount of objects you can have in it. This makes 
 solving the puzzles in the game slightly easier, but this could either be a good or bad thing, 
 depending on how challenging you like your adventure games.
  
  There are some hilarious moments in Culture Shock that are really well written, but are given a 
 boost by the excellent voice acting from all the cast. The Soda Popper's voices are really funny 
 and you will be laughing at lines they say which weren't even meant to be jokes. The only downside 
 to the voices is that it isn't great quality and it is a bit rough round the edges at times.
  
  Graphically the game isn't the most detailed possible, but it fits the style of the comic book 
 roots Sam and Max came from. The animations on the characters are done well as all of it is smooth 
 with no jumps from one action to another. There is also a jazz soundtrack which fits well to the 
 detective side of the dog and rabbit.
  
  Sam and Max Episode 1: Culture Shock is an excellent introduction for what's to come and although 
 the ending wraps up nicely, will have you screaming for more. The game is the first of six downloadable 
 games; however people may not like having to download games, so luckily all six episodes that make 
 up Season 1 are now available on disc. Culture Shock is a great game and is really good value for 
 money so you should really play this game long-time Sam and Max fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  About time, i lived throught the 80's and 90's being a huge fan of adventure games i really missed 
 them, Sam &amp; Max, Monkey Island, Larry and much more,
  im tired of FPS and Oblivions etc .... gimme back my Adventure games!
  
  SAM &amp; MAX at last 
 are back!
  
  i find the Episodic choice to be awesome similar to tv series and as such you are expecting to 
 play the next one, obviously it comes at a cost for each package but it's very well worth it.
 
  
  you get the fantastic humor, the adventure and really great character animations and voices/music.
 
  
  yes i'm 30 years old but i love these games, it's not childish by any means, it's pure fun.
  
 
  please buy it.
  
  enjoy!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Has anyone ever played Sam and Max hit the road? its an older PC game that was a point and click 
 adventure featuring A over sized dog named Sam and a crazy little Rabbit named Max together they 
 are Sam and Max freelance police! and they defeat various criminals and try to solve the case. 
 then they were going to make another game named Sam and Max freelance Police but it was canned 
 why why did i ask!! then something happened. Gametap and Telltale games made Sam and Max reappear 
 for a Gametap original Sam and Max Culture Shock.
  
  This is the first of six games of the first Chapter of Sam and Max. In this one they meet a crazy 
 former child star Brady Culture who wants to take over the world. This is where our heroes come 
 in. They feature many new faces on there journey like some other former child stars the Soda Poppers, 
 Bosco who owns and Inconvenience store and Sybil who changes her career a lot!. This game features 
 all new 3-D graphics, Funny jokes and Conversations, and a storyline that is so funny you want 
 to find out what happens next. Thank God for Gametap other wise i think we would have never seen 
 another Sam and Max game!
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: Very cleaver gameplay that makes you really think and look at everything you have in 
 front
  Graphics: all new 3-D graphics makes Sam and Max look great but could have looked even better with 
 todays technology
  Sound: Funny funny your guaranteed to laugh at least once plus some good music!
  Value: If you 
 have gametap its free but if you don't you can download for about 9 bucks. pretty good but the 
 game is really short
  Overall: I love this game and its only game one of series of Telltale games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mandosu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Sam and max is inspired from the 1987 comic by Steve Purcell. A detective duo (or freelance police 
 according to them) ,consisting of a psychotic lagomorph and anthropomorphic dog, must teach law-breakers 
 a lesson.
  
  The game is quite enjoyable. The characters are vivid and funny, the graphics perfect for this kind 
 of game and the retro-50s (i think) music completes the pictures. The actors do a great job.
  
  The controls can't be simpler. You simply press the left mouse button on whatever has a name. On 
 the screen down left is the inventory, a box. Press on it and the items spring up, press lmb on 
 the item you want ,then on the object you wish.
  
  Unfortunately the game is short. It is understandable, because it is a part of a series, but the 
 game should last 5 hours not 2-3 and a half. And for more experienced adventure gamers it is almost 
 laughingly simple.
  
  All in all, i am happy to see an adventure game that has all the good values of an adventure game (atmosphere, 
 interesting characters, riddles, plot) that without being outdated. Other game developers should 
 see it, so as to understand what it is lacking from their games.
  
  If it weren't so easy, we would be talking about a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathtok
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 4, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Sam &amp; Max have long been a fond memory in the mind of adventure game fans. The duo appeared 
 in their hit game Hit the Road in 1993 but sadly have not made another appearance until now.
  
  The series remains true to its roots with wacky humor. Unlike other adventure games it hasn't 
 abandoned the familiar point-and-click style. From top-to-bottom this feels like Sam &amp; Max.
 
  
  The story centers around an investigation into the mysterious Eye-bo video that is causing an uproar. 
 But the freelance police are to the rescue as your various misdeeds lead you to the culprit.
  
  This is a fun play through but unfortunately it is not very long. The puzzles aren't that difficult 
 but it's great to hear the humor again. I look forward to the next chapters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Sam and Max Episode One: Culture Shock takes the player into a story filled with brilliant dialogue, 
 great sight gags and funny one-liners. While the story gives us a glimpse into what will follow 
 in upcoming episodes, one has to wonder if people will find enough value in a title that they will 
 essentially play through once.
  
  Culture Shock is the return of Sam and Max, Freelance Police detectives that are brought in to 
 solve the more bizarre cases. This time around, they have been assigned to find out more about 
 a gentleman named Brady Culture and if he has been brainwashing the local populace. Along the way, 
 you meet several supporting characters that help you with the case.
  
  The game does not push the envelope in regards to the graphics, but it does give us very nice updated 
 visuals for the game. Sam and Max look like polished versions of their earlier selves. The backgrounds 
 are very detailed and have a lot of small but subtle touches that stand out and make the game a 
 little more personal. The control system is rather nice and it works well for the game. Action 
 sequences are not too difficult to use and you never feel like you cant finish the game. I did 
 notice that on a slower machine, I did have some response issues, but nothing that would kill the 
 game.
  
  Sound is top notch and everyone seems to be giving their all for the performances. While I am not 
 totally sure that the same people that voiced Sam and Max back in the original game did it for 
 this one, I can say that they did a fantastic job capturing the essence of the characters. They 
 kept me interested in the performance and I truly wanted to find out what would happen next.
  
  While the game has a lot going for it, length is not one of those things. The game can be finished 
 in a relatively short amount of time. This is due to its episodic nature, which may also put some 
 off of the game. Also, there is not a lot of replay value in the game. While you might want to 
 go back and try some of the other dialog trees, it will not necessarily change the outcome of the 
 game. These are big factors considering you are shelling out $10 for each episode.
  
  So Sam and Max deliver on giving you a old school adventure game experience. The characters are 
 solid and the story is very humorous. Episodic content may be the future for the adventure game 
 genre and Sam and Max show us that the change can be quite entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whermacht02
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  When I thought Ill never play another good graphic adventure , the guys at Telltale Games released 
 Sam &amp; Max.
  This game defnitely goes back to the roots of this genre. And it does it in a great way.
  The 
 game features a lot of funny moments with Max. The interface is simple and clean (no need to switch 
 to different icons like in old Lucas Arts games) .
  This guys did almost everything right with this game, the only downside being that the game is 
 too short. If you take into consideration that this series is coming out as episodic content, its 
 ok that the game was this short. But thats not the true feeling and experience that I was looking 
 on a graphical adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xwing89
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 16, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The Sam &amp; Max episode 1 it's a fine game but for those who were expecting a something like 
 a hit the road maybe will be a little disappointed. However the game still has his fun with the 
 humor of Sam and Max.
  
  For those who don't know the previews games the graphics are a little cartoon but quite good for 
 this games style.
  The sound and voices are well made it which gives the game a better stage for the jokes of those 
 two.
  
  Although it has a different history and a better graphics the game has nothing new.
  Anyway i 
 recommend this game to everyone, it's worth to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumo28
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  As a big fan of PC adventure games, I'm glad to see Sam and Max come back to us. This was a fun 
 game that is definitely worth playing, but it doesn't quite live up to the classics such as 'Sam 
 &amp; Max Hit The Road'. The first thing that I noticed right away is that this is a true point-and-click 
 game. No more are the different functions for 'use' or 'talk to' or 'walk to' or 'push/pull' etc. 
 A 5 year old could probably complete this game by randomly clicking all over the place provided 
 he had enough time. Also there aren't many puzzles (I can think of almost/sort of two - the psychiatrist 
 and the brady culture one) , you have a very small inventory throughout the game, there are only 
 two map locations (and you can count the number of rooms on your hands) , and you really don't have 
 to think too much. I can understand that this is made for the casual gamer, but I feel like they 
 dumbed the game/genre down too much.
  
  I did like the graphics. They fit very well with Sam &amp; Max and from seeing the preview screenshots 
 I had a feeling that the transition to 3D was going to be awkward, but it felt seamless and it 
 fit really well for me. They did a good job at capturing the humor of Sam &amp; Max and while the 
 story would be very out of place in any other game, it was typical Sam and Max.
  
  It's short, quick, and fun. You'll probably play through it in three hours or so and never come 
 back to it again. Take this for what it is -- a single, isolated episode in the lives of two very 
 funny, walking, talking animals... and you should enjoy this title. If you expect a classic style 
 adventure game with a thought out storyline and somewhat of a challenge, you will be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deukalion-
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who haven't played Sam &amp; Max: Hit the road - I don't know where you've been 
 the last ten years if that's the case. Anyhow, this is some type of follow-up to the cult comic 
 adventure game.
  
  At first I didn't believe this would be any good. Because through the recent years we've been hearing 
 rumours of Sam &amp; Max projects that would never see the light of day. So I was glad when I finally 
 realized that this was for real and it was coming soon, so I had to check it out.
  
  Another thing I was truly worried about was that Lucasart wasn't behind the production of this 
 game so I had small hopes but I was proven wrong. It's simply a good game with dialoge that makes 
 you laugh all the time. Even though it's very short.
  
  Gameplay, graphics and the tilt is to say the best. Nothing spectacular but not bad either. So 
 to it's shortness the value goes down and the voice acting makes you wish they had put in a few 
 extra coins for that production. It's not bad either, but it's simply a little bulging. It sounds 
 like Sam &amp; Max are talking through a rusty bucket.
  
  So to those who loved the original - this might not be as good as the original but you get to see 
 Sam &amp; Max at the top of their game for a short time. So what beats that? Well, alot of things 
 considering the total value of the game but I don't mean it in a bad way. It's good if you don't 
 have to much hopes about its length.
  
  One of the best adventure games in the last few years, easily said. At least the click and point 
 adventure-type.
  
  So support the developers and buy this cheap game so we may see more of these two lunatics in the 
 future! It's easily worth the 10$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doublej42
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  This game is short, but cheap. It's under $6 if you buy the set of all 6 and it's really fun and 
 funny. If you are a busy person like myself and don't' have time for huge games like the newer 
 Mysts or WOW then check this game out, or at least try the demo. If the demo doesn't' make you 
 laugh, don't buy the game, but who doesn't love Sam and Max. Also the voice acting is great, if 
 you remember the TV show then they will sound familiar and just the way you expect them to sound. 
 The lip sinking is a little of sometimes but due to its cartoon nature this is more acceptable. 
 The only real problem with this game was the fact that its online purchase only and will stop 
 working if you get a new computer. Thankfully customer service responded to my issue (new video 
 card) in under 3 hours with some of the best service Ive had. Thats what really convinced me 
 to buy the rest of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20fox05
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 4, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Sam &amp; Max: Culture Shock is a very fun game with great visuals and sound. The voices are great 
 and it has a lot of humor in it's conversations. The 'Point &amp; Click' old method is back, too! 
 That't the best part of the game, thought. Anyway, it's way TOO short and easy...
  
  I loved Sam &amp; Max Hit the Road, that's why I bought this game, and that's why I got even more 
 dissapointed, too.
  
  The game keeps it's charming from the first one and the story is really well-done: A strange video 
 that teaches Ocular Fitness appears in the city and hipnotizes everyone who sees it. The Soda Poppers 
 (ex-characters from an old TV program) start acting weird: one of them takes those videos and sell 
 them for free at the local shop; another one thinks is the psyco-analyst of the city and the last 
 one makes graphities of the main character of the video: Culture (a frusrated actor who's program 
 was cancelled after the Soda Poppers appeared on TV) . Anyway, puzzles are a little bit easy, making 
 the game short.
  The city is extremely small and the inventory is limited: you just can pick up objects that you'll 
 need, not other ones that you'll never use, making the game even more easy.
  There's NO replay value and as you finish it so fast, you get bored fast too, so you don't want 
 to play it again: The second time I TRIED to play it, I remembered all the conversations, making 
 it awful and making me quit it.
  
  TellTale Games adapted to this generation this old Lucas Arts game preety well, but the idea of 
 making chapters of the game too short was CATASTROPHIC.
  
  I hope the next episodes are longer and harder, so I can spend more than 5 hours playing it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xand3rro
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  LucasArts was known for a long time nor because of Star Wars but because those awesome adventure 
 games like Day of The Tentacle, Glim Fandango or Monkey Island are just some of the titles of the 
 glory age.
  13 years ago Sam &amp; Max was one of the moast popular adventure game of that time.
  The new 
 Sam &amp; Max will be released as a episodic lets say format (like Half-Life 2) .
  The first episode of the season offers 3 to 4 hours of gameplay thats not much but hopefully there 
 going to come out at a much faster rate. The new episode reminds us about the '70, Culture Shock 
 is kinda like the original game just whit a new story the hole game is based on funny jokes witch 
 are actually fun :D The producers tried to use as much of the original games as they could thats 
 a good thing .
  THE PROs its funny ,good music and voice acting THE CONS its short , the controls are 2 easy PS 
 Sorry of my freakn' English 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nisstyre_56
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  First I'd like to say that I played the original Sam N Max, as well as most of the other Classic 
 Lucasarts Adventure games (Monkey Island anyone?) , and this was waaaaay too easy compared to those. 
 Painfully easy in fact, and way too short. The only good things about it were the dialogue, voice 
 acting and graphics. I remember the days of having to spend hours trying to figure out a puzzle 
 and piece it together. I hope they revamp the inventory system, and make the puzzles a lot more 
 challenging. Maybe have it so you have to come up with creative ideas to supplement real things? 
 I recall having to use prosthetic skin as a trampoline in MI4... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiscoJoy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 21, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Having been a fan of Sam &amp; Max since the early 1990s when I first read the comics (in those 
 days, in the back of a Lucasfilm Games newsletter and later in the Comico Freelance Police Special) , 
 it was with great joy that I was finally able to see them move and HEAR them speak in the original 
 LucasArts 'Hit the Road' game in 1993. With only the short-lived animated series to keep me going 
 in the meantime, it has been 13 years since the dynamic duo have grace my PC screen, and both my 
 computer and the games have gone through many changes since.
  
  This new adventure, the first chapter in a six-part story, may be a little jarring to old fans 
 at first. Having seen the characters in glorious 2D for years, the textured three-dimensional rendering 
 of an anthropomorphic dog and a hyperkinetic rabbity thing may not look quite right. In fact, I'm 
 still not sure they look quite right, but it ceases to be an issue after a few gags. For all the 
 changes that have been made to the look of the characters, the fact remains that this is still 
 one of the funniest duos to grace the PC screen ever, and it is a testament to the strength of 
 the characters that they can still deliver random quips with side-splitting results in an era that 
 has seen more non sequitur driven animated comedies than you could poke a fried buffalo at. The 
 voices are spot-on, especially Max who has always had a very definite vocal style in my mind.
 
  
  Those familiar with adventure gaming in the 'old school way', and we are a dying breed given the 
 number of hybrid adventure/RPG/first person shooters that have now fashionably replaced tradtional 
 puzzle solving, wil find the game reasonably challenging. Some puzzles, usually involving cheese 
 in some way, will require you to think slightly outside the box. However, most of them have a kind 
 of twisted logic to them, and if you have an odd sensibility - which is really the only kind of 
 sensibility to have these days - then you will find them quite enjoyable, rather than frustrating.
 
  
  While some may balk at having to download this episodically, and others may question having to 
 download it at all, there is something refreshing about having to wait in drooling anticipation 
 for the next installment of a favourite set of characters, especially when there is so much instant 
 gratification these days... what, with the internet and all!
  
  Can't wait for Episode 2 to come out, and it is nice to know there are several more months of hyperkenetic 
 rabbity goodness on the horizon.
  
  More fun than a tuna fish sandwich in your coat-pocket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4_majin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 16, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Sam and Max are two already legendary figures. After Lucas Arts canceled Freelance Police it looked 
 like the two wouldnt ever show their cynical attitudes again. But lucky for us they did make it 
 and will for a couple of more episodes.
  
  The Game is unusually short, but considering that I had to wait 12 years for a new game to come 
 out and now I only have to wait a month for another episode, I dont really mind.
  
  For those of you who have grown up with Counter Strike under the pillow, Culture shock is an old 
 fashion adventure game. This means you will have to sit in your chair and actually listen to a 
 lot of talk. A warning for the new gamer: Culture shock respects a recipe created and used when 
 quests were quests and action was action and genres did not hump each other in hopes of creating 
 an ultimate retard game. Its the first episode in a series of 6, a long anticipated series by 
 those who have the age in gaming, and a series that proves that adventure is still alive as a gaming 
 genre.
  
  In Sam and Max Hit the Road the happy duo had to chase down Big Foot and the Giraffe Woman. Culture 
 Shock stays true to the crazy, crazy world and we face former child actor called Brady Culture 
 that wants to hypnotize the planet in to adoration by use of eye work out tapes with subliminal 
 messages. He is helped by 3 white Gary Colemans with more personality problems that the one in 
 real life. All the characters in the game add spice to the mix: a clerk that believes that every 
 one is out to get them and that pepperoni and aliens are making video tape conspiracies, a small 
 gangster rat (a real rat mind you) that hold phones ransom and a tattoo artist/ psychoanalyst. 
 Trust me when I say that is a regular zoo and that I have never ever seen so much ironies and hints 
 so absurdly wrapped into a game dialog.
  
  If youve practiced a little with Day of the Tentacle or Sam and max Hit the road, Culture shock 
 will be a piece of cake. Anyone that figured out that a monkey can be used as a crank will easily 
 survive in the nihilist duos world.
  
  IF youre worried that the 3d engine will affect the game play dont worry. They have done an excellent 
 job of turning the old 2d world into 3d. If you truly surprise the sole of the game and take it 
 into 3d your job is done. They have done it here perfectly. My hat is off to Telltale games that 
 have truly given us a blast from the past. You know, that old past that everyone mentions on forums 
 and/or bogs. My suggestion: play the game. If your and old gamer this game will tickle your funny 
 bone like no other; if youre a new gamer you need some old school training. If you do not like 
 this game, then you are just one out of billion Couter-streker-ists that call themselves gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweet_serene99
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:56 am PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of Sam and Max and I was one of those people who eagerly anticipated their 
 return to the PC. I have mixed feelings in regards to Episode 1.
  
  On one hand, Telltale Games does a great job of bringing the color and character of the Sam and 
 Max universe. The world is bright, vibrant, and zany, and downright hilarious.
  
  However, the game itself was way too easy. Even without thinking too hard, you could easy complete 
 it in less than an hour. Some of the puzzles were challenging and inventive (like the therapist' 
 puzzle) , but most of them boiled down to simple inventory usage, and with such a small number of 
 'rooms', it was not difficult to just try everything until you got the solution you wanted.
  
  Irregardless, I think Episode 1 is a fair enough start to what hopefully will be a great series. 
 I only hope that the future episodes will be more challenging without compromising the Sam and 
 Max 'feel'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightjam
Rating: 1.4
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  this game is out and it just is a game made for no point. what is the purpose? i give this games 
 graphics a low because they look good on the box but in gameplay they are not like they look on 
 boxes.... NOT LIKE BOXES. sound is okay but sometimes there is like odd sounds out of nowhere... like 
 one time at my friends house we were on the street and there was a truck that sounded like a bird..... Jokes! 
 also this gmae is episode 1? well get ready for more because as long as people like this then their 
 just going to waste money on a boring game like this and people will just waste money on a pointless 
 unpopular game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kruddman
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  Buying a game that's 3.5hrs of gameplay for $9 doesn't feel entirely worth while. It is like the 
 developers are too lazy or frightened to make a full length title so instead they release several 
 cheap ones. Which does not seem like it will equate to one whole good experience, but several disappointing 
 ones. It is not just the very short gameplay time but the overall experience of playing. I get 
 to the end, I do not feel fulfilled or that I have succeeded in solving the puzzle. I was surprised 
 when the game ended. Thinking, That's it? . I'm a huge fan of Hit the Road and all the other Lucas 
 Arts adventure games, and I don't feel like Telltale's writers are even close to the wit and sharp 
 edge of those from the classic titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  I've never been a huge fan of point and click games. Usually you just wander around doing things 
 that are not that interesting searching environments that are might be beautiful, but not entertaining. 
 Sam and Max changes all that, bringing fun back to the point and click adventure. The graphics 
 are obviously cartoonish, but very well done and without too much clutter to get in the way of 
 exploring your environment. The wonderful thing about the environment is that nearly everything 
 has something funny about it, so just exploring becomes entertaining, even if you aren't accomplishing 
 anything. The voice acting and other sounds are very well done and add to the amusement of the 
 game. The game itself is not very difficult, once again there is little clutter and the levels 
 are not so large that you can't figure out what to do. Not everything is painfully obvious, but 
 you shouldn't have to kill yourself to figure it out. The biggest problem with the game is the 
 length, yes it is episodic, but it still will take you nearly no time at all to finish. There isn't 
 a lot of replay value to the game, nothing much can change. For the price, though, you still can't 
 complain, for less than ten dollars you still get a good time, and hopefully future installments 
 will come quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMJR
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Sam &amp; Max are back, at long-last, to cavort through episodic adventures that rival the original 
 hit Sam &amp; Max: Hit the Road . Telltale Games has opted to take a unique approach with this 
 game, offering up 6 episodes total that can be purchased individually or in a package. The first 
 episode is entitlted Episode 1: Culture Shock .
  
  -- Overview --
  
  For those unfamiliar with the detective dog and his rabbity-thing sidekick, they are the creation 
 of one Steve Purcell. As so-called freelance police , Sam &amp; Max have made it their duty to 
 sniff-out and thwart evil-doers, with as much gratuitous violence and damage to public property 
 as possible. They tend to succeed better at the latter than the former, but in a comical adventure 
 such as this that comes as no surprise!
  
  In Culture Shock , trouble is afoot as a fallen child-star puts into motion a plot that would result 
 in an army of brainless worshippers. Naturally it's up to Sam &amp; Max to see that doesn't happen, 
 whereupon comedic hijinks ensue. Is the plot convoluted? Hardly. But the cast of characters are 
 what makes the game really shine, thanks to some talented voice-acting, as well as the spiffy sound 
 and graphics that truly bring Sam &amp; Max's world to life.
  
  -- Gameplay --
  
  The era of point-and-click adventure games isn't over yet. Generally speaking you are in control 
 of Sam, and you interact and move about by simply clicking on the screen. The lack of verbs (look 
 at, touch, talk to) feels as though it leaves the interface lacking somehow, but the witty dialogue 
 and general hilarity tend to distract enough from this simple interface.
  
  The scope of the game feels somewhat stifled, partly due to its episodic nature, and you will find 
 yourself visiting the same locales for much of the game. The circumstances change enough to warrant 
 the visit, but it does feel as though the developers were re-using stock in the expectation of 
 testing the success of Sam &amp; Max before braching out in future episodes.
  
  The game also tosses in an arcade element, where you have the opportunity to drive the Freelance 
 Police car, the Desoto. A few tools are at your disposal to pull over and otherwise annoy drivers 
 on the road, but it does feel as though this arcade portion could have been more involved.
  
  -- Graphics &amp; Sound --
  
  Graphically, Sam &amp; Max is pretty enough. Cartoonish, 
 yet 3D, and ultimately very detailed. The textures are excellent, and you'll find yourself consistently 
 distracted by decals and pictures, posters and newspapers, all of which have something to shout 
 about the world that Sam &amp; Max live in. Is Sam &amp; Max graphically brilliant? No. Does it 
 need to be? Not really.
  
  The voices are really bang on. The characters are truly brought to life in Sam &amp; Max, every 
 last one of them. Though Sam &amp; Max have new voices compared to their LucasArts days, they are 
 not at all distracting, and do an excellent job of respecting the duo's past.
  
  The music is also excellent, very fitting for the private-eye style of Sam &amp; Max, beautifully 
 done.
  
  -- Conclusion --
  
  Sam &amp; Max Episode One: Culture Shock is well worth the buy, and with luck this episodic series 
 will continue to evolve and entertain. Though one episode only offers a few hours of gameplay, 
 it is worth the $8.95 price tag. You may want to try out the demo first, and then make the decision 
 if you want to get all six episodes for $34.95 instead. Certainly worth the price if adventure 
 games and off-the- wall humour are up your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cally_1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:59 pm PT
Review:  I played the trial version of this game and after the snappy writting i could not resist bying 
 the full game. Be warned when i played this game i started and did not stop playing until i was 
 finished ( 3 - 4 hours later ) . My only critisisims are that it is not as challenging as some of 
 the other point and clicks out there and also it was a little bit short. but the length issue will 
 be delt with by the next episodes which i am sure will be just as good or even better ( I Can't 
 Wait ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 10, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  To Sam and Max fans no other news could be better than the announcement of another Sam and Max 
 game after 10 years without the comedic duo. The humor and laughs are aplenty in Culture Shock 
 and it feels alot like the classic Sam and Max in 2d but now in 3d. Since Culture Shock is episodic 
 there is no need for a cd and the price is fairly cheap. ($10 per episode or $35 for the whole 
 season) The amount of interactivity is also amazing with almost everything you see you can interact 
 with and usually get a laugh out of Sam or Max's response. If you have a lower-end computer don't 
 be ashamed because Culture Shock has fairly low requirements and looks very cartooney just as it 
 should. The only turn off to some people could be the numerous loads (which are short) and the 
 epidsodic style of Sam and Max. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 8, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  So Sam and Max are back. I actually haven't played their seminal debut of 1993, but of course I've 
 heard and read all about it and that it was a classic adventure game. Sam and Max Episode 1: Culture 
 Shock is still in the 'adventure' genre, with the usual array of adventure gaming puzzles and dialogue. 
 And whilst it is a very short and quite easy gaming experience, Sam and Max is an enjoyable ride 
 with a load of humour and a wacky atmosphere true to its cartoon heritage.
  
  The story is something straight out of a Batfink or Scooby-Doo cartoon. Some 70's child prodigy 
 types are causing minor chaos in the neighbourhood and freelance police Sam (a six foot dog who 
 investigates / questions in the mould of Peter Gunn) and Max (a sadistic rabbit who has the mean 
 streak of Vic Mackie and the humour of Austin Powers) are called in to investigate. That's as much 
 as I will say about the story, but it what means is plenty of clever (but not difficult) problem 
 solving, 'pointing and clicking' and dialogue with some colourful characters and across a few different 
 locations until you get to the bottom of the whole wacky ordeal. There'll be plenty of visual gags 
 and laughs as you progress through the game and the episode wraps up quite nicely - there's no 
 'to be continued' with this episodic content.
  
  The graphics are cartoon quality : bright, engaging and plenty of humorous visual gags. There is 
 nothing truly groundbreaking about them and they are certainly not going to stretch any graphic 
 card to it maximum capability. They do what they need to do. Further, there are only about five 
 or six environments that you will explore. However the characters, from Bosco to the Soda Poppers 
 to Sybil Pandemic to Brady Culture and of course, Sam and Max, are well defined and stay true to 
 the cartoon atmosphere. The sound works very well indeed. The voice acting is spot on for each 
 character and the music sounds like something straight out of 'Get Smart'. The gameplay is what 
 you would expect from a contemporary adventure game. Plenty of items to investigate, plenty of 
 dialogue options, characters to engage and puzzles to solve. Sam and Max are a great team and the 
 dialogue and repartee between them is real highlight. You can expect to laugh quite a bit. The 
 puzzles are progressive and interesting, but not too hard. It's is mostly a case of trial are error 
 - with not that many options to exhaust, until you get the right solution. The story is an enjoyable 
 one, a wacky and humourous vignette suited to the style of game that the episodes are presented 
 to be. Although it's not important to explore all items, options and dialogue - I would recommend 
 doing that as there are some classic one-line and visual gags to be had. Further kudos is warranted 
 as Sam and Max is first time I've seen the 'arm-fart' represented in gaming. But it's that type 
 of game. It has all the traits of a morning cartoon and it continues to feel like that as the end 
 credits roll. And like your favourite cartoon, it's likely you'll be eagerly awaiting the next 
 episode.
  
  The game took me no more than three hours to complete and I only genuinely got stumped on the final 
 scene. And even then, it was simply a matter of 'trial and error' of possible commands to get to 
 the finish line. I also took my time, picking up most items possible and engaging in as much dialogue 
 as possible so as to pick up of some of the sight and spoken gags. You realistically could blitz 
 the game in less than two hours, the length of a movie.
  
  I paid $US34.95 for the full season, which works out at $US5.85 per episode. That's not bad for 
 what's on offer. Having just mentioned a movie, it is less than you'd normally pay to watch a movie. 
 There probably isn't a lot of replay value, but this is fun for all the family - adults and kids 
 alike.
  
  Short and sweet is the ideal term for Sam and Max Episode One: Culture Shock. It's a bit on the 
 easy side, but it's also a lot of fun that will have you laughing out loud quite regularly. While 
 the episodic nature and the brevity of the episodes may put a few gamers off, as long as the rest 
 of the series is at least as good as this episode, it should be a mighty enjoyable season of adventure 
 gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobias1701d
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 7, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  El juego esta muy bueno desde el principio, la oficina nos recuerda a cuando eramos 13 a&ntilde; os 
 mas jovenes y jugamos el primer juego de la serie, muy buenas graficas, acertijos elavorados y 
 el humor sarcastico que a todos los fans de la serie nos encanta, hacen de este nuevo juego una 
 secuela digna de admirarse la verdad no te puede faltar en tu coleccion.
  La historia comienza con Sam &amp; Max en su oficina cuando suena el telefono, solo para descubrir 
 que el telefono fue secuestrado por la rata del agujero (del que sacabamos dinero en el primer 
 juego) y nos pide queso suizo a cambio y ahi esta el primer acertijo del juego encontrar queso 
 suizo, luego al salir a la calle descubrimos un complot macabro de el archi villano del juego que 
 intenta apoderarse del mundo con imno cintas de VHS (vamos que no conocen los DVD's) pero bueno 
 y para esto se a apoderado de las mentes de ''adultos'' que solian ser estrellas de una serie de 
 television de ni&ntilde; os que distribuyen las cintas por todos lados. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoLake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  Vaya, una secuela de uno de mis juegos favoritos de todos los tiempos. Y en 3D. Si no llega a ser 
 porque es TellTale y Steve Purcell est&aacute; muy metido en el proyecto, me habr&iacute; a esperado 
 lo peor.
  
  Pero por suerte he visto que todo es posible, y este juego tiene todo lo de los c&oacute; mics: 
 es divertido, divertido y divertido. Adem&aacute; s, es muy simple pero triplemente efectivo. El 
 estilo de los personajes y escenarios me encanta, al igual que el doblaje. La jugabilidad es muy 
 simple y se ve reducida a un point 'n' click comod&iacute; simo.
  
  Lo malo? Que vaya por cap&iacute; tulos y la espera entre uno y otro se nos haga muy larga. Para 
 los que no tengan un buen nivel de ingl&eacute; s, hay que decir que no hay planes de traducirlo. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narwaffle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  The short answer is yes. For those wanting a little bit more, you can have it. In the next few 
 paragraphs. Problem?
  
  Excuse that short nugget of oddity, but Sam &amp; Max are back! That should be a reason all by 
 itself to go and pay the measly $8.95 that Telltale are asking for this absolute gem. This is classic 
 point and click gaming mastery, way back from the days where LucasArts wasn't that company that 
 made Star Wars games, but instead churned out lovingly created adventure games. Sam &amp; Max was 
 one of them. It never revolutionized the genre, but it ticked all the right boxes, along with featuring 
 excellent voice acting.
  
  In their latest venture into the adventure gaming realm (a realm that has been lacking anything 
 slightly decent for the last decade or so) is on par with the original. Sam &amp; Max make their 
 transition into 3D, and where other games have failed and lost something in translation, Sam &amp; 
 Max loses almost nothing. The story's strong, the graphics, while not the best, can be experienced 
 at a high resolution with a great framerate, the sound and voice acting is top notch, and the gameplay 
 is simple without being overly simple.
  
  In Sam &amp; Max: Culture Shock, you assume the roles of Sam, a 6 foot anthropomorphic dog in the 
 same vein as film-noir private detectives, and his little buddy Max, a violent rabbit thing. Something 
 (most probably) sinister is going on in Sam &amp; Max's strange, messed up neighbourhood, and it's 
 your job (as one would expect) to solve the mystery of the Washed up 70's child stars . I won't 
 reveal the plot to you. Because I want you to buy it. But I will say that the entire game is hilarious. 
 Click on everything.
  
  The graphics are top notch. While it is a pretty much pre-rendered game, everything is nice and 
 high res. In fact, even the most outdated of computers can run this game at the highest resolution 
 at a solid framerate. The voice acting is, as you would expect, freakin' excellent. Some people 
 (especially Sam &amp; Max veterans) may find the new voice actors an unfortunate departure from 
 the original (and the short lived TV series) but personally I found them excellent. However, some 
 problems did crop up with one of the characters' voicetrack, which sounded a bit distorted when 
 played a high volumes, but scooching the sound down a notch will solve this. All in all, buy this 
 game. It's $8.95 for God's sake! Whilst only supplying 3 hours of gameplay (max!) , it's a bargain 
 and a half. The game is wonderful in everyway, and I assure you that you will never sleep again 
 if you don't buy it. In fact, if you don't buy it, I'll make a visit to your house and stab you 
 while you're sleeping. Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thor17usa
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  I have heard of Sam and Max before, but never had a chance to take part in their crazy adventures 
 in Sam and max Hit the Road. Now I have a chance to play them and in full 3D no less. The game 
 is short, but packed full of humor and craziness. Max is my favorite character right now simply 
 because of his remarks. This pair of opposites make a great team.
  
  The game only took about 3 or 4 hours to play, but it was just right. The puzzles for this one 
 are mostly easy, but there was at least one that I got hung up on and spent maybe 20 minutes wondering 
 around trying to figure it out. The graphics look great and are unique in their style. I am hoping 
 that future releases of the game will provide more game play and more puzzle, but most of all I 
 just hope the dialogue continues to bring insanity to the table. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuppetMaster
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 5, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  Beeing a huge fan of the old adventuregames from Sierra and LucasArts, I had great hopes for this 
 new edition of S&amp; M`s adventures.
  
  Sure the gameplay isn`t very innovating and graphics dont exactly push my computer to it`s limits. 
 But the oldschool humor and relaxing gameplay is dead on.
  
  Now adays I mostly play WorldofWarcraft, which after lvl60 is too timeconsuming, and WarCraft3, 
 which can be a little stressful at times on battle. net :)
  
  So to have an oldschool adventure game where you sit back, enjoy the humor and slow pace (compared 
 to todays games) is just perfect.
  
  Really like the chapter based releases aswell. At least I wont look at a walkthrough until the 
 next chapter comes around, and we all know walkthroughs really ruin the adventure experience :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowgomoo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  I love funny adventure games. Monkey Island, Day of the Tentacle, Freddie Pharkas, Leisure Suit 
 Larry Space Quest, etc. We have not seen a new Funny Adventure game in a while and I was very worried 
 that a new Sam and Max would really suck. But Culture Shock surprised me. It's actually very good. 
 (as long as you like the slower pace of adventure games) Culture Shock is the 1st of 6 episodes 
 that you can buy one at a time or pre order all at once. You also have the option of getting them 
 all on CD after they are all out. It is also available through the Gametap service.
  
  You play as Sam and Max, freelance police, who are a dog and a rabbit with a sick and twisted sense 
 of humor.
  
  The game play is very simplistic, and thats OK. You basically point and click at stuff on the screen 
 to interact with items or get some humorous commentary from Sam and Max. You have an inventory 
 of various items you pick up along the way and eventually have to use them in creative ways to 
 accomplish your tasks. If you were a fan of the original Sam and Max Hit The Road, you might find 
 it hard to adjust to the new voice actors. It's not that they are bad, they are actually good, 
 but sometimes it hard to adjust to such differences. The background sound track is Jazz and seems 
 to fit just right without being annoying.
  
  The graphics are about what I would expect from this style of game. They are not great, but it 
 does not distract from the fun.
  
  All in all, I really enjoyed this game and cannot wait for the other episodes to come out. It's 
 not perfect, but it exceeded my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 3, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This new sam and max game is actually very good and worth it at least to try for 8.95. I downloaded 
 the first episode from telltalegames. com but you can also play it on gametap. The good thing about 
 gametap is they come out sooner and you get all the aditional games n such but I would rather just 
 get them from telltale. I dont remember much of the original since I played it so long ago but 
 this game seems to retain the same feel that the old ones did but with newer 3d graphics. The graphics 
 arent especially good but they definatley get the job done and arent bad either. The sound effects 
 are good and the voice acting is spot on, with all the characters sounding as they should. The 
 humor on some of the lines in the game are quite funny. The games puzzles arent especially difficult 
 but they are very creative with some of them. The game wraps up the whole story of the first episode 
 well with making it feel like a almost complete although very short game. One problem I had with 
 it though im not sure everyone will the game did crash a few times forcing me to turn off the computer 
 because it wouldnt let me ctrl alt delete it. Overall I would definatley try the first episode 
 and see if you like it to decide if you want to get the rest of the episodes that come out each 
 month next year. I will be playing through the rest. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
