-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sam & Max Episode 102: Situation: Comedy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/sammaxepisode2situationcomedy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Funny dialogue.
 Quality voice acting.
 Expressive character animation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Feels even shorter than the previous episode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.9, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 297 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GameTap
Developer: Telltale Games
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Dec 20, 2006

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Situation: Comedy stands on its own, but it isn't quite as good as the previous episode of the Sam 
 & Max series. 

  One of the strengths of episodic content is its flexibility. You can treat each episode like a 
 separate storyline, or you can use it to tell the next chapter in an ongoing narrative. But you'll 
 never know which path a storyteller is going to choose until you get to the second episode. Now 
 that Situation: Comedy is out, it's easier to see how this new run of Sam &amp; Max PC adventures 
 is going to play out. For the most part, each episode stands on its own, but there's also an inkling 
 of continuity starting to emerge. Situation: Comedy is a good adventure that complements the original 
 episode nicely, but it also feels much shorter than the first episode. Also, though this installment 
 has a terrific premise, you don't get to do enough during the cooler parts of the game.  

          Sam and Max aren't hitting the road anymore, but they're still having plenty of funny adventures. 
     

  Situation: Comedy puts the detective duo on to an audience held hostage. Myra Stump, host of the 
  Oprah Winfrey -like talk show Myra!, has flipped out and won't stop her show. The audience has 
 been held captive for days, and the fabulous giveaways aren't quite so fabulous anymore. So Sam 
 and Max must make their way to the TV station and figure out what's going on. Once at the dilapidated 
 station, you get to work the pair through a series of archetypal TV shows. They'll star in a sitcom, 
 do a little bachelor cooking on a food show, win a million dollars by cheating at a gameshow, and 
 even get a recording contract by winning on an  American Idol -style "talent" show. While that 
 sounds like a lot, you get only a whirlwind tour of all this stuff, and the game's finale is brief. 
 Unless you get hung up on one puzzle or another (we spent a fair amount of time backtracking in 
 search of something with tomatoes in it) , there's only about 90 minutes of content in the game. 
 When you consider that plenty of the locations and a few of the lines have been duplicated from 
 the first episode, that doesn't end up amounting to much. Of course, as an episodic game, it's 
 coming to you at a lower-than-average price (or as part of your GameTap subscription, if you're 
 into that sort of thing) , so in the end, it's still a reasonable value.  

  Situation: Comedy gets by on its charm. The characters are great, the dialogue options are solid, 
 and the game ends up being funny more often than not. There's some good voice acting in there, 
 too, though some of the lines get cut off. Also, there's a new voice for Max in this episode, which 
 some may find a little jarring. He turns in a fine performance, though. Visually, the game is well 
 animated, and the different areas you go to look great.  

  If you didn't play the first episode in this series, you could start with the second episode without 
 feeling like you've missed anything, but since the first episode is, overall, a better adventure 
 than this one, you should probably start there. If you're familiar with the first episode and unsure 
 whether you want to continue, this game carries on where the first game left off, though since 
 you've already seen many of the locations and met some of the characters you'll encounter, this 
 one's inherently less impressive than the first chapter.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PlasmaBeam44
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  In Sam and Max Episode 2: Situation: Comedy Sam and Max have to investigate a crazy talk show host 
 who has taken her audience hostage. The game plays exactly the same as the previous episode so 
 other than the new setting, story, and some new characters nothing has changed. You point and click 
 your way through the areas picking up items or examining them. You solve puzzles with these items. 
 If you've ever played an adventure game on PC then you know what to expect. The dialog is funny 
 and the voice acting is great.
  
  Episode 2 is shorter than the previous episode. You can get through the game in about 2 or 3 hours 
 if the puzzles don't get your stuck for long. If you enjoyed episode one then episode 2 is worth 
 a play through. If you didn't then this version won't change your mind. It's still a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 29, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  Chances are if you are going to buy Situation: Comedy then you will already have played Culture 
 Shock, which is probably a good thing. Although you can play this game by itself, you may not understand 
 a line or two that relates to another episodes. The game also gives the feel that there is going 
 to be one, big interlocking storyline throughout the season, so for the full experience it is probably 
 best to play through in numerical order.
  
  In Situation: Comedy Sam and Max have to try and stop a talkshow host called Myra Stump. She has 
 been running her show non-stop for days and wont let her audiance go. It is now up to Sam and Max 
 to drive over to the TV station and stop this. Of course Myra isn't going to let you just barge 
 in there, so you have to get three items which all can be found on the other sets in the TV station. 
 You have to star in a sitcom (which if you don't know where you're meant to be going with it, can 
 get repetitive) , trying and nab a recording contract on a singing show (hosted by two of the Soda 
 Poppers and Max) and try and win a million dollars on a gameshow. You can of course still visit 
 Sybil, Bosco and your office to help you solve the puzzles, but the downside here is that a lot 
 of the lines are recycled.
  
  The game still goes strong with its genually funny humour and characters, especially Hugh Bliss. 
 The graphics still remain good and the jazzy music (as well as some new stuff for the new sets) 
 remains in the game, which is good to know. Max also has a new voice, but luckily you can hardly 
 notice, if at all. The TV sets are well designed are there are some neat touches here and there 
 which will bring out a smile.
  
  The fact this game is recycling characters and locations does knock off a few marks from the overall 
 score, but not enough to make this game not playable, because the fact is you'll be spending more 
 time in the new environments and listening to the new lines anyway. A must buy if you purchased 
 and liked the previous game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 6, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  So after the first one hit the market Sam and Max came out with a new game Sam and Max situation 
 Comedy
  
  In this game you see all your favorite guys again with some new people. This time your introduced 
 to Hugh Bliss and Colorful happy celebrity. Myra who is a rip off of Oprah. A stage director, and 
 Mr. featherly. In this game you need to investigate a hypno Bear who is apparently Hypnotizing 
 Myra and her studio guest. Sam and Max must do what ever it takes to defeat that Bear! They must 
 be the winner of a game show, Make a cooking video, star in a sitcom to go on Myra's show to destroy 
 the Hypno bear,
  This game is good but it does not do much to make it different from the first one. Also i believe 
 this one is shorter then the first and its not as hard.
  
  Overall its good but could have been better
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: its not as challenging 
 or fun as the first one but still is creative
  Graphics: Every time will be an 8 just because they use the same engine and it looks just as good 
 as the first
  Sound: Funny but some of the conversations are recycled from the first but still funny
  Value: 
 same price as the first first is better
  Overall: nice follow up but it lacked a little 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deukalion-
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 16, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Okay I was pretty pleased with the first episode of Sam &amp; Max but I can only tell you so far 
 that I haven't felt anything in particular that made this episode anything at all.
  
  First of all the scenary is exactly the same - the three main places you can go to is unchanged 
 and feel a little uninspired this time around. Another thing I felt great disappointment in is 
 that jokes are also recycled. Everytime you click on that Lava lamp Max tells you the same joke 
 even though the story takes place 2 months afterwards.
  
  Anyhow, this is just minior stuff that don't make it unplayable . You can still enjoy it and it's 
 good as long as it last.
  
  The story is about a TV-Host that gone nuts and is holding her audience hostage - which feels a 
 little dumb and once again uninspired. And the things are pretty similar to the first one - you 
 have to get something from Bosco (a guy at the inconvience store ) and help the psychatrist to 
 find an alien. It's not really a challenge that way because you've almost done it before.
  
  Another thing I like to point out is - did they change the actor's voice for Max or is it just 
 me? It feels like the voice of Max isn't the same even though he's lines aren't any diffrent from 
 Episode 1 due to the jokes that goes again.
  
  Finally, this game is about Sam &amp; Max so it's without doubt playable to say the least. I hope 
 that Episode 3 and hopefully the other two feels diffrent from this one and that they drop the 
 whole do it again scenario. It's feel to stupid. It feels like replaying the first game all over 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Sam and Max Episode One was very fun and made me laugh a lot but it was way too short (2-3 hours 
 to beat) . This problem is the same in Episode Two and it even adds to a new problem by using old 
 environments instead of new settings. I couldn't look past this and seeing as I paid for more laughs 
 I did get them but the feeling I had done it all before was there. As with before you can save 
 anywhere and the laughs are plentiful but this time the new problems of Done it before and short 
 gameplay are even more prominent. This episode isn't special and could be missed or summarized 
 if you download the demo but for less than $10 it's hard to complain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tobias1701d
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 28, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Bienvenidos nuevamente para todos los que han le&iacute; do mis rese&ntilde; as anteriores tanto 
 del primer capitulo como del juego original sabr&aacute; n que soy gran fan&aacute; tico de Sam &amp; 
 Max, pero vamos a lo bueno la rese&ntilde; a.
  
  En cuanto a la trama:
  
  El juego continua con las aventuras se Sam &amp; Max polic&iacute; a independiente, en esta segunda 
 entrega los protagonistas deber&aacute; n resolver un misterio en un estudio de TV en donde una 
 presentadora a tomado al publico de reh&eacute; n en su programa desde hace 3 d&iacute; as ya, pero 
 para poder entrar en su programa y rescatarlo necesitamos ser famososas&iacute; que tendremos 
 3 pruebas para superar que son otros 3 programas de la cadena: 1 Midtown cowboys , 2 la copia 
 a quien quiere ser millonario (solo que con un nombre mas gracioso) y 3 la copia de american 
 idol con Max como Simon (y con todos sus comentarios sarc&aacute; sticos) (MUY BIEN!!! Telltale) 
 y para poder estar en esos programas necesitamos demostrarle a la directora del estudio que somos 
 buenos actores.
  
  En cuanto a lo t&eacute; cnico:
  
  El juego se siente mas corto que el capitulo anterior pero eso es porque casi todo el juego transcurre 
 en el estudio de TV pero este capitulo tiene mas secuencias animadas que el anterior (a Sam tocando 
 el banjo) (a Max matando a Sam porque tiene rabia) (Sam nos canta una canci&oacute; n de c&oacute; mo 
 su novia lo enga&ntilde; a con otro) (Sam &amp; Max envueltos en un esc&aacute; ndalo sexual con 
 extraterrestres) y mucho, mucho mas
  
  Conclusi&oacute; n:
  
  Si te gusto el capitulo anterior entonces debes jugar este juego o si eras fan&aacute; tico de las 
 aventuras graficas de los 80-90s de Lucas Arts entonces dale una oportunidad al retorno de Sam 
 &amp; Max polic&iacute; a independiente 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phenix3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Hello fellow game spot friends,
  I have alwas been a huge adventure game fan, keeping monkey island, broken sword and of course 
 sam and max close to my gaming heart.
  
  I will just say a few pros, cons of ep2.
  
  pros- The games voice work is superb, ( but the voice for max is different to ep1) The game itself 
 is very VERY funny, i played through and there wasnt a 2minute period where i didnt have a laugh. 
 Graphics, plain as they are still make you think damn, thats nice, the detail in the world itself 
 is great, i did not see any clipping polys or textures that made me think, what are you doing,
 
  
  Cons- I honestly cant think of any, i guess the only 1 is when your in the tv studio the puzzles 
 can be a little hard, if you fail on the tv show, you must do it all over again.
  
  Thanks all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AhmenHabek
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  The game look pretty, is very stable, no crashes. Only a few minor bugs for example max dissapearing 
 when you walk (he walks the other way) .
  
  Great sound, great voice acting, great sound effects....
  
  Gameplay is fun, you wanna be able 
 to finnish it and see what happens.
  
  Its easy. Its short. Very poor replay value.. Maybe in acouple years you might wanna replay it.
 
  
  It would have been so much more awesome if they redid Sam and max : Hit the road... just maybe 
 a few more tricks and effects.. But that would be great since most people havent played S&amp; M: Hit 
 the road in a very long time.
  
  Anyway its nice game, i like it. I played it once now i want to play the next episode... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Episodic content has had plenty of opinions, but there has been no title that has delivered such 
 content consistently and as planned that allows a meaningful assessment. Half Life 2 is continually 
 delayed and Sin Episodes all but disappeared completely. However, Sam and Max appears to be in 
 place to deliver the promised content on schedule. The best way to described Sam and Max - Episode 
 2: Situation Comedy is more of the same. The same colourful graphics, the same wacky humour, the 
 same (on the whole) relatively straightforward puzzles and the same length - being painfully short. 
 It stills results in a couple of entertaining hours in front of the PC monitor, but I personally 
 hope there is a twist in the approach or the gameplay in the upcoming episodes.
  
  On this occasion, Sam and Max have to deal with TV personality Myra Stump, a verbose talk show 
 host who has decided that her show is so good the audience cannot leave. Sam and Max need to free 
 audience, however getting to this show (down) means playing cameo (i. e short) appearances in a variety 
 of other off-kilter TV shows set in the same ailing station. This requires solving puzzles that 
 rarely leap beyond standard logic, dialogue with a number of NPC's and plenty of wacky humour along 
 the way.
  
  The graphics and the sound are pretty much identical to episode one, which was pretty good. The 
 cartoon graphics bring back memories of watching Scooby Doo and The Amazing Man as a child and 
 there are a few more locations than the last game. They are not complicated, but the look particularly 
 fine. The sound remains a very strong feature, with quality voice acting, wonderfully understated 
 background music and other appropriate background effects.
  
  The gameplay remains solid and enjoyable adventure gaming fare. There are more locations and NPC's 
 to deal with, but it's almost feels 'tour bus' like as you are literally pushed from one location 
 to the next after you have completed a (sometimes elementary) puzzle and secured the relevant inventory 
 item. And this is a pity, because there are some excellent scenarios and surely it would not have 
 taken that much time to add extra gaming content into these locations.
  
  Sam and Max continue to deliver clever dialogue and some of the new NPC's, particularly Hugh Bliss, 
 are a real laugh. The story also delivers some clever parody on contemporary television content. 
 However, there is almost a 'been there, done that' feeling by the time the end credits roll. However, 
 Sam does make reference to an issue that appears to link the episodes together, but here's hoping 
 we may get some different content or a deviation in the gameplay approach in upcoming episodes. 
 Considering Episode 3 is out next week, the wait wont be too long.
  
  Episode 2 would be lucky to clear two hours in game length. I was only stuck in one particular 
 area, and trial and error with dialogue and inventory items sorted that one out pretty quickly. 
 As stated, it is shorter even though there are more locations, which does suggest it is a whirlwind 
 tour through the gaming environment.
  
  I received my copy of Episode 2 as part of the 'season package', so a cost of $US5.95 is reasonable 
 enough to me. My wife will probably play it too, so there is a bit of extra value.
  
  Sam and Max Episode 2: Situation Comedy is an enjoyable experience for half an evening. It takes 
 the same amount of time as a contemporary movie and provides the same amount of enjoyment as a 
 good movie. However, there are hints of 'retread' though there is also a hint of a higher motive 
 for the series in general. The episodic content is being delivered on time and with clever content, 
 though if there are not some new ideas or extra content by, say, Episode 4, the series could lose 
 the appeal it has in place at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatatlantic
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Full disclosure: I never played the original Sam and Max. Its certainly on my to do list, but until 
 then I'm coming into the Sam and Max genre as an outsider. I can't tell you how much Episdoe 2: 
 Situation Comedy lives up to the original Lucas Arts classic, but I can tell you how well it lives 
 up to last year's Episode 1: Culture Shock. Both came free with my subscription to Gametap, so 
 I figured I might as well enjoy them.
  
  Situation Comedy starts out with Sam and Max recieving a phone call from the Commissioner detailing 
 this episode's challenge: a TV talk show host is holding her audience captive (literally, they 
 can't leave the studio) and forcing them to endure her gifts and tirades. In order to get on the 
 set to stop her, Sam and Max are going to have to star in a wide variety of low budget TV shows, 
 including Who doesn't want to be a millionaire? and Embarassing Idol . Sound wacky? The whole game 
 is that way. Playing the first episode while not strictly necessary, will help you be in on a lot 
 more jokes and understand the overarching narrative better. The puzzles are still relatively easy, 
 and mostly serve as filler for the game's dialogue and wacky situations. The game looks appropriately 
 cartoony and the voice actors deliver an all around solid job with delivering their deadpan lines. 
 While it lacks some of the features associated with next-gen gaming (HDR, shader effects, whatever) , 
 the game looks fine. Levels are somewhat small, though, and even with a 3.2 ghz processor and a 
 gig of RAM I still had noticeable delays in going from area to area. These only lasted a few seconds, 
 though, and really don't distract from the game.
  
  The first few minutes of gameplay are going to have players expierencing Deja Vu. The office is 
 the same set as episode 1, with mostly the same comments upon observing various objects. However, 
 Sybil has a new job and Bosco has a new paranoia that leaves him posing as British. You even have 
 to play the car chase minigame again, only with a slight twist. Upon arriving at the studio, however, 
 the game shows you mostly new content. Some characters are back, such as the Soda Poppers, but 
 there are at least three new faces, including a chicken trained to do Shakesperean theater and 
 a producer able to defy the laws of physics. Apparently, almost the entire studio workforce slipped 
 in to watch the talk show, and are now trapped there as well, leaving just a few people to do the 
 actual work. This is where you come in, to become the actors for the studio's productions as there 
 is no one else available.
  
  One of the things that make Episode 2 better is that American TV is such a great and ripe target 
 for parody. With the rise of reality TV, some of the stuff previewed (I hope no one actually watches 
 it) is weirder then what any comedic writer could hope to achieve. As such, starring on a cooking 
 show where you mix random household ingredients such as uranium or red paint chip and end up creating 
 a casserole (the previous show host got food poisoning) is good fun. Furthermore, the dialogue 
 and events are better paced then the original, with less back and forth and dead time. As such, 
 you skip from show to show enjoying good laughs all the way. In addition, the end game finally 
 hints at a plot that will combine all the episodes together.
  
  Unfortunately, its over all to soon. I timed myself while playing it and it took me exactly 2 hours 
 with no help from walkthroughs or the like. However, since I got it for free (I'm paying for Gametap 
 anyways) and get another episode this January, I don't mind the short length. Its episodic content 
 done right. However, if you don't want a Gametap membership ($10 a month, less if you purchase 
 a package plan) , then you're looking at spending $8 for a 2 hour game with no replay value. Hard 
 to justify it under those conditions. Still, its a great fun to play and there is not much else 
 like it in gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 10, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I recently decided to go for the 26 dollar deal that telltale was giving to get the whole season 
 of episodes since i already had the first one. I found this episode to be actually somewhat challenging 
 at certain parts but mostly involving trial and error. The game is well written and the dialouge 
 is usually great. I thought the whole midtown cowboys part very funny. The story behind this one 
 is that a talk show host has kept some of her guests captive for 3 days and sam and max have to 
 get her to release the hostages.. But like the first some mind control is goin on. Im not sure 
 why this one is getting lower reviews than the first because this one is just as good or a little 
 better than the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowgomoo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I took a chance with Telltale Games and purchased the entire season of Sam and Max. So far the 
 first two episodes have not disappointed.
  
  This episode of Sam and Max sounds, looks, plays and smells exactly like the first episode but 
 it has a different story. Being a fan of the original Sam and Max Hit the Road, I feel they have 
 captured the humor very well. The new voice actors have also grown on me.
  
  If you are reading this you are probably aware that this set of Sam and Max games are sold by episodes. 
 You can purchase them one at a time or all at once with the promise of a CD after they are all 
 out. Episodic content is not for everyone. I happen to enjoy getting little morsels of content 
 every so often. Most reviewers complain that the game is too short. When looked at individually, 
 yes, they are short. But once all of the episodes are put together , they will make for a very 
 reasonable adventure game.
  
  If you are a casual gamer who is looking for a funny adventure game, you should consider Sam and 
 Max. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Telltale games second installment of the Sam and Max series continues the well told and hilarious 
 antics of the pair of freelance police. If you played the first game you will find the second game 
 to be very familiar in the way you will play it, this can be good and bad. The good thing is that 
 it is still very funny with excellent voice acting and graphic comedy. The game is colorful and 
 interesting. The bad is that the game play seems even shorter than the first game. Since you already 
 know what to do in the game all of the introductory puzzles are removed and you are left with a 
 fun, but short game. There wasn't anything amazingly new about this installment, and many things 
 were recycled from the first game. Overall if you liked the first game you will still probably 
 have fun with this one, but if you are like me you are hoping that Telltale will raise the bar 
 on the third episode, or this series might find itself dead before its time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtthies
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I recognize that episodic content is a game form of fast-food. Cheap, abbreviated, rarely satisfying 
 and slightly nauseating, in which case TTG hit the nail on the head with this one.
  
  Multiple game play errors (crashes, lock-ups, portions of the game where the characters would become 
 stuck) , a 1.5 hour total playing time, puzzles of incredibly simple difficulty and even a plot-line 
 that was VERY reminiscent of the first adventure left me feeling unsatisfied (even at the $10 price-tag) .
 
  
  The heart-breaking thing is that I'm a fan of the genre (Escape from Monkey Isle!) but I won't 
 be purchasing another episode of Sam and Max. Too light on the things that it should be heavy on, 
 too heavy on the things that drown and disable the game.
  
  Summary: Skip this one and if you insist on keeping up with the franchise, do your homework episode 
 by episode before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMJR
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Episode 2 of the Telltale Games Sam &amp; Max series has arrived, with mild fanfare, but right 
 on time. Sam &amp; Max: Situation Comedy sets our intrepid freelance police on their latest case.
 
  
  -- Overview --
  
  This second episode is no less wacky than the last: stop a talk-show host with verbal diarrhea 
 and an insatiable urge to give away unwanted prizes to her audience, whom she hasn't allowed to 
 leave her TV Studio for 3 days solid.
  
  A bit of a rickety plot? This will likely bother people less than the length of gameplay. 2 hours 
 to complete this episode, 3 tops if you explore every line of dialogue and look at every object. 
 This will no doubt disappoint many, and have them crossing their fingers that Telltale will have 
 more to offer in the next round.
  
  The humour is still there. Sam &amp; Max engage in repartee; Sam making astounding declarations 
 including berries and kitchen implements, Max delivering one liners relating to unique methods 
 of death and dismemberment. And, of course, obligatory (and ironical) opportunities for cheating 
 and breaking the law.
  
  But somehow, the game falls flat despite its standard recipe for humour. Perhaps related to its 
 short run-time, but more likely to the game's inability to develop the wacky characters you're 
 meeting along the way; few though they are. Some are even recycled. It seems the humour just starts 
 to pick up, and then that character is removed from the story.
  
  And it does not help that the story itself is weak. And the puzzles distinctly linear and far too 
 easy for the veteran adventure gamer. Very rarely will you find yourself stuck; and if you do, 
 you are often presented with so few options a little trial and error will get you going again.
 
  
  The gameplay itself is not inherently different. You still chase bad guys in your car, which felt 
 less inspired this time around than the last. And you will still ultimately point and click your 
 way to victory. Which, though this is billed as a point-and-click adventure game, feels a bit of 
 a cop-out when the world around Sam &amp; Max seems rich enough for more elevated levels of adventuring 
 entertainment. More action would not be remiss.
  
  -- Graphics &amp; Sound --
  
  The graphics engine is the same as the previous episode. If you set the video resolution to 1600x1200, 
 you may become suddenly aware of how pixelated any textures containing text appear. Among others. 
 Inflated textures make this resolution, though supported, and unappealing choice.
  
  Additionally, those with widescreen monitors will be disappointed. Your choices are 800x600, 1024x768 
 and 1600x1200. A meager offering in today's world of 3D gaming.
  
  One of the shining points of the Sam &amp; Max series, so far, has been the voice acting. The characters 
 are all very distinct, and match their appearance near perfectly every time. What is most impressive 
 is the surprisingly few number of voice actors listed when the credits roll; a testament to their 
 versatility.
  
  -- Conclusion --
  
  Telltale Games' decision to create episodic adventures for the dynamic duo of Sam &amp; Max is 
 certainly a gamble, and it will be some time before we now if it pays off. This particular series 
 is already starting to show some problems with this concept, unfortunately in episode 2 of 6. Especially 
 related to length of play and depth of plot.
  
  Sam &amp; Max are certainly loveable characters on their own, but Telltale may have to mix things 
 up more than they'd like if they intend to keep this series running without tripping over its own 
 feet. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
