-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sam & Max Episode 105: Reality 2.0
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/sammaxepisode5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Inventive premise with funny situations.
 great dialogue and voice acting.
 continues the episodic storyline nicely.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Just as you feel like you're getting into it, the episode is over.
 most of the puzzles are fairly easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 209 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GameTap
Developer: Telltale Games
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Mar 29, 2007

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While you'd probably be lost if you came in this late to the series, the fifth episode of Sam & 
 Max is sharp and funny, more so than the previous installments. 

  The fifth episode of Telltale's Sam &amp; Max adventure series sees the dog and rabbit detective 
 team taking on the most insidious enemy of all: the Internet. The previous four episodes have all 
 had to do with some criminal mastermind hypnotizing people. This time around, the hypnotic device 
 is a set of virtual-reality goggles that transports the user into an unfinished massively multiplayer 
 online style of game called Reality 2.0. With some great twists and the most inventive premise 
 of the season so far, Reality 2.0 continues the storyline in style.  

          These obsolete machines play a key role in your quest to stop the Internet.     

  One 
 of the problems with the previous episodes is that a lot of the basic dialogue, especially the 
 jokes used for items that are in every single episode, didn't change between episodes. The same 
 "not'chos" joke was in multiple episodes, and while it was funny the first time, it's disappointing 
 that it didn't change. Episode 5 changes all of that dialogue, with new jokes for old items. This, 
 alone, makes Reality 2.0 feel extremely fresh when compared to the past three episodes. Beyond 
 that, the basic structure is the same. You receive a call from the commissioner, who tells you 
 about this episode's problem. Then you try to go to that location to fix it. The catch is that 
 the location is the Internet, which uses Reality 2.0 in a misguided attempt to improve the lives 
 of humans (as well as dogs and rabbits) but actually hypnotizes anyone that comes in contact with 
 it. However, Sam and Max do not get hypnotized because if you've been playing along for the past 
 several months, you know that these guys are immune to hypnosis.  

  Reality 2.0 exists as a cyberspace-enhanced version of reality, so you'll be venturing into Bosco's 
 and Sybil's, just like you do in every other episode, but this time you'll get two versions of 
 every location: a real-world version and a Reality 2.0 version. Some puzzles require you to manipulate 
 objects in both versions of a location. Overall, the puzzles in this installment are some of the 
 best and most rewarding of the entire series, including a crazy twist ending that's both funny 
 and expertly crafted.  

  Because this is the fifth episode in a six-part season, chances are you've already made up your 
 mind about playing Sam &amp; Max. Nearing the end of the first set of episodes, it's become increasingly 
 clear that this is an all-or-nothing sort of deal. Coming in at this point, without playing the 
 episodes leading up to this one, wouldn't be nearly as rewarding. While there's a great deal of 
 repetition among many of the episodes, including an abundance of recycled locations and items, 
 the jokes and the story make it all worthwhile.  

  Sam &amp; Max: Reality 2.0 may be the best individual episode in the series, but what it really 
 does is validate a lot of the work leading up to it. You get the feeling that there's a good payoff 
 planned for the end of the season. At this point, you could go back and download all of the individual 
 episodes, but we feel comfortable saying that you should just spring for the entire season -- if 
 you haven't already. With its solid puzzle design and terrific sense of humor, this is a strong 
 adventure series that is better if taken as a whole rather than as individual episodes that can 
 be burned through in just a couple of hours. However, that number increases dramatically if you 
 decide to just sit in Bosco's and click on the "hot rump" over and over again.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  The Sam and Max Season One series has received a bit of a makeover for Episode 5. With some new 
 locations, a set of new jokes and some refreshing departures from the format used earlier in the 
 season, this episode is really what the season needed. Add to that a decent storyline and some 
 nifty puzzles to solve; it could well be the best in the series to date.
  
  In this episode Sam and Max (still the President of the U. S. A and issuing edicts that will bring 
 a laugh or two) are out to neutralise the biggest system on the planet  the internet. The theme 
 of non bona-fide hypnotism continues with folk hither and yon being addicted to Reality 2.0 through 
 the use of psychedelic goggles. This phenomenon is causing havoc in the real world (by means unknown, 
 other than rendering good folk unproductive in their day-to-day duties) and its up to the Dog 
 and Rabbit to close it down. This means trips into Reality 2.0 and other locations previously unseen.
 
  
  The graphics remain stylish and cartoon-like with the usual locations looking the same and set 
 pieces being well executed. However, the regular trips into Reality 2.0 give this episode a new 
 look and feel. Its not that its a completely new environment, more that its different and entertaining. 
 All the favourite characters are back, and the COPS will bring back memories to us older folk. 
 It all looks fine.
  
  The voice acting again leads the way in a strong sound presentation, with Sam and Max trading one-liners 
 and other gags between themselves and with other characters, with Bosco in particular throwing 
 up some particularly good lines. The environment music and effects is similar to previous episodes, 
 however Reality 2.0 has its own set of new sounds which is also a refreshing changes. The COPS, 
 again, are worth listening and talking to and their theme song is almost worth the price of admission 
 alone.
  
  The game itself is standard yet enjoyable Sam and Max adventure gaming for most of the part, 
 but the new environment and new gags make a world of difference. The puzzles are logical and not 
 overly difficult to solve but there are a few that are very rewarding with the end result, including 
 dishing up Jimmy Two Teeth and the warped look of the characters as you are required to alter Reality 
 2.0 to ultimately bring it down. All characters play a part with Sybil, Jimmy, Hugh Bliss and a 
 re-incarnation of Myra Stump, however Bosco provides some solid laughs while taking a good hearted 
 swipe (as the game in general perhaps does) at the MMORPG genre.
  
  Another bonus to Episode 5 is a complete new set of jokes to be explored in the dialogue tree. 
 The original gags were great in episode one, but they never really changed until now. So get on 
 down to Boscos and ask what he has for sale. Sam and Max trade some very funny lines as they work 
 through the Episode and new characters (this is the third time Ive mentioned the Cops) provide 
 some extra novelty to the game.
  
  Its unlikely that you will be stumped too often (I was on one occasion, but the usual trial and 
 error sorted that out) with the more obtuse puzzles being on the right side illogical. However, 
 the game is only a couple of hours old by the time youve done most of your work and are catapulted 
 into that mastery old gaming genre, the text adventure. Its another welcome addition to the series 
 and will bring a smile to the faces of all who played classics like Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy 
 and The Secret of Bastow Manor. Again, it doesnt take too long to solve, but its new and its 
 enjoyable.
  
  At $US6.95 for the episode (if purchased as a whole season) this is gaming at a decent price. The 
 Episode also sets things up very nicely for finale (with the moon beaming through Sam and Maxs 
 window at the end of it all) and I am looking forward to that episode. The whole game would be 
 no longer than three hours, which includes exploring all of the dialogue trees during the game. 
 Go on; listen to all four verses of the COPS theme song.
  
  Id mentioned in Episode Three that I thought the series may have been on the skids, but its well 
 and truly back on track now. Its amazing what a fresh coat of paint and a bunch of new gags can 
 do. It may be pretty hard to appreciate the qualitative additions that this episode presents if 
 you havent played the previous quartet, but in any event, Sam and Max: Episode Five is worth an 
 evening of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  By now we have established that the main theme of the season is hypnotics and that slowly the story 
 is building up. In this penultimate episode, the story is nearly at the end. A pair of virtual-reality 
 goggles that lets you into a massively multiplayer online game called Reality 2.0 is the hypnotic 
 device this time around. The enemy? The internet. Reality 2.0 is the best game in the season so 
 far, if only for its genius storyline.
  
  The problem with the last two episodes is that the speech and environments were being reused over 
 and over. Telltale have now listened to their fans and have recorded fresh new dialogue for this 
 game when you click on things in places like the office and Bosco's store, which although not exactly 
 the biggest feature, really does make the game more enjoyable to play through.
  
  Reality 2.0 is exactly the same as reality (hence the title) , but in a digital world. This means 
 you'll get to visit familiar places such as Bosco and Sybil's in reality and in its virtual counterpart. 
 Puzzles have to be solved by getting items from each version of the location, which makes them 
 more interesting. The puzzles are also slightly more challenging then they have been before, which 
 fans have been asking for. You will also meet people you've met in previous games in the virtual 
 reality world, which is neat.
  
  This time the humour is at its best. There are some really great nods to certain things, such as 
 when you have to have a fight with some slime or when you find out what Bosco is doing in the virtual 
 world. You have to take your hat off to the voice actors who have retained such brilliance throughout 
 the whole season.
  
  Sam and Max: Reality 2.0 is the best game of the season so far and has set a high level to beat 
 for the next episode, which will obviously hold some big secret or revelation regarding the hypnotic 
 storyline. Sam and Max Season 1 has certainly been a good season so far, but Reality 2.0 makes 
 it even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 6, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok if you read my other reviews you see me disappointed in the follow up 3 games for the Sam and 
 Max series. But this time however they have answered my plees and give me a great Sam and Max game 
 that feels Different and refreshing!
  
  This game starts out with a new virtual Reality game that puts you into and different Virtual surroundings. 
 You find someone finally in Leftys old shop its a bunch of old technology that made this game. 
 You are then given a pair of goggles and sent to this virtual reality. In this there are a bunch 
 of different stuff then your used to seeing like a Myra guard Guarding the Mailbox and a Pop up 
 blocker hiding the Jack in the box. You also encounter the Internet who is hypnotizing people in 
 staying in the game. Like Bosco and Sybil. Its a real funny Parody on games such as Mario, Final 
 Fantasy, and text adventure games. Yes there is a section in the game where you have to type and 
 text your way out of the virtual Reality. It shows us how far gaming has become! It also makes 
 fun of the internet and this game has a bunch of new stuff finally and the voice acting is really 
 funny. This game also has appearances from Myra, Hugh Bliss aka the Internet Wizard, the hypno 
 bear and features new guys such as the COPS the internet.
  
  Overall This game brings the game something i been wanting in these games after episode 1 and its 
 the best Sam and Max game i played! Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: Very interesting Puzzles and you have to use both Virtual and Real Reality to solve them.
 
  Graphics: Wait for it Wait for it..........8!!
  Sound: Its very funny and its new so we don't get bored!
  Value: its longer for a Sam and Max 
 but the price is cheap!
  Overall: My favorite Sam and Max so far and its great to play and a must play for Sam and Max players 
 new and old! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 16, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Although not substantially longer, this episode of Sam and Max feels much more complete due to 
 some much changed scenery and new things to interact with. The puzzles seemed much more challenging 
 and interesting this time around as well as the variety of things to accomplish. Everything that 
 was right about this game has remained the same, the fabulous voice acting and comic writing, as 
 well as the unique visual styling. Although this game looks as if it would be made for children 
 the comic style is very adult with humor that goes above and beyond the average bathroom humor. 
 This pair of almost police work so well together even the most mundane of actions becomes fun. 
 Overall a wonderful game that hopefully has a conclusion worthy of the series so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Pirtu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  When Telltale Games released the Sam and Max Episode 5 a few days early for all the Season One 
 customers, I was filled with joy. The series has been a very good bunch of concentrated humor, 
 available on semi-regular bases. I had especially loved the last instalment, Abe Lincoln Must Die. 
 My only regret was, that I was far too busy to play it right away.
  
  However, when I first started playing the game, I noticed two things. First, most of the dialog 
 referred to the previous episodes. So much, in fact, that I doubt you'd get most of the story unless 
 you've played the previous ones. This seemed a bit odd to me at first, given that all the previous 
 games have been relatively stand-alone, in therms of the story.
  
  Second this I noticed was a bit more delightful one. In the previous episodes, much of the descriptions 
 you get from various items in reoccurring places have been, even tough quite entertaining, pretty 
 much unchanging since the first episode. In this episode, how ever, you had a whole new bunch of 
 laugh waiting all around you. I have to admit that I didn't try every single item I could find, 
 but among the ones I did test, I do not recall hearing even one old joke.
  
  Playing through the game was pretty smooth process. Even tough you didn't always know what exactly 
 you were supposed to do, there was always something you could get done. I did not get stuck even 
 once, although I did notice a couple of puzzles that, had I not gotten the trick first time around, 
 might have caused me some trouble.
  
  The audiovisual side of the game hasn't changed at all. The animation is still pretty smooth and 
 graphics, even tough quite plain, were good. The sound track hasn't changed at all, so it's a good 
 thing that the background music doesn't bother you even tough you'd have to listen to it for a 
 long time.
  
  That is, until you step into the Reality 2.0, where the graphics get a new look. The graphic engine 
 itself does not change, naturally, but there are different kinds of textures, effects and much 
 more animations around. I have noticed that some people do not like this look, but I found it quite 
 appropriate in this virtual world. Kinda reminded me of Tron. The soundtrack also gets a new, more 
 electronic feel to it. Although the compositions remain pretty much the same, they got much more 
 of a remix of a classic 8-bit game music -feel in them. The voice acting does not change, even 
 in Reality 2.0. It's solid. There are a couple of over the top character that some may find annoying, 
 but I find fitting in the environment.
  
  All in all, I'm really not sure what to think of this game. It was lots of fun, but only for a 
 short period of time. But then again, given how much the story depends on the previous episodes, 
 you probably don't want to get this particular episode as the first and/or only one you'll purchase. 
 And should you want the play the previous episodes, you'll probably end up buying the whole season 
 pack and then you'll be getting this game anyhow. That said, I guess the game's worth the money, 
 for even tough it is short, it is a solid piece of entertainment, that should keep you amused for 
 a few hours. Worth the about 6$ you have invested in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Its nearing the end of the 6 episode season.. Only one left after this one and while alot of sites 
 are saying this is one of the best ones I didnt like it quite as much as some of the other ones, 
 mainly because the graphics in the reality 2.0 setting gave me a slight headache.. They look somewhat 
 like what you would think a virtual reality world might look like.. There are some pretty good 
 puzzles in this one but none too difficult. Getting past the highway firewall gave me a problem 
 but I knew it was something simple i was missing so I looked it up :/ There are quite a few homages 
 to games of the past, like the old turn based rpgs on the consoles and some mario coins. I dont 
 think I should say it here because its a spoiler to those who havent played it yet but near the 
 end its a very cool idea the type of game they use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HieroHero
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 12:41 am PT
Review:  Episode 5 continues Telltales successful run with Sam and Max. They are taking these characters 
 further and further into funny situations and bizarre worlds. This episodes displays a tremendous 
 sense of creativity and a world of fun. The game is well designed, it looks great and it plays 
 well. I'm really looking forward to each episode's release and it's a pity season 1 ends in less 
 than a month. I can't say too much about the game because it will give away the best jokes and 
 a lot of the puzzles. All I can say is purchase season 1, this will be the most laughs you get 
 out of a video game in many, many years. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
