-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sam & Max Episode 106: Bright Side of the Moon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/samandmaxepisode6brightsideofthemoon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A good end to the season.
 The great voice cast is given good dialogue to work with.
 Good puzzle design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Feels like it's over too quickly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 30, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.1, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 182 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GameTap
Developer: Telltale Games
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Apr 26, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Episode 6 ends Sam & Max season one on a high note by maintaining the great sense of humor and good 
 puzzle design that you've seen in previous installments. 

  Bright Side of the Moon is the sixth and final episode of Sam &amp; Max season one, an episodic 
 series of adventure games based on comic-book characters Sam (a dog) and Max (officially known 
 as a "hyperkinetic rabbity thing") . The team has gotten into some interesting trouble along the 
 way, and this sixth and final episode wraps things up nicely. If you've been playing along over 
 the past five episodes, you're obviously going to want to know how it ends, and, overall, it ends 
 pretty well.  

          And now, the stunning conclusion of... Sam &amp; Max season one.     

  The episodes 
 leading up to this final encounter have all dealt with different forms of hypnosis. Here, in the 
 finale, you're finally clued in as to who the mastermind behind all these world-enslaving schemes 
 is, and you must travel to the moon (in your Desoto, naturally) to stop him. There are plenty of 
 laughs to be found, plenty of returning characters, and the puzzles in this installment are pretty 
 interesting, making this a fitting end to the season-one story arc. The only real negative about 
 this installment is that it feels shorter than some of the others, and it's awfully straightforward. 
 You know who you need to take on right at the beginning of the episode, you take him on (after 
 making a love connection between the disembodied head of an Abe Lincoln statue and the new queen 
 of Canada) , and then it's case closed.  

  Of course, if you were to look at this as an individual product, and not a part of something bigger, 
 you would be completely lost. More than the previous episodes, this one requires that you know 
 what's happened up to this point to understand the story and get the most out of the humor. However, 
 this isn't a bad thing per se, because it's just a factor of this being an episodic series. At 
 this point, if you're new to the series, you're better off buying the entire season and playing 
 it start to finish. You'll get a substantial discount by buying the whole season all at once, and 
 you'll get roughly what you'd expect to get out of a proper retail release, though some of the 
 repeated jokes between the earlier episodes and the constant reuse of certain characters and locations 
 might make powering through all six episodes in a row a little less impactful.  

  Regardless of how you take it in, Sam &amp; Max season one has been a successful series up to this 
 point due to its great voice acting, compelling puzzle design, and outstanding sense of humor. 
 Fans of adventure games who may have been wary of the potential pitfalls of episodic releases or 
 the fairly annoying GameTap-first release schedule of the episodes should check this series out, 
 especially now that you know that, yes, this is a complete story once you get to the end of this 
 episode.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Sam and Max return for the final episode of Season One and it is a fitting way for the series to 
 end. Some extra locations, some more new gags and the themes of the episodes being tidily wrapped 
 up ensures that the season ends on a solid note.
  
  Episode Six discloses upfront who is behind all the dastardly hypnosis based scallywaggery of the 
 previous episodes and that you need to travel to the moon to take that person on. Youll still 
 need to spend a bit of time at Mother Earth to finally defeat this evil, evil soul which will involve 
 continued interaction with some of the seasons anchor characters. There are the standard puzzles 
 to solve and interaction to be had with the characters (as well as the jab and retort dialogue 
 of Sam and Max) before the final showdown.
  
  The graphics remain their usual cartoon-like and colourful self. The new locations on the moon 
 are a welcome addition to the usual haunts and nearly all the characters of the series have an 
 encore appearance. The moon side retreat looks like a hippys version of Disneyland and there are 
 some truly humourous sight gags along the way.
  
  The voice acting has been a forte of the series and it continues with this episode with the cast 
 delivering a lot of quality (and humourous) dialogue. There are quite a few new dialogue trees 
 to explore, the background music that has been used for the series remains in place and the usual 
 array of environmental effects. It all sounds as strong as ever.
  
  The gameplay remains standard adventure fare, with some thoughtful (if not overly challenging) 
 puzzles to solve before confronting the antagonist of the series. Some of the puzzles may have 
 a similar feel to previous episodes  perhaps because they take place in the same locations. You 
 still need to get an important item from Bosco (dressed as his mother) which will costs millions 
 to advance and you also need to woo Sybil (now the Queen of Canada) . There are few evil Maxs to 
 take on along the way and a game of Tic-Tac-Toe with the aggressive COP before the final showdown. 
 Sam gets some pretty nifty powers to use to help solve other puzzles. These puzzles make sense 
 without being too difficult and will require backtracking to other locations
  
  However there are plenty of laughs along the way with some quality gags and some interesting scenarios. 
 Yes, I did try and put Jimmy Two Teeth in the microwave oven and Sams response was priceless. 
 Abe moaning about his new romantic interest is also worth listening to and think about the things 
 you can do with a hacksaw in your hand! The banter between Sam and Max (as well as Maxs wicked 
 streak responses to some of the scenarios presented) will also provide plenty of laughs along the 
 way.
  
  It will only take three hours or so to complete this episode but it is good fun all the way, including 
 right through the ending credits where Max gets his big red boxing glove and basically socks anyone 
 who has been a thorn in his side during the episodes. It works out at about $US6 for the episode, 
 which is decent value for money for the gaming on offer, especially if viewed from the entire season 
 perspective.
  
  Episode Six ensures that the entire season does have a genuine ending and provides an enjoyable 
 slab of adventure gaming along the way. To be honest, theres probably not a lot of meaning if 
 this episode is played on its own and I do recommend the season as a whole. It provides 15-18 hours 
 of gaming for around $US30. Ive enjoyed it, I like the episodic content that provides short, sharp 
 busts of gaming and Ill be starting Season Two next months when its released. Thats a strong 
 a recommendation as I can make. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 2, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Sam and Max Season 1 has had ups and downs throughout the season, but Bright Side of the Moon ends 
 on a positive note. Everything you've come to expect from the season is here; funny jokes, interesting 
 storylines and brilliant voice acting. This game wraps up all the loose ends in the story line 
 and does it really well.
  
  In the final game you get to find out who has been hypnotising everyone (early on in the game) 
 and you must travel to the moon in your trusty Desoto to stop this evil person! There are many 
 returning characters from the previous episodes which although might sound tiresome and cheap, 
 works really well and fits into the story. There are some great new locations (obviously, since 
 you're on the moon!) and the voice acting and graphics remain the high quality you've received 
 through the previous episodes. The puzzles are harder than previous episodes, but not in the way 
 that'll have you slamming your mouse against your desk and screaming for mercy. The final puzzle 
 of the game is frustrating, however. You have a chance to figure out the puzzle, but if you don't 
 figure it out you'll just keep going around in an annoying loop - you'll understand if you play 
 it.
  
  Overall, Sam and Max Season 1 has been an enjoyable experience and one that any respectable adventure 
 gamer will not want to miss out on. Although Bright Side of the Moon may not be the best of the 
 season, it is still up in the top three. Bring on Season 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 10, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This Is the Final Game for Season 1 of Sam and Max made by Telltale Games and Gametap. During this 
 time we have seen a Rampaging Abe Lincoln, a Toy Mafia, Hypno Bear, a Former Child Star trying 
 to get back glory. the internet trying to enslave everyone in a computer simulator. Now this game 
 is all about a famous Prismotologist who is trying to make everyone like him. its the one and only 
 Hugh Bliss! Yes Hugh Bliss is the real villain behind everything! Your Story takes place on the 
 moon this is where Hugh Bliss is this is where you need to stop him. Many past Villains and other 
 characters are now pirsmotologist such as Mr. Featherly, The COPS, Mr. Spatula and many more. You 
 must Confront Hugh Bliss and Defeat him once and for all. This game has some very fun puzzles that 
 are good for the brain and not too easy. You do things such as Microwaving a Unicorn and selling 
 the deed to united states of America! Overall This is a great ending to the first Season i can't 
 wait for season 2! Breakdown
  Gameplay: Great Puzzles sometimes gets a little hard on some of them
  Graphics: Same old 8
 
  Sound: as always funny dialog but some of the older episodes were funnier
  Value: Its short but its fun while it last Overall: Its a great game but on the shorter end and 
 it feels like the game ends much to quickly 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
