-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sam & Max Episode 104: Abe Lincoln Must Die!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/sammaxepisode4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good puzzles.
 Funny script.
 Great voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Recycles the same locations from the previous three episodes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 8.1, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 261 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Telltale Games
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Feb 22, 2007

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Finally, a video game has come along with the courage to eliminate one of the greatest threats against 
 society today: "Honest" Abe Lincoln. 

  Sam &amp; Max, Telltale's episodic adventure series, is now up to its fourth episode with Abe Lincoln 
 Must Die! If you haven't been keeping up, the main thing moving the story along so far has been 
 teddy bears with the power to hypnotize, which has led to all sorts of weird happenings, from talk 
 show hosts keeping their audiences hostage to rogue child stars wreaking havoc. The dog-and-rabbit 
 detective duo get one layer deeper in Episode 4, which makes some light changes to the formula 
 that make this feel a bit fresher than the previous episodes. But since this is an episodic game 
 and we're already more than halfway through the first "season" of six episodes, at this point you've 
 probably either committed to playing them all or have decided to skip it all.  

          A vote for Max is a vote for launching intercontinental ballistic missiles.     

  But 
 just in case you're still on the fence because you're waiting to see how the whole season turns 
 out before jumping in, you should know that Episode 4 is probably the most interesting episode 
 since the first one. The president has gone fully bananas, ordering group hugs at sporting events 
 and all sorts of other un-American nonsense. It's up to Sam (dog) and Max (rabbitlike, psychotic) 
 to stop the president. But that actually happens relatively early on in this two-to-three-hour 
 episode, leaving you with another interesting plot twist or two to deal with. It all ties into 
 the main story arc nicely, and like the other episodes, it's all quite funny as well, and a great 
 deal of credit has to go to the voice acting, which is once again top-notch.  

  This episode breaks from the formula a bit by starting you out in a new location. In this case, 
 it's the White House. The other episodes start you out in your office and let you wander the neighborhood 
 before heading out to the scene of the supposed crime. It's a good change of pace, but one of the 
 first things you'll actually do here is drive back to your office and, you know, explore your neighborhood 
 for necessary items and leads. So the flow of the game itself hasn't really changed at all. In 
 fact, there's probably more movement between the episode's crime scene (the White House) and the 
 neighborhood area than there's been in any of the previous episodes, which can make things drag 
 a bit.  

  With great-looking graphics, intelligent puzzles, and a well-written, funny script, Telltale's 
 Sam &amp; Max series has already had more hits than misses, so if you've been holding out on buying 
 any of them until you're sure that the bulk of the series is worth playing, Abe Lincoln Must Die! 
 is the green light you've been waiting for.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Plazmawolf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  
  I have to say Sam and max is eaisly one of the most funny game series you can get. "Abe lincoln 
 must die" is a game you should cheak out. but the only thing that makes the game good is it's humor. 
 
  
  if they decided to not to have Sam and Max be a comical kind of game it would suck. I really hate 
 to say it but the only thing that brings you back is the humor, the game is sorely lacking in gameplay 
 there arent many options and your so limited to where you can go you practicly feel imprissoned 
 to only being able to go to the white house (consisting of the oval room the war room witch you 
 only visit three times and an extreamly small part of the outside grounds.) And the town (consisting 
 of three small buildings.)
  
  but what, for some, is the wosrt part, the game is EXTREAMLY short. I'd like to emphisise on this 
 if you played the whole game without looking for extra funny diolouge and only doing whats required 
 to progress. its posible to beat it in forty-five minuets. Plus there is little replay value unless 
 you want to go hunting for hidden dialoge.
  
  but on a good note (a very good note) Its free.
  
  also this game would understandibly appel 
 to a young kid because of its cartoon-like visuals and loveable charactors. thats great and all 
 but nearly all of the jokes go right over their heads, because many of the jokes are more for adults. 
 I'm not saying that the jokes are innopropriate but are hard for a little kid to understand 
  
  all in all it real is a good game mayby im being a bit to hard on it. you still definatly should 
 play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rety5
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  + Absolutely hillarious script
  + Mind numbing puzzles
  + It's free
  
  - It's way to short
  - Newcomers drawn by the fact the episode is free are dumped in the middle 
 of the series
  
  Abe Lincoln Must die follows everyone's fave Dog and rabbity thing, Sam and Max, while they cause 
 chaos in the white house and run for president in the elections. Inevitably this is going to lead 
 to a series of gut achingly hilarious events involving a dating agency, an anti-soda organisation 
 and the Lincoln memorial.
  
  The main attraction to Abe Lincoln Must Die is the fact that it is a free game. This means that 
 you get a free full game without having to join any mailing lists or shady advertising schemes. 
 However a lot of free games before Abe Lincoln Must Die have either seemed shallow or they just 
 sucked and so the idea that it is free may make you turn up your nose. Well if it comforts you 
 this is a free episode in a series of games you usually have to pay for, ensuring that this is 
 a quality title and not some amateur attempt at making a point and click adventure game. But being 
 a free episode to a story driven series brings a few bad points. The biggest and most noticable 
 dissapoint is the game, due to the series' episodic release structure, is very short even if you 
 explore every nook and cranny programmed in to this game. Also if you are a newcomer to the series 
 and like me you have been drawn to this game because its free you are acutally dropped in to the 
 middle of the series. And as there are more than a couple of references to the previous installments 
 in the series to appeal to Sam and Max fans you are going to feel like you are being left out on 
 the joke.
  
  Saying that though the game is filled to the brim with humour that everyone will find hillarious. 
 You would literally need a heart of stone to not laugh out a belly laugh on at least one occasion. 
 As soon as you boot this game up and you watch the opening sequence you know you are in for a treat 
 when Max draws his gun and says "get the keys." after sam reveals the president of the united states 
 is planning on introducing mandatory gun registration. In fact I found myself clicking on absolutely 
 everything multiple times to make sure I had unlocked every line of dialog and milked my last laugh 
 from the game. Nearly the entire game comprises of brilliant political satire in some form or another 
 and it will appeal to adults and children alike. This satire is backed up by a brilliant cast of 
 wild and wacky characters, who are reminisent of both Monty Python style personalities and Sam 
 and Max themselves seem to be a dark and disturbing take on the Looney Tunes. And thats no bad 
 thing either! The constant bouncing of jokes between the calm and collected hound and borderline 
 insane rabbit is the funniest thing in the script.
  
  The gameplay comprises little more than pointing and clicking on items. This may seem shallow at 
 first to the newcomers to the genre but the further you delve in to the game the deeper this gameplay 
 style gets. In fact all the way through the game you will have to have your wits about you because 
 some rather fiendish puzzles that have some rather simple, kick yourself for not seeing it any 
 quicker, answers are thrown in your path as soon as you gain control of the main characters. As 
 an example the opening puzzle took me around half an hour just to find out that I had to go back 
 to the office and phone the white house. I don't want to spoil any more puzzles for you but I can 
 say that you will be spending some time thinking of ways of getting to the end of the game. 
  
  Graphically Abe Lincoln Must Die is nothing truly special. It isn't bad but don't expect a 
 technological breakthrough either. The frame rate is solid and the cartoony style is great with, 
 which I have previously stated, it's Looney Tunes go bad style. However some enviroments look a 
 little sub par with a lot of todays features no longer using obvious 2D backgrounds. Also some 
 of the animation looks a tad clinical.
  
  The game has a great soundtrack. Im not just talking music here but I'm also talking about effects 
 and voice acting. The voice acting backs up the script amazingly well, capturing the characters 
 personality perfectly. Any different and Abe Lincoln Must Die wouldn't be anywhere near as funny 
 as it is. The music is very good. Not good enough to make me rush off to buy a soundtrack any time 
 soon but it is in itself a parody of the od movie soundtracks, a parody it does well.
  
  Overall Abe Lincoln Must Die is a great little package which is pretty much only marred by it's 
 greatest attraction, it being free, and it's disapointingly short length. No excuses, you must 
 play this game. It is free so you are not loosing out on much even if you don't like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbow4
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  To put it plain and simple this is a old-school point and click adventure with a new 3d glitter. 
 So of course I tested it when it became free and now I'm searching my local stores to get the full 
 Season 1. It's just that funny.
  
  The puzzles for the most part are quite logical and there aren't any pixel based searches as there 
 were in the old days. Graphics is also nice and it works. And the gameplay is satisfyingly easy. 
 Voice acting is done well which cannot be said for most of the games with character audio.
  
  But by far the best part in this game is the humour whether in the puzzles or in the dialogue 
 or in the game in general. They're just hilarious. I like games with a sense of humour and this 
 one clearly has it. My advice: Get yours today! With these prices it's a real bargain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  Abe Lincoln must Die! is episode 4 in Sam and Max's first adventure game season. Now, you may find 
 it odd that in this season I end up starting with episode 4, when I should clearly start back with 
 episode 1. That's the thing- it was episode 4 that steam offered for free, so go figure. Whatever 
 the case, Episode 4 actually seems to be a surprisingly good entry point for those new to Sam and 
 Max's crazy ways as well, but its clearly best for anyone who's been keeping up with the series 
 so far.
  
  The case: America's president has gone mad. He's ordering all sorts of un-american things like 
 mandatory hugs at sports events... You've got to go in and stop him, and find out what's going 
 on in the white house. The story features a few well executed (and funny) story twists though, 
 so things won't be quite as simple as you initially think. Whatever the case, the humor to be had 
 here is hilarious all the way through.
  
  Being episodic in nature however, the game's main issue is that it isn't very long. You can easily 
 complete it in 1-2 hours if you know what your doing, especially since the puzzles in question 
 are relatively easy. It also involves a bit too much backtracking to the same few locations.
  
  Graphically, the game is very simple, but still appealing. The character models are characteristically 
 cartoony and animate very well. The only nit-pick to be had here is that the mouth movements of 
 the human characters isn't very good. The rest of the graphics, the backdrops and environments, 
 are extremely simplistic, yet effective. Sound wise, this game excells with excellent voice acting 
 all around.
  
  While those who have been playing through the whole season will probably appreciate episode 4 the 
 most, it interestingly makes for a surprisingly good entry point for those new to the series. Either 
 way, Sam and Max episode 4 is easily recommendable to experienced adventure gamers and initiates 
 alike.
  
  Pros: Hilarious. Decent graphics.
  
  Cons: Very short by nature.
  
  Recommendable for: This should be a no-brainer for those who have been keeping up with the series. 
 Those interested in the series can start off here with few problems, but would probably be better 
 served by starting at the beginning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluearmykid
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  I don't know how I feel about this game, ok I downloaded it free so a try would never be bad. It's 
 just a simple point-and-click adventure. But a very funny one. The dialogues are sharp and funny. 
 The plot is very exciting, even the animations are funny. The chaacters are amazing (seriously 
 Max as president rules!) and Bosco is back. The story is also really fun. The president has been 
 replaced by a dummy and you need to sort out what happened, and then the statue of Lincoln comes 
 to live and he wants to be president, freakin' funny. But like I said, it's a simple point-and-click 
 and I can't get around that I really don't like those games anywhere. I want direct action. The 
 backtracking really bores me... Then you would think this game is like 20 hours or so, no it isn't. 
 It's like 5 hours max, although I played it out in 3. Although it only costs like 7. I guess if 
 the point and click genre is something for you the series is perfect for you. Also if you wanna 
 laugh a bit this is good. It just depends on what you like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bart247
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  We all know that Abraham Lincoln freed the slaves when he was still alive. We also know that he 
 was killed by a gunshot in the back of the head. Now we get to do it Sam &amp; Max style.
  
  Telltale created the fourth Sam &amp; Max episode on February 22nd, 2007 for GameTap, a source 
 for classic video games. Fortunally Sam &amp; Max were reborn on GameTap after the TV cartoon series 
 by Steve Purcell ended in the early '90s (which is now viewable on GameTap TV) . Ever since, the 
 game was popular and it keeps on getting better.
  
  In the fourth episode, Sam &amp; Max get a call from the commisioner informing them that the President 
 of the United States is in danger. The crime-fighting duo then heads to Washington D. C., only to 
 find the president a dummy. All of a sudden, a robotic statue of Abraham Lincoln appears and challenges 
 Max to an election. Sam &amp; Max have to win the election to save the United States.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same thing as the last 3 episodes, but still enjoyable, because 
 there are lots of places to explore in the series, especially this game.
  
  The graphics are cartoony, but really good. The AI responds perfectly, and the voice acting is 
 still the best in the history of adventure games. The humor is what really gets you. The humor 
 is just so good, you'd be begging for more, especially from Sam's buddy in crime, Max. Max pretty 
 much blabbers what's on his mind in the games as well as the series.
  
  There are loads of puzzle solving involved when playing the game such as switching quote cards 
 in the election, and looking for certain items. Also the game is just a little hard, but can hold. 
 Major thinking is involved in the game, so make sure you're bright on knowledge, or the game will 
 be difficult for you.
  
  Overall, I reccomend this game to anyone who is a major Sam &amp; Max fan. If you have GameTap 
 and haven't played Sam &amp; Max yet, well you have a lot to catch up on. If you don't like Sam 
 &amp; Max, well, you're missing out. In fact, it's hard to resist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 8, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  The problem with the last two episodes is that the speech and environments were being reused over 
 and over, and sadly this problem is still here. But the thing is that you forgive that in this 
 episode because of the best story in season so far, the best locations and... well, the best everything 
 so far! The 'hypnotic' story that lies beneath the season is really coming through now, so fans 
 of the games will want to play through to the finale episode now.
  
  The story and locations in this game are the most interesting yet. The president of the United 
 States has gone a bit loopy, with federally mandated group hugs, a pudding embargo and other crazy 
 things. It is now down to Sam and Max to stop the president! But this isnt' really the main plot 
 of the game, as that is solved pretty early on. Instead, something else happens which is a really 
 nice turn in the story and pieces things together from previous episodes.
  
  This episode has you starting off in the White House, but after a bit of exploring and talking 
 to some characters, you'll drive straight back to the office in search for clues to proceed you 
 in the episode. It's nice to be able to start somewhere different for once, but you'll be going 
 back and forth from the two places quite a lot which is tiresome. Luckily the puzzles in the game 
 are harder than before, but still remain possible without having to try really stupid things like 
 some adventure games make you do (which some people find fun, but others find overly frustrating) . 
 The voice acting and graphics are still up to high standards and there are some really well done 
 sequences such as the War Song. Abe Lincoln Must Die! has bought the standards up to that of the 
 first game and now that more and more of the story is slowly piecing together, it looks like the 
 games to come and going to be even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  Sam and Max Episode 4  Abe Lincoln Must Die is another bit sized portion of adventure gaming entertainment. 
 There is enough variety and enough of a departure from the first three episodes to keep one interested 
 and there are gags and laughs abound to make it a decent evening of entertainment. One does hope 
 that this upward trend in entertainment continues for the final two episodes.
  
  You probably know the drill by now. Sam and Max (an oversized dog and a wacko rabbit) are freelance 
 police and on this occasion they are commissioned to render the President null and void. This bit 
 happens all too quickly and easily, but the ensuing task is then to render a monolithic statue 
 of a walking, talking Abe Lincoln to a similar state. There are some challenging puzzles and some 
 genuinely inventive twists along the way and all done to the now tried and tested repartee of Sam 
 and Max and the usual cast of the episodes.
  
  The graphics remain cartoon-like and quite easy on the eye. For a change the game starts at a different 
 location and with different characters. It was refreshing (and much needed) to crash at the gates 
 of the white house and see with a new collection of characters. Abe Lincoln is a sight to see. 
 There are a few more locations to explore in this episode as well as revisiting those of Boscos 
 store, Sybils Office and even Hugh Bliss has set up a kerbside stall to flog his goods. Its all 
 as it was before, but its still all OK.
  
  The sound remains are strong point of the episodes. The drums at the white house actual suit the 
 scenario quite well and the remaining environmental effects are appropriate. The voice acting, 
 as always, is superb. Sam and Max trade joke after joke and Maxs warped malevolent banter is a 
 highlight. The bodyguards are good for a chuckle and Abe has some decent lines as well. They are 
 plenty of laughs to be had with the dialogue, thats for sure.
  
  The game itself is standard adventure gaming fare, but the dialogue paths, different locations 
 and humour keep it going along at an entertaining pace. Whilst most of the puzzles can be solved 
 with an appropriate amount of trial and error, I do admit that I was stuck twice in this episode 
 and on one occasion I did resort to external help (its funny, though, how it always make sense 
 once you learn the solution) . The game does involve a considerable amount of transferring from 
 one location to the next. There is the standard Bosco segment, the standard Sybil Pandemic segment 
 and the standard driving segment, but there is enough variety in between (which perhaps was a problem 
 with some of the earlier episodes) to keep things moving at an entertaining pace. And by the time 
 you have defeated the concrete foe, its been a fairly entertaining experience.
  
  The game can be padded out by exploring all dialogue trees, which is a worthwhile distraction. 
 There are some really funny moments in the game, usually thanks to Max and his twisted retorts. 
 Some extra time can be also be obtained by winding Bosco and Sybil up with wacko repartee.
  
  The game comes to an end in about three hours, which those who have played all episodes would 
 be used to by now. Once all dialogue trees have been completed, there is no real reason to play 
 it again. Its about $US6 per episode (if the season is purchased as a whole) which isnt too bad 
 at all.
  
  Thankfully, Sam and Max Episode 4 is a step in the right direction. It provides enough variety 
 and a good chunk of entertainment to keep one happy. Episodic content is short and sweet, but theres 
 not a lot to be aggrieved about with this episode. Having not yet played the final two episodes 
 (but realising they have been received and reviewed very well indeed) I am looking forward to seeing 
 this season end with a bang. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 6, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  After three games that feel like the same game you get another one with the same thing. Every time 
 I say that it does not mean its bad. i love Sam and Max but you want and urge for more. This game 
 gives us some new stuff but again it does not fully satisfy me.
  
  This time there is a problem in the white house and you need to investigate. You need to talk to 
 the President but he is not what you thought he was. Instead he is a fake!! he is not even a real 
 person. So now the president is a fake you need a new one right. what better president do you need 
 then Mr. Abe Lincoln! its not your normal sized Abe either its a Giant Marble Abe Lincoln!! its 
 up to Max to run against Abe and become the new president
  
  Yea it sounds fun thats because it is. Overall its too similar but some of the Puzzles are harder 
 and funner but its just not satisfying to me.
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: better then MMM and harder Graphics: its a surprise!!! not really its still an 8
  Sound: 
 SOme of the dialogs are funnier but its lacking a bit
  Value: even though its a small prize its not as fun or enjoyable as the others but its still worth 
 to play if you have gametap. But it makes you buy it because it reflects back to the other games
 
  Overall: good not great but still a good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7ate9
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 29, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game the day it came out and got through most of it. Then I put it off to 
 the side, forgot about it, and then came back to finish it. I really don't have much to rave about, 
 but there isn't much to complain about. If anything, this episode is a slight improvement over 
 the last. The writing and story are a little more intelligent. The graphics look a little better 
 and a nice job was done on the white house. I also noticed some added shadow detail and traffic 
 has been added to the street your office is on. The game still isn't that long and the challenge 
 level is still the same. Overall, its a decently fun experience and had some great moments early 
 in the game. I think the content of each episode is more subjective for the individual. I liked 
 the political aspect of this one. However, my favorite episode so far is still the television studio. 
 One final note (pun intended) I just want to make is that I think overall the music and sound effects 
 for Sam and Max is something that isn't really noticed, but it's really well done. Whoever worked 
 on the score did a really amazing job and I've always felt this was a very strong aspect to the 
 overall character of the series. I went into the sound files and listened to them outside of the 
 game and found a new appreciation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Episode 4 of Sam and Max truly redeemed this series. Although still short, this episode did not 
 feel as short as the others and had much more new content to play with. You could probably finish 
 the game very quickly, but you would miss out on all of the extra fun that was put into the game. 
 I nearly fell out of my chair during the war song. You have to play it to believe it, and I would 
 say that it would be well worth your while. Each episode in this series leads well into one another 
 and I can't wait to see where it is all going. The best part is you don't have to wait months to 
 a year for each episode, you get to play a new one every month, this is what episodic content should 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: someone6669
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  This episode is the funniest in the series so far. The story continues and now the president is 
 under hypnosis and is coming up with all sorts of weird laws. Sam and Max decide to stop the madness.
 
  
  The gameplay is similar to the first 3 eipsodes. Bosco gets a new disguise. Sybil gets a new career. 
 A couple of new locations are added (The white house is one of them, of course :) )
  
  This episode is a little trickier than previous ones. The puzzles are also less straightforwrad. 
 For some reason, this episode reminded me with classics like Day of the Tentacle.
  
  The dialogue is extremely funny too. All in all, this is worth playing if you have played the first 
 3 episodes. If not, well... maybe you should start from the beginning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMJR
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 7, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Sam &amp; Max embark on their fourth episodic expedition with Abe Lincoln Must Die! And though 
 it's a tad snappier than the last two, the game still feels bogged down by repetition and an ending 
 that comes too soon.
  
  -- Overview --
  
  Abe Lincoln Must Die! marks the official crossover into the second half of season one for Sam &amp; 
 Max. The series keeps plugging gamely along, and though it still entertains with its witty dialogue 
 and fanciful design, it continues to lack in gameplay.
  
  After successfully defeating the Toy Mafia in episode three, Sam &amp; Max receive an urgent call 
 from the Commissioner directing them to the White House. The president has gone insane! Pudding 
 embargoes? Gun control?! Madness! Sounds like a job for the freelance police.
  
  This is the first episode in the series where you don't start in Sam &amp; Max's office, but instead 
 at the White House. Not to worry, though. You'll soon be back there, along with everywhere else 
 you've visited on that street. Sybil has a new job, Bosco has a new disguise and accent. It's still 
 somewhat funny, but the repetition has dulled the edge of this humour.
  
  Though the episodes now link together plot-wise, the links are so loose they might as well be made 
 of sausage. Perhaps there's a broader carry-over that has yet to be revealed, but the episodes 
 feel more stand-alone than might be preferred by some gamers.
  
  -- Gameplay --
  
  Nothing new here. The orthodoxy of point and click works fine for this game, if only there were 
 more to point and click at. Part of Sam &amp; Max's charm is their witty repartee when examining 
 the most mundane of objects. But the options, sadly, tend to be limited outside of areas you've 
 already visited.
  
  The puzzles are slightly more involved, but no less linear than previous episodes. A couple red 
 herrings help stir things up a bit, but even the most novice of adventure gamers will likely plow 
 their way through this episode in less than 3 hours. More experienced? One and a half to 2 hours.
 
  
  The overall cast remains frustratingly small. You encounter nearly all the same characters seen 
 in previous episodes. Despite having opportunities to come up with more bizarre folks to fill Sam 
 &amp; Max's world, Telltale opts to take the low road by reusing stock instead. And in this way, 
 the humour falls shorter and shorter, as there are only so many times you can laugh at Whizzer 
 nearly wetting himself before it becomes commonplace.
  
  -- Sound &amp; Graphics --
  
  The graphics are still above-average. The design of the game is what shines most. From character 
 design to building decoration and texturing, the world of Sam &amp; Max certainly has a cartoon 
 other-worldly feel. If only they would improve the quality of the textures for higher resolutions, 
 graphically Sam &amp; Max would be two thumbs up.
  
  The audio was hit and miss once again. Sometimes of decent quality, sometimes of terrible quality. 
 Sometimes unexpectedly loud and then ear-to-speaker quiet. This inconsistency isn't continuous, 
 but certainly noticeable on several occasions.
  
  The voice acting is still excellent, of course. Which, in most cases, helps forgive the inconsistent 
 quality of the audio itself. Once again, kudos to the voice-actors for helping bring Sam &amp; 
 Max and the rest of the cast to life.
  
  -- Conclusion --
  
  Much of the same. Both in the game and in this review. Again, if you're already on board with the 
 full season, you're set. Six episodes, even at their short lengths, for $34.95 is certainly reasonable 
 in my mind. Purchasing them for $8.95 each seems not so reasonable in comparison to the returns.
 
  
  I have noticed my opinion falls outside the status quo, but I'm okay with that. There are much 
 better adventure games out there that are more deserving of a higher score than Sam &amp; Max. 
 Though this series has the humour on its side, it continues to stumble and lurch through the other 
 elements that make a truly great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This episode out of all of them is problary one of the best if not the best one in my opinion. 
 The story is pretty creative in this one, at first having to stop the president because he has 
 been brainwashed like in the other episodes. After that a giant statue of abe licoln is brought 
 to life to be the new president but max runs for president as well and has to win the election. 
 The puzzles on this one are problary a bit more difficult in this episode then the other ones, 
 and i did get stuck for a bit at certain parts but most can be figured out by trial and error. 
 THere is alot of traveling back and forth between the White house and the office area to solve 
 some of the puzzles. There are a few recurring themes in each one with Bosco the Incovenience store 
 owner having a new accent in each episode, this time its russian, and sybil having a new career 
 this time a dating service. Theres problary more that i didnt notice also. The graphics are still 
 well done and the voice acting for all the characters is very good. I think it might be better 
 if you havent already started playing these is to wait until they are all out and get them all 
 at once to play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HieroHero
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Hit The Road was the funniest game I ever played. Telltale Games sure had a lot to live up to as 
 they began season 1 of Sam &amp; Max. The 1st episode was great, episodes 2 and 3 were a little 
 rough, but episode 4 is where they hit their stride. Bringing in Chuck Jordan of Curse of Monkey 
 Island fame was a great move. He nails Sam &amp; Max perfectly and the dialogue will have you constantly 
 laughing throughout the entire episode. Also this time the puzzles aren't handed to you on a platter, 
 and you have to do some thinking to progress in the game. All in all it makes for a rewarding experience. 
 If you haven't by now I suggest you buy the season pass at telltale games. Telltale have ressurected 
 a game that LucasArts cancelled because they said there was no market. Well telltale has done the 
 beloved license justice, now its your turn to prove LucasArts wrong. Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steve519_
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 22, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Sam and Max Episode 4: Abe Lincoln Must Die Review
  
  In Sam and Max you take control of Sam a well, talking dog. And you are joined by you small furry 
 partner Max, a talking rabbit. Sam and Max are freelance police who must save the world from a 
 evil political plot. The game is a click adventure where your only interaction with the game world 
 is with your mouse and the few objects you can pick up. Sam and Max Episode 4: Abe Lincoln must 
 die is the fourth episode of six that make up the first Season of Sam and Max which all have a 
 connection story wise. In this episode you wander around two areas. One of them is your office, 
 the neighbor hood your office is located is a strange one with neighboring stores include a irresolute 
 store owner , a paranoid drug store owner and a Michael Jackson-ish scam artist. The second area 
 is the White house where most of the game takes place. You can switch between the two areas freely 
 at any time to help solve the mystery.
  
  For you old school gamers this is a revive of the old Lucas Arts game but now its in 3d and are 
 much shorter with each episode being around 3 hours. This episode took me roughly 4 hours to complete 
 and is available on Game Tap now and available from Telltales website on March 8th.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  For a click adventure game its one of the best Ive played in many, many years. 
 I was disappointed that theres not as much interaction with objects as there should but what interaction 
 you have is very humorous and sometimes you get different reaction from people/things after trying 
 to use them multiple times. The controls in this game are very simple, just clicking which works 
 almost flawlessly except for some rare situations where youll take an odd path to get to where 
 you clicked. Though this happens so rarely that even if its not fixed in the final version it 
 doesnt affect gameplay at all. Now the story, this game has a great story though I havent played 
 any past episodes of Sam and Max so I cant enjoy it as much because it includes past characters 
 and parts of the old story line though if you havent played the past episodes dont get scared 
 out of playing this. It still makes perfect sense if you start here. At the end of this game I 
 was waiting to see how the next episode starts off which will be a definite purchase for me. Another 
 great part of this game is its humor. This game is jam packed with humor, mature and childish. 
 This episode contains a lot of political humor to, often poking fun at the current issues. But 
 if youre not into politics dont worry theres still hundreds of one-liners or just small little 
 jokes hidden in the game to keep all age ranges entertained. The last thing Im going to cover 
 in this section is the difficulty. At the beginning of the game I had trouble solving the puzzles 
 but after a little but of help I got used to the way you need to think to advance in the game and 
 I think the difficulty scales perfectly because like I said, after I got used to the game I never 
 got stuck on any one part but I didnt know exactly what to do right away either.
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  Now this game certainly isnt trying to achieve a realistic looks but it hits 
 the nail on the head with the look its trying to achieve. The cartoon look helps convey the humor 
 this game has and also helps its up beat feel.
  
  Sound: 9
  This game has jazz like music thats reminiscent to the Xbox game Voodoo Vince. The sound effects 
 fit the game style but there nothing spectacular but as this is a adventure game it contains a 
 lot of talking and the voice acting in this game is amazing. The voices fit the characters personality 
 and the lines are great unlike most games which have out of place lines and often campy of lame 
 dialogue.
  
  Value: 9.5
  When I finished this game I felt like I got all $9 out of this game. The game is short and is able 
 to be finished in a little less than 3 hours if your quick to figure out the puzzles and dont 
 waste time chatting up the npcs. Though if youre not as quick (like me) at completing the puzzles 
 and chat around a bit the game easily gets extended another 1 and a half or 2 hours.
  
  Replay: 3.5
  This game is a single player only and has a linear plot. The only reason to replay 
 the game is to do goofy little things you missed the first time, like try extra dialogue options.
 
  
  Overall: 8.5
  
  This game is amazing. The humor and story in this game are great which the main selling points 
 of the game are. It hits a great price point at $9 but the big deal is getting the whole season 
 (all 6 episodes) for $35 instead of buying them separately which would cost $54. Whether youre 
 a Casual gamer or hard core one, a teenager or adult you will love this game which hits a homerun 
 on every thing its trying to do. This is a must purchase pc game.
  
  Review wrap up:
  Things I liked and didnt like about the game
  
  + Quick loading times, not machine taxing
 
  + Great story, great humor
  + Some of the best voice acting Ive heard
  - Not as interactive as it should be
  - Too short
  - Some dialogue gets repetitive 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
