-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sam & Max Episode 103: The Mole, the Mob and the Meatball
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/sammaxepisode3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great voices that deliver funny dialogue.
 Quality puzzle design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 You've seen the store, the office, the street, and Sybil's place before.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.4, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 232 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Telltale Games
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jan 25, 2007

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sam & Max's third episode feels shorter than the previous two, and at least part of that is due 
 to so many of the environments being recycled from previous episodes. 

  Sam &amp; Max's episodic adventures continue with Episode 3: The Mole, the Mob and the Meatball. 
 Like the previous two Telltale-developed adventure games, this one is self-contained but ties in 
 to the other installments. A police mole that has been working undercover in Ted E. Bear's Mafia 
 has gone missing, and it's up to Sam (a dog that knows how to crack wise) and Max (a rabbit-esque 
 thing that loves violence more than you love your own mother) to infiltrate a Mafia-run casino 
 and figure out what happened.  

           Sam &amp; Max return and attempt to stop the flow of brainwashing toy bears in their third 
 episode.     

  Like the other episodes, The Mole, the Mob and the Meatball is a funny game with plenty of opportunities 
 for humor. This one relies a bit more on the humor of repetition than the previous episodes, with 
 dialogue options that let you try different crazy passwords at a door, ask for random items to 
 buy at the local inconvenience store, and repeatedly click on a series of singing bear heads to 
 listen to them sing a tune about how there's most definitely  no  Mafia around. That repetitive 
 streak holds throughout the game's structure, as well. Sam &amp; Max's office and local neighborhood 
 are largely unchanged -- everything that was needed for the previous episode's puzzles has simply 
 been replaced with the sort of things you'll need for this episode's puzzles. Aside from the local 
 neighborhood, there are only a few other screens to see, which is sort of disappointing, because 
 now that we're three episodes deep, some of the things established in the first installment are 
 wearing thin.  

  But the puzzles are still nice. You'll cheat a poker cheat out of millions, fake someone's death, 
 and meet up with a tough-talking bug that will crawl near people and listen in on their conversations, 
 which also leads to some funny lines. The graphics are quality, and the voice acting and music 
 also stand out, though some of the music and dialogue has been recycled from previous installments. 
 Also, there's a character in this episode named Leonard Steakcharmer, which is one of the greatest 
 fake names ever.  

  Now that Telltale is halfway through its "season" of Sam &amp; Max, you've probably already made 
 up your mind about the series. If you played the first two episodes, you should certainly keep 
 on playing, unless the second episode rubbed you the wrong way by reusing so many locations. And 
 if you've held off, or played the first episode and decided it wasn't for you, you could probably 
 keep right on looking in the other direction. The episodic nature of this adventure is starting 
 to hurt it, as each individual episode is short enough for you to finish it in an afternoon at 
 most -- and this one feels even shorter than the other two.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  If you've been playing the season from the start you will now be familiar with places such as Bosco's 
 Inconnivance, Sybil's and the office. You will also be familiar with the things Sam and Max say 
 when you click on objects and you'll be left wondering why some new lines weren't recorded. The 
 fact this is so repetitive detracts from the experience of the game, including the fact The Mole, 
 the Mob and the Meatball is the shortest game so far.
  
  The main plot of the game is that a police mole has gone undercover in Ted E. Bear's Mafia and 
 it is up to Sam and Max to figure out what has happened. The humour that you've come to love over 
 the season is still intact and there are some great moments such as the singing bear heads on the 
 wall. Sadly though, there are only a couple new places to visit which means more backtracking and 
 a shorter game which is never a good thing. But don't be put off - this is still a good game.
 
  
  The puzzles in the game remain fairly easy to solve if you are an adventure game veteran, but this 
 doesn't mean it is still an enjoyable experience. You will have fun beating Leonard Steakcharmer 
 at his own game and then questioning him with a series of 'Yo mamma' jokes, as well as setting 
 a bug on people who will then crawl back and tell you what he's heard, complete with that character's 
 voice. Graphically the game is still going strong and the sound is great, especially the singing 
 bears as mentioned.
  
  More of the overall plot is now starting to seep through and if you've got this far in the season 
 you should play on, if only to find out what happens at the end. The fact this episode is shorter 
 than the other two is a bit of a letdown, but the games are still good value for money and you 
 obviously shouldn't be expecting a full 40 hour game for what you are paying for. It's just a shame 
 about the recycled lines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8
Date: May 6, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Well after the 2nd one came out it was kinda a let down shorter then the first and did not do anything 
 new or interesting for the series and now you have another one almost the same as the first two. 
 This time your investigating a toy mafia and the leader is a giant Mole thats right a mole. The 
 story lines are so weird and funny and this one is no different. All though this one feels like 
 the shortest in the series it still is fun to play like all of them. This game feels cheap even 
 though you like the story and love the adventure of figuring stuff out it does not feel fresh and 
 after two games you start to get a little more wanting something different. Overall its just like 
 every other Sam and Max so far with some new characters and a equal amount of funny dialog.
  
  Breakdown Gameplay: Its interesting but we need to shake it up a bit
  Graphics: same graphics 
 same grade
  Sound: Even though the dialog is funny there are even more recycled sounds from the first two games 
 that gets in the way of the new stuff
  Value: its still good for the price but it is short
  Overall: i like the name and the story its really funny but it just does not give us enough new 
 stuff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 14, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  The third episode of the Sam and Max series contains no surprises whatsoever. Sometimes no surprises 
 is good, but that may not be the case in this instant. Basically, not a lot has changed. The graphics 
 and sound are engaging, Sam and Max are two humourous characters and there is a series of puzzles 
 to be solved that while not too easy, they won't stretch the grey matter to any great extent. And 
 with barely three hours of play in this episode, the series really does need a second wind or it 
 is on danger of falling in a heap.
  
  On this occasion, Sam and Max find themselves up against the mafia. Though not just any mafia, 
 this is the Toy Mafia. They need to infiltrate the headquarters, find the lynch pin of the whole 
 operation and dispose of them in methods that only Sam and Max know and can get away with. This 
 requires elements of stealth, cunning, conning and general scallywag behaviour to free the world 
 of this particular threat.
  
  The graphics and sound are almost exactly as per the previous two episodes. The graphics being 
 bright and pleasant with the soundtrack and associated effects both suitable and catching. There 
 are a couple of new areas to visit, but the base locations remain both the same and prominent in 
 the game. Bosco's store is starting to wear thin, and Sybil Pandemic either needs to be a more 
 prominent character or cast aside completely. The backing music remains engaging and easy on the 
 ear and Sam and Max remain fine exponents of humour and repartee, which does keep the game chugging 
 along.
  
  The new environments do provide a change of scenery and there are some decent new situations requiring 
 at least some thought to navigate, but ultimately this particular episode is not overly challenging. 
 I was only minorly stumped once, only to have the good wife come in and work the problem out instantly. 
 Most gamers would glide though this episode in less than three hours and that includes choosing 
 all options to hear the (still wonderful) comments and one-liners from Sam and Max. However, there 
 is only so many times you can visit Bosco, Sybil and even your own office. Also, whilst it's been 
 a different theme in the three episodes, the car scenes are way too similar. The closet is an interesting 
 concept, but it's a one action concept. And by the time you've joined the dots to defeat the toy 
 mafia, even if temporarily - it's just all a bit too familiar. There is a loose thread tying the 
 series together and a suggestion of a developing theme for the future episodes, but one does wonder 
 if that is enough.
  
  As part of the season package this would have cost about $US5.95. It's reasonable, but becoming 
 less so. Its two to three hours of humourous though ultimately fundamental gaming with no replay 
 value except for other family members.
  
  Episode Three is more of the same of the Sam and Max series. It's enjoyable, has some great sight 
 gags and one-liners and is an accessible game that can be completed with little difficulty. Whilst 
 more of the same was OK last time, it is only just acceptable this time. The series needs something 
 new or a change in direction to keep itself on its feet.
  
  It can do better. It's going to have to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stump1
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  The game was too short, I've played the first three episodes, all today, the reuse of characters 
 and scenery and even the reuse of tactics used to solve puzzles leaves me slightly bored and the 
 shortness of the game leaves me wanting, but i still love the series. The Sam &amp; Max games are 
 like watered down heroin. They don't give you the fix you want but they are highly addictive. I 
 will be playing episode 4 as soon as I can. I also want to go out and buy the original game. These 
 games are one of the only surviving remnants of my favorite genre of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 7, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Max and Sam are on another case this month that has them dealing with well a Mole, the Mob and 
 A meatball. The new story and characters try to help the series but after 2 episodes of the same 
 places and sometimes situations it feels old and gamers really need something new. Puzzles and 
 laughs are still fun and numerous but if Telltale doesn't add better content and settings Episode 
 4 could be the episode that makes or breaks the new monthly series. This is probably the worst 
 of the episodes so far and you should try the demo before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7ate9
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  At this point if you're thinking about trying this series, just buy the whole thing or don't even 
 bother. I've played them all so far and just finished this episode 3. Boy was it disappointing! 
 The other two we're ok, and I thought this had a nice buildup, until less than an hour into game 
 play it was already over!
  
  Yeah, I didn't even have to think this one through. The problem at this point is that the game 
 is starting to re-use some of the puzzle solutions and that factor makes it so apparently easy 
 is not even the least bit challenging. The humor is also growing tired. They really need to push 
 the envelope or cross the line and make things more vulgar perhaps? I don't even think younger 
 kids would find it that funny because most of the jokes would go over there head. So that leaves 
 me asking - am I too old for the amusement factor, or are they not hitting the mark most of the 
 time?
  
  I will continue the series, but Telltale needs to make bolder moves for quality game play. Please 
 at least let us play as Max in a future episode or something! One final note, I really do thank 
 them for not having the Soda Poppers in this one. Most annoying videogame characters ever!!
  
  Hoping the series gets better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 11, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  It's hard to say anything new about this series, it's still as funny as ever, and still horribly 
 short. Many of the same areas are recycled over and over so the puzzles become somewhat familiar 
 and easier to solve. There is a certain amount of fun visiting these familiar areas to see what 
 new jokes are being played this go around. The do you have any... at Bosco's always makes me laugh. 
 And Sybl's lack of career direction always brings a laugh. Hopefully though in the future Telltale 
 will choose to bring more variety to the game with many new areas instead of just a few. Increasing 
 the challenge a little might make the game longer as well. Either way this is still a worthwhile 
 game to play at a reasonable price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kainenable
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 10, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I was a little wary of episodic content but the sam and max formula seem to be able to pull it 
 off quite well. Each episode equates to one mission these crime fighting critters must solve.
 
  
  In this episode sam and max are trying to take down the local mafia family whilst unravelling a 
 greater mystery. The interface is extremely minimal, in fact there is just one cursor and mouse 
 button to use. Quite easy to jump in and play.
  
  The dialog is sharp, if you liked the original sam and max game or the cartoons this humor will 
 be right up your ally. It is a relativley easy game which personally i enjoy rather than trying 
 1000's of permutations for objects you pick up. The characters are not overly sophisticated but 
 quite well animated and rendered. If you were on the fence about trying these I can assure you 
 they are a blast to play. This episode is shorter than the 2 previous episodes but still worth 
 the 8 dollars in my opinion. Lets hope they keep the bar high and keep releasing fun episodes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMJR
Rating: 5.9
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Sam &amp; Max return for their third episodic adventure, The Mole, The Mob, and the Meatball . 
 And right on schedule again, a testament to Telltale Games' dedication to punctuality, even if 
 the game lacks in length and creativity.
  
  -- Overview --
  
  When we last left our intrepid freelance police, they had recently intervened in an unusual case 
 of talk-show host gone Energizer Bunny. The cause of her curious behaviour is made apparent at 
 the completion of episode 2, and this plot point carries over into the next.
  
  Episode 3, The Mole, the Mob and the Meatball , moves the story onward as Sam &amp; Max are sent 
 to Ted E. Bear's Mafia-Free Playland and Casino . No sooner have they arrived then they find themselves 
 caught up in becoming Toy Mafia members themselves, forced to perform certain tasks in order to 
 graduate to full Mafioso status. Certain tasks that involve cheating and killing their friends, 
 and recovering a very important sandwich.
  
  First off, this episode is short. Too short. Jeff Gerstmann's gut instinct is correct, this episode 
 is the shortest so far, clocking in at at most an hour and a half assuming you follow all dialogue 
 lines. This is an utter disappointment, and I feel for those individuals who may end up purchasing 
 this episode on it's own for $10. Fact is, the value isn't there.
  
  The storyline, though linear and carrying through from Sam &amp; Max's last adventure, is very 
 flat. Though there are unanswered questions that remain, no doubt to be answered over the last 
 three episodes, the story does not stand well split up episodically. It covers so little ground 
 in so little time, you barely discover anything new.
  
  Some players may find themselves wishing Telltale had taken the time to release the game as a full 
 package instead, which may have helped alleviate the wishy-washy plot-line.
  
  -- Gameplay --
  
  Episode 3 plays no differently than episodes 1 and 2. Point here, click there. 
 And unfortunately, the puzzles do not get any more difficult either. Once again you are presented 
 with so few options, trial and error will often get you through.
  
  There is the standard car chase scene again, though rather than doing the chasing, Sam &amp; Max 
 are being chased themselves. But the gameplay doesn't change much, and the opportunity for some 
 arcade-style action is lost. The solution is so simple as well, you may find yourself wondering 
 why it was included at all.
  
  -- Sound &amp; Graphics --
  
  No improvements here either. The dialogue is still as snappy, and the voice acting is still the 
 strongest point in the game. There are even a couple of laugh-out-loud moments, which is appreciated 
 when a game flies by as quickly as this.
  
  However, this was the first time I noticed audio quality problems. Other players had mentioned 
 the audio being scratchy in previous episodes, obviously compressed. I had not noticed this before, 
 but this time there were chunks of dialogue that were of clearly poor quality, including fluctuating 
 volume. In some rare cases the volume would shift so dramatically you would lose the characters 
 under the sound effects and music.
  
  The graphics are still mediocre. Compressed textures, which look terrible at the highest resolution 
 of 1600x1200. And again, no widescreen, though it would be surprising for Telltale to start supporting 
 widescreen resolutions halfway through.
  
  -- Conclusion --
  
  If you're getting on board with Sam &amp; Max now, my recommendation is purchase the full season. 
 Because unless there's a dramatic change in Telltale's approach to the plot and gameplay in this 
 series, you may find yourself disappointed in the ratio of time versus money.
  
  As a gamer who purchased the full season, I appreciate that Telltale is inclined to be timely. 
 But when timeliness results in the degradation of quality, it's just not worth it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
