-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sanitarium
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/sanitarium/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  4, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.3, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 703 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: ASC Games
Developer: DreamForge
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Apr 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Broken into eight chapters, the entire game is a journey through your own madness to potential salvation. 
 

 Struggling with inner demons, wrestling with soul-wrenching torment, battling to regain even a slippery 
 grip on reality - doesn't exactly sound like the makings of a good time, does it? All the more 
 reason to marvel at Sanitarium, Dreamforge Intertainment's wholly original and gripping adventure 
 game, for these are the very keystones upon which this game is built. Simultaneously breathing 
 hearty lungfuls of life into the tired adventure genre as well as the wheezy "you are an amnesia 
 victim" premise, Sanitarium is the best non-comic adventure I've played since Realms of the Haunting. 

 A brief movie featuring a horrific car crash, with you cast as the unlucky driver, opens the game. 
 Your head completely swathed in bandages, you regain consciousness in a burning, Grand Guignol 
 snake pit of an asylum. Surrounded by babbling lunatics bashing their heads bloody against the 
 wall, your first order of business is to make your escape. After that, you'll need to discover 
 little things like, oh, your identity and how you came to be institutionalized.  

 Broken into eight chapters, the entire game is a journey through your own madness to potential salvation. 
 Chapters dealing with the unfolding mystery at the sanitarium are interspersed with segments set 
 in the hallucinatory hells of your character's tortured mind. These alternate, internal realities 
 are the true high points of Sanitarium, covering such disparate ground as a devastated Aztec tribe, 
 a Children of the Corn-style rural community, and a grotesque alien insect hive that practically 
 oozes agony. The Freudian quotient is jacked up further as your madman takes on a different persona, 
 such as a four-armed cyclops, for each setting. By ping-ponging from hallucination to reality and 
 back again, Sanitarium puts you in the hospital slippers of its protagonist, wondering what is 
 real, what is delusion. The ambiguity of the tattered memories and flashbacks triggered by game 
 events will keep you guessing until the end.  

 Reflecting the internal conflicts and issues your character is grappling with, these worlds establish 
 unique moods that drive the story of the game forward. Particularly effective is the sequence where 
 you wander your childhood home, rendered in washed-out sepia, and observe the specters of your 
 family coping with monumental grief. These shifts in tone keep the game from getting boring and, 
 more importantly, engage you emotionally as well.  

 As terrible as some of the subject matter is, the game is a delight to play, thanks to a simple 
 mouse-driven interface controlling every aspect of gameplay, and some of the most lush, richly 
 imagined graphics I've seen in a long time. Somehow, the designers of Sanitarium have found a way 
 to make the horrendous beautiful - no mean feat considering the freaks, monsters, and gargoyles 
 peopling the gameworld. Sound makes a solid contribution as well, further enhancing the game.  
 

 Puzzles in Sanitarium are generally inventory-related and serve to push the unpredictable action 
 of the story forward. There are some machine and lever puzzles, but, unlike Riven, they make sense 
 and don't annoy you to death. A few brief action sequences punctuate play, but they don't present 
 much of an obstacle - even if you die you are immediately reborn to fight again without penalty. 
 If there's a real knock against the puzzles in the game, it is that many of them are pretty easy. 
 After one night of play I was already into the second of three CD-ROMs. More experienced gamers 
 will probably breeze through Sanitarium in short time - but the gaming experience is so rewarding 
 it isn't a wasted effort.  

 Unfortunately, initial shipments of Sanitarium have hit shelves with a heinous bug. It's possible 
 to get totally locked out of buildings in Chapter Two, thus preventing you from progressing. What 
 makes this worse is that you may not notice it for a while, thinking instead the game is telling 
 you you're done there. There's already a patch at ASC's web site, but because of the nature of 
 the bug, you'll still have to start the game from the beginning even after installing the patch. 
 Hopefully, this will be fixed in later copies of the game. The same cannot be said of the spotty 
 voice-acting - Sanitarium is pretty much stuck with uneven performances that run from very good 
 to fairly bad. Sadly, one of the worst is the main character.  

 Still, it's hard not to recommend this game. Through its deft juggling of mood and story, Sanitarium 
 creates one of the most compelling, involving adventures to grace a hard drive in a long time. 
 As long as you're not looking for a synapse-frying, brain-buster of a game, Sanitarium can't be 
 beat.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FrozenLiquid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:56 am PT
Review:  Adventure games had once been the most popular genre the gaming industry had ever known. If you 
 weren't a platformer or RPG, you were most likely an adventure game. It has since fallen from lofty 
 heights, yet has never been sucked into obscurity. Most unusually, the adventure genre hasn't really 
 evolved since the 1980s, and this is a double edged sword. On the one hand, it will probably not 
 attract newcomers to the genre, but on the other, a significantly large group of die-hard fans 
 never want to let it go. Thus adventure games have since been evaluated not by the features it 
 brings to the table (like a FPS, RPG, or platfomer) , but by the execution of its puzzle-centric 
 gameplay, and perhaps more importantly, the story. Cue Dreamforge's "Sanitarium".
  
  The game begins when you, an amnesiac patient of what can only be presumed is an asylum, has to 
 escape from the unstable tower, and from there you will go through nine chapters. There are many 
 environments, all distinctly different, but equally disturbing; in fact it's very similar to the 
 Silent Hill games. Unlike Silent Hill, not everything seems to be a metaphor for something else, 
 and its a little disappointing since the segments are so rich and unusual. The game is very adult-rated 
 in nature, as you will see a lot of disturbing content not suitable for younger children. Nevertheless, 
 it's a very engrossing story, and you may find yourself saying "just one more chapter" more than 
 once.
  
  It may be unusual to note that most adventure gamers anticipate adventure games for their story 
 rather than gameplay. It is perhaps because of the never-changing formula, but what makes a good 
 adventure game even better are puzzles that are fresh, logical, and in context with the story. 
 Sanitarium has a few different types of puzzles, and in a blanket statement they range from discovering 
 colour combinations to answering riddles. There's also a bit of action involved in some sequences. 
 There is no 'dying' in the game, but if you take a mistep in a few sequences, you will be sent 
 back to the beginning to immediately attempt it again. Dreamforge manages to make all the puzzles 
 fun, engaging, and completely relevant to any certain chapter in the game (again, giving nothing 
 away) . Unfortunately, the game is dragged down by a completely unwarranted control scheme. Perhaps 
 the developers tried to be a bit too different with the game, because this traditional point-and-click 
 did not need to be so awkward at all. To move, you hold down the right mouse button, and it around 
 the character on screen to make him go a particular direction. It's worse than it sounds. To add 
 insult to injury, the game uses a grid-based system for movement, so you have to be in an exact 
 spot to trigger events, which is already difficult to do with other non-RTS grid-based games.
 
  
  The graphics are certainly some of the best for its time, and can arguably contend for some of 
 the best graphics ever. The game is played from an isometric perspective, and is very similar to 
 the sprite-based graphics of Fallout. Make no mistake though, because Fallout looks amazingly dated 
 compared to this game. The hand-crafted animation still astounds me even after replaying it this 
 year, and it makes a lot of 3D animation efforts look very stiff in comparison. The art direction 
 is another sight to behold, with floating corpses in the water, scary giant clowns, and disfigured 
 creatures. Sound is also excellent, with a different haunting ambient sounds in each environment, 
 hair-raising sound effects, and a complimentary score. The only thing that may turn people off 
 are the voice actors' tendencies to over-act, though mostly they're enjoyable to hear.
  
  As an adventure game, Sanitarium is one that is unmissable for adventure fans. If you like well-told 
 and engrossing stories, this title is a standout in the genre. Finally, if you are a newcomer to 
 adventure games and want to know what the fuss is about, here's the thing: there may be better 
 choices out there to ease you into the genre, but if you want to see what the veterans salivate 
 over, I won't stop you from enjoying immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brioli
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  The words that come to mind when describing this game is "Alice in Wonderland Turned Horror Movie"!
 
  
  This game is a fantastic/weird story. I must say it's in my top 5 favorite games of all time now! 
 I just finished playing it, and was captivated throughout the entire game! The most original game 
 ever!
  
  This game is strange, scary, mysterious, investigative like. haunting, funny, freaky, surprising, 
 sick, and twisted.
  
  Cons: I did have some trouble (since it's a rather old game-1998) , but if you have never played 
 it, it's a must play for ALL gamers no matter what genre of games you enjoy!
  
  The troubles I had were on CD3 my character would disappear, but there was only one part where 
 it really became a problem. This was during the maze portion of the game. You can still see which 
 direction your heading, due to the arrow pointing, so it wasn't that big of a deal.
  
  It did crash a few times, so it's very important to save your game often. I was playing this on 
 Vista with the Chapter 2 patch.
  
  This game was worth the problems playing it, and the problems were minimal. I was very satisfied, 
 but very disappointed that whoever wrote this game has not written any sequels to it! It was phenomenal! 
 It was very trippy! No sequels is UNREAL!
  
  I will miss it!
  
  A very enjoying game indeed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoannaWeitzel
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  The story unravelling behind is great and worth making a movie out of (why hasn't it been done 
 so far?) . You discover your identity slowly as you get flashbacks from your childhood and recent 
 past. The final movie scenes are satisfying and really worth going through the creepy bits.
  Be warned however - could be hard to enjoy this game running it on XP or Vista due to stuttering 
 and mouse problems. Also in the year of 2008 (as I am writing at the moment) the graphics and sound 
 are hardly enjoyable - they don't hurt that much, they don't help either. I give Sanitarium a score 
 of 8 since I was expecting all these flaws from a 10-years-old game but still enjoyed the gameplay 
 a lot. 
  The puzzles are not too difficult and don't get boring, most of the story envelops logically (well, 
 for a game about insanity...) and you don't have to click frantically on everything in order to 
 push the story forward. Most dialogues give you hints as what to do - just be quiet and listen 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Sanitarium is an old school adventure game, point and click style, that will take you into the 
 shattered mind of a traumatized man in an attempt to restore his sanity by uncovering the facts 
 that led to his tragedy.
  
  At first, the game does not reveal much about the main character, not even his name. All you know 
 is that he's locked in an asylum and that he appears to have had some sort of accident as his face 
 is all wrapped up in bandages.
  
  The story of Sanitarium is told in chapters, each tied to the main character memories, dreams, 
 fears or delusions. The chapters take place in small 2D settings - the wing of a hospital, part 
 of an insect hive, a town's square - and have plenty of weird people to talk to. The main game 
 play requires one to thoroughly explore all the settings - which does require some pixel hunting 
 as some items and places are really hidden - and to talk to all the characters there until the 
 objective is figure out. Most chapters have a clear opponent that has to be defeat by solving some 
 rather difficult puzzles while others simply require you to solve a series of puzzles to advance.
 
  
  One of the game's strongest points is the design of each chapter as an oneiric representation of 
 the characters past or present situation. You'll be presented with grim settings with lots of blood 
 and corpses but you'll also be taken to lighter and more colorful places. Though they might not 
 seem to relate and probably won't make much sense to you at first, the whole story wraps up pretty 
 nicely in the end.
  
  The game play is simple in its execution but the story unfolds pretty nicely during all the dialogs 
 and puzzle solving. If the pixel hunting gets in your way, be sure to try a little harder - or 
 look in the Internet for an answer - because the ending is worth it.
  
  The graphics are old and dated on today's standards but there's plenty of in game movies that probably 
 were considered perfect in 1998. Each and every dialog has voice acting and the game's music fits 
 well its mood, particularly the ones tied to moments of redemption.
  
  It's an amazing story and even though the game play is simple, it'll probably keep you hooked to 
 the end. I found hard not to let myself be absorbed by its story and to end up being pretty happy 
 with the outcome.
  
  It's an awesome game that kept me interested from the very beginning to the very end. Unless you've 
 been spoiled by this gen graphics and can't stand old games, you should definitely give Sanitarium 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JokerStelios
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  One of the games that i love also like crazy !!! 
  In the begining you are "some" guy that drive his car 
  to give a CD of great importance to someone 
 ... 
  In a flash you understand that the breaks of your car 
  are cut off !!!! 
  You Fall ... After darkness ... After that screams ... O. o god 
  someone hit his head on the 
 wall !!! 
  A red alarm screaming like something will be done soon
  you are in an asylum LOL !!!
  
  You dont know what to do you just try to 
  understand, who 
 you are, what is that place 
  that you came ... and who brought you here ?!
  
  A test for your nerves guys cause human Sanity can 
  be easily break, and when it does you maybe 
 lost 
  yourself in her WITHOUT even know it !!! 
  
  Try it guys !!! Its great :D
  
  Joker out :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nenn88
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  I personally had a-lot of fun playing this game, the story of the game was one of a kind and excelent.
 
  The puzzles in the game were clever , you had to really think in them.
  The graphics in Sanitarium were nice, for an older game. Sounds and music in the game was brilliant, 
 creepy and just plain great!
  
  Sanitarium is not suitable for very young children. It has mind disturbing , nightmare-ish, horror 
 theme. In example insane man hitting his head at the start to a wall in a mental institute of some 
 sort.
  
  I have played this game through 2 times in the past , and its still great.
  Have to say, I wish there was more games like sanitarium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iron_priest
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  I just hope that somebody would think of making some kind of continue for this game for it is very 
 psychic. I love the storyline and tha characters. Just imagine this game with a new engine and 
 why not different genre. Just keeping the mind disturbing attributes. The game is quite difficult 
 you must have a good thinking and especially you must feel the music in one of the levels. The 
 main character is A bald man , a little girl and some kind of toy monsteer, does it not sound interesting? 
 I'm sure that anyone who would understand the game would not give up without finishing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Sanitarium was a very entertaining game. The creative visuals and good voice acting are great for 
 an old school adventure game. I was suprised at how interesting and thought out the storyline was 
 for an adventure game. As far as the storyline goes I would say its a cross between Jacobs Ladder 
 and Silent Hill. I'm not going to go into detail because I don't want to spoil anything.
  The puzzles are not difficult to figure out but there was a ton of dialogue between characters. 
 Overall its a must play game that will not take too long to complete with an interesting story 
 and likeable characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destinys_martyr
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  What an entertaining game this was. Fond memories come back seeing those screen shots. Although 
 I'll have to admit I never completed the game for whatever reason. Maybe that's reason enough to 
 find a copy and reload it on a new machine. This is a classic (adult-oriented) adventure game. 
 Not that there's anything foul in the game, just the concepts of terror and nightmares and the 
 like. It's not something you should let your 8 year old play.
  
  The sound (for it's time and even now) is amazing. The soundtrack for each level, especially the 
 haunted house puts the game in the right perspective (make sure you play the game with the lights 
 off and surround sound speakers) .
  
  Some of the quests can be difficult and a few times I gave up for a while trying to figure out 
 the solution (s) .
  
  All in all probably the best adventure game I can remember playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 31, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  This is yet another timeless masterpiece. I played the game at first soon after it was released 
 in 1998, and abandoned it due to its technical glitches. Then again in 2005, I decided to play 
 it again, after applying a patch that was then available. I decided to play it, because the theme 
 and the mystery I experienced in the game was unforgettable. I wanted to know what happened to 
 the hero, who was he, and why was he stuck in a sanitarium.
  This time, the technical glitches did not stop me from proceeding deeper into the game. And as 
 I proceeded, I was engulfed by the desire to want to know more about the hero and the plot of the 
 story. From starting to end, the story of this game is so well conceived that it stands as a masterpiece 
 despite a technical glitch in Chapter 2.
  The game revolves around the hero who awakes in a sanitarium with amnesia and injuries. As you 
 play on, bits and pieces of events start to unfold your memories. Gradually you get to learn that 
 you have been a perfect family man who has been a victim of a business conspiracy.
  The sanitarium sequences used all kinds of symbolic fears -- deformed mesmarised children, a living 
 scarecrow, a circus along with strange characters... and moves on to mind battles. Nothing can 
 be so nicely conceived when the theme of the story is a sanitarium.
  The environment set in the game is also well-thought out. Beautiful graphics, haunting audio and 
 quite diverse in its puzzles plus really involving lead character makes this game immortal. I give 
 credit to the makers of the game for being so professional about each and every aspect of the game. 
 I really feel sorry that the makers of this game no longer exist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy4catz2
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Floating human carcasses in a lake of sludgy water, asylum inmates strutting around like chickens 
 and bashing their heads upon the wall, brain matter splattering everywhere, rotting corpses strewn 
 about an ancient Aztec village, mottled and horribly disfigured children??! What kind of game IS 
 this? Not for the faint at heart, that's for sure.
  
  Sanitarium, a 3rd person psychological thriller that sends our hero, Max into a web of his own 
 nightmares and dark secrets of his past. You assume the role of the main character, Max, his sister 
 Sarah, a multiple-armed cyclops named Grimwall and the Aztec god, Olmec. Each character has their 
 own story that ties into Max's real world. The story begins with Max getting into his car and driving 
 home (?) , he then calls a friend and says he has the answer. The answer to what is revealed later. 
 He seems to speed up and crash into the winding curve's guard rail, falling off a cliff. He wakes 
 up to hear an alarm blaring and he finds himself in a dingy room, with no recollection of who he 
 is, what he is doing here and why. You talk to a few other people that are here with you and you 
 learn you are in an insane asylum. Each person you talk to gives you a hint on what the rest of 
 the game is going to be like. A ghost town, all the adults gone, children that are starting to 
 turn into plants and trees and a otherworldy being only known as Mother . A lone circus on a island 
 with no way to leave, creepy clowns and Iggy the squid-man. A hive, high upon a mountain filled 
 with creepy crawly grubs and slugs. And a Aztec village overtaken by a murderous god Quetzacoatl, 
 dead warriors strewn about, the flies feasting upon their pale dead flesh and restless spirits 
 hovering about. You also explore the rest of the asylum as Max, finding out the true story behind 
 the car crash and what answer he had and the overall evil enemy..
  
  The graphics are excellent for it's time and the music adds to the emotional and psychological 
 aspect of the game. The only downside is that you can't walk very fast, but to me, that's a very 
 MINOR problem. I did have a slight problem with choppy, black flickering on some of the puzzles 
 and every time you talked to someone, and in the menu. But that's because it was running on XP 
 and I didn't have compatibility running..
  
  It's an awesome game and it doesn't leave a lot to be desired. It's a classic in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 25, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Sanitarium takes you on a wild ride into a tormented mind to fight your inner demons, confront 
 your darkest secrets and face your worst fears - all in surreal environment and to the sounds of 
 a creepy and ominous soundtrack.
  
  As most adventure games, you use the mouse to interact with the twisted worlds and characters around 
 you. I say worlds because Sanitarium shifts between to real world and the protagonist subconscious; 
 each chapter in the game takes you to a different memory and a different story.
  apart from the main character, you'll be playing as a little girl and even as an alien creature, 
 you're thrown from one insane environment to the next.
  
  The basic story of game goes something like this: you wake up in an asylum, your face is entirely 
 wrapped in bandages and you cant even remember you own name.
  For this point forth you uncover more and more of yourself and your past as you travel through 
 many disturbing places, fight gruesome enemies (yes, there are a few fighting sequences in the 
 game) and make terrifying discoveries about the asylum and the stuff. By the end of the game you'll 
 be fighting for your sanity as well as your life.
  
  The graphics are satisfying for an adventure game from the late 90's and the horrors you'll encounter 
 looks good enough to give you goosebumps. After playing Sanitarium you will probably want to play 
 the game again, just to fully understand the whole story and to relive some of the unique moments 
 the game delivers.
  Trust me one this one: if you like adventure games or/and horror games, and can deal with out-dated 
 graphics, Sanitarium is definitely the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misteryork
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  I played this game back when it was released in the late 90's. I loved it then, it was ages ahead 
 of its time in terms of concept and art.
  
  I was just on level 5 when I lost my CDs and just now, years later ,I got the game from a friend 
 and Im playing it again and enjoying it almost as much as I did the first time. ( I say almost 
 only because I've been spoiled by the overwhelming graphics of nowadays games, but even so, you 
 can't but delight yourself with the look and atmospheric achievement of sanitarium. Not many games 
 like this. One of those games that feels like reading a good book. Beautiful graphics and music, 
 great voice acting, and a very strong, touching story line. Just writing this as a homage to the 
 artists that created this jewel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_calzone
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  The story in this game is preponderant. In many contemporary adventures we see a poor story whose 
 purpose is mainly to act as a glue between a puzzle and the next one as if the puzzles were designed 
 in advance and the story was relegated only to a filling element. Not in Sanitarium. The story 
 is exceptionally compelling despite many disturbing and appallingly dark traits. This controversial 
 aspect literally glue the player to the screen. Despite a subtle sense of repulsion which pervades 
 many situations the player feels compelled to discover what happened to the main character throughout 
 his bizarre interior journey. Yes, the story represents a journey inside the conscience beautifully 
 narrated trough exceptional allegories. Here the puzzles will be secondary.
  
  Puzzles: generally easy enough with a couple of exceptions. Generally, the inventory content does 
 not exceed 4 items (and you can't combine them) , so inventory based puzzles are very easy. There 
 are few arcade/timed sequences (you cannot die tho) .
  
  Audio: sound and music are very well crafted, and the dubbing is generally good except maybe the 
 main character's voice which may sound inadequate sometimes together with few other voices.
  
  Graphics: good 2D with isometric perspective. Characters and objects are very well integrated 
 with the backgrounds (this may also make difficult to find tiny items) . However, the color depth 
 seems a bit lacking (maybe 16bit) and grainy.
  
  The control system is a little awkward at times because you'll have to hold your right mouse button 
 and guide the character trough a path in order to make him move and this may result uncomfortable 
 in narrow passages or arcade sequences.
  
  A technical note: even though patches have been released to make this game compatible with Windows 
 2000/XP I've experienced crashes and also the compatibility mode does not help. The best solution 
 that worked for me was to use Microsoft Virtual PC (freely available) running Windows 98 and from 
 there installing and playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikylin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 3, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  That is an accurate description of this game, even I AM throwing some flowers at myself. I mean 
 it is just great for the period it came, the concept, it is magic, really, and superb realization 
 of ASC Games. I mean, games really depend on their storyline, and at times at their originality 
 . This game does not depend on anything really. It is just great. Good difficulty, nice images, 
 pretty nice sound to, and the game-play is accurate to complement everything else which is great 
 about this game. One wonders why there has not been a sequel to this game, or an analogy made. 
 Even for a movie idea, this story would be great, it is very weird at times, and has its particular 
 twist.
  
  Do not under any circumstances hesitate on this one, and do not give up to fast on it neither. 
 It requires some thinking, but when you start figuring out things, it plays along fine.
  
  An instant Classic. See there is another worthy description!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrahfZilla
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Although I love adventure games this game never really appealed to me when I was looking at screenshots. 
 It took me years to eventually break down and buy it and I did it based on the critical acclaim 
 it was getting on this site mainly and I seriously can't see what is so great about it.
  
  The graphics look good when everything is static but once you start moving everything falls apart. 
 This game surely has some of the worst animations ever made, specifically the walking animation. 
 And even worse is that you actually need to watch that walking animation over and over again because 
 unlike in most adventure games there is no way to 'skip to the next screen'. That means that if 
 you want to walk from one side of the level to the other you need to walk all the way there and 
 it very often takes forever. I know that adventure games are passive games by default but this 
 goes too far. The music does the trick but the voice acting is very subpar, especially the main 
 character which is unfortunate since you hear him talk so often. The game is overall pretty easy 
 too and it does contain some myst-like puzzles which I hate but it doesn't overdose on them. Overall, 
 a pretty average adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 6, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  About five years ago I bought this game for a budget-price, after installing the game I finished 
 it in about four days, I couldn't stop playing! As soon as I got back from work I continued the 
 game.
  I'm not gonna explain what the game is about, you can read all about that when clicking the 'Full 
 review' tab. Just know that if you love a great story and like to do some puzzles, this might be 
 just your kind of game.
  Watch closely and listen carefully to your environment from the beginning, the different stories 
 you are about to be part of, do add up at the end.
  Fun thing is that you're not only playing Max (the main character) , but in times you're one of 
 his mind created creatures. Those with the four arms were great.
  The surroundings are very detailed, graphics are good (for 1998) and the sound and speech is just 
 ok. You really should try and find this game and take your time for it. It's worth it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  See your most horrible nightmares in this game! It has many unique characters, that will help you 
 find who you are in this mysterious world of craziness, though others will mislead you into a trap 
 - be careful. This is an adventure game, where you collect items you find by your way and use them 
 as you see fit. There's a lot of puzzles as well that can be solved by non-standard way. You take 
 place in several different worlds that your main character creates in his mind, and you have to 
 do proper things to people, that surround you in order to get to the final puzzle/battle (It's 
 like cleaning a shroud of darkness in your heart to get your enemies fair and square) - just have 
 to see it, it's the most craziest game i ever saw. The game is really confusing - don't drop it 
 aside if you couldn't understand it at first, because it grows on you - takes time to realise what 
 is happening and for what purpose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daftfan
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 16, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  This game it's awesome, u begin like a normal day, it's night and ur leaving ur place of work in 
 ur car, ur in the freeway, and suddenly and accident that u even know how happen. The place of 
 star it's the name of the game the "Sanitarium" , u wake up with a headache and ur in this crazy 
 world, ur a normal guy with amnesia, between people that r nuts so u have a bandage in ur face, 
 so u don't see what happen. U investigate in the information room and u see a video of urself after 
 the incident, and then u find a key and the sanitarium begins to burn. So there's a strange statue 
 in the middle of the sanitarium and u put the key in the stone angel, and then begins to move and 
 cry blood (very catholic think, don't u ?) . So ur transport to a freak world were the kids have 
 mutations and all they talk it's about his/her mom. So u travel around these worlds and u have 
 to help and complete puzzles to find THE TRUTH of what happen with u.
  
  A wonderful story, with a difficult but good gameplay, it's an involving game, every time u played 
 and get forward the memories of this "Doc" makes u to keep going until u solve the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruca
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 9, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  I first heard of this game in 1999. Back then i didn't knew what i was missing. Six years later 
 (in 2005) i finally had the chance to play it and i was amazed. The story is very impressive and 
 the graphics are not that bad for a game that old. I spended a wonderfull weekend (day and night) 
 playing it. The game just wouldn't let me go... i had to see how everything will be in the end. 
 And i did. I can say now that SANITARIUM deserves it's place in the Adventure Classics just like 
 The Longest Journey. 
  I liked everything about it, there were no bugs in it or anything and it WORKS flawless on XP. 
 The sound and music was preety good. The animation was also very impressive for that time.
  I'm just hoping i will see more games like this one. (good thing that TLJ was not forgotten and 
 it will reappear soon) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Let me first tell you how i got this game, it was just sitting there in a bargain bin for 3 dollars, 
 and i am a huge fan of games like resident evil, so i obviously had to go up and get it, and i 
 am VERY glad that i did. The visuals are pretty good for their time, and the game plays very similairly 
 to the Resident Evil franchise, and the story pans out through 8 action packed chapters. From the 
 get-go you can see where this game gets it's inspiration from, and you'll love it for the most 
 part, a good, classic PC Game that you should play in between modern classics such as FEAR and 
 Battlefield 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bearrich
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 10, 2006 3:44 am PT
Review:  When I first found this game, I was not too sure if I was going to like it, it looked a little 
 creepy for my tastes. I bought it, installed it on my computer and from the moment of the first 
 start up screen I was HOOKED. I have never played a game quite like this, it definitely turned 
 me on to point and click games from now on. I spent hours playing this game, I'm not really sure 
 how long it took me but I lost a lot of sleep over this game! 
  
  When you first start the game you see a great set up movie for the plot of the game, be sure to 
 pay very close attention to what you see and here from the very start, you may even want to take 
 notes for later use. You go from one level to another talking to different characters and searching 
 for certain items to be used on parts of the game, there are a lot of times you have to go back 
 and talk to a certain person again for more info needed to go further in the game. Some of the 
 puzzles will drive you crazy but that is really where the fun is. MOST of the characters are pretty 
 much creepy, things of bad dreams and nightmares. And believe me there are a few edge of your seat 
 moments in this game. 
  
  Thanks to Sanitarium I'm hooked on this type of game now! I highly recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Sanitarium is a isometric horror adventure game in the same vein as most other adventure games. 
 Yet its puzzles are innovative, the storyline intelligent and surprising, and the emotional impact 
 astounding. If it had only been longer, and a bit more polished, it could've been "the best", instead 
 of only "one of the best". 
  
  You star as Max. Sanitarium starts off as Max steps into his car and calls a loved one to reveal 
 some "important" information. Supposedly, Max had made a astounding discovery in the not yet revealed 
 field of work, that had been quite obvious. While promising to tell all the details when home, 
 Max attempts to stamp his brake at the turn, whereupon too late he discovers that the brakes have 
 been slashed. 
  The game begins as you wake inside a Asylum of sorts, with no memory previous occurences. This 
 simple begining sets up a fantastic story.
  
  One of the first things you'll realize when you play Sanitarium is the great artwork. Characters 
 are all interesting and memorable, and the pre-rendered backgrounds are both disturbing and beautiful 
 to behold. But to tell the truth, Sanitarium is not for the weak of stomach, at times I wonder 
 how the game managed to acheive only a Teen rating, instead of Mature. Certain scenes are incredibly 
 gory (the sight of a disgusting experiment in a bloody lab) and others are just a bit too disturbing 
 to look at for too long (small "cyclops" children trapped in grill crates) . 
  Despite it's graphic appearance, Sanitarium is never too bloody or gory just for gore's sake. Everything 
 is used in the perfect context to create the perfect scene, instilling the right emotions and fears 
 inside a person at the right time.
  But along the line of graphics are a few of the irregularities. Some character animations are choppy 
 at best, and don't fit with the great models. Backgrounds can sometimes be off-key with the characters 
 in them. And at several times, graphical glitches occur, although not too major to deter from the 
 overall look.
  
  Sanitarium really shines in the gameplay department. Although the game is certainly too short, 
 (it can be finished in less than ten good hours by Adventure veterans) the experience is memorable 
 while it lasts. Puzzles are never too difficult, and always involve a little investigation and 
 logic on the player's part. Discussion with other characters is interesting, at some times disturbing, 
 at others revealing. Everyone you meet in turn is memorable, and some of the characters are just 
 too bizarre to forget.
  Although navigation is pretty easy, the movement system is a bit annoying and cumbersome at first. 
 Moving Max around consists of holding down the right mouse button, and pushing it in the direction 
 you wish to move. Too many times I accidently stepped down stairs instead of walking along a narrow 
 pathway. It quickly catches on at least, and the most trouble you'll have is the occasional misstep. 
 
  
  Although sound is fine and dandy, the voice acting suffers in some cases. Max's acting is sub-par, 
 and some characters are just atrocious. This is even more bizarre crediting to the fact that some 
 actors are superb. Sounds are sometimes wonky, and there's a definite lack of music. Otherwise 
 the atmosphere set up by the menagerie of different sounds and graphics is perfect.
  
  There you have it, if you want a good, short time, Sanitarium is worth picking up. Although it 
 has it's collection of problems, these are too small to deter the game much, and Sanitarium still 
 manages to please. But I can only award it so much credit, as there are some polish issues that 
 could have been easily avoided. But Sanitarium's story alone makes it worth playing, and its great 
 gameplay can only help more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lissa223
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 26, 2005 10:14 am PT
Review:  I am really trying to find where to buy this game. I never got to finish playing it and I really 
 would like to. I remember I was at the carnaval and I got stuck at that part, but the game was 
 a friends and now I want it for my own collection. I'm trying to get it from this web site but 
 it won't show my prices. So I don't know what to do about finding it. I don't want to have to pay 
 a lot for it because of it being such an old game but I'd like to find it at an amount I wouldn't 
 mind paying for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fl3cha
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Well... the only main thing i can say is.... i was so sad to end the game.... it is a game with a 
 perfect story... i dont remember to play a game such paranoic like this one! Im now crazy, because 
 i cant find any game that give mt such plasure to play like this one! I just can not stop to play 
 it until i rich the end!!!
  I was addicted to the PERFECT story!! you only understant the story on the final! It is very very 
 very confuse but very very logical!!!
  
  The only thing that may be frustrating is the gameplay... sometime its a quite wierd.. until you 
 played a bit!
  
  I just say it one more time... play it! It is one of the best game i have ever played!! hope one 
 day i can play a game like this one!!!
  
  My Attributes is refering to the time the game has!!!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
