-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Savage: The Battle for Newerth
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/savage/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 26, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.8, 49 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 451 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: iGames
Developer: S2 Games
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     Sep 9, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're undaunted by the game's singular insistence on coordinated teamwork, and intrigued by 
 its combination of shooter and real-time strategy elements, then Savage is worth checking out. 
 

  For years now, shooters and real-time strategy games have been the staples of PC gaming. Savage: 
 The Battle for Newerth combines conventional aspects from each of these genres to form an original 
 whole. It's a multiplayer shooter with real-time strategy elements and, for good measure, a little 
 role-playing-game-style leveling up. But rather than having broad appeal for fans of either of 
 these types of games, Savage is only suitable for those who love both. A steep learning curve and 
 the absence of either a tutorial or an offline mode means you'll be a liability to your teammates 
 as you try to learn the ropes in Savage. Even after you get over the initial hurdles, you'll still 
 find that the quality of the average match in Savage varies drastically -- the odds of finding a 
 game in which everyone understands his or her role are relatively slim. However, these uncommon 
 matches can be worth the gamble, as the experience of playing a part in one of Savage's pitched, 
 drawn-out battles can certainly be satisfying.  

          Savage is a hybrid shooter/real-time strategy game that's exclusively played online and 
 in teams.     

  Savage takes place in a point in time far into the future, in the wake of humankind's having blasted 
 itself back into the stone age. Humans have once again asserted themselves as rulers of the planet, 
 but most of their technology is long forgotten, and instead, they live as hunters and gatherers. 
 Their sworn enemies are the beasts, a faction of intelligent apelike creatures who've had it with 
 the humans' oppressive ways and are seeking to overthrow them. The beasts' shamanistic magic is 
 the perfect counterpart to the humans' primitive weaponry, so the humans and beasts remain locked 
 in perpetual conflict for supremacy over what they call "Newerth," a lush and wild planet free 
 from the civilizations that are spread across it today. This is an interesting premise manifested 
 in a nicely done introductory cinematic and in the game's manual, but it has no real bearing on 
 or during the game. There's no sense during the matches that you're playing in a far-flung future 
 rather than on some random primitive planet covered in hills and rain forests. Perhaps a collapsed 
 Statue of Liberty would have helped put the situation in better perspective? At any rate, the story 
 isn't important -- the important thing is that you're trying to destroy the enemy side's base.  

 
  Though you can play as either the humans or the beasts, the goal of any Savage match is always 
 the same. Some matches can end quickly if one side or the other manages to coordinate a successful 
 early-game rush, but generally, matches can take a half hour to an hour and may involve more than 
 a dozen players on each side. Most of these players end up fighting against each other, scouting 
 the territory, and assisting with the gathering of resources and the construction and repair of 
 various buildings (like a Warcraft peon, you can just repeatedly whack at something to help build 
 or repair it) . Two players serve as the commanders of their respective sides. The difference between 
 being a regular player and a commander is as drastic as the difference between playing a shooter 
 and a real-time strategy game.  

  A good match of Savage should have approximately 20 players or more, but no matter how many players 
 are involved in the proceedings, the commanders are always by far the most important. These players 
 oversee the action from a bird's-eye view and have at their fingertips an interface that looks 
 like it could have been lifted from any real-time strategy game released in the last few years. 
 And, sure enough, commanders are charged with the sorts of tasks that real-time strategy fans are 
 well accustomed to: gathering resources, building new structures, researching new weapons and abilities, 
 setting up base defenses, expanding into new regions, and, ultimately, coordinating a crushing 
 attack against the enemy. Of course, unlike in a typical real-time strategy game, a Savage commander 
 does not have direct control of his units (except for worker units used for building and gathering 
 resources) . Nevertheless, the commander may select any player on his side, as though that player 
 were a unit in a real-time strategy game, and order that unit to attack a certain target, proceed 
 to a certain point, repair or build a certain structure, and so on. This player, meanwhile, receives 
 verbal orders and a clear waypoint to follow and will hopefully be compelled to follow the commander's 
 wishes.  

          The playable factions are the humans and the beasts, each of which has its own unique advantages. 
     

  The commander is capable of rewarding players for dutifully following orders by giving them gold, 
 promoting them to officer status, or granting them various other benefits. The commander is also 
 the only player capable of issuing build orders and of controlling worker units. Since the commander 
 has exclusive control over which buildings (and therefore which weapon and unit upgrades) are available, 
 the team's hope rests primarily on his or her shoulders. Indeed, it's a common sight in Savage 
 for the commander of the losing side to be thoroughly berated by frustrated players, who, when 
 killed, have up to 30 seconds before they respawn to type all kinds of very nasty messages. The 
 Catch-22 is that there's absolutely no way to learn how to be an effective commander except by 
 just diving right in. The best way to prepare for the responsibility would be by thoroughly reading 
 the manual (which, unfortunately, isn't very informative) , playing a whole bunch of matches as 
 a regular player, and then attempting to play as commander on a server with nobody playing. This 
 way, at least, you could get a sense of how sluggishly your worker units are to control, what the 
 various buildings available to you actually do, and approximately how long it takes to gather up 
 the resources to build them. It would have been very helpful if Savage featured a spectator mode 
 from the commander's point of view, allowing aspiring commanders to witness a skilled commander's 
 actions and learn a thing or two that way.  

  Savage does contain the standard elements found in real-time strategy games. Defensive towers can 
 be built and upgraded. Various parallel research options are available. The humans' stronghold 
 and the beasts' lair -- the hearts of their respective operations -- may be upgraded, unlocking more-powerful 
 units for players to use. Yet, the real-time strategy portion of the game is about as cumbersome 
 as it is intimidating. Would-be commanders may find that distinguishing between friendly and enemy 
 units can be difficult at a glance, and overseeing their resource-gathering operations and their 
 construction and research doesn't really leave much time for typing messages to teammates. A voice 
 chat feature would have really helped, at least for the commander, though all players have access 
 to some speech macros like "enemy sighted" and "return to base." At any rate, the commander certainly 
 tends to keep busy during a Savage match. And, if not, players may vote to have the commander impeached -- though, 
 this process can be disruptive enough to give the opposing side a major advantage.     

  Most players during a Savage match experience a fairly conventional multiplayer shooter, at least 
 from a gameplay standpoint. By default, you'll switch between a third-person and a first-person 
 perspective depending on whether you're using melee or ranged weaponry, and you'll use these to 
 try to take down as many enemy players as possible. Unlike in most shooters, melee weapons play 
 an important role in Savage -- they're very strong, while most ranged weapons aren't as powerful 
 and provide you with little ammunition to spare. No matter how you do it, though, defeating enemies 
 earns you gold and experience. Gaining experience levels grants slight improvements to your character 
 for the duration of the match, while gold is used to buy better-than-default weapons or units, 
 which make you a more-capable, longer-lasting killing machine. In a nod to Warcraft III, you can 
 also seek and destroy computer-controlled critters to earn gold. These are completely stupid but 
 they do hit hard, and they're the best means of earning a good amount of cash early on in a match. 

          Playing as commander can be frustrating work, but don't expect your teammates to offer 
 you any moral support.     

  The differences between the human and beast sides aren't staggering, but they're significant. Each 
 side has a total of five units -- three progressively stronger fighters and two siege units. The 
 siege units at least look very different between the two sides; the humans have a ballista and 
 a catapult, while the beast equivalents are a diminutive shaman who casts damaging long-ranged 
 spells and a lumbering behemoth armed with a tree trunk. The standard human and beast units have 
 one key difference: Humans can block with their melee weapons, deflecting frontal attacks, while 
 the beasts have a short, quick pounce that can be used to gain ground on an enemy or avoid getting 
 hit. The selection of weapons is also different between the two sides. Humans have access to ranged 
 weapons earlier, while the beasts can gain upgraded melee attacks. Different items are available 
 to each faction, as well. The beasts can camouflage themselves, becoming practically invisible. 
 The humans can carry health and ammo packs, as well as explosive bombs for taking out beast buildings. 
 Either side has some interesting options and is fully capable of defeating the other. The beasts, 
 being more mobile and stronger toe-to-toe, are probably a bit more fun to play. But the humans' 
 blocking ability isn't to be underestimated, and a skilled human player may use it to counter an 
 overzealous beast player.  

  However, typically, the action just doesn't feel very satisfying, which is one of the game's more 
 serious shortcomings. Players move about the battlefield in a jerky fashion, regardless of the 
 quality and speed of your Internet connection, and most of the game's ranged weapons feel flimsy 
 and underpowered. They're like pea shooters, spitting out little colored projectiles straight forward, 
 in a slight spread, or in a downward trajectory. Learning to aim these won't come quickly, though 
 to be fair, mastering some of the long-ranged, deadlier weapons such as the humans' marksman bow 
 can lead to some satisfying kills. Melee combat fares slightly better, since melee attacks look 
 (and usually are) comparatively much more powerful, and the third-person perspective actually affords 
 you with more visibility than the first-person ranged-weapon view. But, even so, close combat in 
 Savage often boils down to pressing the left mouse button as quickly as possible while trying to 
 keep the opponent in sight. There's some skill and timing involved, but plenty of blind luck as 
 well.  

  Nevertheless, under good guidance from a competent commander, Savage can become quite interesting 
 in the late game. When many weapons, items, and units are available to both factions, the gameplay 
 becomes much more diverse, and the real-time strategy elements can start to shine. Players who 
 take control over siege weapons must be escorted into battle, as these are too slow to defend themselves. 
 Most of these siege weapons have tremendous range, making them essential for taking out enemy defensive 
 turrets (they're plenty powerful against buildings, in general) , which paves the way for standard 
 units to rush in and start killing off workers or hitting other targets of opportunity. Coordination 
 and teamwork just seem to come more naturally as a fight wears on, as more units and weapons are 
 available, and as the enemy base comes into reach. Though the action isn't always great, and organized 
 teamwork is hardly par for the course, Savage definitely has its moments.  

  Like most aspects of Savage, the game's visuals unfortunately aren't consistent, but they have 
 flashes of inspiration and are mostly good. The proprietary engine developed for the game looks 
 much better from a standard player's view than from the commander's. It does a respectable job 
 of rendering rolling hills and various weather effects, which collectively make for some convincing-looking 
 environments. Furthermore, many of the character models look good and animate well, particularly 
 the higher-tier human units: the savage, a tough-looking bare-chested barbarian, and the legionnaire, 
 an enormous pro-wrestler-looking character armed with a massive ax. The beasts' behemoth is impressive 
 looking, too. However, the weapon models seen from the first-person view are universally weak, 
 and worker units and the computer-controlled critters strewn about each map tend to look pretty 
 bad, too. Even so, Savage is in no way an eyesore, and it does a particularly good job of making 
 the stronger units look appropriately powerful.  

          Since Savage offers no alternative to its team-based multiplayer battles, and since most 
 players' enjoyment will depend on the skill of their team's commander, whether or not you have 
 fun playing will heavily depend on others.     

  Savage sounds better than it looks. It features an excellent, dramatic musical score that lends 
 some cinematic flair to the action. If there's a downside to the music, it's that there isn't enough 
 of it. Ranged weapon effects are pretty good, such as the sound of the humans drawing their bowstrings, 
 but melee weapons again are better. Different voice-over is used for the humans and beasts, and 
 typical spoken orders like "move here" or "attack this unit" are recorded in a few different inflections, 
 which is quite a nice touch.  

  Many other aspects of Savage were thoughtfully designed, though the game is still inherently limited 
 and thus inherently flawed. In a controlled setting -- in matches consisting only of experienced 
 and dedicated or at least open-minded players -- the game is at its best, and everything comes together. 
 But, fundamentally, the game assumes too much inherent understanding and tolerance from beginning 
 players, many of whom, in reality, are not going to like suffering the wrath of their unforgiving 
 teammates and will find themselves wishing they could practice with and against computer-controlled 
 bots. Like other complex multiplayer shooters, this is a game that rewards hardcore dedication 
 and that will be more entertaining if you can make a group commitment with other players willing 
 to play on the same servers at the same times and using coordinated strategies. Unfortunately, 
 the game includes no mechanisms to facilitate these types of arrangements, so most Savage players 
 will find that their mileage will vary drastically from one match to the next. If you're undaunted 
 by the game's singular insistence on coordinated teamwork, and intrigued by its combination of 
 shooter and real-time strategy elements, then Savage is worth checking out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: thomas_bobbypin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  first off... what kinda games do you you like? Real time strategy? First person shooter? what about 
 RPG? do you like sword battles? or maybe mythical creatures devouring each other OR the mythical 
 creatures killing humans? now imagine a game with all of this put together... that is Savage. as 
 possibly one of the best freeware games ever it is a lot of fun... but only with other people now 
 what happens is one person gets to be commander which is just basically an RTS game and the fact 
 you can order real players to build and mine resouces and stuff is really cool now in savage there 
 is ONE objective... take out the enemy Stronghold (humans) or Lair ( beasts) and you can build your 
 base for great defenses so that it makes it hard for the enemy to attack your base the first person 
 shooter is when you have a ranged weapon take the first ranged weapon for the humans for example, 
 press "2" and youlle go into first person mode, hold down left mouse and wait for your target, 
 and release! and the RPG is for how its just so mythical and fantasyish, and as you build or kill 
 you gain levels which give you special things ( armor, better stamina, stuff like that) 
  
  this is one of my more bad reveiws but its a great game and worth the download if you think you 
 wanna download it please PM me and i'll give you the link
  
  -thomas_bobbypin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamnut
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  First off, Savage is a free abandon ware game, that is only online and is a hybrid of RTS/FPS/3rdPS. 
 Most people got turned off by the confusing learning curve, and horrible community. If you actually 
 took the time to learn the game, then yes this is a brilliant game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are alright. 'Nuff said.
  
  Sound:
  
  The music in this game can get annoying 
 at times, but it is possible to turn it off and listen to your own if you want.
  
  Gameplay:
  The commander is the main leader of the team, the commander tells the units (real people) 
 where to go and what not. As the commander upgrades the upgrades become available to the players 
 to siege the enemies base. Horde vs Humans. The horde specialize melee mostly, while the humans 
 specialize in long range. People say it is unbalanced, it is not. The horde has the ability to 
 leap, while the humans have the ability to block. Which makes it balanced.
  
  People get turned off because they try commander when they are newb in a big server, so everyone 
 gets pissed. Try starting off commander in a small server, and ask if you could practice there.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pcslave
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun to play just for its mix of game play. It feels like playing Rune, with RTS and 
 FPS elements, with a big learning curve. Melee combat in this game is pretty clunky and has certain 
 tricks to it. For instance humans can block and beast alternately can leap around with great maneuverability, 
 which allows for some pretty awkward fighting. Skilled humans can be untouchable if they learn 
 to block well, and beast characters can become unstoppable flying death machines with certain given 
 artifacts and weapons. Ranged combat isnt anything spectacular, but is still complex at times with 
 the range of weapons and their abilities. Each team gets 12 weapon choices and 8 artifacts and 
 items.
  
  Now the melee combat mechanics are very tricky/unbalanced. For instance a large beast monster can 
 initiate a melee attack on a blocking human and then leap behind the human while landing the attack, 
 effectively bypassing the block. There are no melee tricks for the humans, save their ability to 
 block, and this is countered by the beasts HUGE maneuverability advantage. In certain circumstances 
 Beasts have unlimited stamina or running/leaping energy given with certain artifacts, which provides 
 a giant advantage against the slower humans on the often HUGE maps that require logistic strategy. 
 Also the beasts have one building the humans do not, a gateway for instant travel from one point 
 of a map to the other...
  
  In-game the players are quite often hostile and rude, blerting comments like stupid noobs and such, 
 so anything you would ask questions to know you would most likely have to visit a forum. Players 
 and admins sometimes carry offensive names which their is no guard for. On exception you will find 
 someone willing to help you but with all the text clutter and spamming good luck reading it without 
 using the console.
  
  Graphics are nothing spectacular but not disappointing, sound effects nicely go with everything 
 and the built-in voice commands are extremely useful. Some graphics are funky though, like sun 
 glare which shines through mountains and the ground!
  
  Overall the game IS fun, but is made not fun by some of the other players adolescent behavior, 
 some gameplay mechanics, and some players absolute mastery of the combat to the point were you 
 suspect their is cheating going on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: td_tempest
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I've played Savage for over a month now. So, I've gotten fairly good at it. Now, Savage is a hybrid 
 FPS/RTS game. A very nice blend, the game is played totally online, with only other human players. 
 This makes the game more intresting, because you don't need to micro your units; on the other hand, 
 the enemy units can do stuff a normal AI can't do. The objective is to trash the opponents' main 
 buildings. The game revolves around a Beast vs Human war, pretty standard stuff. The differences 
 between the two races, however are quite vast. Humans specialize in ranged attacks, shown by their 
 full armory of a dozen ranged weapons, from a simple hunting bow to a launcher, a rocket launcher 
 of sorts. They have medkits, ammo packs and the like. With their sensors, they allow the commander 
 to watch for possible sneak attacks. Relocators can keep people alive by teleporting them away. 
 Mines and demo charges are standard stuff, so nothing special there. Humans are also able to block 
 attacks, by pressing the RMB. The two human siege units are also ranged.
  
  By contrast, the Beasts are melee specialists. This is shown by their first weapon column, which 
 is fully melee, and some of their items. Some restore stamina, which is consumed during spriting, 
 jumping and for the beasts, leaping. There are enough ranged weapons to keep the gunners happy, 
 but beasts mostly wade in deep, and have the capability to deal serious damage. The second beast 
 siege unit, the Behemoth, is also melee, using a tree to squish opponents.
  
  The buildings are functionally identical, destroying a Beast Fire Shrine will disable all fire-related 
 items, likewise, destroying a Human Magnetic Factorium will disable all magnetic items. Commanders 
 are in charge of the research, assigning of officers, as well as allowing buffs, spells with short 
 bonuses. This leads to some problems, as the commander is key to the victory. Some commanders can 
 turn a game around, some will doom it from the start. The primary resource for construction and 
 research is RedStone, mined from, obviously, RedStone mines. Gold is only used in construction 
 and upgrading of defensive towers. Audiolly, Savage sounds fantastic. The sounds of the creeps 
 around, the hammering of the Human worker's hammer on the stone mine, the musical soundtrack all 
 combine together well enough. The music changes when the Stronghold or Lair are under attack, and 
 the switch between the two is seamless, and almost unnoticable. Certain issues with Savage are 
 known, certain maps, like Eden and Eden2, are known to be Beast haven's loitered with exploits 
 that only the Beast side can use, due to their leap ability, and the Summoner's ability to jump 
 in a limited fashion. Other issues is that newbies often have to learn on the fly; nearly impossible 
 for aspiring commanders. Their only choice will be to go to empty servers and practice.
  
  Savage reaches its best in a pitched, 32 on 32 battle. Such matches can get intense, and can drag 
 for very long. In such matches, its not uncommon for some players to leave for a while to take 
 a break, as these matches can become incredibly stressful, whether one is trying to break into 
 a base, or hold off an assault. However, such matches are common only on certain famous servers. 
 With Savage now open source and free, it is becomming increasingly popular, because of its unusual 
 hybrid of RTS/FPS. The game can be quite fustrating, if you are a newbie, or your team mates/commander 
 are newbies. However, if you can perservere, and play on, you'll find Savage a very attractive 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wackys
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  Pluses: it's great fun especially on big server's; this interesting concept of RTS-FPS gameplay; many 
 many many maps to play on and to have fun; big battles are just plain fun; many items to chose from; IT'S 
 FREEE
  
  Minuses: the first time you enter on the big servers it's very hard until you get the hang of it; it 
 lacks in graphics but that is overcome by the great gameplay; the sound sometimes does not sould
 
  
  Ok, this game is very cool although it does not have great graphics and sounds but still it is a 
 enjoyable experiance that you will enjoy if you get through the 1st hour of gameplay. And if you 
 guys want it go download it and get SEP 3T++ it's a great mod that expands the savage experiance.
 
  
  P. S Can't wait to get my hands on Savage 2 a Tortured Soul 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danceswtihfools
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 13, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  The only game that combines RTS and FPS well i have played. The commanders play a typical rts game 
 and as action players u take on the roles of fighters, builders and resource collectors tho there 
 are npc workers to aid building n collecting. There are 8 unique items and 12 weapons per team, 
 6 units types and you player gets xp and gains bonuses as he levels. Also teams have officers who 
 can give rts comands to troops to help out the commander.
  original setting and a ton of maps. Free to download and play from website.
  
  This game like 
 UO and Total annihilation goes 1 step further in a genre but tho these games changed the face of 
 gaming they were still underated by reviewers who didnt know what they were talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gchao6
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 5, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why this game is ranked so low, but I personally love its multiplayer. Its like a 
 strategy/first person shooter game where people good at strategy can work with people good at first 
 person games to do well. You can even buy and upgrade weapons for your teammates and help mine 
 and stuff like that. I don't know why you would but sometimes the commander behind the scenes need 
 someone to do that. There really is a lot of teamwork involved. I guess if you get really good 
 you can be like a one man team as in Halo but I never got that good (yet) . It's really fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 366z0rs
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Savage is based around a new genre of gameplay, the RTSS (Real-time Strategy Shooter) . Basically, 
 players form teams of mud-slogging FPS grunts, and a single warrior on each team takes command 
 in a top-down, RTS style game. Each of these is linked directly, so events unfold exactly for both 
 aspects. 
  
  Two sides are present in Savage: the Humans and the Beasts. Humans are primarily range/technology 
 based, and their weapons are far more effective from afar, while beasts tend to excel at melee 
 combat. Still, both races can dabble in melee or ranged engagements, and the melee combat is surprisingly 
 slick. The sword swinging, axe slicing never gets old.
  
  Though greatly touted in the game's promotions, the commander plays a much more subtle (but vitally 
 important) role during the course of the game. Human players can easily choose to ignore orders 
 for their commander, and often will, so the commander's tactical contribution is usually limited 
 to building towers and defenses. At the same time, his ability to research new weapons which are 
 used by the warriors on the ground is invaluable, and usually the team whose commander is able 
 to build up faster (think boom in AoE) will win.
  
  Savage's graphics are nothing to write about, and there are a few graphical errors that create 
 downright imbalances in gameplay. For example, there are large rocks that aren't clipped, so snipers 
 can hide within the rocks after brining down someone from afar. Most of these are being fixed in 
 successive patches, but there are a lot of them, and could be hard to sort out.
  
  One other note, the game's melee combat, while addictively fun, is difficult for newbies to pick 
 up, especially those accustomed to the run-n-gun of traditional shooters. This could easily cause 
 frustration, however, there are dueling servers (bound by tradition and player agreement, not game 
 modes) , where players can hone their melee skills without detrimentally a team.
  
  So if you're looking for something a little different, look not further than Savage. And don't 
 forget; a US $20.00 price tag is hard to beat for a game this enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kpadrebecker
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that the graphics in this game are great. It is as if you are in the game at that 
 moment fighting by yourself or with allies. Great fighting, shooting, and strategy. The fighting 
 part of it takes a while to handle but all in all its fun while it lasts. You could play this game 
 for hours with non-stop fun. Just the excitement makes the adrenaline going. The stategy game part 
 takes practice and placement. If you want a good base you have to have a good strategy for your 
 base defense and your fighters. The game took me a little while to learn, about 30 min, but it 
 was worth it. Now i'm practically a pro at the game. I also have played well over 100 hours. This 
 game never stops getting bad. Every other month there is an update and there is no monthly fee. 
 The game is played only online. In the end I say this is a very good game and is a great purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samurai_Rocket
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 24, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Savage: The Battle for Newerth is a game created by the company S2Games. This innovative PC title 
 combines two completely different game genres, First Person shooting and Real Time strategy, into 
 one seamless blend that is incredibly entertaining, fast paced and satisfying.
  
  Gameplay-
  I remember picking this particular game up years ago when a co-worker of mine recommended 
 the game since he knew how much I loved First person shooting as well as real time strategy gameplay 
 elements. The game was surprisingly simple enough to pick up on and play, with a very familiar 
 controller scheme that most gamers will immediately get used to. The biggest, primary difference 
 that makes this type of experience different from other first person shooters is that one player 
 on your team is the Commander. This player has a real time strategy interface to the game, and 
 manages basically everything you would expect- The construction of buildings, weapon upgrades, 
 directions and strategic commands.
  
  With the exception of a very limited count of worker unit NPCs which do absolutely nothing aside 
 from mining and building, all of the units that the commander has are the actual players on his 
 or her team playing the first person shooting element of the gameplay.
  
  The symbiotic relationship between the players and the commander is extremely important. Communication 
 is key, and without a very skilled commander or a very skilled team of players, the resulting team 
 could lose very quickly.
  
  Although the game is extremely easy to pick up and play, winning and playing competitively is a 
 completely different story altogether. Considering the game has been out for a while now, only 
 most that is left are experienced clan members or ex-clan members that are familiar with every 
 single facet of the game. This may be daunting for new players, but thankfully the community is 
 surprisingly helpful, and so long as you don't hop into the commander's seat right away, will most 
 likely be willing to help you out.
  
  The creators of this game made it a requirement to have an internet connection or a LAN with friends 
 to play with. There are no bots or AI whatsoever, except for the few NPC Mob spawns that litter 
 the maps.
  
  Another small gameplay aspect they threw in for good measure is the ability to level up your character 
 through mining, building units, killing enemy units, creatures and performing other various tasks. 
 This provides players who have been participating in the same match a higher survivability chance 
 than those that just joined the game.
  
  Graphics-
  The game has not stood the test of time very well, and it's quite obvious when you load into a 
 game. The textures are bland and undetailed; completely different from today's modern PC games 
 such as F. E. A. R. and Half-Life 2. But, at least through my eyes, the game does convey a unique 
 sense of style in their character models as well as the geographic landscape and architecture of 
 buildings. This makes it at least stand apart from most other games, and slightly makes up for 
 the low-grade textures.
  
  Sound-
  The sound effects work very well, and help keep you alert as to what is around the corner. None 
 of the sound effects sound too cheap or annoying, and the voice commands get the job done- Despite 
 the fact that with excessive spamming, they start to sound almost humorous.
  The music does work to bring you into the mood of the gameplay, and is surprisingly well done considering 
 how much production was actually put into the game.
  
  Overall-
  This game is a great title to try if you haven't done so by now. The fact that the game is now 
 completely Free Ware says that there is absolutely nothing to lose for at least trying the game 
 out. This should give you a taste of what Savage 2's gameplay will provide when it is released 
 some time next year. For the freeware guide, check out :
  http://databox. topcities. com/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilMastermind3
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2005 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Savage: The Battle for Newerth is an awsome game. There are two races that offer completely different 
 styles of melee combat. The ranged weapons are fun to use. You can spend limitless hours playing 
 this game because you can always get better. The better you are, the more people you can kill, 
 the more fun it is. You cannot judge this game by the first few minutes of gameplay, because Savage 
 takes a little while to pick up, but when you do you will be hooked. I got the game over a year 
 ago and I still frequently play it. Savage: The Battle for Newerth is one of the best and underrated 
 games out there. I you play PC games then I highly reccomend this game to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperArchVile
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 2, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  It is a very unique and highly addictive game once you get into it. The game play is the best part 
 of Savage. The sound is a above par but still could be better. The graphics when Savage was released 
 were ok but now seem a bit out dated. Its has sucked many hours of my life away because of its 
 unique game play of real time strategy, first/third person shooters and a slight hint of role playing 
 games. Its pretty easy to learn the basics but it is very hard to master the game. A few things 
 that make it suffer are terrible worker A. I., hit boxes not aligning with the models and a few 
 other minor things. But in all, is very worth your time to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AZoMBiE
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 9, 2003 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Creative idea, Solid engine, not too much depth but hey.. it's still fun as hell. Simply put if 
 you're looking for a game to play for years and years to come go buy Half-life or a MMORPG, but 
 if you're looking for something to pass the time with then this is a great game. Considering it's 
 100% multiplayer and it REQUIRES team effort and a smart commander it can at times be kind of boring 
 and dumb but when you get a good team and comm the possibilities for a WAR are endless. It does 
 take a while to learn because of no tutorials, lite documentation and no offline play but after 
 you get used to it you can become an unstoppable killing machine. Like I said, buy this if you 
 want a fun game to pass the time with.. not something to devote months of time into making fansites 
 and clans for... althought it does have some pretty good Clan support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wytefang
Rating: 4.8
Date: Sep 26, 2003 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Jerky animation, confusing and random combat elements, along with a completely boring RTS commander 
 mode, make this game barely worth purchasing. I really wanted to like this game simply due to the 
 intriguing mix of genres it presented, but sadly the presentation and implementation are both pretty 
 sub-par. I give credit to the designers for trying something new (though this has been done before, 
 in much better fashion, with Allegiance, a space sim/rts game by Microsoft) but they just didn't 
 quite bring it together. The in-game combat, especially melee modes are just not up to standard, 
 often devolving into button-mashing festivals of lameness while the ranged combat is relatively 
 bland and unsatisfying. Overall I'd have to say it'd be funner for you to purchase UT2003 (you 
 can get it pretty cheep now) AND WarCraft 3 if you want to play the best of both worlds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mercclass
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 18, 2003 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Savage is an okay game. If you really want to experience the first person shooter plus real time 
 strategy genre then download the free half-life mod "natural selection" which blows this game away 
 and has voice over internet support with a simple microphone. Savage just doesn't grab you as an 
 addictive game to play. I didn't experience much lag at all and the graphics are decent but not 
 exceptional. The biggest thing missing is that it's just not that fun. The melee combat is almost 
 stupid and some of the projectile weapons are downright useless. Is it a "neat" new type of game 
 to play well yes. Will you stay up half the night engrossed in an intense game. No not at all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steveroger
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 17, 2003 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Osborne? I am beginning to hate the name. Planetside got 7.9. SW Galaxium Boredium got 7.5. Osbore 
 gives Savage a 6.7 and says it is fair. Different games but similar quality. You are about lose 
 subscribers. Get rid of him or lose me. It is apparent that Osborne holds some sway over you editorial 
 types. If this makes you chuckle think again. This website ain't Paradise Hotel. We, subscribers 
 are losing interest. I used to look forward to opening up your reviews. Now I cringe in hopes it 
 won't be him giving an insipid review. Drop him like a bad habit or I won't be "gamespotting." 
 He is taking the fun out of my visits. Savage is a great game. Again steer me away from the bad 
 ones not the good and great ones. And you never reply to my inquiries about the guy. What are you 
 afraid of does his uncle pay your salary? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 17, 2003 6:19 pm PT
Review:  It has been said that innovative games are hard to come by of late, but that isnt necessarily 
 true. There has actually been a great deal of recent originality in game deisgn; unfortunately, 
 some of the memorable recent innovations like The Sims Online, EVE, Black & White, and Republic: 
 The Revolution have been lacking one important element: a fun factor. While fun is not objectively 
 quantifiable, many would agree that the above-mentioned games do a lot that is new, and not much 
 that can be enjoyed. Now, we have Savage, the first game to combine the real-time strategy genre 
 with the first-person shooter. A great concept to be sure, but is the end result ultimately satisfying?
 
  
  Savage is a multiplayer-only, team-based game that features two distinct gameplay elements: an 
 RTS element played by a commander, who builds structures, researches technology, and issues orders 
 much like any other strategy game; and the FPS portion, in which team members act as living units 
 in the commanders world. By necessity, most gamers will be playing in the FPS role, as one of 
 two races: humans, or the Beast Horde. The human units have both melee and ranged weapons available, 
 and as technology is researched, more powerful weapons become available for use. The Beast units 
 are primarily melee- and magic-based, and in the later game, units themselves can be impressively 
 large. As the game starts, there are only simple weapons and items available for each player, and 
 in order to upgrade them, not only does the commander need to research technology to make new weapons 
 available, but the action players must accumulate gold in order to buy them. At the outset, you 
 can choose the small animals, like monkits, to help supplement your income, and eventually, build 
 up enough cash to buy better weapons and items. Some of your income, however, will be allocated 
 to the commander, who can then grant requests for weapons, items, and units to players who may 
 not have enough of their own gold. This is a fine element that can help the less advanced players 
 keep up with the experienced pack. Eventually, siege weapons and other units become available, 
 and players can actually play a siege unit, helping to achieve the main goal of Savage: to defeat 
 the other teams base.
  
  The commander himself spends more time building structures, researching tech trees, and commanding 
 the NPC workers than he does issuing battle commands. When he does issue attack commands to FPS 
 players, that command is accompanied by a clearly marked beam identifying the destination, and 
 an audio command, such as defend this building. Orders are difficult to misunderstand, which 
 makes it easier for the commander to keep the team unified; and as the commanders birds eye point 
 of view means he can see the overall action, it is in the action players best interest to follow 
 those orders. While other team-based games suffer from griefers and team killing, the very structure 
 of Savage encourages every player to follow orders, and it works remarkably well. Rarely is a commander 
 frustrated with units that do not follow orders, and if a team is unhappy with the commanders 
 performance, he can be voted out and replaced. Unfortunately, Savages community is generally impatient 
 with inexperienced commanders, making it difficult for a new player to experience this facet of 
 the game, and the games lack of a tutorial or single-player makes this learning curve a daunting 
 one.
  
  Savage itself presents itself with a distinct sense of style, eschewing the recent emphasis on 
 system-hogging textures and polygon-pushing models and replacing them with colorful, detailed graphics 
 that can run on a variety of machines. The graphics themselves are reminiscent of Giants: Citizen 
 Kabuto, and feature a nifty day-night cycle that enhance the truly beautiful environments. The 
 animations dont fare quite as well, with monkits hopping in unison, and build animations for action 
 players that are the same as melee attack animation. The Beast magic effects are simple but well-done, 
 and a slight lack of polish does not hinder the overall artistic effect. The most impressive facet 
 of S2s graphics engine is its flexibility: the commander and FPS players experience the same map, 
 simply from different points of view. Therefore, the commander literally sees every move of the 
 action players, complete with every animation and effect. While there are better looking shooters 
 and RTS game, the use of the same graphics and engine are an impressive feat. You can occasionally 
 notice small seams in the environment, but this is a tiny nitpick.
  
  Savages sound is above average but not groundbreaking. A stirring musical score helps set the 
 mood, but never annoys. Sound effects are standard fare but well implemented, featuring the swoosh 
 of bows as they pass by and appropriate effects with magic spells. 
  
  In final analysis, the separate parts of Savage are not as impressive as their counterparts. If 
 played as an FPS, Savage would be bested by half a dozen superior options, and as a pure RTS, its 
 streamlined tech trees and unit options keep it from competing with its competition. In practice, 
 though, Savage is far greater than the sum of its parts, implementing a team dynamic unlike any 
 other game, and creating real tension and excitement rare in most shooters. While you cant be 
 guaranteed a good game on any given server, games are satisfyingly fun more often than not. Like 
 Battlefield 1942, at its best, Savage can be a nail-bitingingly good time.
  
  In the end, Savage is an original, highly enjoyable game that supercedes its individual parts and 
 small frustrations to become a cohesive, exciting experience. Anyone interested in team-based shooters, 
 and anyone disillusioned by both the recent trend towards the mediocre, as well as anyone tired 
 of innovative but empty gameplay elements, should check this game out.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
