-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Scarface: The World Is Yours
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/scarface/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 If you hit the talk button when no one is around, Tony starts cursing at no one.
 decent targeting system makes shooting easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Boring missions.
 flat dialogue and storyline.
 rewrites one of the most iconic scenes in film history to justify its existence.
 poorly adapted to the PC platform.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 12, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.2, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 1,471 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Vivendi Games
Developer: Radical Ent.
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Oct 8, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Once you get over the whole rewriting-the-end-of-the-movie thing, Scarface: The World Is Yours is 
 a competent but usually uninteresting action game. 

  Hey, remember the movie  Scarface ? How about that ending, with Tony Montana taking on an army 
 of thugs with his "little friend" and managing to kill most of them... except for the guy creeping 
 up from behind with a double-barreled shotgun? Guess he didn't see that coming. Too bad they didn't 
 leave it open for a sequel, because the continuing adventures of Tony Montana probably would have 
 been pretty cool.  

          Coke deals and other character interactions are often governed by a golflike meter.    

  Slight variations on that conversation have probably happened thousands of times since the 1983 
 release of  Scarface , which featured Al Pacino as a tough-talking up-and-coming crime lord who 
 makes a fortune dealing cocaine in Miami, only to lose it all by taking his eye off the ball and 
 becoming way too focused on getting high on his own supply. Through the power of video game magic, 
 Sierra and Radical Entertainment have teamed up to answer the question: What would have happened 
 to Tony Montana if he had escaped from the mansion? What about his empire? And the video game answer 
 to that question is that he'd lose it all and have to perform a number of Grand Theft Auto-like 
 tasks to get it back.  

  Rewriting the ending to a movie just so you can justify a sequel is a tough pill to swallow, especially 
 when you're dealing with an ending as memorable as the one in Scarface. It's likely that some fans 
 of the film will never be able to get over that hump and will despise the game for existing in 
 the first place. But if you can deal with that concept -- you'll take control of Montana shortly 
 after the "say hello to my little friend" line and orchestrate his getaway yourself -- you'll find 
 a foul-mouthed and bloody adventure that does next to nothing with the characters. In the film, 
 you saw Tony Montana grow from a simple refugee to the king of the coke world. In the game, the 
 shock of losing his empire causes Tony to clean up his act and get off the yayo so he can start 
 dealing again. Then you basically kill everyone who wronged you, all while talking about the need 
 to have balls. The whole experience feels flat and often self-conscious. It's like the makers of 
 the game watched the movie, picked out a few common words that Tony Montana would say (cock-a-roach, 
 balls, f***, chico, and coo) , and then set about writing dialogue that uses those words as often 
 as possible.  

  It might not feel terribly true to the spirit of the film, but as a game, Scarface is functional. 
 You're given the open city of Miami to drive around right off the bat, though you'll be doing business 
 in only one part of the city at a time. You start in Little Havana, and your goal is to take back 
 that part of town so you can deal cocaine unabated by the other dealers that have risen during 
 your three-month absence. You take back the streets by going to war with gangs that have taken 
 up residence in various parts of the neighborhood. These gangs are denoted by a skull on your map, 
 and your task here is to roll up to the thugs, open fire, and not stop shooting until they're all 
 dead. You'll also need to buy businesses in each part of town, mainly so that you can use them 
 as drug fronts, and you won't able to advance the story if you don't. But you can't just waltz 
 in and buy each business right away. Business owners have specific tasks that you must complete 
 before they'll sell. That means you'll have to go on a mission. Some of the missions make perfect 
 sense and fit with something Tony Montana would do, like defending a restaurant from attackers. 
 Another has you guarding a speedboat from a fixed gun position on a helicopter while it tries to 
 find shark fins to make shark-fin soup for a wedding party at another restaurant. The slightly 
 goofy missions conspire to make the whole game feel disjointed and flippant.  

  In addition to the main process of completing missions and buying front businesses, there's the 
 more open-ended goal of making money and building a reputation. You have a reputation level that 
 increases for a variety of different reasons, including completing missions, and you won't be able 
 to take on some missions unless your reputation is at a certain level. If you need to earn a lot 
 of rep, that might mean you go several hours without progressing the story because you need to 
 earn money to purchase junk for your mansion, which raises your rep and also gives you access to 
 the stupidly named "pimp my mansion" feature.  

          The life of a coke dealer is a dangerous one, but death in this game usually doesn't have 
 much of a consequence.     

  Or, you can just go on what seems like an infinite number of side missions to help out coke suppliers, 
 usually by defending them from attackers for a minute or two. Once that's done, you can get connected 
 with the suppliers and purchase cocaine. Grams can be dealt on your own to street dealers or through 
 your front businesses, though the street dealers usually give you more money for your product. 
 As you move up the food chain and take over entire neighborhoods, you get access to supply warehouses. 
 Around that point, you can start buying by the kilo and store those fat keys of powder in your 
 warehouse. Once you've stored some coke, you can then go on a distribution mission, which has you 
 drive around to your various front businesses, ostensibly to deliver the coke you've accumulated. 
 But all you really do is drive around and run over boxes that give you money. During this process, 
 gangs will show up and attempt to attack or take out your front businesses, but they're never too 
 hard to deal with. Completing distribution is a great way to earn a lot of cash... dirty cash.  
    

  The game keeps track of two different sums of money. Your cash on hand is treated as dirty money, 
 and when you die, you lose all the grams and dirty money on your person. The only way to protect 
 your money is to go to a bank and launder it, which also lets you save your game. The laundering 
 process isn't automatic, though. Whenever you go to deposit your cash, a golf swing-style meter 
 appears with various percentages on it. That percentage is how much of a cut the bank will take 
 for cleaning up your cash flow. You need to hold down a button to start the meter moving and let 
 off when it reaches a success zone at the end to get the lowest rate. This same meter shows up 
 throughout the game and is used to intimidate gangs, fast-talk your way past police, sell grams 
 of coke to dealers, and even disarm bombs. It's a clever system that makes you feel like you're 
 actually working to accomplish these tasks, rather than just pressing a button, though it's not 
 very hard, and you'll rarely fail once you get the hang of it. There are two other factors that 
 impact some of these meters. Your heat with local gangs has an impact on how much money you'll 
 get for selling coke to dealers, and your heat with the police has an effect on the percentage 
 the banks will offer to launder your cash. You can pay either of them down with bribes, though 
 the best way to deal with the police is to not attract their attention in the first place.  

          This may be the only game around that features something called a balls upgrade.     
 

  One of the most exhilarating parts of any Grand Theft Auto-style game is the ability to get out 
 in the middle of the street, arm yourself to the teeth, and start going crazy. Scarface doesn't 
 let you do that, because not only can you not pull the trigger when pointing at any civilian (the 
 game likes to repeat the "I don't need that s*** in my life" line from the movie when you try to 
 blast innocent people) , but you also can't get into a protracted standoff with the police. As you 
 do dirt in a visible manner, such as shooting it out with gangs in the streets or even getting 
 into a lot of hit-and-run accidents, a meter starts to slowly fill up. If it gets full, the police 
 show up on the scene. If they don't see you shooting, you might be able to put away your gun and 
 sweet-talk the law into leaving. Or, you might just have to get away. The meter then becomes a 
 timer that slowly drains, and you absolutely must get away from the police in a fast car. If you 
 don't get away before time expires, the game lamely proclaims "you are f***ed," and shots ring 
 out from nowhere, killing you almost instantly. There doesn't seem to be any way to fight your 
 way out of this situation. You truly are "f***ed." It's interesting that someone tried to come 
 up with a new way to deal with the police in a Grand Theft Auto clone, but this method isn't any 
 fun at all.  

  That applies to much of the game, really. Most of the missions aren't much fun, either, though 
 at least the act of firing a gun is handled well and surprisingly bloody. Comical, Mortal Kombat-like 
 streams of blood blast out of just about any person you shoot, especially if you blow someone's 
 head off. You can lock on and target enemies, and then use the right analog stick to refine that 
 aim for headshots and so on. But once you start getting AK-47s and other high-powered weapons, 
 locking on seems like a waste of time. You can just aim at head height, hold down the trigger, 
 and sweep across a row of enemies to wipe them all out immediately. Plus, shooting without locking 
 on is a more effective way to earn "balls," which is a rage meter. When your balls gauge is full, 
 you can go into a blind-rage mode that takes the game first person for a bit. While in rage mode, 
 you autotarget enemies, which makes them extremely easy to kill. Also, each kill causes you to 
 regain some of your health, making it a useful feature.  

  Multiplatform games that appear on both consoles and the PC can be a real crapshoot, and the PC 
 version is usually the one that ends up suffering. That's the case with Scarface for the PC, which 
 has the same menus and controls as the console version. It has been poorly adapted to work with 
 a mouse and keyboard, and the mouse aiming never feels smooth. Even more telling is the cheat-code 
 entry screen, which still requires you to scroll through letters to spell out the cheat, rather 
 than letting you type it in.  

  Graphically, the PC version suffers when compared to the Xbox version, let alone when compared 
 to modern PC games. Even on machines that go way beyond the game's recommended system requirements, 
 we noticed plenty of frame-rate trouble and slowdown. The textures aren't pretty, and overall, 
 the game looks like a quick and dirty console port.  

          After taking over a couple of neighborhoods, you'll have to visit some of the surrounding 
 islands via boat.     

  The audio side of the game is all over the place. While the first credit in the game might say 
 Al Pacino right on the screen, that's just because the character looks like the original Tony Montana. 
 The final credit, however, is the credit for the voice actor portraying the lead character by doing 
 his best Tony Montana impression. He's pretty good, and just like in the movie, most of his lines 
 are absolutely packed with cursing. And just as the movie was back when it was new, this may be 
 one of the most curse-filled games around. The rest of the voice cast is full of fairly big names 
 that don't necessarily sound like the sort of names you'd want in a Scarface game, like Bam Margera 
 and Jason Mewes. For the most part, the voices are fine, though the character Mewes (Jay of Jay 
 and Silent Bob fame) plays shouts "die, fat a**, die!" at one point. Who thought working in a fairly 
 obscure  Mallrats  reference was a good idea? Tony Montana isn't even fat! The rest of the sound 
 effects are as you'd expect. There are good gunshot effects, and the car engines sound decent. 
 The game makes good use of surround-sound setups, especially on the Xbox. The soundtrack is pretty 
 long and contains songs from the movie as well as a bunch of newer stuff from acts like LL Cool 
 J and Cypress Hill, though much of it isn't very effective at setting the appropriate mood, and 
 at its default setting, the music is usually a bit too loud, drowning out important sound effects 
 or character speech.  

  Overall, Scarface: The World Is Yours is more a victim of some poor design choices than any glaring 
 technical issues. The developers accomplished the task of bringing Tony Montana back to life. But 
 by taking the focus off of the gameplay elements that you'd want in an open-city game and putting 
 it more on the game's bland mission design and all the dull side tasks you'll have to do to earn 
 a reputation, Scarface doesn't play to its potential strengths. The end result is a functional 
 game that presents an interesting premise, but underneath you'll find a wholly uninteresting game. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (94 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: savetehhaloz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 7:51 am PT
Review:  When I got this game, I wasn't to hyped about it. After all, most Grand Theft Auto clones turn 
 out to be total garbage. This game however, exceeded expectations for what I was expecting it to 
 be. Even though it exceeded my expectations, it is till a mediocre game.
  
  Gameplay
  Scarface TWIY's is based on choosing missions, mainly talking to store owners and doing missions 
 for them to take back a certain part of Miami. There are few side missions, the majority being 
 finding cocaine suppliers. The game is repetitive in how it carries this out; either shoot or deliver 
 something/go to supplier/ get coke.
  This happens throughout the entire game. Driving is difficult, as the driving physics are kind 
 of wacky. The camera that is used while you drive is also very stiff. Another feature in Scarface 
 is that you can only save at banks where you launder your money. I would prefer the option of buying 
 property and saving there (like our mansion, which you get early on in the game) . An annoying feature 
 in the game is the police meter. Once it gets up to a certain point, you immediately lose the game. 
 Also, it is impossible to kill pedestrians as Tony did not want to kill innocents in the film. 
 This means that going on a rampage GTA style is impossible. The map is limited, there is only 1-2 
 roads to get from point A to point B. I was expecting the game to feature and open Miami, like 
 what was present in Vice City; this was a bummer.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in Scarface TWIY is mediocre, nothing will stand out and make your eyes pop. Some 
 of the vehicle models are strange and aren't as detailed as those in Grand Theft Auto San Andreas. 
 Story
  The story is a "what if scenario" as Tony manages to kill The Skull, the assassin with the shotgun 
 that appeared in the final scene of the film. The games missions however, are cohesive and fit 
 in with the plot ; to take over Miami.
  
  Overall
  This game is a decent Grand Theft Auto clone and is a must get if you loved and worshiped the film. 
 If you are looking for a GTA, Rampage experience, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bark00000
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2009 5:56 am PT
Review:  First of all i am going to start by saying this:
  This game is NOT a GTA rip off. GTA uses a kind of gameplay that fits what it is trying to achieve.
 
  
  GTA has evidently hit on the right way to do a free roaming game set in a city in which you take 
 part in criminal activities.
  
  Therefore i submit that any game trying to achieve this approach would have to follow that formula 
 in order to make the game good.
  You do not label all FPS games DOOM ripoffs, or all driving sims POLE POSITION rip offs. You might 
 as well be calling addition a rip off of subtraction! Sure they are similar in many ways, but if 
 they were not it would simply be a bad game (and im glad its not)
  
  That being said, i LOVE this game. It is the perfect realization of the Scarface title. 
  I am 
 usually very skeptical when it comes to movie license games, and rightly so considering that 90% 
 of them are rushed pieces of crap made solely for the purpose of adding to the movies total profit.
 
  
  Scarface: The World Is Yours, was a pleasant surprise to me. 
  First of all, it was playable! Usually movie games are loaded with bugs that never get fixed or 
 clunky controls, but this game was fairly smooth (although sometimes still shows its moviegame 
 side, but not often)
  
  The game did something really unexpected though. It decided to take away (some) player freedom 
 in order to maintain the core values of Tony Montana.
  You will remember from the film that Tony wasn't too keen on cold blooded murder of innocents? 
 (The car bombing scene)
  Well they decided to keep that for the game and not actually allow you to kill innocent bystanders 
 without reason. I at first found this to be a little stupid and cheesy, but later found myself 
 actually getting more and more interested. (now, whether they did this to enhance gameplay or keep 
 their rating down im not sure, but i liked it)
  
  Now the gameplay (all important)
  The game handles a little clunky. 
  I like to compare it to parking a boat. With practice you 
 can master it, but it will always kind of feel like driving a muddy brick!
  This doesn't really affect the game too much though, because you can still fully function within 
 the game and you are not really held back because of it.
  The combat is kind of hard to get used to, but fun and effective... no complaints there.
  
 
  The level of interaction is really quite high. You can pretty much do anything you want with your 
 drug empire, from dealing on the street yourself to setting up fronts to clearing out rival cartels. 
 Its about the closest thing there is to a drug dealer simulator (haha, that's what my roomie called 
 it)
  
  The only actual problem i had with the game was the story (and this is minor at best, and something 
 only true Scarface fans would care about in the least... not to mention it doesn't really affect 
 anything in the long run)
  They basically take the end of the film and throw it out the window so that the game makes sense. 
 I love playing as Tony and all, but i would have preferred to maybe play as one of his lackeys 
 or goons and try to rebuild his empire or something. But as i said, this is minor!
  
  
  
  All in all:
  I really like this game. It has lots to do (even outside the story) and there 
 is enough variety that you could play for weeks and still have stuff you could do. I definitely 
 recommend it if you are looking for a change of pace or an alternative to the GTA series 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exeron
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  The concept is not original, in fact it's the exact same concept as in GTA. Start at the bottom 
 and get to the top. What suprised me is that you can't randomly kill civilians, you'll have to 
 run them over or arrange some other kind of accident.
  
  That's pretty much what the game is all about, getting your money and status back on track.
  
 
  The story begins where the movie ends, but instead of getting killed you actually have the chance 
 to turn around and shoot that henchmen  la Terminator. 
  
  Gore, violence and profanity are the three ground elements expected from this game. No disappointments 
 there. Gory, it is. Violent, you don't know the half of it. And they're not cheap on the profanity 
 as well. 
  
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is pretty stiff. You've no ability to jump, i guess the excuse for that was: "Jumping?! 
 I'm Tony Montana!" (ha-ha) . There's this rage meter that caught my interest of the game, the more 
 you kill the more rage you get. And when the meter is full, RAMPAGE!
  Suddenly you're in first person mode and wherever you shoot you kill someone. Pretty handy, but 
 the first person view doesn't make the game prettier.
  
  Graphics
  I didn't expect anything at this point. I mean, the game's from 2006 and i've never seen a movie 
 game with impressive graphics. Well, let's just say that the graphics were out of date when the 
 game was released...
  
  The world that is yours
  Miami, you're pretty much free to roam anywhere in the city. You can actually take a boat and go 
 to different islands where you can do missions etc. So at this point i'm pretty satisfied.
  
  
  Weapons
  There's a pretty wide variety of weapons. Anything from a baseball bat to a 
 chainsaw. Well, there's pretty much the same weapons as in Vice City. 
  
  
  Recommendation
  Not many will be completely satisfied, especially not Hardcore-movie fans. But 
 i'm pretty sure that "Scarface: The world is yours" will offer you at least some hours of entertainment. 
 But unfortunately it gets pretty booring quick. So in a day or two you'll get tired of it...
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckyly_kuakua
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  I really love GTA, and none of GTA ripoffs ever surpass GTA yet, even from the original movie of 
 one of the GTA series had loosely referred to (GTA : Vice City) .
  
  This game has the ambition, but poorly executed. Like GTA, you can drive around, hijack vehicles 
 (no motorcycles and planes / helos though) , shoot people (Tony Montana still has some humanity 
 in him, when u try to shoot civilians he will hesitate 1st) , do missions and etc. But there are 
 some features not in GTA, such as the police & gangster heat meter (this affect the gameplay really 
 much) , the ability to call your driver to deliver your car (no more finding your garage and drive 
 it all the way) , the 'meter' which determine your success on a certain task (i dunno how to explain 
 this, google it ya :D)
  
  It has a storyline, quite good, but too simple. Most of the time you will feel that u just go to 
 A, then shoot some peeps, then go to B, and repeat. After some time u'll become numb and bored. 
 But the animation during the cutscenes is really good though. Sadly they are too short and the 
 graphic is damn poor.
  
  Graphic is poor. Really poor, and buggy. Even a 2006 game should not has a poor graphic like this. 
 And worse, even a good PC still experiencing lags while playing this game (coz of the bugs perhaps) . 
 The patch don't help much.
  
  This game came with a jukebox which allowed you to listen most of the 80's hits, from rock to disco 
 pop. But the number of swearing could make your ears bleed. I wonder where did they get the voice 
 actors. Maybe from a prison :D
  
  Replay value below average. Aside from catching up with the story, you could do side missions, 
 but not as much as in GTA.
  
  IMHO I don't care if this game is a total ripoff of GTA, as I also like Scarface the movie. But 
 the buggy-ness, poor graphic and so-so gamplay really a let down. You could try this game if you 
 want. But don't delve in too much, or else you'll become easily bored and lose the attention to 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:46 am PT
Review:  Who'd have though Scarface, the inspiration for Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (One of the most lauded 
 games of all time) would make such an awful video game. You'd think a game with so many great shootouts 
 and action sequences would be an awesome game and with some tweaks it could kick ass. Sadly this 
 is where developers took their first wrong turn, one of many which they made in the process of 
 this game's development.
  
  Scarface is a terrible game with a stupid concept. Fans of the movie will be heartbroken to find 
 that to play this game you have to suspend all disbelief of the ending of this movie. The developers 
 of this game tried to make it plausable that Tony Montana survived the final attack on his mansion. 
 This 'what if' scenarios is one of the stupidest in gaming. What's worse is the fact that after 
 he survives you basically have to rise to the top again. Sound familiar, it should because that's 
 the premise of the movie. At least if the game followed the actual movie fans would be happy but 
 no, they had to pull a what if scenario out of their bag of failures. In other words, the story 
 in this game is god awful.
  
  There is this nothing good here technically wise. The graphics look great in some parts but most 
 of the time they are nothing special. For the time though I guess they were alright but a game 
 from 2006 should be able to hold up in 2008. The character models all look nice and detailed but 
 everything else is run of the mill. 
  
  Scarface has some of the worst sound I've ever heard in a game. You thought Kane and Lynch suffered 
 from too many 'f words' well behold Scarface. Anyone who's seen the movie knows Tony's foul mouth 
 but this game takes it to another. Lazy script writing is to blame here as the script is bad. The 
 poor voice acting doesn't help either. Perhaps the greatest disappointment I felt in this game 
 was the fact that some no name actor does Tony Montana's voice. He doesn't even do a good impression, 
 he sounds totally different. Al Pacino wasn't available for the game because he didn't want to 
 be involved, I don't blame him this game is trash. I can't believe they couldn't even muster a 
 decent voice actor for Tony Montana. Do you know how many people impersonate this guy? 
  
  The game also wastes all of it's celebrity talent not that it has much. We got the likes of Richard 
 Roundtree, Bam Margera, Anthony Anderson, Cheech and Chong and Eliott Gould. Guess what, they're 
 all wasted and given to menial characters in the game such as 'Gang member', 'Drug dealer' and 
 the oh so memorable 'Liquor Store Owner'. I kid you not, this is what they did with the celebrity 
 talent. The last thing I'll say about the sound is the soundtrack. It's alright and has all the 
 songs from the old Scarface but the thing is there is too much filler. There is way too much stuff 
 here and a lot of it is unnecessary. 
  
  Let's talk Gameplay. In terms of gameplay this is one of the first games to make me almost cry. 
 Not because it was so good but because it was so bad. This game was stupid and either a cakewalk 
 or impossible. This game punishes you for trying it with it's godawful gameplay. I guess I deserved 
 it, I thought this would be a good game when I first played it. What makes the gameplay so poor 
 is the fact that none of the decisions the developers made make sense. The shooting is bland, it's 
 like Grand Theft Auto shooting but they tuned it to be worse. It feels clunky and there is no auto 
 aim so it's useless. Despite this it's still alright and in the end the combat is just passable.
 
  
  Now what boggles my mind is the other choices the developers made. For instance when you get a 
 lot of skills Tony gets 'balls'. That's right, balls. The two things that dangle between your legs. 
 Yeah those balls. With more balls Tony can enter a fury mode which makes him unstoppable. Kind 
 of like in Scarface near the end of the movie but it wasn't a lot of balls that made Tony crazy 
 it was cocaine. It's not even true to the movie in this sense and this feature is crap.
  
  
  Another thing I hated was the clunky driving controls. During missions it's impossible to follow 
 someone because the driving is as poor as it gets. It's like driving a box and none of the cars 
 handle well. It's stupid and poor design. It does the job I guess but it gets annoying on some 
 tedious missions.
  
  Speaking of missions, these are some of the most boring and repetitive missions. You find yourself 
 doing the same crap over and over again which is usually fetch. Why fetch? I'm Tony Montana, ex 
 drug kingpin. I shouldn't have to fetch. I should be making this guy fetch. You have to do crap 
 missions like this so many times you end up never finishing this game because it's just so bad.
 
  
  I'll do one more gripe about gameplay even though I have many more. My last gripe is the drug dealing. 
 Drug dealing isn't fun and it's considered a cornerstone of the game because it's how you make 
 money and buy drugs. It's even how you launder money. You play this stupid mini game where you 
 have to click at the perfectly right time to get the arrow in a shaded area like in Mario Golf. 
 I wouldn't mind if this was once in a while but you have to do this so many times you get tired 
 of it. Why do I have to do this to sell drugs? Even engaging in different dialogue choices would 
 be more fun. This is just lame and it's super tedious. Why do I have to do this stupid quicktime 
 event to launder money, this is beyond me.
  
  What were they thinking, stay away from this game. I got nothing more to say. I just hope the people 
 who made this burn because this is the ultimate insult to Scarface fans.
  
  The Good: The soundtrack has the old Scarface tunes
  
  The Bad: Clunky combat, lame design 
 choices, no Tony Montana, lazy script, waste of celebrity talent, bad gameplay, repetitive, totally 
 destroys the ending of the original movie to justify it's existence
  
  Overall: So bad you'll slap yo' momma
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  why everybody says that SAN ANDREAS is better than SCARFACE?
  lets get started about scarface:
  
  graphics: the graphic is way better than san andreas, way 
 better effects and way more blood if you shoot someone at the head lot of blood start spring from 
 the body its awsome!! good graphic
  
  sounds: the sound really good and really good voice of scarface also way better than SAN ANDREAS
 
  
  gameplay: way better than GTA again!! good gameplay same controllers like every third person game, 
 and this game is like so fun!!, you also can play as assassin or some russian big guy that can 
 punch everybody in the face, really good gameplay with every charters
  
  conversation: this is really cool you can talk not like in gta than you cant talk to the people 
 in the city ecsept in missions
  
  
  SCARFACE IS REALLY GOOD GAME YOU SHOULD BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 14, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Scarface was one of those movies that made us see past yuppie America and into the raw side of 
 minorities. It took the story of a refugee Cuban named Tony Montana and dropped him off into his 
 own playground of Miami. The movie inspired plenty of movies and games over the years, but everyone 
 always wanted to know when the original would get their own game? The result is disappointing due 
 to a lack of solid gameplay and a very shallow storyline. 
  
  Scarface: The World Is Yours, rewrites the ending to an already legendary finale. Instead of Tony 
 Montana being taken down in his mansion, he manages to escape it. The game begins here, allowing 
 you to play out that scene and make a get-away. It is then up to the player to help Tony get revenge 
 and rebuild his shattered empire. While this may sound great on paper, it fails miserably in game. 
 Most of the game consists of doing the same missions over and over to obtain cash. You then need 
 to spend that cash on exotics and storefronts to build up your reputation, which is a form of points. 
 The gameplay feels like a repetitive MMORPG where the almighty time sink rears its ugly head. To 
 top it off, almost all story missions are about doing some pointless task to buy storefronts, which 
 you will need to own in order to take back sections of Miami. 
  
  The PC controls are not as bad as other reviews have pointed out, but it still feels like a direct 
 port from console. The only thing I didn't like was not being able to remap the key to take cover 
 behind walls, which forced you to push enter while juggling mouse play. Driving and on-foot controls 
 are good, and the game provides an auto-aim feature for the less skilled. There are some minor 
 pains though such as not being able to jump, which makes passing walls annoying vs. GTA games. 
 
  
  The great thing about this game is the soundtrack and audio. There is a wide selection of tracks 
 including some long forgotten hits of the 1980's in all forms of genres. The game also comes with 
 the original soundtrack from the movie. Tony loves to talk to people all around Miami, and some 
 of the things he says are really funny, while other times it feels like listening to a cheesy Elvis 
 impersonator. It would be nice if they came up with some more original things that have not already 
 be said in the movie.
  
  If you are a die hard fan of Scarface, you may want this game just for collecting. Don't expect 
 it to be anything wonderful or new, as most of the gameplay is borrowed from others who did it 
 better. This is just another example of why most movies make bad video games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xH8MACHINEx
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I tried the game on Xbox first and it was quite awesome so i descided to get teh PC version since 
 i hate shooters with a controller. I was up to a lot of frustrations and disapointement. First 
 of, you cant change any of teh controls, so your stuck playing with the default ones making the 
 game unplayable. The mouse movements is stiff and not really responsive.
  
  Theres no really graphics options exept for antialising and anisotropic. And the thing i hated 
 most, those who made reviews about this game never mention anything about the controls who couldnt 
 be changed. Did they never notice or they got payed to not write about that?? Cause thats a serious 
 flaw in a game when you cant change the controls
  
  So after 5 minutes of play and 10 minutes of struggling and screaming at the menu screens, i descided 
 to go back to the console version and uninstall the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  this game is quiet similar to GTA but except for the game controls... the game is quiet fun but 
 there are some problem there is some bugs to see, you cannot off the vehicle radio even your already 
 walking...
  hard to shoot even your in auto aim its all the same from manual aiming, also if you go to game 
 settings and off your radio then when you quit and start to play again the radio settings will 
 become on again, no game load you need to quit the game first before you load...
  i been tired looking for gang to eliminates but its all alright but the problem is quiet boring 
 while you driving specially when you have a mission that you need to drive.............
  
  nwy you cannot change your desired game controls for your needs to find the game much easier.......
 
  
  not for teens below cause every time that Tony Montana open here mouth you always here some bad 
 words that not for teens like **** **** etc...
  
  but any way i classified this as a masterpiece cause they released the game, the life of a drug-kingpin 
 distributing coke is hard to do but its take a lot and serious money from it............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  scarface is a bad executed game, going direct to the point.
  the essence is good, the gameplay is cool and fun just as any other from the genre. the sounds 
 and the graphics arent superb but they dont affect the game at all.
  so thats why the execution is the problem, when i say that im refering to the way that the game 
 flows.
  the drug dealing system to keep conquering territorry is cool at the first place.
  but while you play trough the game, the system doesnt change and from the beggining to the end 
 the missions are all very similar, causing the game to be repetitive.
  and the game offer few unique elements when comparing to other games of the same genre.
  so the 
 games is fun, but after sometime, with the similar missions and nothing new and really special 
 to make you keep playing, it becomes repetitive unfornately.
  
  conclunding, it worths playing for some fun, but it is really dificult to enjoy the whole game 
 without getting tired of the repetitive experience.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehedee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  this game is not a good sequel though it feels me much better when tony becomes the drug- king. the 
 missions of this game are very interesting. but it has some bad things.
  
  the first bad thing is, it's bad pc port. it has many shortcomings when playing in pc .you can play 
 this game in your pc without any problems when your computer is much powerful then usual. as we 
 live in Bangladesh, we all not have a powerful computer. so we cant play it with its full entertain.
 
  
  
  And the second bad thing of this game is, increasing your reputation level. and if anyone wants 
 to complete it 100%, this game will become one of the hardest game in the world to him. i had tried 
 to finish it completely . But as you see, i could not succeed. i could not find out where the gang 
 members are. i had only 3 gangs to be eliminated. but i could not find them .
  
  
  as it is my first review , and i am a Bangladeshi, i can make many mistakes in my little review. 
 please forgive my shortcomings of this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miless
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  Taking the role of Tony Montana is , without a doubt '  premise for success . But wait ! 
 What is this !? Poor controls and boring repetitive missions you say !? This could spoil the good 
 and pure fun of dismembering thugs with a shotgun , swearing or even taking a piss behind a dumpster 
 ( If you havent found this GREAT and IMPORTANT part of the gameplay , it works by standing near 
 a dumpster facing it and pressing E ) .
  The game has its pros but unfortunately the cons are messing it up.
  Compared to GTA Vice City 
 ( which I consider the alternative scarface game ) this game loses big time. And that's my opinion 
 about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The actual game isn't that bad and theres alot to enjoy, however it never really feels like Scarface 
 and the Tony in the Game doesn't seem like the one that was in the movie. I do like the idea of 
 what if Tony got out and had to rise to the top again getting revenge however it wasn't done well 
 in the game at all. I don't know how they turn a story from having such potential into something 
 sooo boring, just didn't seem very interesting as the film. All the missions were really the same 
 driving everywhere then getting into a gun fight at the end and it gets abit tedious cause Tony 
 was nothing like that in the film. 
  
  The kool thing about this game is how you can own lots of stuff and gain money and rep to buy lots 
 more stuff. However the problem is that all this stuff really doesn't have any gameplay to it apart 
 from the cars and stuff but they don't really feel or look any better than the cheaper ones. The 
 whole world just feels very static and very boring and no funny things go on or anything, theres 
 no real reason why you'd explore like you did when you first played GTA3. 
  
  Scarface is a decent length but you'll get bored about halfway through of doing the same thing 
 again and again. You'llw ant to play it cause you want it to be as good as the movie but it's just 
 not and doesn't really give the overall feel of the movie.
  
  Another problem is how badly ported to the PC it is, theres no Fullscreen option in the menu which 
 means you can't switch between window or fullscreen. Also all the menus seem very console like 
 and it even asks if your want vibration on or off when your set to mouse and keyboard. Other things 
 like the controls and everything being very weird also makes it obvious that it was designed for 
 a cosnole.
  
  Theres alot of bugs too and had alot of crashes and textures or even parts of the world not loading 
 up. The AI doesn't seem all that good and the saves are pretty weird, cause you can't save wherever 
 you want. So if you want to quit the game cause you need to do something, like at the start of 
 the game then you'll have to play it all again. This is very annoying specially when you want to 
 change the graphics settings before you get into the game but you can't until you can save and 
 then restart the game lol.
  
  The sound of the game is really nice with some good music and voice acting, altho some of it is 
 obviously taken out of the movie which sounds weird. The sound effects however are prety mediocre 
 nothing really stands out and just sounds like your average noises they put on things.
  
  The graphics are just not great lol, it does look very dated and looks like a playstation 2 game 
 ont he PC. They're playable but don't expect anything amazing looking, it does look like a game 
 from 2002 lol. They also never really gave me a feel of the 80's like say Vice City GTA did. 
 
  
  
  I'm not going to go into too much detail but Scarface doesn't do the movie justice or offer the 
 fans the experience they want in a Scarface game. I'm also suprised at how boring the story is 
 when it should have been great fun considering how good the movie is. The gameplay is ok but nothing 
 amazing and just doesn't feel all sooo fun, basically go from point a to b doing the same thing 
 that Tony Wouldn't have even done. 
  
  Scarface is worth playing, it's quite fun but just doesn't live upto the movie and it's not the 
 game where you'd buy over others, so it's worth picking up in a sale for a tenner or something. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a game along the lines of GTA, Mafia, Godfather and perhaps even a bit like Just Cause, 
 I don't know what can I tell ya, you want me to wack this guy, this cockaroach? Well, say hello 
 to my little friend. 
  
  It is a truly brilliant game. It is not legendary and much work can be done on it to improve it 
 to come near legendary but it even has improvements on GTA. It took GTA out of the box and improved 
 it. However, GTA stays GTA and will always be legendary whereas Scarface can become a legend but 
 more work would need to be done on it. 
  
  It has innovations that the next GTA should definetely incorporate, if they're smart. You gotta 
 own fronts, upgrade your mansion, buy and sell different stuff and win territories. 
  
  I absolutely love it and would definetely play more games out of this franchise if they do decide 
 to turn it into a franchise series which I doubt they will since this has is already seen and it 
 is hard ti improve much on it, but I still love these kind of games as many of you do and for a 
 reason, they fun even if you're not going after your main or even side mission. 
  
  I am thinking between marking it as 8.5 or 9. It definetely deserves to be 8.5 since it is truly 
 awesome but does it deserve to get 9 and enter the Legendary Games living area? When I mark a game 
 with 10 it is an absolute legend and you gotta play it before you die. 9's are just short walk 
 behind them because they didn't have that extra umph or whatever you wanna call it (perhaps the 
 X factor?) . 
  
  I actually like it so much that I don't want it to go amongst some other games that I gave 8.5 
 or 8 but which I think are of a whole lower rank than this game, so this one has to get a 9. Absolute 
 fun of a game, it probably got a poor score because of the GTA monopoly. 
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent 
 and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game505
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  At start you are playing at your mansion ( at start mouse is invert so it is hard to play) . Your 
 mansion was destroyed, you have to get money and restore it. You are at the ground an you don't 
 have any money so you have to get back to the top. When you own a storehouse you can easily bring 
 some cash. It is quite difficult to play. Graphics are a little stiff. The game is long and you 
 have to have a little patience when playing. I got pissed many times when you are buying drugs. 
 Driving is a little stiff. Movement is a little stiff. If the story wasn't that good I wouldn't 
 play this game, and it is popular thanks to movie. You can intimidate some peoples and bring your 
 balls up, when you have enough balls you get next femme (woman) . When you have some cash you can 
 buy upgrades. Music in game is great but not perfect. The missions are hard. 
  If the graphic was better i would score it higher. I think thath this game is worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satorn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 12:20 am PT
Review:  Tony Montana.. the political prisoner from cuba , a tiger not a man who makes you respect him or 
 makes you history , so stay away from him 
  if you saw the movie then you will be lucky amigo , cause it will help you inside the game , the 
 game needs more than a regular player who only wants to play a game and that's it .
  first you need to get money then you get power then you get revenge by elemenating your enemies 
 and Diaz the opposite boss .
  they say : keep your friends close but your enemies closer .. and that's what you really must do 
 in your way through playing and taking back cities, mansions and power .
  
  thanks and i hope you like the game 
  
  Satorn
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: highwayman2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  I liked the game, at first I wasn't sure if this game was for me ( afterall played GTA San Andreas 
 before I face this ) . You start off shooting the place and driving some no good car with limited 
 music play.
  
  The only thing in mind of continuing to play was the fact being its fantastic trailer!
  
  So 
 there you are! Being optimistic about being bad ass gangsta in mind!
  
  So to appreciate the game, you need to be psyched up or you guessing why bother play it.
  
 
  Anyway, then the game sucks you in, you forget about the Scarface trailer, you start becoming 
 an asset!
  
  Its a good game to play, pity the beginning could have been more awe!
  
  So, that's my opinion about this fantastic game. If ya wanna make it big, take a slice of being 
 Tony! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyuaNesha
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Scarface: The World Is Yours is a good game. When some people look at this they will think GTA 
 clone, its far from that. I believe about the time this came out there were many GTA clones. This 
 may look about the same, but it is a good game.
  
  Graphics-6: Well, the graphics suck, but doing something I shouldn't do, think GTA, bad graphics 
 doesn't make a bad game.
  
  Gameplay-8: You don't have any auto aim, what you do have, is different type of lock on. It opens 
 a box around the target which you can freely move your crosshair in, instead of automatically locking 
 onto the body, you open the box with mouse 2. you can aim anywhere within that box, but you lose 
 balls. Balls get you rage, and rage, gets you a 10-15 second god mode. When you kill a target you 
 can taunt them, giving you balls. And since it is Tony Montana I am talking about, it is usually 
 just swearing.
  
  You make money mainly by buying and selling coke. At first you buy maybe 400g and sell it, if you 
 persuade just right, maybe get 10,000 for each 100g. Yet later in the game, you will distribute 
 30 Kg and make 2-3 Million for each front you own, making you 30,000,000.
  
  Car physics are great, better than most games but sometimes the games limits are broken. I have 
 a car with max speed, acceleration, and handling. I am outrunning a gang car at max speed. Suddenly, 
 he goes faster than max speed and get in front of me, I shoot him in the head and take his car 
 only to find out it is slower than my car. Where did that boost of speed come from?!
  
  You get a magazine earlier in the game which allows you to buy things, such as improve your mansion, 
 add expensive furniture, buy anything from a suit of samurai armor to king tut's sarcophagus (28,000,000 
 for that) . You can also add security to your fronts, buy cars, boats, a boat-plane. the boat plane 
 is not pilotable, it just teleports you to any docks.
  
  You take back what you once owned by taking over fronts, you do this by doing a favor for the owner, 
 and then buying the place, when you have enough fronts in one part of Miami, you take over the 
 storehouse, then you can distribute your coke. You get your Kilograms by smuggling it from the 
 islands in a boat and taking it to your storehouses in Miami, on the islands you avoid pirates, 
 in Miami you avoid cops, cops are easy to avoid, to be caught you just have to avoid getting close 
 enough so that he can see your face.
  
  Story-7: Story is neither good nor bad. It just sets what you have to do, such as reclaiming Miami, 
 It takes place at the end of the movie, where you get assassinated, and if that one assassin did 
 not sneak up on you, you fight your way out of the mansion and try to get revenge on sosa.
  
  Value-9: Good game and according to Gamespot, the game is now roughly 30$
  
  Tilt-8.5: 
 I like this game.
  
  Length-8: This is a long game, but does not get boring.
  
  Overall: 7.75-rounds to 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: step2ice
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Well,
  
  some call the game a enjoyable GTA Clone, on PS2 and Xbox that is.
  
  On PC you might not even get far enough to make your own experience with Tony Montana because of 
 major control issues.
  
  Even with the 1.02 Patch the game refuses to save your control settings and you will end up with 
 screwed control mappings as soon as you leave the options menue.
  Press a button and do 2 things at once, sounds funny? Well not really.
  
  Avoid it at all costs 
 unless you want to play this game with mouse and keyboard and pre defined keys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 7, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Scarface: The World is Yours arrives on the PC with low expectations. Its a movie-licensed game 
 that was made for the Playstation 2, and then ported to the PC. If you think thats a formula for 
 a horrible game, then youre partially right. As movie-licensed games go, Scarface could have actually 
 been good. Its good fan service, and the GTA clone style gameplay provides an entertaining framework 
 for the subject matter. However, this game is a terrible port  one of the worst in recent memory. 
 This problem shows up mainly in controls, which are so bad that the control problems eventually 
 drown out everything else in the game.
  
  If youre a huge fan of the movie like I am, then you dont want one of your favorite movies to 
 be soiled for a quick buck. To its credit, Scarface avoids doing this. The way that the end of 
 the movie is rewritten isnt all that bad, as long as you dont take it too seriously. It picks 
 up with you at the top of the stairs just outside your office with an assault rifle/grenade launcher 
 combo in your hands. Instead of getting shot in the back by the guy with sunglasses and a shotgun, 
 you can turn around and fill the guy full of lead. This little detail is one of the many ways that 
 the game repeatedly pays homage to the movie. Therein lies the biggest strength of the game. It 
 has Sheffield, Nacho Contreras, Caspar Gomez, and other relatively obscure characters and details 
 from the movie that hardcore fans will recognize immediately. You may find some of it to be overkill 
 though. Some of Tony Montanas lines seem forced, as if the writers were bending over backwards 
 to make sure that every famous line from the movie got squeezed into the game. The voice actor 
 who does Tony Montana sounds perfect, even though the quality of the writing is so-so.
  
  Scarface wont be winning any awards for graphics. Even for a port of a PS2 game, Scarface looks 
 downright ugly. Environments are mostly bare, with low-detail, ugly textures and characters are 
 blocky and hideous. The development team apparently spent a lot of time modeling Al Pacinos face 
 and his mannerisms, but thats the only good part about the visuals. This is a game that would 
 have been at home back in 2002 on the PC, but nowadays, its badly outdated. REALLY badly outdated. 
 If you can get past the ugly graphics, the controls will likely sink you. Scarface takes laziness 
 and incompetence in game porting to new levels. The mouse look function, a basic feature that should 
 always work, is extremely clunky and practically broken. Aiming is much harder than it should be, 
 so much that youll be relying in the lame auto-aim/lockon feature that is a relic from the games 
 console origins. The default keyboard configuration requires two hands on the keyboard to use all 
 the commands. Heres the best part  you cant change any configurations! The game has an options 
 menu that was apparently made for reconfiguring your keyboard, but it doesnt do anything. Youre 
 stuck using the games dimwitted default control scheme.
  
  It gets even better though. Not only can you change keyboard bindings, but you also cant use a 
 gamepad at all! Gamepad configuration also shows up in the Options menu, but it also does nothing, 
 and that means that youre stuck using the keyboard for the games numerous driving sequences. 
 A keyboard just doesnt work very well for driving, and that makes the game frustrating. If you 
 bought a gamepad for games like this, then youll be disappointed that you cant use it. Radical 
 games and Vivendi apparently put no effort or thought into this port. At every turn, youre fighting 
 the controls, and eventually it just gets too frustrating to deal with. If the game is native to 
 a gamepad, the least that they could do is let you use one!
  
  Scarface sports a very impressive list of voice actors and they give a very good performance. Theres 
 also a nice selection of 80s music, but wasnt there a game that already offered free-form driving 
 and gaudy 80s style? Oh yeah, it was Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, a game that is superior in 
 every single way to Scarface: The World is Yours. If you havent played that game, go dig it out 
 of the bargain bin and if you have played it, play it again.
  
  I cant recommend this game, even to hardcore fans of Scarface. Its Grand Theft Auto in Miami, 
 but that game was done over three years ago and done a lot better. Ugly graphics and terrible controls 
 drain any entertainment value that this game could have had. Its too bad, because the game had 
 potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackez
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 6, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  In Scareface you start where Tony is suppose to die in the movie. Alright they scrap a classic 
 scene of cinema, but it was for the storyline of the game, it's a game not a movie . Because you 
 play as Tony Montana, and you have to start from the bottom of the line. The graphics are not reallyconfident 
 but they are Ok, it seems like a little bit to GTA. For the sound... ah the soundtrack, with some 
 music from the film and some other, you have a plenty of choice. The fun is if you press the talk 
 button when you are alone, Tony start to talk to himself, and believe me it's really funny, and 
 you can insult everyone on the street.
  
  It's GTA style but much less contents ... This game have potential that is not use at maximum. 
 You can't shoot any civilian , that is really sad. Ok you can think i'm violent, but it's not the 
 point, the point is if there's a civilian in front of a thugs, you can't shoot, that's a big problem 
 in the game, plus , it funny sometimes to let you anger go out in a game. The AI is not balanced, 
 thugs are not shooting really well but when they touch you m you loose health really fast. Well, 
 if you are low on health check your rae meter , when fill Up Tony enter in slow motion mode and 
 every thugs killed give you health. The good point it's you can activate it yourself when you want, 
 it don't go away.
  
  To recontruct your empire you have to mission ... and sell drugs! Plus, you have to deposit your 
 cash at the bank ... there comes the intimidation system that is really simple... more you fill 
 up the meter, less pourcentage bank keep for self-protection but more money is given for your drugs. 
 Plus can intimidate police and gangs to drop your threat meter. You can buy cars, drivers, bodygards 
 weapons and exotic goodies for your mansion. More goodies you buy, more respect you gain. Bad point 
 is you can have just 3 weapons at the time.
  
  At long play game is becoming a little bit repetitive but still funs. For the price ( around 20 
 bucks ) , it's a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danwesoly
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - The gameplay on scarface is different from how you'd thing it'd be, You'd think its 
 just an aim with mouse like the GTA series and then click to shoot. Yes you can do this in scarface 
 but you can also have a lock on box and inside this lock on box you get to choose where to shoot, 
 So you can blow off heads, arms, Legs etc. Another intresting feature is the being able to taunt 
 you're enemies once you have killed them. Famous lines from the game can be said by pressing T 
 or X so you get a real pleasure out of screaming at you're enemie as he falls down in hes own blood.
 
  
  Graphics - Well what can i say? It isnt great, Just a little pushed back from the GTA series. Low 
 polly count and none sharpe textures loose abit of the feel for the game, But dosnt damage to game 
 to badly. Also the game seems to lag allot at certain points expspecially round the mansion part. 
 This can be annoying but since there are hardly any gun battles round you're mansion it dosnt effect 
 the game to much but does tend to annoy you.
  
  Sound - The sound is pretty good, Good speech from tony and the way others react to you're speech. 
 The creators put allot of work into capturing tony montanas violent nature and it appears they 
 have done it with the sound. Altho hearing some of the same quotes from the movie does get irritating. 
 The gunshot sounds are satisfactory and the noise of destroying the place with you're guns is even 
 better. All in all the sound is great
  
  Overall - Well what else could you do with a scarface game? Not much. Basically you have to get 
 revenge for what was taken from you and gain the ranks of respect again. Quite linear but again, 
 Theres not much else Tony wants. He wants the two P's, The power.. And the **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patno77
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 13, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Scarface: The World is yours rewrites the ending of the Scarface movie, so when the dude with he 
 shotgun comes to shoot you in the back you can turn around and kill him instead of dying. You escape 
 from your mansion and start off slow to rebuild your drug empire. You can deal cocaine, kill gangs 
 to take over territories and fix up your mansion as you progress. I don't see why Gamespot had 
 to give this game such a bad score, and i don't see why they call it a GTA clone. Scarface has 
 been around long before GTA, and you could easily say that GTA Vice City is a rip of the movie.
 
  
  Overall Scarface: The World Is Yours is a great action game with alot of fun to be had if you have 
 seen the movie. I recommend it to any fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arrowstorm
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 26, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  That's right. If you're a GTA fan and are used to GTA controls, you will most likely find this 
 game disappointing. However, if you have never played GTA or don't care for it, and you're a Scarface 
 fan, then you might want to get this game. It's got all the good stuff like driving fast, cursing, 
 dealing drugs, indulging yourself in exotic luxuries and all that mumbo jumbo.
  
  The few complaints I have are the handling of the cars and the not so direct set of buttons pushed 
 needed to bring up a map. I'm a GTA fan myself, so I'm used to pressing one button for the map 
 when I want to get somewhere. And in GTA, the handling is much better.
  
  But this game is NOT GTA, and it has many differences, even though there are *some* simliarities, 
 so when one plays this game, to enjoy Scarface to it's fullest potential, one must forget about 
 GTA and concentrate on the world of Tony Montana.
  
  A list of pros and cons:
  
  Pro: I like the personal interaction with pedestrians and how you can taunt drivers, gang members 
 and dead enemies.
  
  Con: I don't like how you can't just shoot anyone you want as Tony. You can do so when you're a 
 henchmen, but not when you're playing Tony.
  
  Pro: Lock on combined with manual targeting is a good idea.
  
  Con: The precious few seconds 
 it takes to get the shot you want means you're suffering damage during this time.
  
  Pro: Lots of goodies to buy.
  
  Con: Driving SUCKS.
  
  Pro: Music fits the game more then 
 perfectly, AND... keeps playing even when you're not in a vehicle.
  
  It's hard to just forget about GTA when you're playing this game, but to enjoy Scarface, you must 
 do just that. If this can be done, you will find that it's an over-all enjoyable game, and if you're 
 a fan of the movie, you're going to like what they've done.
  
  Note: Al Pacino does NOT do the voice of Tony in this game like other gamespot member reviewers 
 state. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martin__5
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The game has a nice 80s feel to it, thus reminding GTA Vice City a little bit. Unfortunately only 
 reminding. The graphics are decent, music selection is good. But the gameplay doesn't even compare 
 to that of any GTA game because of the very limited possibilities. Scarface, however, had, what 
 I most enjoy in a shooting game: shooting, and LOTS of it.
  There are games you just want to play over and over again and Scarface: The World Is Yours is not 
 one of them. It's just Vivendi's attempt of creating a GTA like game and, in my opinion, they have 
 failed miserably. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkBunny100
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The game is about Tony Montana , Scarface ( See the movie Scarface 1983 , one of the best ) the 
 action happens after Tony escapes the attack of Sosa , he escapes with only his life and a few 
 dollars , and from this you have to conquer your empire back , and destroy the guys how stand in 
 your way , Tony has the power to become invincible when he has enough bal*s which puts you in a 
 3d shooter perspective , to gain bal*s Tony has to swear the enemy's he is fighting , or by buying 
 great stuff for him (cars , studios , a tiger and lots of cool stuff ) The money you need you gain 
 it from selling drugs . The controls are easy and the game is easy to learn and it's really great 
 , so if you want adrenalin and if you want to spend a some fun days i recommend playing this game 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  First off, I really dont understand why both gamespot and other players reviewed this game so badly 
 by comparing it to Vice City or San Andreas. In my opinion Scarface presents a completly different 
 kind of experience. Its not a linear game, you can build your own empire however you want it, you 
 can customize your own mansion and so on...
  If you love the modern 3rd person action shooter, i'll guarantee you'll love this game aswell.
 
  What really caught me was the whole recreation of the Scarface universe, the characters, the voices, 
 the places. I'm a fan of the movie and I really enjoyed the whole climb to power Tony Montana goes 
 through to reach his american dream. I think the game really shows that part since you need to 
 take over each neighbourhood and businesses one by one.
  I think this game actually relates more to the Godfather game rather than San Andreas, you can 
 actually do similar things in that and your ascending through the family is similar to Montana's 
 climb to power.
  Anyway, I haven't finished the game since I'm fairly busy but I dont see how someone would complete 
 this in less than a week of gameply at least. It sais I completed about 40% of the game and I've 
 played more than that already. There are tons of things to do between missions like completing 
 races and eliminating local gangs, so you probably won't go from one mission to another straight 
 on.
  So, if you liked the movie, or if you like the genre, you should pick this game up. Don't compare 
 it to San Andreas, it's a different game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  I really don't know why this game is underappreciated. I mean, the story got a little fu***d up,&amp; 
 the graphics look a little old. But there are beautiful landscapes sometimes,&amp; the guns look 
 pretty good too. As 4 the sound, Al Pacino is here &amp; he is Tony Montana. There is also an impressing 
 music collection,&amp; there are all the songs from Flashback FM from GTA III, plus almost all the 
 music types in the world!&amp; Rob Zombie, Motorhead, Judas Pries were a great surprise. There is 
 a beautiful gameplay, similar to GTA San Andreas. You have Miami &amp; some islands as game space, a 
 lot of cars, boats, properties, upgrades (for weapons &amp; properties) . You can decorate your mansion, 
 find girlfriends, conquer territories from rival gangs, race with sportcars, acquire upgrades for 
 weapons, play gambling games, bet games, etc. The action is very intense &amp; sometimes it will involve 
 shooting down hellicopters from a car that you are jumping with from boat to boat, shooting boats 
 from hellicopters, car chases, boat chases,&amp; many more. When Montana fills his ball meter he gets 
 mad &amp; shoots the fuk out of everything. The police chases are annoying &amp; stupid-made, but 
 the rest rocks. So, Say hello to my little friend, motherfu**ers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: motrebhamboly1
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  i dont know why people comparing between these two scarface and gta 
  its clear that gta is much larger and more things to do in game
  BUT still scarface gives the 
 pleaure of talking with people and taunting your victims plus u cant kill any one walking in the 
 street like that; your only allowed to kill gangster which make more sense i think a comobination 
 between these two games will produce a really amazing game, so if u ask me i tell you will not 
 regret buying this game and u will spend like 20 hrs of playing before u can say i had enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwizard310
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 14, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  It could have been some much better... What the heck is Tony freakin-Montana doing being a delivery 
 boy for a pawnshop owner??????! The feel that the cars had in GTA: San Andreas is gone. All of 
 the cars more or less handle the same - leaden. The only positive addition is that the cars handle 
 worse and worse the more beat up they get, which wasn't really the case in GTA: San Andreas, not 
 much anyways. How bad does a game have to be for me to spend $50 on it then get get board and start 
 playing Half Life 2 for the zillionth time? Exactly this bad. Unless you are super hard-up to play 
 some more, poorly done GTA: San Andreas, avoid this game. The only good I can say about is that 
 the limited music available is very good. Fat boys, RUN/DMC, Cuban Salsa, very cool. Very limited 
 number of songs leaves you listening to the same tracks over and over again which basically kills 
 the enjoyment of the game from the music-perspective fairly early on. I just hate this game... 
 not so much for how bad it is but for how poorly it meets the super-high expectations it sets for 
 itself. Rewrite the ending to one of the most famous scenes in cinematic history? Buddy, you'd 
 better bring it if you're going to try that. Use the GTA: San Andreas engine? The game play had 
 better be stellar. No and no... One final slap across the pimped out fool dressed up like Tony, 
 the least you could have done is not force me to feel like I'm playing an XBox port-over. GTA got 
 away with it just fine. You guys couldn't have spent a couple of weeks more and revamped the menus? 
 Cheat code section in the menu and no developers console? You guys suck. And don't even get me 
 started about you using tarted-up weather girl from LA as a voice actor Jillian Barberie. The least 
 you could have done is show us her better assets , both of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamsterLV
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Finally! Scarface game is here! I am a fan of DePalma's masterpiece so I was very excited about 
 this game. Needless to say, I was quite disappointed! Storyline
  ... : ( What can I say... After completing the game I felt like there was no storyline. Between 
 all the swearing and killing these few cutscenes did not give me a feel of complete story behind 
 all this! It all was like, damn I lost all my s**t! Swearing, killing, swearing, killing, swearing... 
 I gotta get it back! Swearing, killing, swearing, killing, swearing... Then Tony's mother is killed! 
 He kills those responsible and that's it! No funeral, no anger no nothing after that! Then Tony 
 hooks up with some bald drug dealer and after taking over Miami goes after Sosa. He ''gets the 
 world'' after killing Sosa! LAME! : ( It is not interesting playing it, cuz there is just killing 
 and swearing and it gets boring after a while! Seems like developers remembered to add story to 
 the game and squeezed something in in the last minute!
  Gameplay
  Like mentioned above... :arrow: Swearing, killing, swearing, killing, swearing... It if fun playing 
 as TONY MONTANA for a while, but the game just doesn't offer much. Missions are all same. Drive 
 there kill that and swear while you are at it! All side mission are similar and can't even be compared 
 with GTA! Swearing and killing is fun and if lack brain that is all you need from a game, but for 
 most people it will not be enough!
  Graphics
  Scarface is looking very nice. Miami feels very realistic! What I love about this game is that 
 you get to visit most places you saw in the movie! You can blow off heads, hands and legs off people 
 which is cool! :twisted: Cars look nice and so does their damage model! Graphics is good and is 
 not this game's flaw!
  Sound
  Hello 80's! Yes! The sound is nice! Soundtrack is good, Vice City is better, but this comes close! 
 Tony sounds like Tony and that is sweet! Can't say anything bad about special FX either! Everything 
 sounds as it should!
  Overall
  If you don't care that Scarface is rewritten by a pack of baboons, cuz that's how the story feels, 
 or you don't expect much from gameplay, then you can focus on the good stuff that the game offers! 
 Sound and graphics are nice and you get to play as TONY MONTANA! God damn, you can actually make 
 Tony swear! That's worth something! Besides, you finally get to ice that b***h Sosa! :D
  Scarface is a HUGE movie I think that those few people who had the balls to make a game based on 
 it, deserve a little credit... I just wish they had done a better job... just imagine, Scarface 
 in GTA quality... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  I don't know what I expected by this game, but it wasn't a suprise, and it wasn't a letdown.
  
  The game is kind of a GTA game, its freedom, a lot of blood, shooting and a pretty big city. 
 But GTA has something that Scarface don't have, and Scarface has something GTA don't have. You 
 start as Tony Montana, your goal is to build up your empire again and gain respect. You earn money 
 by doing missions and drug deals. With your money you can buy a lot of cars, places, boats, Assassins, 
 investments, furniture for your palace etc. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The good: Big city, you can use your money on a lot of stuff, okey graffic, many nice soundtrack, 
 some good voice dialogs. Also an good rank system. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The bad: Some of the missions can be a lot of the same, the mouth is closed while peoples speak, 
 can't kill people on the street, yust gangs and enemies. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  I have more positive things to say about this game, than negative. If you liked the GTA series, 
 you will probably enjoy this, but maybe not as much as GTA, but a good thing too do while waiting 
 for GTA IV. A good game, but things can always get better. Testing system:
  
  Intel E6600 2,4 core 2 duo
  2 GB ram
  XFX Nvidia G8800 GTS 640 MB
  600 GB hardrives. (Everything 
 was played at full, even full anti) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mewtwo64
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  First and foremost: If you didn't like the movie or never heard of it, this game is not for you. 
 Ditto if you think it's a ripoff of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City. With all that aside, prepare to 
 take the world and everything in it. Oh, and one other thing: MAJOR SPOILERS concerning the movie 
 for those who have yet to see it.
  
  Again, I wanna stress two important things before I go further. Number One: WATCH THE MOVIE BEFORE 
 YOU PLAY THIS GAME!!! If not, everything will be foreign to you. Mind you, it's rated R so some 
 of you might be pressed getting your parents to let you watch it, lol. Number Two: This game follows 
 a 'What if Tony Survived?' scenario, meaning he doesn't die like the movie's ending dictates. The 
 game starts right after Tony's Trademark Say hello to my little friend! and blows the door to his 
 office (and the half dozen or so guys on the other side) away. From there, Tony makes a daring 
 escape just as the DEA shows up at the Mansion. Now stripped of the money, power and respect he 
 had, Tony's plan is simple: Take back all he lost and seek revenge against the man who almost killed 
 him: Alejandro Sosa.
  
  I own the PC version of the game but I also have a Dual Shock Controller that I bought specifically 
 for games like this. It's controls are the same as the PS2's, prettymuch. You can press Analong 
 button to switch between moving with the left control stick or the D-Pad, however. All that aside, 
 the game's everything you liked about the movie and then some, including places from the movie, 
 too. As you progress through the game you will see why (at the time the movie was made) the writers 
 killed off Mr. Montana -- it perfectly takes you through the World of Cocaine Trafficing and how 
 to do it good. Al Pacino does the voice of Tony Montana in the game. Aside from all the lines we've 
 come to know and love such as I bury those Cock-a-roaches! and Don't F*** with me! a lot of new 
 ones have been added, too. I'd list them all but all the good ones include the word F***, heh heh. 
 Everything not nailed down tight can be shot to bits. Anyone who has it coming to them can be cut 
 to pieces with the Chainsaw. The graphics have been nicely done to make sure fans of the movie 
 get treated right.
  
  In a nutshell, this game is right up there in terms of one of the best Movie-based games ever made -- more 
 so for story than anything else. Play it and see why dozens of Hip Hop enthusiasts have given Scarface 
 such high praise. If you liked the game, Watch the Movie. Even if you already have it, watch it 
 again. Then replay the game. Lather, rinse and repeat... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abhichoke
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  I will seperate my opinion into points of interests.
  1. The Story
  The game continued after the raid at Tony's mansion. The game let Tony live instead of dying in 
 the movie. After being sacked out of his mansion, he went on revenge on everyone enemy and become 
 the supreme ruler of miami drug world.
  2. Graphics
  The game recommended powerful machines to play. But I found out that the graphics is still Trilinear! 
 But anyway. the game depicted Miami as it should be, sunny and active. Whilst the lightning looked 
 perfect, the scenes, cars and people just looked simply bland. It was smooth because it was bland.
 
  3. Gameplay
  Like gamespot said, this game had a very decent taregeting system, but not an original ,though. 
 For it was The Godfather's and it worked pretty much the same. But an innovative mode, 'Rage', 
 will let you wreak havoc in first person mode, with unlimited ammo and health. But you will have 
 to fill the 'Balls' meter by killing gangsters, drive dangerously and swear at your enemy dead 
 bodies to use the rage mode. As you're a drug lord, you have access to 'Exotics', which is the 
 mode that let you buy or hire cars, boats ,henchmen or even furnitures, which you can arrange in 
 your mansion in the 'Pimp my Manshion' mode. If you achieve enough Balls, you will get girls at 
 your mansion. Also you can call the vehicles you own to your present location. However, the point 
 that I don't like is the talking meter, when you deal with drug dealers, bankers or cops, you will 
 have to play the 'GolfMeter' to achieve the best reward. If you failed, for example, your deal 
 with the drug dealers, you might get yourself killed easily. 4. Sounds
  The weapons sounds wonderful. But, EVERYBODY swear all the time and you can swear at NO ONE while 
 you're walking in the town. It seems to me that Tony knew everyone and everyone knew Tony because 
 he can talk to anyone walking around which led you to conversations like this
  Tony : Hey baby, you want some Ice Cream?
  The Girl : Oooh, Tony my man
  Tony: How's your business?
 
  Tony : I want a real f%@* from you baby!
  The profanity is alot and appeared very often. This game had the potential to become a good game, 
 but hell, it was great but not the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danjohnson3141
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 16, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game the first time I played it when it was called GTA Vice City. This adds very little 
 to the GTA formula.
  
  The game actually gets really hard toward the middle/end making it frustrating. I'll probably quit 
 playing as soon as something better comes out.
  
  The story is good. The voice acting is spot on. The graphics are great for 2003. Soundtrack is 
 awesome and time appropriate. Overall it is an all right game but they should have added a bit 
 more to the formula if they didn't want to attract criticism for being derivitate.
  
  Is this 100 words yet? The review is not going to get any better the more fluff I put in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dejectedbody
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 5, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  i thinks this game could design so much better. the levels are not different of each other. it 
 was so boring! i'm sorry for my money.
  ofcourse the story and basic idea of game is good, but there is no more in this game to the last 
 games. i think scareface: the world is yours, is a gropingly imitation of godfather that lead to 
 a boring game with monotonous levels, unpleasant sound and music and low level graphics.
  the most time of playing spent on driving and the transport stations can't remedy these deficiencies.
 
  i prefer to play mafia, godfather or gta again rather than scareface. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avalancegames
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  great game !!! cannot remap controls keyboard but hope for a patch... gata cu engleza ca si asa 
 nu prea le am cu engleza oricum jocul e f bun daca faceau si controlu ca la gta era chiar mai bun 
 ca gta , cand am auzit de el am crezut ca e un clasic shooter si nici nu am vrut sa aud de el dar 
 nu aveam ce juca si l`am luat totusi .. si surpriza gen gta si cel mai mult imi plac jocurile astea 
 gen gta :)
  totusi ma enerveaza controlul lui tony montana se reseteaza el singur ca la masina daca il tii 
 in sus sau in joc si asta nu-mi place la el , oricum sper ca SCARFACE sa fie adversarul gta si 
 sa faca care mai de care mai bun si noi sa jucam jocuri faine :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunkAss007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  Well, the game looks as a combination of GTA series and The Godfather... I'm not saying that the 
 game is bad, cuz it's great, just not original... It has good graphics and great car-exploding 
 effects... But only thing that is hard is the aiming... While you get the guy on your scope, he 
 already shot u... But everything else is good... It is realistic if u judge it by shooting... Every 
 time u fire the bullet, u hit something and it leaves a hole in the wall or it brakes some object... 
 It's really a great feeling... Also, I like the Balls metter... If u wanna know what it is, find 
 it out urself by playing the game... I beilieve u won't regret it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leman71
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  6 is very unfair for this amazing game. If you liked one of the gta series so you will like scarface 
 too. Although gta has best detailed overall scenario and gameplay, scarface has similar adrenalyne 
 and a interesting storyline. It worth the money. If you give 10 to gta so you must, beeing just 
 fair, give scarface a 8.5. some minor but annoing differences in control, for exemple, where scarface 
 needs some time to adjust for those that get used to gta. Otherwise is not difficult to get used 
 to scarface controlls, even known that is not possible costumize the controls in scarface. They 
 are good enought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fahim_zak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why gamespot (???!!!) rated this game 6.0... huh! Scarface is a higly addictive game. 
 The gameplay is pretty good, sounds are fine.. specially Rock songs from Judas Priest, Rob Zombie, 
 Motorhead and so on... the graphics is not better than GTA... the motion blur feature along with 
 NOS is missing though. I like that fact that they didnt just try to do the movie in the game. They 
 start you right in the action and let you rebuild your empire i love it. Then... lots of fast-cool 
 cars ,Ships along with some classic ones... Voice from the great Al Pacino ,variety in missions, 
 lots of girls, weapons, huge map, 1st person RAGE mode have made the game fantastic...
  The game has numerous assignmnets to do .... control your business sell coke and drugs, meet contacts, mini 
 games like black jack, betting and so on . Also there is the ability to use your henchmen to do 
 some jobs for you. Hencemen are Driver, Arms dealer , Enforcer, Assasign etc.
  Buy as soon as you can items alongside the game so you can build up your reputaion in order to 
 unlock stuff. you will love it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  First off the controls are ok for people but you can badly tell it's a console port and it hurts, 
 For example why have lock when you can aim with the mouse?
  secondly the missions are very boring and just consist of kill this and that deliver this and that, 
 not much story at all other than taking over turf.
  Tony wouldn't do half the things he does in this game, just doesnt feel like scarface tbh. The 
 story feels like the first film all over again lol.
  Very mediocre gameplay, not something to be amazed about but rather bored playing.
  
  Graphics:
 
  
  Very bad for a PC game.
  
  Sound:
  
  Great sound, great voice acting for tony and great music!
  
  Value:
  
  Don't by it yet 
 if you must play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osama03
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Scarface provides u areal gameplay but not as authetic as the famous Rockstar series of GTA although 
 it does not have a gym, cloth shop and some other shop like in GTA but besides this it has some 
 other cool options starting with improved graphics from Gta San andreas extra option of a car driver 
 who can bring ur car where ever u want and limo can drop u where ever u want weapons will be available 
 at ur car back the story of the game is taken from the film The main missons are sort of capturing 
 turf by paying the price and fulfilling the requirement of the shop runner and there are some side 
 missions in which u earn money by selling drugs to the buyers on the roads or by making deliviries 
 all in all this is a superb game u ll enjoy it however not as cool as Gta but simply better than 
 some highly rated games running now a days 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mulder2683
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  One would be expecting a one of a kind thing, sadly, you will be getting a $2 worth game! Sierra 
 really screwed up this time. The game is a total nonsense, apart from Al Pacino's voice, the game 
 lacks everything. Graphics are like a game from the late 90's, gameplay is so weak, vehicule driving 
 cannot be compared to anything due to the fact that is terrible! What can be said about this game? 
 Really disappointing. It almost ruined my whole Scarface experience. One might like the fact that 
 you can change the whole ending of the movie and start all over, but other than that, can't find 
 anything worth it! One of the most terrible games I have played! Not recommended at all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miguelpoeira
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 2, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  i'm playing it now... it's a great game, but it is an immitation of that great game grand theft 
 auto san andreas 
  i love when tony montana is the bad guy, he's gor style...
  i love to drive a ford mustang at 300mp/h on miami highways
  and when i call the henchman to 
 do the dirty work for me-the boss
  i feel a huga sensation of power
  too much power
  and money
  only virtual of course...
  and i can drive cars, choppers, boats and everything
 
  my gang is awesome, i can control all miami city
  all the country with tony montana 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolterror
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 12:09 am PT
Review:  While the game isn't anything new or ground-breaking stuff but still the rating of 6.0 is unjustified. The 
 game starts off well with very intense shooting mission but then you have to do some less-interesting 
 missions. The controls are bit difficult to get used to at first but then you when you get accustomed 
 to them thenb its not a problem. The story-related missions aren't that bad but the Felix Lead and 
 Sand man missions can become boring. Still taking out gangs is pretty fun and the Rage mode is a 
 nice addition to 3rd person action games. The exotics were also a fun to buy and the concept of 
 owning boats and cars is nice too. No more car-jacking required to do anywhere from anywhere. All 
 in all an OK game if you are looking to introduce gangsters with your little friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neohakusho
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 29, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Scarface was an all time great movie. However, when it comes down to being a game, maybe they need 
 to reconsider. Scarface is just another version of GTA: VC, with less features. Scarface includes 
 great cinemas during the game and a good storyline overall. Getting into buildings doesn't take 
 a loading time at all, but that probably explains why lag spikes over when you're out on the streets. 
 Although the game doesn't have exactly all of the features that you would find in a GTA game, it 
 does have additional contents that hasn't been introduced in any games. Such aspects include: carrying 
 out conversations on the streets; the lock-on system when in a gun-fight; ( to me, this is arguably 
 one of the best shooting systems of many3rd person shooters I've played. ) having exotics; ( a 
 car fetcher is always a good option because you won't have to go around jacking other people's 
 car all the time. Plus, allowing the player to buy cars and appliances makes a feel of more limitations. 
 ) making big money off drugs; and well, the voicing of Tony.
  For the PC, the controls weren't as easy as it might have been on a PS2. Controlling Tony left 
 and right was difficult. However, controlling a car in the streets was even more difficult. The 
 driving system wasn't very smooth. Some cars, even though I tried drifting like I always would 
 in racing games, still wouldn't budge and drift correctly. Getting away from the cops was far too 
 easy. The system allows you to kill maybe ten guys in a row and you still won't have the police 
 on you. The cops are deplicted as complete morons in this game, in my opinion. While you are in 
 a police rush, you can easily lose them even if you drive to another block.
  Overall, the game was not too shabby, but not the greatest. Some games that allows youw to take 
 over streets and do whatever you want has far better features than what Scarface gives you. Although 
 the game is worth playing, I wouldn't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianclanton
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Without a controller the controls with a keyboard and mouse are difficult. Dissapointed that the 
 mouse is not free-look. They should have looked at games like world of warcraft and taken the controls 
 from that game. Scarface has an easy aiming system. The content isnt all its cracked up to be but 
 its fun selling coke and aquireing wealth. The controls when driving a car arent all that great 
 but once you get used to it it is a lot of fun. And now i dont have much else to say but this has 
 to be at least one hundred words so this is just filler dont read me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nite1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 23, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Intro: When you first play this game, you think Oh no this is just another GTA clone, big deal 
 . A True fact is Scarface is what started the whole GTA series games. Rockstar got the idea off 
 of that movie. So if you think about it, GTA is actually a Scarface Clone.
  
  Missions: The missions are excellent and really fit the games storyline well. Tho I did have some 
 glitches when doing them. I had cases of were the enemies were translucent and you can't kill them 
 at all. Another problem I had was sometimes I died right as a enemy killed me because a cutscene 
 interrupted it and I end up respawning in very unexpecting locations. I also had some cases of 
 the movement camera getting stuck after dieing and respawning, meaning I had to reload the game 
 to the latest savepoint I did. (Some of these glitches appear to be system specific, only me and 
 a few others experienced them even with the latest DirectX and hardware drivers)
  
  Gameplay: This is loaded with more gameplay feutures I ever seen of any freeroam type game. Kill 
 gangs, buy drugs and sell drugs, buy exotic cars, have a driver bring you your car/boat which has 
 a weapons locker built in. Play as a driver and sell vehicles to chop shops for cash. Play as an 
 Enforcer and kill gangs to bring down the Gang Heat Level. Play as an assassin and kill enemies 
 with a sniper. (These 3 play modes help tony rebuild his empire) . You can also Pimp Tony Montano's 
 mansion the way you want with exotics you buy from the catelog.
  
  Graphics: Very typical for a free roam type game, if you played GTA, then the graphics of scarface 
 are nothing special.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is Decent. It has an excellent selection of 80's music built into 
 it with Reggae, Hip Hp, Rock, Latin, as well as the Scarface Soundtrack from the movie itself. 
 The only sound issue I had was where the enemies sound like chipmunks when they chase you in vehicles 
 sometimes. (One of the known glitches and also only system specific like above ^^ )
  
  Outro: Overall this game is really fun to play and keeps you busy enough all the way through. If 
 they came out with a patch to allow the keyboard controls to be remapped, and fixes the glitches 
 I mentioned above, I would give this game a 9.0 outta 10
  
  Test System:
  Enermax 535 Watt (Dual +12 rails at 18A each)
  Asrock 939 Dual SATA2 Motherboard
  Athlon 64 
 3500+ 2.2Ghz
  1GB Corsair XMS DDR400
  256MB BFG 6800 GT OC (AGP) (91.47 Forceware Drivers)
  Creative Labs Sound Blaster Audigy 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taopix
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  i love the Scarface movie and the Tony Montana character. but i don't like movie-games because 
 they tend to suck. well, this game still couldn't prove anyone that movie-games DON'T suck. The 
 gameplay is quite good though but Grand Theft Auto 3 is way better. The only thing that makes me 
 want to finish the game is because of the interesting story and cutscenes; and also the incredible 
 voice work done in this game. Man the guy who did the voice for Tony Montana really sounds just 
 like Al Pacino in the move. Very impressive. So if you love the movie and video games, rent this 
 game. If you've never heard of the movie, move along there's nothing interesting here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EQl33t
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 19, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  To rate this under a 7 is a disservice to the game. Its great if you llike the movie you will love 
 the game if you didnt like the movie then you wont like the game. Sell coke get money kill gangtas 
 buy nice whips all done in the ruthless tony montana way. His dialogue is just spot on, i will 
 say this is not a game for kids no way no how. The vehicles have nice physics way better then the 
 paperweight GTA cars you can shoot 360 in cars weapons in the trunk but only of your cars that 
 you buy nice touch. jsut alot of little nice things that make this game grea. t. there are some 
 annoying things but nothing to make you wanna stop playing. Some say the graphics are dated but 
 its better than GTA the gameplay is better less minigames but it doesnt need it . and the story, 
 I like that fact that they didnt just try to do the movie in the game. They start you right in 
 the action and let you rebuild your empire i love it. soon you will have 'em by the balls.
  
  One thing that is bad is the control options you cant change the kb config. And my controller 
 which is dual analog works fine...... but the one analog that is for mouse control is all reverse 
 press up it looks right push right it looks up etc so that is one spot they overlooked for the 
 pc but thank god the kb controls are fine esp when driving it isnt bad at all . hopefully where 
 will be a patch soon for those issues even if it comes after i finish the whole game il play again 
 just for the hell of it. keep jour eyes open chico we are at war 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lupus_mortis
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  Well frist of all i must tell you that i started playing godfather but when i got my hands on Scarface 
 .... man i couldnt stop playing ...... awesome game with nice gameplay plus you can just walk around 
 and kill some time plus some thugs :)
  Nice graphics with better music to go along.... IMO the sound is great with the music plus the movie 
 OST.
  The game has numerous assignmnets to do .... control your business sell dope, meet contacts . Also 
 there is the ability to use your hencemen to do some jobs for you. Hencemen are driver, arms dealer 
 , enforcer etc.
  Buy as soon as you can items ionside the game so you can build up your reputaion in order to unlock 
 stuff.
  I dont know why i cant write more ...... maybe cause i must continue play... LOLOLOLOLOLOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crooos
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  pay your gang heat down to a decent level do a small supplier felix job sell coke to the street 
 dealers is a good way to lower gang heat. side jobs kinda suck in general tho from what i have 
 done, not much pay and don't seem to gain you much of anything over just running drugs to fronts 
 and killing gangs and then pay off your heat. it is a good game but it is like gta vice city and 
 the worst thing is save is you have 2 end the mission and save
  
  but in the end it is the good game i have ever seen after serbia IT IS A GOOD GAME and al patcino 
 is good in this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmaccini
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Scarface turned out better than GTA in many ways, I liked the way you were always able to make 
 money, through drugs, or henchmen missions. This made the game fun with endless missions. The gameplay 
 was better than any game I have ever played and the plot was easy to understand and fun: Get money, 
 get power, get girls, and not least of all... get revenge on those who put you down. I like the 
 way it reflects Tony's character not as the bad guy, but as the good guy, because he WAS the good 
 guy. I wish we had drug lords like him. He wouldn't do anything WRONG because he had a real moral 
 code that is followed and the game doesn't allow you to break it by killing innocents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I came into Scarface thinking it was going to be another GTA look-a-like with a scarface storyline. 
 In most aspects I was wrong. The voice acting is good quality and the graphics aren't anything 
 special but they are average. The gameplay is very entertaining and has an authentic scarface feeling 
 just as the story does also. You will feel like you are in Tony's shoes as you take down your enemies 
 in a blaze of fire, making a big deal on Kilos of coke, and defending your empire. The game even 
 has Tony's classic dialogue and lots of cock-a-roaches . While the story is a good idea it is kind 
 of exaggerated seeing as Tony realistically couldn't have survived the assualt on his mansion at 
 the end of the movie. If you can look past that you will only notice a few cons such as repetivity 
 and frustration issues. Using the very helpful setup/mission system you can set up missions which 
 is all good but the use of a circle gauge for almost every single thing you do can get repetitive. 
 The police/heat don't show up as much as in GTA Games but when they do it is very annoying seeing 
 as you can have one police car on you one minute but the next you could be Fucked and die without 
 any other option than trying to flee that section of the city which is VERY stupid. If you are 
 looking for a fun game that pays tribute to the Scarface movie this is definately your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sime47
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 18, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS (8/10) : It's alright, reminds on GTA but even better with normal fingers. City is little 
 confusing but you will find yourself. It is nice to play as Al Pacino (Toni Montana) . Also there 
 are much blood in this game which makes it one of the goriest.
  SOUND (10/10) : Perfect!! Remember San Andreas. It had a stupid and bad radio, Vice City had much 
 better, so the Scarface has a that good sound but here you can choose which music will play. It 
 is not Al Pacino's bvoice but it is similar. There are a lot of swearing, so if you have a soft 
 ears lower the rate by one.
  VALUE (9/10) : Probably long as GTA, maybe little shorter but still pretty long GAMEPLAY (8/10) : 
 Again, reminds me on legendary GTA: Vice City but with more contents like you can sell drugs to 
 earn money and with money you can do a lot of interesting things. But GTA had something better. 
 In Scarface you can't kill people on the street, only the gangs and other enemies. But let's say 
 they wanted to make it realistic. In GTA you can kill 10000.... people and when you escape from 
 police they won't search for you like they don't care. Story is nothing special, very typical, 
 it is about revenge nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 17, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Well ive put a couple hours into Scarface and its pretty entertaining. The game takes place when 
 tony is in his mansion and grabs his little friend to smoke some cock-a-roaches, But he doesnt 
 die and this is where the game begins. Your empire is destroyed and you gotta build it back up 
 by buying property, fronts to sell drugs and lots and lots of yayo. The controls for PC blow for 
 those who dont use wasd, unable to change it. Graphics are kinda bad they arnt any better than 
 GTA: Vice City which was pretty much scarface. The game is entertaining tho. James Woods does some 
 voice acting in the movie and some other reconizable voices. Unfortunatly Al Pacino doesnt do tony's 
 voice, the actor they did use sounds pretty close tho. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shortychi6
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 17, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty easy to get used to. If you have no idea about scarface the movie or don't 
 truely understand it. You probably won't like as much. Due to the fact that the game was supposed 
 to be released long ago I think it would have done alot better about a year ago. All and All its 
 a pretty good game. The missions aren't to hard but you do have to be skilled. The controls are 
 perfect for the PS2. So sorry for the PC players, but its your own fault for trying to play it 
 with keys. Just think about it, retards! you wouldn't even wanna play GTA, Godfather, or any similar 
 games with keys. So why would you think it would be cool this time around. To make it better they 
 could have given you something to do to fight off cops instead of just being F**ked. Anyone with 
 skill should be able to get away but its prevented for some strange reason. I could go on allday 
 about this game but the bottom line is its alittle out dated because of when it was actually supposed 
 to be released but its a game you grow into and has its own personality. take care! Shortychi6 
 4-12 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nanies_Man
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  I've had the game since the 6th of October, and I have to say THE GAME IS HOT . I've given the 
 game a score of 10. I give it that score because over all this is the right game not only for those 
 who like the challenge, but also for the ones that like to fly though the games. The game fist 
 off has a good story line. Which is the main thing. It also has a verity of things you can do that 
 are aside from the main missions it self; which is always a cool thing. Also I see this game as 
 You can do everything in this game that you can do in GTA and more.
  
  So over all if youre looking for a gangster type game. With lots of action and people dyeing left 
 to right, this is the game for you. ~Nanies_Man 10/17/06 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stev69
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 17, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Not a bad effort, and if you happened to like the film then it does extend that intellectual property 
 somewhat making it at least original. Lets get the major gripe out of the way first, to play this 
 game the way it should be played will take a high performance system, I dont have such a pc but 
 mine is pretty good dual 3.2 ghz cpus. geforce 7500 2gb ddr2 ram and all the rest of the trimmings, 
 and it was very unresponsive and had considereable slow down. Which for me at times makes the game 
 so unenjoyable as to not want to continue playing it. Doeant really compare to the GTA series which 
 is basically what its trying to do, except its GTA with Al Pacino. If you prefer a more fluid and 
 playable game go with GTA. But it is an interesting storyline with life like characters and fantastic 
 graphics, with some innovative touches which although highly unrealistic do make the game more 
 fun to play. But ultimately the major flaw by the games designers in making it just to high spec 
 makes it a somewhat dubious contender for the throne, if you like outside chancers and dont mind 
 playing in slow motion then this might be the game for you otherwise stick with San andreas and 
 wait for the next one to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exclusiveburner
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 16, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I've played every Mob related game to date, all GTA's and this game definetly sticks out on its 
 own feet. (If you dont plan on reading the whole review go down to the VERY IMPORTANT Sum Up)
  
  Graphically its better then well lets say San Andreas. Easily takes the cake from that game 
 but yet it gets rated worse then San Andreas. Buildings look great and crisp, the world all in 
 all looks great, shadows are perfect, characters stand out and arent blandly textured. Weapons 
 look accurate and the cars are up to par with any other game. Textures look crisp and clean opposed 
 to GTA where they're blurry and buggy (Be Honest)
  
  Gameplay is about the same as San Andreas, u drive around picking people up dropping them off, 
 killing people, shooting guns, dealing drugs and its all just about better then San Andreas, theres 
 a good Hand To Hand combo and Plenty of Guns that are almost all Upgradeable. Nothing like silencing 
 that pistol or adding banana clips to that AK47. Theres multiple mini games when playing that will 
 effect how much money you make buy selling drugs or how much intrest the bank takes out of your 
 laundered money and more.
  
  Sounds are great, only one part of the game that dissapointed me was that the Engine sounds for 
 cars are pretty low and u cant hear the engine at all really unless u turn Sound Effects up all 
 the way, but that makes a bunch of other stuff louder as well and doesnt work too well. Music is 
 great, the Offical Soundtrack from the movies included plus dozens of other highly relevant tracks 
 to that era. And of course the Voice Acting is SUPERB, Tony has more then 2000 different lines 
 throughout the game I think I've only heard a few repeats. Many talented actors are also in here 
 that make it stand out more and more.
  
  As far as mini games go, theres not much here besides sum slot machines, an addicting simple poker 
 game, and black jack, thats all i've found so far.
  
  VERY IMPORTANT
  This game upset me when i first started playing it, it seemed like it was buggy at first and driving 
 was pretty bad at first too, almost unplayable. After about 2 hours of getting used to it, it seemed 
 to go away and Im very pleased. I compare it to San Andreas and its definetly a fresh get away 
 from GTA series which hasnt been updated too much in its years. Overall I give this game an 8.2 
 because it has all the same elements as GTA but its Scarface, and its a great game all on its own. 
 Solid Soundtrack to keep you grooving the entire time, Great Acting, Better Graphics then its competitors (Except 
 maybe Saints Row) and great gameplay. For sum reason i get sum low framerates when alotta cops 
 are chasing me but im sure a patch will fix that and the few minor bugs.
  
  Anyway this game is definetly not as bad as people make it out to be and its also not a top ten 
 game by any means, its a solid B line game with plenty of entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sun1000
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 16, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This kind of reminds me of GTA. Its more or less the same thing. this has a few draw backs and 
 advantages. like exotics. Wow check out some of the cars and boats also the upgrades for the mansion. 
 it has a shark in the tank where the globe thing was. whats up with tony and tigers. Never The 
 less its pretty interesting,. was sup praised to see more islands down in the map. You got plenty 
 of ways to earn money . the leads keeps me occupied. Considerable gun upgrades really help. And 
 god bless The auto aim. this Games virtually brings army all the time to kill you. the boses seem 
 easy but getting there is tuff, love tonys accent. its realy intresting to listen to him talk. 
 recommended for people whp liked gta to extream. as tony would say grab the game by the balls good 
 luck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  First and foremost I have beef with Mr. Gerstmanns opinion about the rewritten ending and that 
 it is hard to swallow. I can see he is a Scarface fanboy however, everyone how has been reading 
 about this game on gamespot ESPECIALLY THE PEOPLE WHO REVIEW THEM ON THIS SITE should know that 
 the 1st they made the public know is that the ending would be rewritten. Otherwise we would have 
 a through-play of the movie which would have sucked even more because everyone knows every piece 
 of dialogue of the movie and then we would not have needed an Al Pacino Voice impersonator to do 
 the lines in the movie because the original lines would have been sampled. The fact is people are 
 hating on this game because 1, Scarface fanboys probably wanted a through-play of the original 
 movie. 2, they think their Tony Montana impression is a thousand times better that the dude who 
 does it in the game. 3, they cant hear their favorite lines form the movie because everyone is 
 dead in this game.
  
  The fact of the matter is the game is great if you are not a Scarface fanboy and you have not watched 
 the movie 80,000 times to the point you can repeat the dialogue of the movie in its entirety. The 
 Godfather got wicked reviews despite having some things rewritten; having non-original voice actors 
 do 90% of the characters. Yes the game was still awesome and got rave reviews from gamespot. The 
 voice actor is pretty good and the reason Al Pacino did not do his own voice is because years of 
 smoking/aging really haven taken its toll on the man and would do no justice for to the character 
 that made him so famous. That would have sucked even more and ruined the mans credibility amongst 
 Scarface fanboys. Do you remember what James Caan Sounded like in the Godfather game??? That is 
 what would have happened if Al did his own voice.
  
  The gameplay can be a bit boring at times but does pick up and there is nothing more than I like 
 that shoopting people in the knee caps and blowing their left nut off in the game. The dismembering 
 system is wicked and does deserve a lot of credit because it also tells you the damage you have 
 done. Graphics look great on my X700 pro and the soundtrack was awesome. Just let that original 
 soundtrack play
  
  The fact of the matter is that game is built on an alternate ending which we were made aware of 
 months ago. Don't let the haters throw you off because it is a good game regardless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomer101
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 13, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Most of us saw the classic SCARFACE . where Tony Montana, a refugee from Cuba takes over Miama, 
 and ultimately self-destructs because of him being overconfident. So everyone must remember the 
 classic scene when the guy with the double-barrel shotgun is creeping up behind Tony, and then 
 shoots him in the back. The game starts shortly after Tony screams the classic SAY HELLO TO MY 
 LITTLE FRIEND! . You then have thugs coming in from all ways around you, but this time, you get 
 to spot and kill the guy who killed Montana in the movie. And of course, you escape the mansion, 
 and you are RUINED. A few months later, the game really begins to develop the stroyline, and aswell 
 as the GTA-clone format. The only differences between scarface and GTA are : Scarface : the whole 
 drug dealing process, Immersive gunfights, henchmen, calling boats ,cars , playing for different 
 characters (driver, enforcer, assassin) ,
  Money laundry.
  
  GTA: None of the above.
  
  So there you have it, SCARFACE = NEW GTA with the main character being TONY MONTANA.
  
 
  The thing that probably stands out the most in the game is the voice acting.
  
  So the game has all the potential to beat GTA... what's wrong you ask?
  
  Well the game gets 
 very repetitive VERY fast. Same missions. Same Missions. Same missions. Makes the game boring after 
 the 15th hour of gameplay.
  
  Though the game is cracked up to be serious, there are some comical twists. For example, when shooting 
 an enemy in the groin, it might say : left nut, or right nut.
  The inults Tony Montana throws are comical aswell : You sound like you have a baseball bat stuck 
 up in your @$$! 
  The lines he uses to get women's attention : If i F*** you, you wont be able to walk straight for 
 three weeks! 
  
  Overall Scarface, is a decent GTA-like shooter, with comical twists, and i recommend it to anyone 
 who wants to let his anger out, or simply shoot up everything he sees. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kev_Dawg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is obviously not the best looking game out to day, but it offers an experience all Scarface 
 fans will love. Scarface: The world is yours is a game Scarface fans has been waiting ages for. 
 I just got the game and played it, and played it for a good 4 hours straight! This game is addicting, 
 well it is to me, the game is so cool. The balls meter in the game is pretty cool, once it fills 
 up you can go on a rampage and kill so many people real fast. When you go in rage your health meter 
 will get filled up depending on how many people you kill. People may say this game is like GTA, 
 well it is almost like GTA, but with a Scarface twist. Scarface: The world is yours is a great 
 game, some reviews say it's a bad game, but I don't let them bother me.
  
  A lot of people review this game way to hard, this game is not a next-gen game so remember that. 
 Look at the game how it is suppose to be looked at, through Scarfaces eyes. I recommand this game 
 to any die hard Scarface fan or even a Scarface fan that just watched the movie a few times. I 
 myself is a very picky man towards games, Scarface just keeps me coming back to it everytime I 
 exit the game. If you want to get a new game, then spend your money on this, don't pay much attention 
 to the reviews, if you love Scarface then your going to love the game. If you are one of those 
 people who strickly believe reviewers, well then you'll be suprised when you play this game. The 
 reason why some reviewer sites give this game a some what low rating is cause of the gameplay, 
 it's not top notch, but that's understandable.
  
  Scarface: The world is yours is and will be a great game for now and in the future. Next-gen games 
 will give the developers of Scarface: The world is yours a better idea on how to improve game play 
 and graphics. Till then, lets cross our fingers on a better detailed Scarface game in the future 
 because I know I can't wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 12, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  what can i say about this game i was hyped when i heard about it. i finally got it and was ready 
 to play to see what it had to offer if it lived up to my expectations.
  
  i had lots of trouble starting the game since everytime i tried starting it an error came up showing 
 directx error . i found this funny since i knewi had the latest directx. i searched for days for 
 a solution and finally got one by insatlling the october update for directx (just releaed) .
  
  started it to my surprise the game lagged as hell i had to lower all my setting and change 
 the screen resolution to enable it to played at an optimum fps.
  
  there r lots of flaws in the game the game as everyone can see deserves to be a console game and 
 not on pc. plus it was made to be played on super - computers.
  
  this game is just disappointing as the GODFATHER GAME.
  
  u can't even re-map the keys for 
 gods sakes.
  
  can't think of more flaws but i'll add on as i go on plaing the game.
  
  one advice if u plan on buying this game make sure u got a computer with an excellent sound, graphics 
 card. otherwise you'll regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virtuetek
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 12, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up from another Digital Game download service online... I have to say it is completely 
 not what a PC gamer like myself, whom I might say has been starving for a good FPS/action game 
 for a long time now, was looking for. It's as if the developer thought the cursing would be enough. 
 The graphics are choppy, the controls completely suck, the UI to setup the options is buggy and 
 unusable.... This game was obviously made fort he consoles ONLY! The one thing I liked was the intro 
 movie.
  
  Do not make the same mistake I made... don't purchase this game just to hear someone curse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monoxide582
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  HOW THE HELL CAN THIS GAME GET A 6?! gamespot, u guys r loosing your minds.
  
  this game is rediculously cool. right off the bat. theres so much intense action and the rage meter 
 is pretty sweet. but anyway, there is a lot to this game such as buying hetchmen, cars, weapons 
 etc. its like a sim city, but rebuilding an enormous cocaine empire, by the way, you actually sell 
 and make drug deals in the game, which in my opinion, is pretty damn cool. way to get a little 
 controversial. but anyway, this game is definitly a lot of fun. theres a lot of blood, guts, and 
 swearing. even if u like the movie or not, this game is still badass. it really has nothing to 
 do with the movie, just the characters and concept really. but regardless, radical did a great 
 job with this game, mad props left nut shot! i have beaten this game with a total percentage of 
 %82 game completion. this game is definitly worth buying, and a wont even compare it to GTA, but 
 if u do like that series, u definitly have to try scarface. i couldnt get enough of this game! 
 waiting for a se/pr quel! that'd be freeesh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Never
Rating: 3.7
Date: Oct 11, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure why people like this game. It seems to be a straight port of the PS2 game, but with 
 the bonus of awful controls. The graphics are horrible for a PC game, there aren't any advanced 
 shaders and everything looks low poly. I get frame rate hitches continually, with 1gb of ram and 
 a 256 mb graphics card running at 1280x800. Weird. The controls are totally un-customizable. The 
 Enter key to lean against a wall? How the heck am I supposed to hit Enter while using my left hand 
 to move and my right hand to aim? There are many instances of controls being mapped to arbitrary 
 keys. Once again, I don't get it. I'm constantly aggravated because I'm forced to reach all the 
 way across my keyboard to hit Enter just to get through dialog prompts. The missions are boring 
 and there's no way to save when you just want to quit playing. Unless you find missions like talk 
 to the bank teller , talk to the bank branch manager followed by talk to the bank teller again 
 fun, I would steer clear of this bore fest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajcali08
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 11, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is really put together quite good. The graphics might be made for older systems, but 
 with a nice pc, it makes it look little better than the ps2 or X-box versions. The game-play is 
 pretty much like GTA but adds its own taste to the mix, and also addresses some issues you might 
 have with the GTA games. Theres very little (next-to-none) loading times for the pc version. Once 
 you get threw the story, youll have the option to unlock certain game content like more music, 
 and your able to select your play-list for in-game music. The sounds and images you get from this 
 story, make it feel like your playing the sequel to the movie. Scareface: The World Is Yours, no 
 ordinary movie turned to video game. This one is worth playing and finishing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djredman123
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 11, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this game could have been alot better if it was a lot more open ended. i don; t think 
 an game will ever beat san andreas in that. san andreas is still the best 3rd person. this game 
 has real issues, maybe i did something wrong but this game has serious camera issues... when ure 
 taking over turf u lock on to all these targets auto and it's hard to kill them all. and sometimes 
 when ure at a bank and ure laundering cash say a drug dealer wants to buy coke tony walks backwards 
 still facing him and the camera zooms out and u can't even walk in tha bank!
  
  I've notICed some weird glitches unless their part of the game. in one mission tony turns into 
 a prostitute and his voice is a woman's which is really f*cked up. But aside from those issues 
 this games combat is way better than any gta game, all of the animations are the same like in the 
 movie when he got shot up out the babylon club he ran out leaning down and u can do that with a 
 weapon and shoot. U can't SET URE OWN CONTROLS in this game it's default, which is really uncomfortable.. 
 another thing i don't get is how SOsa is still alive, the first mission tony turns around and kills 
 him, unless that was a sosa clone he'd be dead. u can't smoke cigars in this game?? tony montanna 
 always smokes cigars whatsup with that? i remember reading a bunch of features that were supposed 
 to be in the game that i haven; t found yet. another thing i like is tony can swim, but u get eaten 
 by a shark lmao if u swim to long. san andreas u can swim for as long as u want. the graphics are 
 the S*** theres a bunch of rendered glass and a bunch of interiors w/o loading times which that 
 is a lot better than san andreas in. i u can buy stuff from this exotics catolog i thought u were 
 gonna be able to fly in this game as soon as i saw the floatplane but u can't and u can't drive 
 ure boat out of the area or u'll be brought back in, san andreas u can drive/fly as long as u want. 
 i don't think this deserves more than an 8 due to a lot of issues. u should just watch the movie 
 and forgot about this game or just wait for gta4 (which will be the 1# game of all time) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FAHED
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 11, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  Way better then all of GTA games, the game is very interactive in the sense that you feel as an 
 integral part of the world, the story revolves around not the other way around..... in GTA you felt 
 an insignificant alien without much influence over the world. but in Scarface the World is truly 
 yours...... sadly Scarface is an under appreciated game which me is only Second to Mafia.
  
  And for all of you who say Been There, Done That most of the game play elements in Scarface 
 are original. if you didnt invest enough time into Scarface dare not say it just a GTA clone, for 
 it exceeds GTA in every single aspect of originality and new Ideas of game play and the over all 
 sense of achievement. if i where to thing of the GTA Clone logic then GTA is a Mafia Clone and 
 Age of Empire is a Command And Conquer Clone and Halflife is a Doom Clone and World of Warcraft 
 is an EverQuest Clone.... ETC....
  
  and for all of you stubborn heads try to look for the good in the bad (if any) and not the other 
 way around.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heromoua
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 10, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto and The Godfather are the first impressions of everyone when they first see this 
 game. I personally think this is a game of its own, and not a clone of knock off of the other 2 
 games. The variety of things to do in this game is vast, and the combat system works fairly well 
 and matches up just about to The Godfather and any other 3rd person game's needs. Tony Montana 
 is what you'd all expect as well. They did an EXTREMELY GOOD JOB of brining hislikes and sound 
 of the old Montana from the movie to the game. Voice acting, you can consider it being just as 
 good or possibly better than all the GTA games. No, Al Pacino didn't voice Tony, but who ever did 
 (forgot his name) , did a fairly good job with the voice that comes almost exactly like the old 
 Pacino. The action is quite intense as well. The ai, may lack at times, but they are pretty dam 
 good comparing to the DEE DEE DEE ai in GTA. Yes the game is pretty hard, for you can die pretty 
 fast, but gladly they have cheats, making you unstoppable. Speaking of graphics, this game has 
 AWESOME graphics i think. Well, when it comes to comparing to its arch enemy GTA and Godfather, 
 i think this game is superior to them in terms of graphics, visuals, effects, and sounds. If you 
 saw the movie, you'd know what to expect from the game. There's a lot of swearing, cussing, guns, 
 blood, and my favorite, a lot of balls! Those who've seen the movie and loved it, must check this 
 game out! You will recognize a lot of familiar faces and locations from the movie in the game. 
 For those who just love plain GTA-like action, i suggest u chec this out as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buzm31ny
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  very addictive, play it for hours at a time, great soundtrack, but the graphics is nothing to brag 
 about, and still i was getting some major lag in the beginning of the game, thats because the game 
 uses vsync, so make sure you turn off vsync on your graphic cards, because you cant do it on the 
 games option menue, very much like gta, but if your a scarface fan your going to like it ,. is it 
 worth $50, i dont think so its a little to pricey, but as a big fan of the movie ,i could not wait 
 any longer, had to get it, the controls could use some work, its allso very funny great voice of tony 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markissnu2000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 10, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  SO FAR I CAN SEE THAT THIS GAME IS SIMULAR TO GTA BUT ALSO IT HAS ITS OWN STYLE AND FEEL. AS FAR 
 AS IT GOES WITH THE GAME, IT PLAY A CROSS BETWEEN GTA AND THE GODFATHER. THE DRIVING SYSTEM IS 
 LIKE GTA AND THE COMBAT SYSTEM IS LIKE THE GODFATHER. OVERALL IT IS A GREAT GAME ALL IN ITSELF. 
 IF YOUR A SCARFACE FAN I WOULD RECOMMEND THAT YOU CHECK IT OUT. I KNOW DIFFERENT PEOPLE HAVE DIFFERENT 
 OPINIONS. SO IF YOU HAVE THE PS2 OR XBOX I WOULD ADVISE YOU TO RENT BEFORE YOU BUY. ALTHOUGH NO 
 DOUBT ABOUT IT IF YOUR A TRUE DIE HARD SCARFACE FAN YOU WOULD NOT BE DISAPPOINTED. THE GAME STARTS 
 OFF ACTION PACT. LEAVING OFF WHERE THE MOVIE ENDEND. YOU HAVE TO FIGHT YOUR WAY OUT OF THE MANSION. 
 MANY THUGS ARE TRYING TO KILL YOU. SOSA HAS A PRICE ON YOUR HEAD. BUT YOU GOTTA LET THESES FOOLS 
 KNOW WHO THE REAL BAD GUY IS. LOL. THE ENVIROMENT IN THE GAME IS SO DETAILED AND THE GRAPHICS ARE 
 CLEAN. IT'S NOT NEXT GEN GRAPHICS BUT IT STILL DOES JUSTICE TO THE GAME. I ONLY PLAYED FOR HALF 
 AN HOUR BUT I CAN'T WAIT TO GET TO THE END OF THE GAME. IT'S VERY ADDICTING SO FAR. I GIVE THIS 
 GAME A OVERALL SCORE OF 9.0 OUT OF 10 CHECK IT OUT... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nico230383
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  We all know the movie scarface and how great it is.
  The game however is a different story. Graphicly the game sucks, the graphics feel really dated 
 , even on high end pc's. You can compare it to vice city played on a medium spec PC. If you don't 
 really mind the graphics the gameplay makes up for it a little bit. The controls can be frustrating 
 because you cant change them and have to use the buttons the programmers assigned wich is as followed
 
  
  W, A, S, D for driving and walking
  Left mouse for aiming and shooting T for taunting enemies ( more used than you might think )
 
  E for getting in a car.
  
  The good things about the gameplay are
  
  + Good control over vehicles, takes a little time to get used to but its not bad
  + Aiming works 
 fine
  + Menu's are worked out pretty good
  
  The bad things :
  
  - Can't shoot enemies in crowded places with civilians, tony won't shoot civilians so even when 
 an enemy is unloading his gun at you and a civilian is behind him, you cant shoot him. very frustrating 
 in close quarter combat
  - some objects in the game world block you or your vehicle, like little baskets that seem to be 
 made out of steel, when you crash into them your car is stuck
  - can't open doors, sometimes enemies have to be killed that are accidently in a room with a closed 
 door, so you can't kill them and finnish the mission
  
  Then the sound
  
  The sound is pretty good, lots of music from the movie and tony's voice is excellent, the voice 
 actor really did a good job and you always have the feeling your really playing with tony montana.
 
  
  So my conclusion is this, the game is pretty decent but only if you buy it for a budget price. 
 If you can't get enough of vice city then this might be the game you want to buy before the new 
 GTA comes out. The best thing about the game is that you really feel like your playing with tony 
 montana, his looks, voice and reactions are exactly like in the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterEmil
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 10, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  The gmae starts up with the end scene from Scarface The Movie. The start menu isent really there 
 lol. Just stands start and then nothing else really simple. Well the game has some lenght in it 
 and many good and lovely weapons. The blood/Arm/Leg/Head effects will make you happy lol. It is 
 just really a lot like GTA just as a Scarface game, The cars looks beautiful but they can be a 
 little hard to handle sometimes. The FPS is a little unstable sometimes. The Graphics looks a little 
 bad but that aint everything right?. Well in this game it will be the Sound that makes you happy, 
 Scarface sounds really good but sometimes you can hear that it aint Al Pacione making the voice 
 but you will be to buisy looking at Peoples head flying off when you shoot them. There is 1 thing 
 i would like to say about the driving in this game, YOU CANT DRIVE PEOPLE DOWN. Like if i see some 
 dude or Enemy and i want to drive into him with like 1000000KM/H he just flies away and stands 
 up saying **** You. And there is this Rage Mode where Tony just get invinceble and cant die for 
 30sec or something its really nice sometimes when you are close to die because you get your HP 
 Back, You will be happy when you Taunt your Enemies or just Random people saying Say Hello To My 
 Litle Friend (Weapon) or screaming SEEING YOUR IN HELL. there is a lot of them, But you cant shoot 
 Random People either it just aint Satisfying seing all those people without killing them heh. And 
 then my Favorite thing in this game is= You get to buy and Build up Tonys Mansion like buying everything 
 from a Laundry Machine to a Chair there is a lot of stuff, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardsena
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Well, this game is a huge game ,with a hundreds of cars ,and peoples on the streets. Yeah this is 
 a GTA-Clone ,but this game is very complex ,you can talk to people on the street ,you can intimidate 
 then ,you can sell drugs ,you can buy cars ,drivers for you ,you can buy your own bussines. This 
 game don't have excelent graphics ,but the graphics are good ,for me they don't look bad ,look 
 at GTA the graphics are a hundred of times worst than Scarface. So concluding this game is great 
 ,very complex and interesting so if you like GTA you will like it . Not only because is like GTA 
 ,but the game system with the T button. Example : You want to sell coke you have to convince the 
 purchaser ,to convince ,in the LEFT of the screen a BAR will apear ,to make the bar full you have 
 to press the T button , if you don't obtain sucess you won't sell the coke. This is ,PLAY this 
 game i'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warriorlax1234
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 10, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  This is a port to pc nightmare. Graphics are bad, city feels dull, and the only thing good out 
 of this game was the voice acting. Unless your a huge fan of scarface and have been wating for 
 the movie to game, then get it. If not, stay away from it. It is not worth the 50 bucks. I mean 
 the graphics feel like a dull looking vice city and the gameplay is very simple, extremely simple. 
 It's basicaly run and gun gameplay. And it reminds me of GTA so bad it hurts. But we can't always 
 compare these games to GTA, it revolutionized the genre, but as the old saying goes, if it aint 
 broke don't fix it!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a336061
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 9, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Certain GTA types make for a horrible time, car physics all choppy... graphics are a little prettier, 
 but nothing can make up for the amazing losses... in scarface it's different... granted your Tony 
 Montana, and come on, who doesn't want to be Tony Montana... it's cliche to the movie, sell drugs, 
 shoot people, ya know, be Tony Montana... certain reviews say this game is horrible because of 
 the graphics, although simple, the only problem i see beside a lot of simple textures, the draw 
 distance could have been worked up, at least for the pc version there should have been a way to 
 have the settings even twice what they allow you to set. the sounds are pretty darn impressive 
 considering i thought this was going to be another Godfather, that makes torture seem more fun. 
 The car physics in Scarface are actually just as good if not better than GTA. the way the car swings 
 around and such, you feel like you have control of it. i'd say a great rent if not a good buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scooch2K
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 9, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is 'Wow'! I've always enjoyed the GTA series and its style of open ended play. Scarface: 
 The World Is Yours has all that and so much more.
  
  I've read through many of the other reviews posted here and I must say that anyone who holds the 
 graphical quality of a game as its most important quality, simply doesn't have their priorities 
 straight. Enough said. Are there more graphically demanding games out there than Scarface? Of course 
 there are! But not everyone is blessed with the funds to have a 7950GX2 and this game even runs 
 well on the 9800pro in my girlfriend's computer! Fantastic! (Since she loves the movie Scarface 
 and doesn't have to upgrade her computer to play the game!)
  
  Regardless, from the scripted missions to the awesome voice acting to the huge music library in 
 the game, it's just great. Potential Spoiler: Probably one of the most gruesome and yet viscerally 
 incredible missions in the game is the one in which you exact revenge on the Diaz brothers and 
 their henchmen armed with nothing but a chainsaw! Time to slice and dice! Truly satisfying to say 
 the least.
  Definitely an awesome game to play and one to recommend for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anth_14_2004
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 9, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Tony Montana is Back for Revenge in Scarface The game is fun you start the game off at the end 
 of the movie of Scarface and continue's on whitch is kool. Its most likely like GTA .Vivendi Games 
 Sierra Entertainment division has signed some of the biggest music artists from the 1980s to headline 
 the ingame soundtrack for the Scarface The World Is Yours video game. The music is good in this 
 game. If you loved the movie then you will love this game for sure. I gave this game a 9.1/10 The 
 graphics could of been better but the game is still fun even though. If you like GTA Games then 
 you will like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishweredogs
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  ITS SCARFACE AND SCARFACE IS SCARFACE THIS IS LIKE GTA AND SCARFACE SLAMED INTO EACH OTHER SO I 
 SAY BUY/RENT WHAT EVER JUST PLAY THIS (SOON FABLE 2 WILL COME OUT) BUT ANYWAYS YOU MIGHT LIKE IT 
 ON THE CONSOLE BETTER THEN THE PC UNLESS YOU HAVE AN ASWAM GRAPHICS CARD THAT WILL MAKE A BIG CHANGE 
 TO THE GRAPHICS THEN TRY IT OUT FOR THE PC BUT THE ONE FOR THE XBOX IS ALOT BETTER THEN THE PS2 
 ONE SINCE THE PS2 TAKES AYWAY THE ALL THE ALREADY NOT THAT FANCY GRAPHICS AND YES IF YOU OWN THE 
 XBOX360 LIKE I DO GO AND GET IT NOW IF YOU WATCHED THE MOVIE WHICH EVERYONE DID YOU WILL SEE THAT 
 THIS GAME IS ASWAM SO GO AHEAD BUY/RENT WHAT EVER JUST PLAY THE  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickWhit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  In Scarface, the movie, Cuban Tony Montana was coming to America with no job, no family, nothing, 
 and had to make due with what he had. He builds up an entire empire of loyal men, drug dealing, 
 murder, and just about everything else you can think of. He was living the American dream. His 
 dream came crashing down however. His friends and workers were all killed, his sister was killed, 
 and his empire was torn down. He was shot down in his own home and left for dead. The game however 
 is a what-if scenario . What if Tony Montana didnt die? Which is where you come in. You must build 
 back your empire and take out the person who tried to kill you. You must take back the world..... and 
 everything in it.
  
  You run around Miami city doing various missions to get some cash and some coke to sell for even 
 more cash. The selling coke, buying coke, banking money, intimidation, and fast talking cops has 
 a cool little edge to it. You have a bar and must fill it for the various task to be a success.
 
  
  Cars, boats, 4x4s, limos, and more are available to Tony for transportation around the city. Just 
 try not to swim too many places. A giant shark will eat you, which in the game is pretty cool cept 
 the cheesy scream Tony makes.
  
  The sound in this game owns. Killer soundtrack, GREAT Al Pacino impersonator, bullets sound perfect, 
 and other sounds just totally kill.
  
  Graphics could have been better but they were actuallly pretty good. Game used the same engine 
 as the FarCry game that came out a while back.
  
  Controls can be buggy for PC but a good mouse usually has limited issues.... and if you have a controller 
 for your PC I reccomend you use that. Only thing I hated about the controls was.... you cant jump. 
 Yeah I know that was kinda weird to me but after a while you forget all about jumping.
  
  This game kept me playing for hours at a time and is more than just some GTA clone. It has features 
 that make it better and some that make it worse. Id say its better than Vice City and GTA 3 but 
 im still debating on whether its better than San Andreas. I strongly reccommend this game for anyone 
 who enjoys games like this and wants to have fun playing.
  
  So go out and buy it..... you stinking cockroach! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonaparty
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 9, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  How NOT to port a game...
  PC version feels like console... not good when you are sitting behind a duo-core x1900 PC....
 
  Man, this game feels awfull on the PC and looks terrible. This game is two to three years to late...
 
  Maybe I give it a try on my xbox where my standards are less high and hopefully then I can play 
 long enough to actually say something about the gameplay. (I played the Godfather till the end 
 on xbox) Maybe if I had played Scarface on xbox first my reaction would have been different. Lets 
 start a lobby to ban ports forever and worldwide! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zbiggie
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  Where to start the premis of the game was great, Tony doesnt die but instead survives to rebuild 
 his empire. The story line is linear, in terms of how the game lets you finish the missions,
  The actual gameplay i really didnt like it was to clunky especially when you wanted to go into 
 rage mode it was very hard, you could be pressing v non stop and the game would not read it. The 
 controles and the view were carbon copies of GTA3. The graphix where really watered down so it 
 would be able to run on the consoles which really shows how much ground we lost to consoles that 
 they are releasing games that are designed for consoles half finished onto PC. I am as many will 
 be disapionted, I hope someone remakes this and makes it what it could have been but that is dought 
 full. Scarface has always been one of my favorite moives but this should not be able to carry its 
 name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquidmonk
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  If you love scarface the movie you should be instantly addicted. This game is really fun but I 
 wish I hadn't bought it on the PC. The game jumps out to the desktop every 20 minutes and needs 
 to be maximized, it has UNRELIABLE support for the rumble pad 2 (no support for xbox 360 controller) , 
 it pushes my core duo 6600 to 96% 1st core and 53% 2nd core, and you can't jump. How can you make 
 a game like this after so many predeccessors before it and not learn from their mistakes? The biggest 
 thing that ticked me off was after starting the game with my rumble pad 2 gamepad the controls 
 would assign accelerate and brake to the same button or unassigned. YOU HAVE TO PLAY THIS GAME 
 with your keyboard and mouse if you bought the PC version. Did anyone play godfather with a gamepad? 
 It was heaven compared to this game's effort. Who doesn't love driving around with WASD while your 
 rumble pad vibrates beside you as you sideswipe another pedestrian? Both the Godfather and GTA 
 for PC had excellent gamepad integration; scarface seems slammed together. You can't even change 
 the assginments on the keyboard!! I really do like this game but after its pitfalls this game is 
 just a pain to play. One of the biggest new things was to be able to call any car or boat you bought 
 via cell phone; immediate delivery! This change helps a lot and makes sense. You can also get a 
 plane that lands on water (go to and from marinas) and a limo that takes you around. The voice 
 for tony is ok. I thought they did a good job with most of the voice acting, as in what they were 
 saying and how it sounded like the characters from the movie. The AI of the enemies is horrible. 
 Most missions i pick a good spot and then just lock, shoot, lock, shoot while they keep coming 
 from the same direction. Fighting is a joke. Just mash the buttons and see the same 4 moves and 
 the other guy never gets a chance. The actual game of buying and selling coke doES get old. You 
 are either A) setting up a buy B) making a buy C) distributing the coke. All points inbetween lead 
 to the same 4 or 5 minigames: kill this guy, delivery these packages, kill these gang members, 
 protect one guy, and etc. Then you spend your money on henchman to get your vehicles (to open up 
 their own lame minigames for money) . I still haven't gotten an assasin yet..... maybe that One will 
 be cool. You also can spend your money on collectibles and what not for rep points which isn't 
 really fun. So you spent 10000 on a stuffed tiger.... now what? HEAT! Heat in this game comes out 
 of your pocket. There's no carwash to wash your deeds away, there's no death that can clear you 
 heat with the local gangs. You gotta pay it all off. So driving like a manic with WASD and taking 
 out pedestrians and gangmember is just money your going to have to pay sooner or later.
  Also almost every interaction in the game is based on the hold the button Tiger woods deal. You 
 hold the talk button and try to release it in the last 30% of the meter for the best reaction, 
 from 25 - 80 for ok reaction, and the botton 25% for the worst reaction. This works pretty well 
 and makes sure that any one thing is Not a given. Going to a large supplier for 3 keys? You already 
 had to do a mission to set the deal up and now it's time to make the deal. You could make it and 
 get the max amount the guy has, some of it, or screw it up and get in a gun fight where you'll 
 get no coke and have lost the contact.
  This game can be fun with it's long list of slowly unlocking stuff you can buy but without gamepad 
 support, being able to jump, and having software that runs stable enough to not jump to the desktop..... it's 
 just a pain. Somebody made some scarafices and they were the wrong ones. I bought the game on the 
 26th, the game came out on the 28th and I'm already waiting for a patch! The game looks Great and 
 good music and is THX certified. If I was 360 owner I'd be creaming myself about buying the game!! 
 With the PC version ... whats the point of making this game if you ONLY can use the keyboard? This 
 isn't tetris, it's not a FPS, it a GTA style game and doing that on a keyboard is not fun especially 
 when you are trapped by a mile of foot-high wall that you can't just jump over to get in your car. 
 Walk around fool!
  
  (.... somebody's gotta make jump mod...... right??) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g_man95
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 9, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  if i would choose between just cause or scarface trust me just cause it will be.. the only thing 
 that keeps you in this game is the game play, but even that isn't great... i don't now how the version 
 for the ps or the xbox performs, but the pc version performes like crap... the game has a lot of 
 sttuters even with 1GB of ram and lags like crap and you don't no why because the only thing that 
 you are looking is a low polly car and low-textures (cam on man WTF) .. let's not talk about the dificulty 
 of the game because is very dificult once you advance in the game... so in a few words the game 
 suks and bye bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adversee
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 9, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure about the PS2 and Xbox versions of this game but the PC version is really poor. Although 
 the voice acting is good, the graphics look like pre-GTA: Vice City, the gameplay is boring and 
 overall, you get the feeling you've seen this all and it was done better before. In addition, the 
 handling of vehicles on the PC version lags like crazy. Not good, especially when there are a million 
 other options out there for GTA-like games. Other reviews have gone into detail about the mechanics 
 of the game, storyline, characters, etc... so I'll just say this: just go back to GTA San Andreas, 
 dress your character like Tony Montana and pretend he's Scarface. You'll have a much better time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inpyo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  It contains loads of cinematic features that chills and give GTA-like liberta to player. You can 
 make conversations with pedestrians, too. well, It's quite revolutionary I think. The conversations 
 you make perfectly continues and the feds' reactions are realistic and various. Overall, great 
 pleasure if you are a huge fan of Al Pacino or Scarface movie. But just for a game, it's hard to 
 say good enough . It contains loads of cinematic features that chills and give GTA-like liberta 
 to player. You can make conversations with pedestrians, too. well, It's quite revolutionary I think. 
 The conversations you make perfectly continues and the feds' reactions are realistic and various. 
 Overall, great pleasure if you are a huge fan of Al Pacino or Scarface movie. But just for a game, 
 it's hard to say good enough . It contains loads of cinematic features that chills and give GTA-like 
 liberta to player. You can make conversations with pedestrians, too. well, It's quite revolutionary 
 I think. The conversations you make perfectly continues and the feds' reactions are realistic and 
 various. Overall, great pleasure if you are a huge fan of Al Pacino or Scarface movie. But just 
 for a game, it's hard to say good enough . It contains loads of cinematic features that chills 
 and give GTA-like liberta to player. You can make conversations with pedestrians, too. well, It's 
 quite revolutionary I think. The conversations you make perfectly continues and the feds' reactions 
 are realistic and various. Overall, great pleasure if you are a huge fan of Al Pacino or Scarface 
 movie. But just for a game, it's hard to say good enough . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zietoun
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 8, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  When you enter the game the first thing you'll notice is how unimpressive the graphics are. The 
 graphics are marred with low quality textures, models, and architectural shortcuts. Visually the 
 game just barely competes with any of the Grand Theft Auto: Vice City. It's safe to say that they 
 graphics are not better, and it is clearly behind the times. On the bright side, due to the poor 
 quality in graphics the performance is very smooth, and the game performs without a hitch.
  
  The PC version seems to suffer a few flaws in terms of controls. First you can't change the 
 controls, you have to live with what they give you. The default control scheme is not terrible, 
 but if you're not used to it you'll have to adapt. Another minor irritation is that you can't strafe 
 unless your weapon is drawn, and you it's not a good idea to run around with a drawn weapon at 
 all times. It's almost exactly the same style as The Godfather: The Game, which most PC players 
 found frustrating. Basically the A and D keys are run and turn at the same time, so if you hold 
 either Tony will just run around in a circle. I can see the advantage of that for a joypad, but 
 the option to switch it off would have been nice. Which of course brings us back to the limitation 
 of the options. There's not much that can be done about any of the controls, besides mouse sensitivity, 
 vibration, and axis inversion.
  
  The game tries really hard to introduce new gameplay mechanics to the style, however it just feels 
 like it reuses and recycles ideas from other games of the same genre. There's a mini-game for negotiations, 
 which is basically hold the Talk button to start, and let go when it's on the mark you want. Unfortunately 
 it's the same mini-game for intimidation, dealing, laundering money, everything involving communicating 
 with other characters to negotiate. It's frustrating, and irrelevant to the idea of negotiating 
 a deal. 
  
  One thing that makes the game stand out a little is the customizable mansion. If you have the money 
 you can buy all sorts of exotic items for your mansion, some of which you'll be able to place manually.
 
  
  All saves are done in banks or when the game provides the option. Quite often you'll find that 
 the game allows you to save right after you've completed a mission which unlocks the purchase of 
 an establishment, but as soon as you do purchase it, the game suggests that you go to a bank in 
 order to save. Oddly enough, I have yet to find a way to save the game in the mansion; Tony Montana's 
 home.
  
  Overall, the game feels like not much more than a huge modification of GTA: Vice City. The only 
 real perk is being able to play as Tony Montana, bearing the likeness of Al Pacino. Of course the 
 voice acting and the cut-scenes are very well done, with an impressive cast. Unfortunately it all 
 falls on boring, repetitive gameplay we've all seen before in the numerous clones of the Grand 
 Theft Auto series.
  
  Frankly, I would only recommend this game to loyal fans of the movie. Anyone else would not appreciate 
 the Tony Montana factor, and would be vastly unimpressed with the graphics. They'd probably find 
 it boring, and may regret buying it if they already have Vice City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdhounshell
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 8, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This game starts out at the end of the movie And You Have a Big Shootout and Make your way to your 
 limo You Of Course Loose everything and have to regain it back and thats where the Fun Comes in 
 You will be Buying your way to the top Noticeable and Likeable Key Fetures are Talking Peds on 
 the street lol theres always something funny about that i dunno why Anyways this takes everything 
 about the Movie and Improves apon it and it also Awnsers The Qustions all fans have What if tony 
 didnt die what would happin well You get to find out in this game this is a True Sequal to a Great 
 Movie its a Must Buy for Fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 5.6
Date: Oct 11, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  When someone talks about gangster movies, most people remember The Godfather, with its '40s representation 
 of what the lives of gangsters were like. How about the '80s? How did those gangsters evolve? These 
 were questions that found their answers in Scarface, released into theaters in 1983. In a setting 
 reminiscent to Miami Vice's, the movie told the story of Tony Montana, a cuban exile that arrives 
 in Miami with nothing but his clothes, and ends up taking over the whole town by force. The film 
 was hailed by many for its gritty setting, including the violence, the drug-pushing and the resulting 
 'being a bad guy is good' feel.
  
  At the end of the story, some mighty violent events happen, and Tony Montana is caught in the crossfire. 
 But what would have happened if things had gone differently? Now, twenty three years later, Radical 
 Entertainment is set on answering that problem with Scarface: The World is Yours, set right into 
 the end of the film, with Tony speaking his famous catchphrase while holding a automatic rifle. 
 It's his mission to get even with with all his enemies, and get the city back to his control. Heavily 
 influenced by Grand Theft Auto, especially by Vice City, which in turn was influenced by Scarface, 
 the game does its best to mimick the latter game's feeling and ambiance. Both musically and visually, 
 the game succeeds in this, making someone who played Vice City feel right at home. When everything 
 gets moving and the time comes to play the game, the situation changes, and many will probably 
 wish they were back in Tommy's, and not Tony's shoes.
  
  The game takes a road similar to The Godfather game released earlier this year: as the game is 
 played, points are added to various attributes, like reputation, money, turf percentages, exotic 
 items found, drugs pushed and... balls. All other attributes are easily explainable, except the... 
 balls. This attribute is measured by how the game is played. If the built-in lock-on system isn't 
 used, and shots are made to count, the balls meter goes up, and when in max, Tony can go into a 
 'bullet-time' type of rage state, which makes him invulnerable and his shots go right into the 
 targets. The gunplay and fight system in the game are based upon a lock-on system, but can be played 
 freely. The enemy hit detection is sensitive to body parts, and it awards the player for precise 
 shooting. The 'balls' meter also goes up, but much less, for just killing enemies, so the many 
 players who are likely to use the aiming feature won't miss out on the rage attacks. Even so, the 
 action tends to be very forgiving, letting Tony literally walking into full clips of bullets before 
 going down. After a successful kill, Tony can then taunt the victim, and thus net some of the balls' 
 points mentioned earlier. The taunts are mainly movie lines, like 'you think you can (add profanity) 
 me?' or 'say hello to my little friend'. Mostly, these lines seem out of place, and most of the 
 times, theydon't really make sense - if the room is full of dead bodies, who would be scared by 
 Tony's 'friend'? Strange. The weapons can be acquired on site and before levels, while in the mansion. 
 Successfully completing levels unlocks new types of guns. The driving is done exactly like GTA, 
 including the car-jacking everyone's so used to.
  
  The A. I in the game is very poor, with some cases where the enemies stand around looking oblivious 
 to the chaos around. Other attributes like turf and drugs are filled as you play the game, taking 
 in territory from gangs, pushing drugs and making deals with the various 'business' persons in 
 town. The deal-making system is something unique to the game: a meter goes up on screen whenever 
 Tony engages in a discussion with a possible negotiation. By holding down the action button, the 
 meter fills up, and by releasing the button in time with the necessary pressure, the deal goes 
 down successfully, or not. The same meter is used for what I call the please don't arrest me type 
 of situations, where Tony will be pulled up by a cop after some mayhem is done, and tries to sweet 
 talk the policeman. If unsuccessful, your 'heat' goes up, and Tony turns into a wanted person. 
 Unfortunately this system is very unprecise, and the game doesn't try too hard to explain how it 
 works, or even when it's supposed to work. Levels use the same kind of mission design everyone 
 who plays GTA, Manhunt, The Godfather and the like are used to, with the classic pick-up, chase, 
 protect, shoot everyone and 'steal this and take there' molds. The repetition comes early on during 
 the story mode, which is nothing that will take more than a few seatings to play through the story 
 mode. After that, there's a lot to be done if one is still interested in the game, as properties 
 and dealers are waiting to be conquered, not to mention enemy territories being turned to Tony's 
 turf.
  
  The control department varies from versions: whereas the console games respond quickly to the controls 
 inputted, the PC version has that distinct lag that plagues most console-to-PC ports and makes 
 the game feel floaty and unprecise. Customization is an option, and controllers can be opted instead 
 of the traditional mouse and keyboard setting, leaving the same lag during game play. As a matter 
 of fact, the game plays more fluently using the game's primary control setting.
  
  The presentation of the game is spot on. As far as actor resemblance goes, Tony's facial features 
 and body gestures look like Al Pacino circa 1983, capturing everything that made Pacino's performance 
 remembered. Strangely enough, however, body proportions for the characters seem mighty strange, 
 especially Tony, with big hands and head, compared to the rest of the cast. It ends up making the 
 game's Tony more a caricature than anything else. Character voice work is mostly well done, including 
 famous names like James Woods, Ice T and Rodrigo Santoro. Tony Montana isn't dubbed by Al Pacino, 
 who helped the developer's choose the voice actor for his role, and ends up being a good choice, 
 seeing how the aging actors fared in The Godfather's voice work. James Woods doesn't sound as immersed 
 in the role as he did in GTA San Andreas, but does his job nonetheless. Tony's voice actor sounds 
 spot on in all the fronts, from the detailed curses to the accented pronunciation of words. The 
 soundtrack is just what one would expect from a title set in the '80s, and includes all of the 
 tracks from the movie, including some that were in Vice City (duh!) and GTA III's classic radio 
 station. The music can be played directly from a menu while driving, not using any kind of radio 
 host or anything of the sort.
  
  Across the three platforms the game was released, the visual difference is nigh: a mostly good 
 looking PS2 game ends up looking poorly on the Xbox, and 'ported' poorly on the PC. Options like 
 draw in and aliasing can be tweaked in the PC version of the game, not changing how the game mainly 
 looks overall. The current trend in movie tie-ins with videogames is just a baby and most players 
 should expect to see more and more franchises getting poor game translations. Like Reservoir Dogs 
 before it, Scarface aims to please fans. And make money to the licensee's. Luckily for this game, 
 it does it a little better than Tarantino's flick, thanks to the visual and sound fidelity between 
 game and movie. Unfortunately, problems like repetition, low difficulty, lack of replay incentive 
 and the mentioned annoying lag don't let this game sit on the same shelf, quality-wise, as The 
 Godfather, which is still the best movie franchise-revival title around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuzgureanu
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 8, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  When i inslalled this game i was expecting a cheap GTA clone. It may be a GTA clone but it has 
 a lot of neat stuff on its side. First you have the voice acting, even though they didn`t get Al 
 Pacino to do it, they apparently got someone really good. The voice acting really brings the virtual 
 Tony Montana to life.
  
  After you get your mansion back from the police and you renovate it, then you can start upgrading 
 it, buying new furniture and decorations etc.
  
  You can also hire henchmen to do your dirty work for you, a driver, a guns dealer, an assasin etc. 
 You can even go further and take controll of each of these for the jobs Tony wouldn`t really fit 
 doing. You can call you driver to deliver your car wherever in Miami you are, this also saves you 
 from having to steal a car every time you need to go someplace (one of my biggest frustrations 
 with gta) . You can buy better and better cars and, unlike GTA, you get to keep then and have them 
 delivered whenever you need them.
  
  The streets of Miami are quite detailed with all kinds of shops and alleyways where you can do 
 all sorts of business .
  
  The variety of cars is pretty big, specially the cars you can buy, there are plenty to chose from, 
 from a pimp mobile ( :P ) to a streach limo, even 4x4s are avalible for you to buy.
  
  There is a lot of stuff that sets this game apart from GTA, and it is a much better game than The 
 Godfather (by EA) , but i won`t tell you any more of the features, all i can say is this game is 
 deffinetly worth buying.
  
  I`d reccomend this game to anybody who enjoyed playing GTA: Vice City, even though it`s not as 
 good as San Andreas, to my mind, it comes second surpassing many overbudgeted and overhyped games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mick_tyson
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  I`ve only played this game for 3-4 hours . First i was kind of disappointed , thinking that is 
 a console game forced on the pc platform. But then , despite the mediocre graphics , and some difficulties 
 in the control of Tony Montana , i`ve found that something this game has : this is , i call the 
 sense of power and invincibility that i think is great !! Tony is a man who`s not afraid of anything 
 !! and he`s transmitting this to you.
  Maybe he`s not the most powerful and untouchable man , but by his comportment and spoken attitude 
 he controls the people. In closing let me say that game is a fine experience an worth playing !!
 
  Get`em TONY ! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
