-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Schizm
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/schizm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 21, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 6.8, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 123 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DreamCatcher Interactive
Developer: LK Avalon
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Oct 17, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Schizm has a thin story, but the puzzles were obviously created by and for people who love a daunting 
 task. 

  For many adventure gamers, Schizm will be a comfortable fit. It seems more suited to five years 
 ago, when Myst clones were a dime a dozen, when every adventure game dropped you in a desolate 
 world filled with strange technology. But even five years ago, Schizm would have stood out from 
 the crowd. It's more like Sierra's Rama or Rocket Science's Obsidian -- it's definitely inspired 
 by Myst, but the puzzles set it apart. Schizm has a thin story, but the puzzles were obviously 
 created by and for people who love a daunting task.           The game's puzzles will require you 
 to think on several levels at once.    

  Schizm, like almost every science fiction-themed adventure game since Infocom's Planetfall, takes 
 place on a seemingly abandoned planet. There is technology -- organic technology no less -- and signs 
 of habitation on Argilus. But there's no life. A science team, sent to study the planet, has disappeared. 
 You control two characters, Sam and Hannah, sent to find out what has happened, both to the science 
 team and the inhabitants. Throughout the game, you switch back and forth between the two characters 
 to solve the strange riddles and contraptions and occasionally switch back and forth between the 
 two to solve individual puzzles.   

  There's only enough story to thread together some very, very challenging puzzles. Occasionally 
 you'll find a mission log or encounter a ghostly figure, and they'll impart some information. Sometimes 
 it will clue you in to what's going on. Most times it will just give you vague clues as to how 
 to proceed. You'll want to pay attention, because the puzzles in Schizm are very difficult. They 
 are the rare kind of difficult that requires a good deal of logic, note taking, and inspiration 
 to solve. Casual adventure gamers, except those with a propensity for mathematics and engineering, 
 will likely find some of them impossible. But it's a compliment to the design that the difficulty 
 never seems out of place. You are, after all, trying to comprehend alien technology, and so long 
 as you can believe aliens would protect that technology with a series of puzzles (as opposed to, 
 say, with a key) then the difficulty of the puzzles makes perfect sense.   

  The puzzles are difficult because, in most cases, you will need to be working at several levels 
 at once. You will need to decode cryptic diagrams and learn to work complex machines with all the 
 significant figures and symbols in an alien language. You will need to make mathematical and geometrical 
 calculations. One puzzle requires you to listen to and memorize a group of alien words and the 
 symbols that match them, then, later, listen to a ghostly figure shout at you in his native language, 
 and then match the sequence he tells you on a prayer wheel-like device. It's a strange puzzle and 
 one of the most challenging in the game -- the apparition will only speak to you once, and the many 
 steps you need to take to solve the puzzle can be overwhelming.   

  Most of the puzzles follow this formula: You must find the key that decodes a specific gadget and 
 then use the information from the key to get the gadget working. If there's any complaint about 
 the puzzles in Schizm, it's not that they are too difficult, but that they are too similar. Once 
 you figure out a few, you'll know what you generally need to do for the others. They will still 
 be difficult, but a bit of the groundwork will be obvious.   

  There are more puzzles in the DVD-ROM version of the game. The DVD-ROM version also looks much 
 better than the CD-ROM version, which is ugly at times, with huge blocks of color filling the screen. 
 The problems are most notable in darker areas. The scenery and design are good looking, if a bit 
 generic -- all big floating islands, dirigibles, and underground caverns. It's strange when an alien 
 world feels familiar because you've been to a few just like it.           The clues are both abundant 
 and enigmatic.    

  The apparitions appear as video sequences over the prerendered backgrounds, and the video looks 
 decent but is not well integrated with the game. The acting makes the video look worse. In one 
 of the first mission logs you find, the person is so clearly reading her lines that it's a bit 
 ridiculous. It's as if the designers used audition tapes for the actual game. The voices are no 
 better, and occasionally the person speaking is quite obviously not the person you are watching. 
 The music is a bit better and somewhat reminiscent of John Carpenter's electronic soundtracks. 
   

  Schizm is unlike most adventure games. The puzzles make sense, after a good deal of brain gymnastics, 
 and yet they are difficult. It's nothing but a series of locked-door puzzles, and yet in most cases 
 the puzzles are well thought out, original, and interesting. Many will find the game very difficult, 
 as they did the aforementioned Rama and Obsidian, and the lack of a story means the game is all 
 about the puzzles. But they are good, and so those who like a challenge, or miss the days of the 
 Myst clone, will find much to like in Schizm. It goes through the motions with confidence.     
 
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: The_Fnord
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  First of all, before we being the review, let me inform you that I have not finished the game yet. 
 The game might take a turn for the worse (or better) later on. But I refuse to use a guide for 
 these kinds of games.
  
  So lets get this out of the way: This game is hard. No, hard is an understatement, it's downright 
 sadistic. If you have played Myst, you know what these games are about. Walk around in a somewhat 
 open world, and solve puzzles. This game feels like Myst, it plays like Myst I'm quite sure that 
 it at times believes that it is Myst. But, while Myst could be breezed trough, by a good puzzle 
 solver, this game might take even the best some time. To quite another review that I read some 
 time ago "this is a game for future mensa members". 
  
  So, what makes this game so hard? Well, the puzzles of course. There are clues on how to solve 
 the puzzles scatter trough the world, and if you are observant enough, you should have the information 
 needed to solve a puzzle, when you find it. The problem is that figuring out what a clue looks 
 like isn't that easy. 
  
  But enough talk about how hard the game is. What kind of puzzles are there? Much like a well written 
 IQ test, this game has several kinds of puzzles, be it spatial, perception, math or linguistic 
 based. It has a good mix of them. If one of them is your "weak side", expect to suffer thought.
 
  
  The graphics in this game looks nice, for it's time. It's not the best looking game ever, but it's 
 above average. The same can be said about the sound, it's better than average, but it wont win 
 any awards. 
  
  The story feels like an excuse to put you on a strange planet, with a lot of fiendish puzzles. 
 It wont win any awards, but it does a good enough job. It's also backed up by some ok acting. 
 
  
  So, what about flaws (with the exception of the above mentioned fiendish difficulty) ? Well, the 
 controls can be a bit awkward from time to time, and you will find yourself walking past the door 
 that you want to walk into at some points. But it's nothing horrible. Also, you NEED a pen and 
 a piece of paper when you play this game. An in game camera would have been nice.
  
  So, is the game any good? Would I recommend it? Yes, and no. It's simply too hard for most people, 
 so unless you found Riven to be a bit on the easy side, this game might simply be frustrating for 
 you. Even if you thought that Riven was easy, this game will give you a run for your money. I can 
 only recommend this game to die hard fans of Myst-like games. But believe me; those people will 
 love this game. The final score (8) reflects how much I enjoy the game, and nothing else.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: messtimeteacher
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 7, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  The Schizm game has been my friend for just a little while. In the beginning there were great graphics, 
 an interesting story line and background sounds that were just as being there (as those sounds 
 are supposed to be) . I did (and do) like this two person game-play for making the game less lonesome, 
 but unfortunate it makes the game more incomprehensible as it is. Since it is (to me) a Myst look-a-like 
 it's puzzles are difficult. But in Myst there were some clues in what to do. I missed those clues 
 in Schizm: reading a walk-through on the net did not give me this "ah aa!" eureka thing feeling. 
 Some of those puzzles were way beyond my line, and some of those I solved all by myself (that gives 
 an endorphins shot, lol) .
  
  The DVD swapping (side A, side B) was a little bit annoying, but I put two thumbs up to the developers 
 for keeping the system requirements low ! 
  
  And I think it's kind of weird that in Schizm too the "end-puzzle" is so much easier than the challenges 
 you've been up to before. It ends the game with a snap and it does not compare with ending a game 
 by fighting with a big boss (p. e.) . My game ended very soon because I got impatient once too often 
 (and got advise from this all knowing magistrate called www)
  
  Overall I think it's a good game for the ones with puzzle brains. It has some funny "happenings" 
 to it. Whether it be your brains or the game, you figure it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeyBoy505
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is not very good. I will come out and say it, this game just plain bites. I mean I am 
 supposed to be really smart but even this game was unbearably hard for me. I had to go on the Internet 
 and print off a 30 page walkthrough just to get past the very first puzzle, it is that god-forsaking 
 hard! You start out as an explorer, or something stranded on an uncharted land called Argilus. 
 You have to find out what happened to the inhabinets, and explore some unbelievable locations. 
 I do have to hand it to the developers; they did one hell of a job on the visuals. So once again 
 I would rent it not buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 7, 2003 11:29 am PT
Review:  Yuck
  
  This might have been a great game: if it had been released about six years ago. Schizm: Mysterious 
 Journey is a Myst clone that came out about five years too late. Clone is a bit too much of a 
 compliment. Wannabe is a slightly better phrase, because this game falls short of the excellent 
 series that it aspires to be. 
  
  The graphics for the game are bad. Prerendered backgrounds can and should look lots better than 
 this. Perhaps it is because the game is fixed at 640X480 resolution when most computers can go 
 way higher. It looks like some effort was put into the artwork for the game, but it is spoiled 
 by the smeared-out, grainy, pixelated look that occupies every screen. The screenshots on the box 
 make it look better than it does. Riven is much older and, in my opinion, looks better. So do 
 Myst 3, Grim Fandango and Syberia. The voice acting is abominable, and so is the acting for the 
 games cheezy movies -- another convention which is about 5 or 6 years old. 
  
  If the game had a good premise, then the poor production values wouldnt matter very much, but 
 it doesnt. Its another abandoned world full of weird machines game. This time, its an alien 
 world. A good puzzle game has to have puzzles that fit into the virtual world. One of the things 
 that I loved about Myst and Riven was that the mechanical puzzles had a legitimate reason for existing. 
 Unfortunately, Schizm has lots of contrived puzzles that dont make sense. Want to walk across 
 a bridge? Figure out how to push a series of 20 buttons in the right order. Dont expect to just 
 push one button. Apparently, aliens are extremely bored geniuses who have nothing better to do 
 than build complicated contraptions that confuse Earthling scientists. I wonder if aliens have 
 to push a series of color-coded buttons in a special order to operate a toothbrush.
  
  Ill give the game props for having good music and, yes, the puzzles are very difficult. If you 
 are up for a challenge, they will definitely do that. Its hard to get interested in them though, 
 since the game always constrains you along a tight path instead of letting you explore a 3D world. 
 
  
  Heres a tip: skip this one unless you have played all other adventure games that you want to play 
 first. It will exercise your brain, but there's just nothing to keep you pulled in when you start 
 to get bored. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
