-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: School Tycoon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/schooltycoon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 18, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 6.1, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 379 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Global Star Software
Developer: Cat Daddy Games
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Jan 15, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're looking for a management game that won't overwhelm you with details and spreadsheets, 
 School Tycoon should be right up your alley. 

  Just when you thought you'd been the tycoon of everything, along comes School Tycoon. The game 
 puts you in charge of a school's operations, so you must make concessions between the school's 
 budget and the students' education. It's rather simple for a tycoon game, and there are some noticeable 
 bugs that can be frustrating. However, the game's simplicity does work well to create an entertaining 
 strategy gaming experience, as long as you're not looking for a hardcore number-crunching game. 

          You'll be responsible for laying the pathways as well as hiring staff.     

  Right from the start, you know School Tycoon is going to be lighthearted. The introduction cinematic 
 is amusing to watch because it features a stressed-out, bumbling principal who boils over the edge 
 and tells  you  to run the school. You apparently take him up on the offer, so you can either solve 
 24 challenges or build a school from the ground up in a sandbox mode. The challenge mode is divided 
 into eight beginner, eight intermediate, and eight difficult scenarios where you'll have to do 
 everything from merely getting 30 students into your school to earning $100,000 within a certain 
 time frame. The beginner challenges will only take you about an hour to finish in total, while 
 even one difficult challenge can take you several hours to solve. If you want to start from scratch, 
 you can play the instant action mode. This sandbox mode has no objectives, so you can just build 
 and build to your heart's content.  

  You can construct all sorts of classrooms, from those used for mathematics to those used for English. 
 There are about 10 different subjects that your students can learn. You start off with a small, 
 portable classroom that will seat just a few students. Later on, you can build medium and then 
 deluxe versions of classrooms for each subject, and these upgraded classrooms can house more students 
 and can better educate them. However, academics aren't the only part of a student's life because 
 he or she also needs to keep fit. You'll first build a basic gymnasium and field, but soon you'll 
 unlock other athletic structures, like tennis courts, basketball courts, and football fields.  
 

  You do have to hire teachers for each of these buildings or else your students won't learn a thing. 
 A teacher has three traits: fun, strict, and skill. The first will affect students' morale; the 
 second will affect students' levels of discipline; and the third will affect students' academic 
 and athletic abilities. Teachers' wages are based on how high these three traits are. You'll need 
 to hire low-quality teachers at the start of your career because you won't be able to afford better 
 ones. You'll notice that the teachers' salaries represent the highest cost of your school. But 
 once you have a solid foundation, you can start to hire more-expensive teachers. If you don't like 
 the selection of teachers available, you can just close the menu and reopen it to get a new set 
 of teachers to choose from. It may be a simple way to approach the situation, but at least you 
 won't be stuck with someone you don't want. Your school is ranked on several averages, including 
 the three listed above. Better teachers are the best way to influence your scores.  

  Students will quickly get bored with your school, unless you provide them with a nice environment 
 and good entertainment. You can pretty up your campus with trees, shrubbery, statues, and pathways, 
 and you actually have a wide assortment of each to choose from, so even  you  won't get bored easily. 
 You do have to maintain these frills though, because each item will degrade over time and may even 
 catch on fire. Maintenance crews repair buildings, janitors sweep pathways, and landscapers keep 
 trees healthy. They incur an extra cost though, because they are hired help. You also can -- and 
 should -- build entertainment structures, like arcades, halfpipes, and miniature golf courses, to 
 keep your students active outside of class. Both landscapes and entertainment will drive up your 
 student body's morale and will keep students enrolled.  

  You want to keep your students enrolled because, presumably, they affect your income. Part of the 
 game's simplicity results from its budget. You can see your costs, but you never see where income 
 is derived from. The manual is no help either. You have no idea if your new pizza joint is providing 
 you with income from lunch sales. (It would be nice to be able to charge a little more per slice 
 to give you a slight income boost in a pinch.) The budget also seems to change often, so even though 
 it says you will earn $2,000, you may actually earn less if a student happens to leave right before 
 the next cycle. The charts also aren't very detailed, so don't expect any rewarding information 
 beyond simple line charts.  

  There are several issues in the game that can get frustrating. First, when you reload a saved game, 
 everything is reset. You can no longer track stats from your earlier play session. What's even 
 more detrimental is that somehow your budget gets wacky. You can save the game with $5,000 in the 
 bank, but when you load it, you'll find yourself $3,000 in debt. It becomes a real problem when 
 you can't earn enough to get yourself in the black after three days. The game will declare you 
 bankrupt, and then it's game over. Also, the game's disasters tend to strike with frightening frequency. 
 Even one disaster can get you fired. For instance, just by losing all your decorations, your students 
 may end up leaving. You can't save often and load to avoid these disasters because of the aforementioned 
 problem, so you really must leave your game session up to fate. You also can't put out fires, so 
 an outbreak of them can also spell your doom.  

          Something's definitely wrong with morale if students are playing checkers by themselves. 
     

  School Tycoon doesn't have cutting-edge graphics or sound, but it is a pleasant game to play. The 
 environments and buildings are bright and colorful. You can easily design your school so that nothing 
 is even close to repetitive. There are a wide variety of students, so you also won't see dozens 
 of clones being taught in your classrooms. You can rotate and zoom in to get different views of 
 your campus, if you need to see something from a different angle. You also won't get bored from 
 the music or sounds. There are appropriate classroom sounds, from bells to friends chatting after 
 bumping into each other.  

  It's easy to just roll one's eyes at the thought of another tycoon game, but it's not fair to dismiss 
 School Tycoon for its name. It may not be the most complex tycoon game in existence, and it may 
 have some unfortunate bugs, but its various gameplay elements work. There is a fair amount of micromanagement 
 required in choosing the right teachers and constructing the right buildings, but it doesn't reach 
 a point that makes the game unbearable. So if you're looking for a management game that won't overwhelm 
 you with details and spreadsheets, School Tycoon should be right up your alley.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: superfly360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 10:54 am PT
Review:  this game is pretty good.
  
  the 1st thing you will find weird is that you build single buildings instead of 1 big building 
 with rooms but it works fine and is probobly easier.
  
  there are many types of classrooms such as math, english, art, computer lab, and many others. there 
 are also several types of athletic buildings such as gym, a baseball field, a basketball court, 
 and others. there are a couple types of food buildings like snack machines, a cafe, a pizzeria, 
 and a burger joint. you can also build buildings like a teachers lounge, a janitors office, landscaping, 
 bathrooms, and others
  
  you can build decoritive objects such as fountains, trees, flowers, signs, and statues.
  
  
 1 problem with this game is that natural disasters, hurricanes, tornadoes, and earthquakes, happen 
 way too often. i've had 2 hurricanes hit me in 15 days. and to make it worse, you can trigger 1 
 whenever you want with a button.
  
  you can create your own student but there isn't really much customization to it so you really can't 
 "put you or your friends in the game" like it says on the back of the box.
  
  there are only 20 challenges in the game which consist of getting a certain star rating in a certain 
 amount of time, building a certain type of building, rasing a stat, getting a number of students, 
 or getting a lot of money. there are rarely more than 2 missions to complete in 1 challenge or 
 having to actually have a good school. 1 time i completed the entertainment thing by just selling 
 all school buildings and using that money to buy the buildings i needed.
  
  there are 5 stats in this game: academics, athletics, morale, facilities, and discipline. academics, 
 athletics, facilities, and discipline aren't to hard to keep up but morale is really tough. i had 
 an arcade, a pizzeria, a half pipe, a golf course, a soda machine, 2 fountains, a garden, several 
 trees, and clean paths but i still had a 60-65% morale which, occording to this game, is a D.
 
  
  there are 3 levels to all classrooms: small, medium, and deluxe. for most other buildings there 
 are 2: small and large.
  
  the prices for decorations are weird. all trees, whether huge or small, no matter what type, is 
 always 30 dollars. all fountains, whether a huge principle fountain with a statue and a garden 
 or a little wishing fountain, is 300 dollars. all statues, whether a big rotating model of the 
 planets or a small statue of some guy, is 250 dollars.
  
  the instant action mode is pretty fun but it sure does suck when you fill up the map or get a huge 
 "school" hit by a hurricane.
  
  the newspaper is retarded. if something like food poisoning or natural disasters haven't happened 
 then the exact same things will show up. they are a new video game, a popstars new album, a new 
 movie, a teachers birthday, and books being sold. you can get coupons such as teacher conferences 
 that raise their stats which are skill, fun, and strictness.
  
  when you hire a teacher you get a small selection of teachers which most of the time are too expensive, 
 not skilled, or lack some other stat.
  
  when you hire a worker that doesn't teach such as janitors there salaries vary between 280-400 
 dollars but you only get 1 choice so you will have to constantly exit it out of and then click 
 on again in order to get a low salary worker which works exactly the same as a high salary worker.
 
  
  overall this game is pretty good. i reccomend this to anyone who doesn't have the patience or learning 
 curve for rct. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DustBinFairy
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 20, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  To be honest theres not much to write about this game as it is just so boring so I will drag it 
 out a bit. When I first heard of it I was just so excited it seemed like the game would be much 
 more real and you could interact with students but instead you are stuck with building seriously 
 worthless canteens toilets and sports halls and even when you do the students are unhappy... You 
 can't please them well if you play long enough im sure you could but I didn't even stretch out 
 2 hours on this game thats how boring it is. This game is certainly overrated and is just ridiculously 
 boring. It's like the creators put no effort into it. Don't be that silly person to buy this game 
 and give it the benefit of the doubt cos seriosuly I think it's horrible and boring. No sign of 
 creativity at all and thats not good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  After Rollercoaster Tycoon, Tycooon games have gone downhill and get worse and worse. To the state 
 where they lose the "Tycoon" customization, School Tycoon might just be the one that hit the bottom 
 of that nasty stash of garbage.
  
  
  
  Cat Daddy games forgot what a tycoon is. Unlike what you are told to build your own school, you 
 are to place pre-set buildings on a feild of grass (Classes, cafes, and appearantly schools have 
 skateparks) . Appearantly the programmers never went to indoor school, hence, as most tycoons, everything 
 is outdoor. You can't even build walls to make an indoor one either; its much like Summer Camp 
 Tycoon.
  
  
  
  Since you can customize your students, and nothing BUT your students, and a few staff members, 
 you won't find the game very distracting. Most random students come to your school, but you can 
 actually create your own student by selecting his gender, his "style" and his name, along with 
 a few personal stats. You can also give students commands, like Go to Detension, Go to the Nurse, 
 Get Expelled, and Goof Off. Though none of those commands usually work, they SOUND like it could 
 be fun, and that's just completly wrong.
  
  
  School tycoon, to be a fair game acts like a park.
  
  
  
  YOU STUDENTS CAN ENTER AND LEAVE 
 THE SCHOOL WHENEVER THEY WANT, as well as pick their own class and subjects. Weither the school 
 is messy, unclean, or whatever reason, the student leaves the school and goes home if there is 
 a problem with your management, or they just feel like going home, hell, they can even go home 
 if they are bored at school. School is naturelly boring, and its amazingly annoying how their A. I 
 is programmed like the school is an opitional amusment park.
  
  
  
  
  Lets say you bypass the "Money glitch", have alot of money, good teachers and students, and a good 
 school. Soon or later, a tornado will come and destroy all your buildings. Its berserk. No matter 
 what you do, eventually a fire, tornado, or earthquake will completly destroy your buildings, and 
 obviously as a failure state, you'll have to restart the game all over. I was expecting customizing 
 the classrooms, chalkboards, desks, doors, hallways, but no. Its all crap.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Its feels like Capcom made this, not Cat Daddy Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markopolo1970
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 22, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  I can't help it - I am addicted to Tycoon games. So when I see a new one I go for it!
  School Tycoon is at first a rewarding game - note I didn't say management game as the game really 
 doesn't require much management. A typical session in the Instant Challenge game (School Tycoon's 
 Sandbox mode) consist of putting down a classroom, hiring a teacher and then wating until you can 
 afford another classroom for a different subject. Rinse and repeat until you have all the subjects 
 covered and this will unlock the next set of clasrooms able to hold more students and generally 
 provide a better education. Go back and place the new classroom and sell the old one for more space 
 if required. Keep to this formula and you will, after a while, have built all there is to build. 
 There are of course other things you can build like decorative items that give your students a 
 morale boost. The only other thing you need worry about are things like a maintenance building 
 and janitor building for repairing and cleaning your school respectively. 
  To staff all these buildings costs money and this is where school tycoon hasn't done its homework. 
 You only get the most basic of information regarding your income and expenses. Nothing explains 
 where your income comes from - is it students enroling or the number of students in total? Do you 
 get income from the food hall - how about the vending machine? None of these questions are answered 
 so your ability to boost your income is lost as you don't know how you get it in the first place! 
 Also you can't affect how a building runs, other than the quality of the staff in regards to placing 
 teachers in the classroom. You can't for instance click on a cafe and choose how much to charge 
 for meals or adjust the budget of each classroom.
  A little variety and micromanegment is provided in the students needs. Each student has a variety 
 of needs that need to be catered for or else the student will leave your school (and presumably 
 if enough leave this will affect your income?) But by placing one of each classroom and somewhere 
 for them to eat and go to the loo you will easily overcome this.
  All in all a fun game for the younger student - graphics are colourfull - if a little basic by 
 todays standards. Sound is appropriate but again a little basic.. One nice touch is the variety 
 of students you see - you won't be getting dozens of clones wandering around your school.
  A game that will prove more fun from watching your students hustle around your school than from 
 actually engaging the brain and running it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sapwood2
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  It seems like they come out with 5 tycoon games for every normal video game these days. This one 
 is not unique in many ways. Honestly, why would you want to play a game about school. The academic 
 part of school is often boring, so naturally a game about it will be boring too. The saving doesn't 
 work like it should and there are a couple other major bugs. Typical Global Star Software quality-control. 
 
  
  That being said, if you want a time waster for 10-15 minutes (your saves are not gonna work correctly, 
 so why bother playing long?) go ahead. It's most likely $5 bucks now. It's like Microsoft Solitaire. 
 It's not going to use any of your processing power in this day and age to run. But don't bother 
 if your Internet isn't offline. There's so much better games out there. Many of them free.
  
  They could have improved it if it had better graphics, building customization, and an online 
 leaderboard. Honestly, the graphics are so plain for 2004.
  
  I hope this review helped! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xyekenvort
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  This is a very underratted game! This game is very fun to play, in my opinion. The grafics look 
 good, but what's really fun to see in this game are the students fighting each other. It's soo 
 cool!
  
  You have to build lots of stuff for your school to be known in the city, and you have to try turning 
 it the best in the country. I personally never did that, but one day, when I'll have a full day 
 to play, I'll do it, not even if ain't the last thing I do!!!
  
  But this is, really, a great simulator of a school, and I really reccommend it!!!
  
  Very Underratted!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: missonrs
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  I love tycoon games so i got this one but the game is just so messed up you just want to puke all 
 over the floor. The game makes it so you run a school no problems right well a natural disaster 
 hits like every month hello in the real world we get a problem only ONCE A YEAR NOT EVERY 10 MIN'S. 
 In the game you get students like 10 leave every so often and that makes the game hard and a bad 
 one too. Another problem with the game is how much money you start with i mean come on 8k my school 
 is a cheap scape but my school did'nt start with only 8k. So as you probably guess i hate the game 
 10$ waste of money you could spending that money on something way more useful like a game on the 
 wii console shopping channel or even some food at McDonald's, Burger king, and even Kfc. The game 
 is worse than i expected don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eponique
Rating: 4.7
Date: May 19, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  When I saw this game, I was so hyped! I've always wanted to run my own school, give them my own 
 timetables, give them the teachers, set the school fees etc. School Tycoon is a big dissappointment.
 
  
  For 1, you don't do the timetables, the student gets to pick all the subjects he wants. He can 
 do Social Studies 8 times, and still complain that there aren't any sporting facilities, even though 
 you have a deluxe tennis court right next to the classroom.
  
  Why must every classroom be portable?! Did the developers ever go to an Indoor school? I thought 
 we'd be able to buy the desks, chalkboard, pick the class size, but NO! Everything came with a 
 click of a button, in either a small, medium or large portable.
  
  One thing that reall bugs me in this game is... the lack of realism. Why in the world is there 
 an earthquake every 6 months?! And the tornadoes aren't any better. Now only in a child's dream 
 would you be allowed to leave school because the lack of bathrooms... there are 60 port-o-potties 
 over there! Use them!! Overall the game was a disappointment, if there's going to be a School Tycoon 
 2, I hope they realize where they went wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jun 1, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Back when I was younger and gullible, I bought this "tycoon" game for $20. I was obsessed with 
 any tycoon games at the time and did not really realize how bad they were.
  In this game you "build your own school". Don't be fooled. You are only given a field, and told 
 to place some buildings onto it. Once you get more money from students attending, you can buy better 
 little buildings.
  Your school faces pollution, hurricanes, earthquakes, fires and you are pretty much screwed if 
 you didn't hire the help required.
  The magic of Roller Coaster Tycoon was that you could actually BUILD your Roller Coaster. You could 
 make them go across the whole park, change the colours and kill people. In this game you can't 
 do any of that. You just buy the buildings and place them wherever you want.
  Don't buy this game. Instead, buy Rollercoaster Tycoon 3 or Zoo Tycoon 2. The 2 latter are what 
 a tycoon game should be like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weilly101
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 21, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  it is very amusing to play and try to make a college like one you seen before but I usually cheat 
 because it is funner that way but if you play for a long time it gets old. Then you won't touch 
 for a year. I would say it is a good price and worth it. I bought it for 20 then broke it then 
 I bought it again for 10 so I would say it is worth the price. It is fun with and without cheats 
 and how it effects the students. I cracked up when I built the crappiest school ever becuse it 
 had no food and no bathrooms. It's worth the buy cuz you can be evil or good. You can make an evil 
 student too. lol It's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agardieff
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  School Tycoon for the most part is a really basic tycoon game, build, hire, and make money. Not 
 alot of extra office work to do. The graphics are fun and very suitable for this game, the ability 
 to watch the classrooms and cause kids to act up increases the likeability. My GF who is a teacher 
 loves playing this game making her own school. For likes this game is great for just hours of having 
 fun building, for playing principle, and just having a nive sit back and relax game. The dislikes 
 for me was the ai of the students who didnt seem to know what to do most of the time and their 
 interactions with objects where instead of going around a wall or fountain they just walk right 
 throught it. If you love tycoon games this is a nice and fun addition to your collection. If your 
 looking for a challenge pursue other tycoon games. This one is a no brainer but will have your 
 losing track of hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samtompo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 11, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Now when i got this game i got it because it was only 6.00 and i had some change from the Matrix 
 Path Of Neo. So naturally as it was this cheap i expected it to be absolute crap! How wrong i was... 
 Firstly I think this game is good because for some reason money just keeps coming quicker than 
 you can spend it, and the kids in the game are completely insane!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I clicked on one 
 classroom to see how my delightful pupils were getting on in there huge new classroom and some 
 little freak was dancing on the table! So i put him in detention and in the detention hall he was 
 still on the table so i expelled him :-) . (Another great fact about it, if a kid gets on your nerves 
 expel the little rascal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlynn2002
Rating: 1.7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game if you are a tycoon maniac like I am. However, it has had many issues for me. 
 For example, any computer that I have tried to install it on has not been able to run the actual 
 game for more than 10 or 15 minutes before it completely crashes the computer. The graphics and 
 stuff are sort of out dated but it is still an interesting concept. I think that they should revamp 
 the game and bring it up to date. I would not really recommend it too much. Go with a better game 
 like The Sims II or Rollercoaster Tycoon 1, 2 or 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gmex
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Your set with a bunch of objectives ranging from easy to hard. Just like any other turn base strategy 
 game unfortuantly this game doesn't push any boundaries or make you actually think for a second 
 you're running a school.
  
  The objectives in this game can be very easy or challenging. Unfortuantly there's not much difference 
 between any of them, no matter how they try and spruce it up. You can eighter go to farmland and 
 teach some children. Go to the lovely beaches in california. Or go to the center of downtown. Eighter 
 way there's no variety between the three.
  
  So you choose an objective and you're left with a school that has a janitors office about to burst 
 into flames. Or maybe you're just teaching some mindless children how to read. Eighter way you're 
 left with horrible options. First of all the tools are horrible. (ex. footpaths, buildings, plants, 
 etc.) So you're left with all these horrible building tools least there's one bright side to it 
 all the way new stuff is availible is quite creative. You have to build a few buildings than you're 
 half pipe will be availible to you. I must say that was a good move using that system.
  
  The sound is just like any other tycoon game. Just random noises here and there, not really anything 
 new, good, or bad about the sound just dont expect to hear anything interestng.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as any other tycoon game. But done horribly wrong.
  
  
 The graphics are pretty good although it's not the best they could have done. It's defintaley nice 
 to see that the graphics, of all these things are actually not that bad.
  
  Overall it's defintaley a title to look at if you like turn base strategy. But don't expect anything 
 new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  School Tycoon is a good looking, colorful and fun to play type game. There are two game mode- instant 
 action and challenge mode. Instant action is the main part of the game. Here you can start with 
 one of the three landscape farmland, beach and city. Though beach & farmland is not a realistic 
 place for school, but it's a game so it's alright. In this mode you can play without any objective. 
 In the challenge mode there are 24 different
  challenges with different goals and difficulties. You can beat you own timing later. Graphics are 
 pretty nice. All the buildings and land areas are well designed. You can zoom in and out up to 
 several times. Full zoomed view looks amazing. Sounds and music are okay. Game play is simple. 
 Just you have to build some classrooms and assign teachers to that classrooms and the students 
 will come automatically. Here starts the main part of the game. Now that you have established a 
 school you have to maintain and complete all the requirements of the students. But you are the 
 principle and you rule the school. There is a small display on the lower right side of the screen. 
 If you select a building, you can see the inside condition of classroom. In this way you can know 
 whether students are studying or playing and their expression about teacher from the balloons that 
 pop up from their head. There are many ways to decorate your 
  school like placing trees, bushes, fountains, status in the school area. 
  It is possible to 
 know individual students health, morale and list of comments by clicking them so you can decide 
 whether to send them into nurse room or detention center. Your success in the game depends on the 
 star rating of your school. Your goal is to make it a five star school by achieving good grade in 
 different aspect like academics, morale, facilities, discipline and athletics. Overall a typical 
 tycoon game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  this game is very nice... because in the first time you building a school....
  you are puting classes... and after that you have money you improving them to more big classes... and 
 you taking teachers... and you building a cafeteri
  but its a little bit disappointing that you dont have a lots of space... so when you upgreading 
 the classes you dont really have place... and allso the kids
  really not so good with cleaning.... even when you are puting canes...
  they are still throw on 
 the floor... so this game is nice but gett fast boring,,, if you are not a really tycoon lover... cus 
 i mean how long can you run a school?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhaigun
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:55 pm PT
Review:  School Tycoon isn't the best sim out there, but it's not the worst either. Everything seems to 
 work fairly well, and you don't have to worry about the micro-management that comes along with 
 other titles in this genre. Actually the only complaints I have with this game is the inability 
 to turn off environmental hazards, and the fact that it doesn't matter how many trash cans you 
 put out the kids won't use them. Hiring teaching staff requires a little strategy, in that, each 
 posses certain skills you have to keep in mind when hiring them. Stricter teachers make for good 
 detention "wardens" and fun teachers are good for the arts. You want to have a good balance for 
 coaches though. It's a pretty fun experience, and it's not going to cost you $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevr1995
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 12, 2005 5:45 pm PT
Review:  School Tycoon is another game in the tycoon series and it is pretty good to most people. I personally 
 think the game is good but the creators need to improve on the graphics. They should also add more 
 items for you to buy. Anyway if you like any tycoon games, then this game is for you. You may even 
 find yourself spending a lot of time on the computer playing this game. Unfortuantly, the game 
 is only for PC. I think it should be in the top 3 games of the tycoon series. Well, i hoped you 
 enjoyed learning a little about school tycoon and now you can possibly get it, to find out if you 
 like it as much as me. Remember, if you are going to buy it, get it from Gamespot. com
  
  ~Kevr1995 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karazee
Rating: 1.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  I would NEVER recommend this game to anyone. The gameplay is horrible. Anytime you get far in this 
 game a tornado or fire burns down several or all of your buildings. The game constantly freezes 
 and takes forever to load. It doesn't work when you try to send a kid to the nurse or detention 
 as it should. The graphics are so horrible they burn your eyes. At times the gameplay gets so frustrating 
 you want to throw your computer out the window. I played this game once for about an hour or two 
 and never played it again after that. It's a wast of money and time. I can guarantee that you will 
 be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishpaste_barry
Rating: 1.2
Date: Feb 8, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  What a mess, a cheesy game with little imagination used, when kids come home from school they don't 
 want to go strieght back again, anyway the graphics are less attractive than a pregnant rhino and 
 the gameplay is about as fun as a Gypsy round-about, and that's being kind, i'd rather go back 
 to school than play this rubbish, this is not recommended, infact if i was rich i'd buy every copy 
 and burn them to save other people from being trapped in a morbid assault of deja vou and enraged 
 memories.... I'd rather die of amnesia than play this again! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
