-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Scrapland
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/scrapland/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Features a charming sense of humor and plenty of memorable characters.
 Excellent graphics engine with wonderfully detailed models and environments.
 Solid voice acting and soundtrack.
 The ship-flying portions of the game are well-done.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Insipidly repetitive mission structuring.
 Too much aimless wandering and not much action while on foot.
 The story starts hot, but doesn't sizzle throughout.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 11, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.4, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 391 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Enlight Software
Developer: Mercury Steam
Genre: Action
Date:     Nov 4, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's the intangibles that ultimately save Scrapland from the junk heap, and, thankfully, there are 
 enough of them to make it a recommendable play. 

  Grand Theft Auto with robots? That would seem to be the most apt description upon one's first impression 
 of Scrapland, the latest action game from designer American McGee and publisher Enlight Software. 
 Featuring a seemingly open-ended gameplay structure, a noirish murder mystery, a goofy sense of 
 humor, and a huge city to explore, Scrapland would seem to have all the makings of a futuristic 
 adventure of epic proportions. Unfortunately, the initial vibe the game puts forth doesn't quite 
 pan out throughout its entire experience. Overly repetitive gameplay and mission designs knock 
 a lot of the wind from Scrapland's sails as the game progresses, and the story could have been 
 fleshed out in a more enjoyable fashion. Scrapland is still pretty good overall, but there's definitely 
 a level of potential here that just doesn't ever quite get realized.  

          They's throwin' robots!     

  In Scrapland, you play as D-Tritus, a junkyard-born robot 
 who, amid his many space travels, finds himself on the world of Chimera. Chimera has been nicknamed 
 "Scrapland" by its locals. This is partially because it's made up of a lot of junk and partially 
 because it happens to be inhabited entirely by robots. Upon his arrival, our hero is immediately 
 decontaminated for fear of being infected by the germs of dreaded humans (more on that later) . 
 He's then assigned a job, because all residents of Scrapland must have one. With no other jobs 
 available, D-Tritus is assigned to be what is considered the lowliest of professions on Scrapland: 
 a journalist. D-Tritus heads off to work only to find himself wrapped up in an insidious murder 
 plot almost immediately.  

  Murder is sort of a funny thing in the world of Scrapland thanks to something called the Great 
 Database. The Great Database is basically a big storage unit for the matrices of all the residents 
 of Scrapland. Anytime anyone dies, a simple payment to the order of bishops, which runs the database, 
 affords you an extra life. Essentially, true death is a foreign concept to those who reside in 
 Scrapland. Of course, that's until someone starts killing off key political figures in the Scrapland 
 hierarchy... and subsequently starts stealing their matrices from the Great Database, which effectively 
 stops any chance of bringing them back to life. Though a flesh-and-blood being is initially suspected 
 of the murders (a big deal in a world that fears and loathes all organic life) , the plot thickens 
 significantly as time goes on. And, of course, you, as D-Tritus, are right there in the middle 
 of it.  

  Much of your time in Scrapland is spent trying to solve these murders through a lengthy series 
 of fetch-quest and vaguely GTA-inspired missions. You can travel on foot or via ship around Scrapland, 
 though neither brings much in the way of variety. There are really only a few types of missions, 
 and many of them reuse the same themes over and over again. You'll need to destroy a series of 
 ships (or perhaps even just one very tough ship) ; go to someone's hideout and steal or photograph 
 plans for a ship, its weapons, engines, or what have you; or pretend to be another robot to trick 
 someone into giving you information or a needed item. There are a few other variances, including 
 a series of side missions charged to you by the owner of a local gambling club, but most of them 
 stick to similar gameplay conventions and don't deviate from the straight-and-narrow gameplay style 
 Scrapland employs.  

  It isn't even just that the game uses the same types of missions frequently, either; it's that 
 the game will actually charge you with performing nearly the exact same missions multiple times 
 in a row. There are more than a few instances where you'll have to perform the exact same mission 
 task in at least two to three missions sequentially, with only the slightest of variances. A couple 
 of missions involve photographing plans that belong to a sect of mercenaries. In one instance, 
 you're photographing a weapon, and in another, you're photographing a gunship. The setup for these 
 missions is exactly the same, save for the replacement of the word "weapon" with the word "gunship" 
 during the dialogue tree. The second time around, you do have to fight off a few more ships than 
 the first time, but otherwise, it's the same thing over again. This happens much too frequently 
 in the game.  

  Fortunately, there are more-appreciable aspects of Scrapland's gameplay. When you're on foot, most 
 of your work involves conversations with the many different robots that populate Scrapland. The 
 robotic population is certainly made up of a colorful bunch of characters, and each and every level 
 is populated with lots of them. However, there are only a limited number of robot types, and every 
 character from that type features the exact same voice acting and the exact same dialogue when 
 talking outside of a mission. But this is forgivable simply because the characterizations are almost 
 always entertaining. Banker robots, for instance, are slithery, creepy creatures that are constantly 
 robbing everyone they come into contact with, while the cops are similarly money hungry, though 
 they're far more rough-and-tumble (despite their short statures) , and they frequently walk up to 
 you to demand cash for "protection." What's even better than interacting with these characters, 
 though, is becoming one of them.  

  Thanks to a gizmo D-Tritus picks up early on in the game, you can actually become pretty much any 
 of the robots you encounter during it. All you have to do is access one of the many Great Database 
 hubs that are littered all over the gameworld, pick a form, and from there you will steal that 
 robot's matrix for as long as you need it. This comes into play mostly during missions, where you 
 have to trick some robot into thinking you're someone else. However, you can also simply take advantage 
 of each robot type's special abilities when walking around. When you're a banker, you can steal 
 money from other robots, and when you're a bishop, you can emit a destructive energy beam. The 
 catch, of course, is that this is technically illegal, so some of the police robots may catch onto 
 what you're doing while you do this. As a result, it's best to not do anything illegal for too 
 long, time-wise.  

          Don't worry! He's a friendly robot!     

  However, this is really the only particularly enjoyable aspect of the game's on-foot missions. 
 Most of the rest of the time, you'll simply be running from point A to point B to point C, and 
 so on. You'll basically run to communicators or assorted robots to receive your missions. This 
 wouldn't be so much of a chore, except the indoor environments are almost always very, very large. 
 While this would be great and all if there were more to explore or see in these levels, unfortunately, 
 there really isn't. They're all pretty to look at and feature some nice set designs, but aside 
 from that, the only purpose they serve is to house the characters that provide your missions, and 
 there's just entirely too much aimless wandering involved to get to them.  

  The good news is that you won't have to spend all your time on foot, since quite a bit of your 
 time will also be spent flying assorted ships. When you first begin the game, you're handed a clunker 
 of a ship that gets you from place to place, but not to too much else. However, as you progress -- and 
 by getting the plans for new ships -- you'll actually be able to buy those ships from a number of 
 mechanic shops across the city. You can even trick them out with new engines, increased hull plating, 
 and new weapons, should you choose to do so. Of course, this all costs money -- quite a bit of it, 
 in fact -- and if your ship gets destroyed, it's gone until you can either buy a new one or steal 
 one (albeit not your tricked-out version) from one of the game's parking stations. Or, well, at 
 least that would be the case, except that thanks to the save-anywhere save system the game employs, 
 you can always just save your progress right before you're about to be destroyed. Then you can 
 reload from that save point, which prevents the hassle of having to buy a new ship.     

  Flying around Scrapland is a pretty cool experience. The city is deceptively big, and it features 
 tons of cool, futuristic scenery to check out as you fly. Regrettably, like the on-foot missions, 
 there really isn't a whole lot to explore in the city beyond its window dressing, and the novelty 
 of that does wear off after a while. Of course, it isn't totally boring flying around the city, 
 because missions will frequently require you to engage in combat with other ships. Be they manned 
 by cops, mercenaries, or crazed bankers, you'll have to shoot down a lot of ships throughout the 
 course of the game. The keyboard-and-mouse control for piloting ships is extremely responsive and 
 intuitive, and there are a nice variety of weapons at your disposal, giving you plenty of ways 
 to blow up those robots. However, it isn't all fun-and-gun, because you will have to worry about 
 the cops catching onto you, in addition to having to avoid getting shot down yourself, which does 
 happen... and often.  

          He's the Crazy Gambler. He's crazy, and he gambles. Get it?     

  Some of the ship-combat 
 missions are almost ridiculously tough, mainly because the game has a nasty habit of making these 
 missions drag on a lot longer than you'd probably prefer. The main reason for this is because of 
 the game's power-up system. Essentially, there are a number of power-ups you can acquire for your 
 ship that are scattered about each area of the city, including a hull boost and multiple types 
 of ammo replenishments. The catch here is that  other  ships can also pick up these bonuses. So 
 if you're fighting off a pair of mercenary ships and you've almost gotten them both down to the 
 point of destruction, they'll suddenly veer off from the battle to find a hull boost that will 
 put them right back in the fight. While it's totally possible to chase them down before they get 
 to a power-up, this isn't always an easy option, especially if you've got other ships attacking 
 you at the same time. This can cause some battles to drag on seemingly forever.  

  The main story mode is not the only place you can take part in some ship-on-ship combat, because 
 the game also features a multiplayer mode. You can take part in a number of different modes, including 
 deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag... that is, assuming you can ever find anyone 
 online to play against. We spent the better part of a week trying to track down an online opponent, 
 yet never came across one. Still, some time spent flying around the empty multiplayer maps at least 
 did verify that the mode works. So, it's there, if nothing else.  

  It's safe at this point to say that Scrapland's actual gameplay is definitely not its most endearing 
 quality (though, again, by no means is it bad at all) . But what is, then? Is it the story? Well, 
 yes and no. The plot itself starts out promisingly enough, and the characters in the game are all 
 an entertaining lot. However, at the same time, the story doesn't quite pull itself completely 
 together to provide a satisfying conclusion. D-Tritus is never really focused on, and you never 
 actually get to know him very well at all. The whole murder mystery also seems to artificially 
 drag out a lot longer than it should because of all the fetch quests and double crosses that keep 
 occurring, many of which just seem tacked on for the sake of increased game length. There are definitely 
 some interesting twists and turns, mind you, but ultimately, it feels like there's a better story 
 that could have been told in place of the one you're presented.  

  What ultimately saves Scrapland from merely being another average action game is simply a level 
 of charm you don't typically find in games of this type. It's tough to nail down exactly what makes 
 it enjoyable, but there are a lot of little things that just make the game, for lack of a better 
 term, cool. For one, the game has a very specific sense of humor. It's never laugh-out-loud stuff, 
 but there are a lot of sly gags hidden within the various characters and situations you'll find 
 yourself in, and occasionally there are some more-obvious site gags as well. The world of Scrapland 
 is also just so big that you can't help but marvel at it. While we already mentioned that the sheer 
 size of the scenery probably isn't enough to keep you entertained for too long, it's also never 
 boring. There's just so much traffic -- of the robot and ship varieties -- in the background, while 
 you're flying about or on foot, that it really gives you a great sense that this is a living, breathing 
 city (or whatever the robotic equivalent would be) .  

  There are also a lot of little details in the graphics that just make this a wholly pleasurable 
 game to look at. The robot designs are extremely cool, right down to the smallest aspects. D-Tritus, 
 for example, is decidedly more humanlike than the rest of the robot population, with bulging eyes 
 and a ponytail haircut made from carefully placed cables. All the other robots are extremely easy 
 on the eyes, too, and they feature excellent reflective shine off their metallic bodies, in addition 
 to loads of detail and great animation. The same could be said for most everything else in the 
 game, too. The many different environments are all similarly high in detail and are also similarly 
 pleasing in an aesthetic sense. Spend some time walking around the Great Database, or just fly 
 through the bustling industrial district of the city, and you'll see what we mean. With all that 
 said, the game isn't visually perfect, by any means. Frame-rate drop is a frequent issue when a 
 lot of characters are onscreen at once, and you'll notice some occasionally glitchy animations. 
 Despite this, the game has an overall great look to it, which really provides a boon to its charm 
 factor.  

          All told, Scrapland is a recommendable game... although it certainly could have been better. 
     

  Of course, the characters would be nothing if the voice acting weren't solid, and, thankfully, 
 it definitely is. Each character type has a distinctive voice and personality, from the snippy 
 functionary robots that speak with nasally British accents to the vaguely effeminate bishop robots 
 that speak with such superiority that you can't help but hate them. Save for a few weird reads 
 and some occasionally spotty writing, the voice work is almost always great, though the one character 
 who comes off a little oddly is actually D-Tritus himself. He speaks with such a friendly earnestness 
 that it's actually a little off-putting when he accepts all these missions that involve killing 
 lots of robots with total enthusiasm. Then again, since death is such a trivial thing in this world, 
 that does make a bit of sense. Scrapland's soundtrack is another bonus to the game's sound design, 
 as it features just the right mix of high-energy techno and mellow, mechanized ambient music to 
 suit each situation well. Some of the tracks are a little cheesy, but mostly it's quality stuff 
 that will have you tapping your fingers as you play.  

  Scrapland is a game that's exceptionally tough to dislike, despite the fact that many of the things 
 it tries to do just don't quite work. The underlying game design is flawed in several key areas, 
 and the story isn't quite as satisfying as you'd hope. However, Scrapland has just enough going 
 for it to make it enjoyable to play through while you experience the whimsy and inherent goofiness 
 of its quirky and unique world. It's the intangibles that ultimately save Scrapland from the junk 
 heap, and, thankfully, there are enough of them to make it a recommendable play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xXLordSkyeXx
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  You are D-Tritus...
  A robot from space...
  
  In your travels through space you land at a docking station and get cleaned...
  
  You are then 
 taken to Scrapland, a planet built by robots...
  You then meet the crazy gambler...
  He starts you on a crazy bet and then you get started...
  
  The GDB, a really cool system...
 
  The Mercenaries found it long ago but the priests stole it from them and said they found it first...
 
  
  The GDB = the Great Data Base
  
  The GDB has a copy of most robots in the game...
  Its so cool that you can also turn into some other robots...
  
  Each robot has their own special 
 ability...
  Here are some examples:
  
  D-Tritus: Can cut through robots and instantly kill them...
  Betty: Creates an atomic blast...
 
  Cop: Demands money...
  Banker: Steals money...
  Priest: Shoots plasma bullets...
  Mayor: Puts people to sleep with his speeches...
  Etc...
  
  There are many great and cool 
 spaceships...
  The spaceships are customisable, you can chose from the ships body (main chasis) , the boosters/jets, 
 weapons and even how big the hull of you ship is...
  
  Weapons can also get upgrades like Faster Lock-On or Faster Missiles
  
  The multiplayer i haven't 
 done yet but ive tried and it seems great...
  
  In all im giving it a: 10/10 Excelent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  
  Quite a nice little game with nice themes and nice ideas. Reminds a bit of space or robot GTA. 
 However, there are many bits that could have been improved. The storyline is quite wicked with 
 humour throughout it. 
  
  In fact it is a very well designed game with loads of small good ideas that didn't really turn 
 out into anything more, although it is good as it is but I hate it when potentially incredible 
 games don't fulfill their potential. 
  
  Overall it deserves between 7 and 7.5 but seeing as the average is between 7 and 7.5 I'm not too 
 sure what to give it. I'm afraid I'll have to give it 7 as the game had a lot more potential than 
 it put out.
  
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing 
 else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffon_926
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Quirky, made by American McGee (Alice) . It's out there by nature, but is good mainly because of 
 its uniqueness, you just won't find any game quite like it. It is humorous, mocking several aspects 
 of our society. Its non-linear, which can be fun but the challenge is low. You can kill off cops 
 and collect cash, and challenge characters for racing/combat in the Gunships, the armed flying 
 vehicles. The cinematics are a bit messed up, with out-of-que gestures and some mouth-to-voice 
 probs, but all of them are funny in some form. The scenery is awesome, a lot of time was spent 
 making the background, especially in space. Overall, kinda mature and crude humor for the kids, 
 but a little simple for adults. A 7.6, not great, but not crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  Persistent world games are nothing new. Grand Theft Auto III was the first real game that seamlessly 
 brought a player into a constant universe where his actions had immediate consequences. Rockstar 
 later perfected this with both Vice City and San Andreas. Other developers have taken a stab at 
 this type of gameplay and both the PC release of Mafia and, most recently, Mercenaries are excellent 
 examples. Now we come to Scrapland, a persistent-state game set in a sci-fi universe on a planet 
 far away. Despite Mercury Steams best efforts though, a lackluster single-player with mediocre 
 gameplay cant save this game from being anything but average.
  
  Scrapland puts you in the roll of D-Tritus, a friendly robot who has just arrived on the robot 
 planet of Scrapland. To live on Scrapland however, you must find a job and as luck would have it, 
 youre given the, job that no one else wants, also known as a journalist. All seems to be going 
 well until an unexplained murder thrusts you into the middle of the action. Its time to boot up 
 your ship, take to the skies, and delve into the inner workings of this city-like planet to solve 
 this mystery.
  
  Your ship is paramount to your adventure and there are plenty of options for you to pimp your ride. 
 At the scrap yard youll have access to ten different hangars in which you can create and store 
 ships. Depending on what plans you have access to youll be able to equip different hulls, engines, 
 weapons, and armor onto your ships. Each have their advantages and disadvantages and you have to 
 choose wisely depending on what type of mission youre facing. Sure armored giants brimming with 
 weapons are good in a fire-fight but if youre in a racing situation youll be left in the dust. 
 Over the course of the game new ship components can be unlocked by either by completing missions 
 or by finding plans that are randomly hidden in certain locations.
  
  Your ship will be your primary means of transportation around Scrapland so finding the right combination 
 to suit your needs is essential. Scrapland is a persistent world that looks like a page out of 
 Star Wars: Episode II. The game does a fairly good job of projecting what a futuristic city would 
 look like. Youll see highways of ships bustling about and youre free to destroy them at your 
 leisure. The major limitation here is that thats about all you can do if youre not on a specific 
 mission. Whats the sense of having an independent world if all you can do is blow up ships and 
 the police that inevitably chase you down? It does get repetitive after a while and youll want 
 to stick to the main missions for any sense of accomplishment.
  
  Aside from the planet itself, youll be able to visit several buildings throughout the game. These 
 are places like the press building, police station, and mayors office; places you would expect 
 to find in any major city. Its here where an interesting gameplay mechanic comes into playassuming 
 the identity of other robots. In Scrapland youll have access to the Great Database which keeps 
 a copy of every robot registered in the city so that, in the event that a robot is killed, it can 
 instantly be brought back to life. Of course, this technology isnt fool proof and youll find 
 Great Database access points where youll be able to hack in and assume the identity of any number 
 of robots. 
  
  Depending on the situation, youll assume the identity of different robots. Need to get into a 
 restricted area? No problem once you become a police officer. Trying to get somewhere out of reach? 
 Become a messenger bot and youll be able to fly around anywhere you wish. Each different robot 
 has a distinct ability as well; some will be able to attack other robots, theres even one that 
 can emit a light that temporarily blinds all surrounding bots. Short on cash? Steal money by switching 
 to a banker bot. Like your ship, youll need to be a different robot depending on the situation. 
 Obviously, there are consequences to this and if youre caught impersonating a robot by the police, 
 theyll hunt you down until you lose them or until they kill you.
  
  One of the major shortfalls of Scrapland are the missions. To move along the story youll have 
 to complete a long series of minor missions that seem like recycled versions of each other. Whether 
 its killing ten stapler-bots or following the same character over and over again to a specific 
 location, it does get old real fast. Scrapland tries to push action by including a lot of combat 
 missions but that too gets old rather quickly. Sure you can add more weapons and small upgrades 
 that will improve their lethality but ship-to-ship fighting is mundane and youll often find yourself 
 using the same weapon over and over again. There are side-missions which you can accept from the 
 eccentric, Crazy Gambler but his objectives are just variations of the main missions and the rewards 
 for completing them dont really seem worth the time.
  
  Not that any of the missions will feel difficult anyway, the AI felt underdeveloped; not once did 
 I feel as if they were a threat. Enemy ships routine was to attack until they took enough damage, 
 fly away to pick up armor, and attack again. It took about five minutes of play to figure the ship 
 AI out. Avoiding the police inside the buildings is easy enough if you find a corner to hide in 
 for five seconds. Both the gameplay and AI add up to make you want to finish Scrapland for the 
 simple sake of not having to play it anymore.
  
  Visually though, Scrapland is a stark contrast to the rest of the game. The cityscapes look phenomenal 
 the sheer variety from places like the industrial sector and downtown help give the city some substance. 
 Youll fly around at a smooth frame rate and even in heavy firefights the game wont skip a beat. 
 Characters are modeled and textured with precision and weapons effects are a treat to watch.
  
  Since most of the storyline is driven by character dialogues, audio plays a big part in Scrapland 
 and luckily its done adequately. Most of the voice acting is done competently but there are a 
 few moments where things just sound awkward. Consistent encounters with certain robots will reveal 
 that they repeat phrases a little too often. Then again, I probably noticed this because I got 
 involved with the cops a few more times than I should have. Music throughout the game is enjoyable 
 and youll have quirky futuristic songs playing throughout the game, varying on the situation youre 
 in.
  
  Aside from single-player, Scrapland does feature a full-on multiplayer mode with six different 
 types of play like deathmatch, team deathmatch, and one flag mode. Multiplayer does provide some 
 exciting moments in ship-to-ship fighting and gives the game a significant amount of replay.
  
  Scrapland was a good idea; give a persistent state game a futuristic theme. Too many repetitive 
 missions and clunky AI limit the overall experience for the player though. Scraplands concept 
 is unique enough and there are enough quirks in the game to keep most players occupied. This isnt 
 a bad game by any means. In fact, anyone who loves the gameplay of the Grand Theft Auto series 
 should definitely look into a purchase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 30, 2005 2:05 pm PT
Review:  This game reminds me so much of "Alice". It's a classic case of style defeating substance. Its 
 not a bad game, per se, but it is plagued by overly simplistic gameplay and unimaginative mission 
 design. The style and presentation for the game are great, even amazing at times, but the gameplay 
 doesnt match the games slick look. The first impression that the game makes upon you is that 
 it will be like Grand Theft Auto with robots and gorgeous graphics. However, the similarities with 
 GTA fade quickly, and whats left is a game that is fairly simple, unsatisfyingly shallow, and 
 not as open-ended as the first impression that it makes. It takes less than an hour to experience 
 almost everything that this game has to offer, except for the story, which still isnt enough to 
 carry the game. 
  
  Scrapland takes place in the grand city of Chimera, on a planet composed solely of robots. The 
 setting gives some interesting and funny characters, like D-Tritus, the lead character of the game. 
 Some very good voice-acting lends a lot of colorful personalities to the game. Unfortunately, the 
 characters and sound bites repeat themselves a lot, and there just isnt a lot of use to them. 
 The main storyline has some cool characters, but there just arent enough. 
  
  The most unique feature of this game is that you can disguise yourself as almost any other character 
 in the game at any time. You will frequently need to advance the storyline by disguising yourself 
 as another character to trick an NPC into giving you information. This is one of the features that 
 makes Scrapland like an adventure game, and its one of the better points of the gameplay. 
  
  Unfortunately, most of the game consists of very simple, arcade-style gameplay, which isnt 
 bad, except that it wont carry a 20+hour game. Most missions either involve racing, destroying 
 a big ship, or destroying a group of small ships. The missions repeat themselves frequently, and 
 they also dont make a lot of sense being in the game. The story is a murder mystery, so the game 
 often struggles to find excuses for you to go on missions that dont integrate well into the storyline. 
 Scrapland might have been better as a pure adventure game, but as an action game, its just not 
 very compelling. 
  
  This was another game that I couldnt finish. Perhaps Ill finish it someday, but with so many 
 other action games to choose from, Scrapland doesnt really measure up. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  After finishing several intense games; Doom 3, Tribes, Medal of Honor (all 3) , UT2004; this game 
 is supprisingly "FUN" and a nice change of pace! Scrapland's graphics are very nice at high resolution. 
 Part of the game consists of flying about in various ships that you build as you find their plans, 
 doing races and combat missions to win "bets" and get weapon upgrades as rewards. Another aspect 
 is walking, running, flying through various enviornments as 1 of several "robots" doing tasks, 
 finding plans, making money, and following the main line of the story. It has been said of this 
 game that the gameplay is repetitive, but I think that it is less repetitive than Doom 3! Overall 
 I have enjoyed this game so much more than many higher profile games, maybe because it is just 
 plain FUN. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
