-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Scratches
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/scratches/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Ummit can be run off of the CD.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Antiquated, clumsy interface.
 Ugly environments.
 Unengaging puzzle designs.
 Nothing really happens.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 24, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.9
Critic Score: 7.2, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 469 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Got Game Entertainment
Developer: Nucleosys
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Mar 8, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Scratches is dull, ugly, a bit short, and a perfect example of exactly why traditional adventure 
 games have fallen out of favor. 

  In response to all the editorial ponderings through the years over why, exactly, the classic form 
 of the graphical adventure has been all but completely neglected, we give you Scratches. While 
 clever and innovative games like the Resident Evil series and Indigo Prophecy have put in great 
 efforts to evolve adventure games into something more dynamic and engrossing, Scratches sits in 
 the past, a modern relic of slow, exposition-heavy storytelling, ancient technology, and a series 
 of purposely Byzantine puzzles.  

          Set forth on the grand adventure of wandering around a dirty, empty house for six hours. 
     

  Scratches takes place over the course of three days in an old, abandoned Victorian mansion in rural 
 England. As a horror novelist whose first work has received great praise, you've retreated to this 
 empty house for some solitude while you finish up your second novel. Unsurprisingly, the creepy 
 old Victorian is just brimming with nasty old secrets, and rather than work on your novel, you 
 become obsessed with learning the truth behind the death and madness that plagued previous owners, 
 the room full of African artifacts, and, of course, the scratching noises that wake you during 
 the night. This setup, while a little plain, had the potential to grow into a story of isolated 
 paranoia and bracing madness. You feel a little bit of dread at first, a sense enhanced by the 
 game's consistently morose soundtrack. There are a few chilling moments, particularly during the 
 dream sequences, though again it's due largely to some well-timed pieces of scary music. Very little 
 actually  happens  over the course of the game, and most of the time you just feel like you're 
 trapped inside a really boring house with no electricity and nothing to do but plug away at a series 
 of arbitrary puzzles.  

  The game is a slave to the conventional adventure game format, the silver lining of this being 
 that the interface is instantly familiar. The bad news is that the conventional adventure game 
 interface is cumbersome, further hindering the already slow-pouring pace. Scratches is played from 
 the first-person perspective, though without the freedom of movement typically associated with 
 such a view. Rather than rendering the world in real time, the environments in Scratches are broken 
 up into a series of prerendered sets, which you have to use a mouse-controlled hand to navigate 
 by finding and clicking particular hot points on the screen. This hand is actually your only means 
 for any interaction in the game, and it's used to scroll your view around each individual set, 
 as well as to examine, pick up, and use objects. There's also a simple inventory system where you 
 can combine some of the sundry items you've collected.  

  The theoretical benefit of using prerendered sets is the ability to pack each environment with 
 rich and subtle details, but Scratches fails at this, due mostly to the ancient technology it employs. 
 The lack of free movement is absolutely stifling, and the way you navigate between sets makes it 
 feel like you're just switching between a series of static QuickTime virtual reality movies. The 
 environments are not nice to look at, which is purposeful from an aesthetic perspective, and the 
 game is effective in creating a cold, dusty, uninviting setting. But it also looks grainy and washed 
 out, with lots of nasty and prominent visual artifacting due to some overzealous image compression. 

          Creepy old Victorians run a close second to Indian burial grounds for most tired horror 
 movie setting.     

  Some interesting puzzles maybe could have saved Scratches, but alas, there are none to be found. 
 As grateful as we are that the game shies away from ridiculously transparent contraption-based 
 puzzles, the item-based puzzles that comprise the whole gameplay experience are often arbitrary 
 and rarely very compelling. With little in the way of direction, and hints so sparse and subtle 
 that random chance plays as large a role as logical deduction, you'll regularly find yourself just 
 wandering around the house, randomly picking up and examining items in hopes that you'll uncover 
 the next step in your "adventure." Many of the puzzles aren't puzzles at all, but rather excuses 
 for the game to present you with more exposition and backstory, two things that, considering the 
 game's relative brevity, Scratches is already choked with.  

  Scratches is a walking, talking example of why most developers have either long since given up 
 on adventure games, or have committed themselves to twisting the genre into new and more relevant 
 shapes. At this point, most people know instinctively not to care about boilerplate adventure games 
 like this one, though for those still clinging to some romantic notion of how much better things 
  used  to be, hopefully Scratches can at least serve the positive purpose of helping them to move 
 on.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (43 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sky-ia
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2009 3:45 pm PT
Review:  First of all I must say that watching the trailer does a lot of consternation, it made me concentrate 
 on the basement and accumulated all my anxiety in this one particular area. Because of it I felt 
 quite safe in the whole house and could concentrate on exploring and getting to know the background 
 story but at the same time I was more and more nervously subconsciously anticipating something 
 truly terrifying.
  
  In other games usually something disturbing is happening through all the game, something comes 
 up once in a while to hit up the atmosphere and it's a good thing, but this game doesn't follow 
 this idea. In Scratches nothing really happens for a very long time. You discover the plot, the 
 story of the previous family which is interesting and mysterious but that's all. And then there 
 comes the night and the noise, and you completely don't know what to expect. The other thing is 
 that it's a 'point & click' game so you start to wonder what scary can happen in this kind of game. 
 The funny thing is that something that would never move me in any other game (I'm a hard fan of 
 survival horror games so I've been through a lot of things in my gaming life) here scared the hell 
 out of me making me hide my face in my hands. I felt once again like a five year old girl secretly 
 watching horror movie, a feeling I almost forgot burst out once again and just for that I give 
 this game 3 additional score points.
  
  That was the emotional part, but lets have a look at some technical aspects of the game.
  
 
  The graphic is really nice, surrounding is realistic. You can go everywhere, spin around to check 
 every corner, open almost all the drawers, have a closer look at all the painting in the house 
 (some of them are really creepy, esp the one with two kids and lots of hands touching the window 
 behind them) . I cannot say a bad word about the way the game looks but if I didn't know the release 
 date I would thought it's a game from few years ago. It's a bit old looking but we all know you 
 don't judge the book by its cover (note that I don't have the Director's Cut version) .
  
  As for the sounds I was happy they weren't creepier. The worst sound in the game was no sound at 
 all. During the first day you can hear some nice piece of music in the whole house but then you 
 go to the basement and ... silence. After the second night it becomes more and more disturbing and 
 in the peak moments I was regretting not turning it off. Still, I admit, it lacked diversity but 
 what was there was good, not awesome, but at steady level.
  
  Controls were ok but I didn't really like the spinning around form of exploring. I've tried to 
 change it into steady screens but it seemed worse so I got used to the first option.
  
  The story was really good, actually there were two kinds of stories alternating with each other. 
 On the one hand you have the African worship, ancient gods and curses but on the other hand you 
 have unstable sanity of the previous owner of the house. Till the last seconds of the game I was 
 wondering whether the ending will have rational explanation or will it involve some supernatural 
 powers, or should I say I was really hoping for something logical in the end. Through all the game 
 the plot was constantly changing its overtone keeping my mood swinging from ungrounded anxiety 
 to rational thinking. The ending was really good, but left me with too many questions cannot solve 
 by myself.
  
  Many people say it's boring, well it's probably one of those games you just love or hate. Personally 
 I loved it, good story and good atmosphere, very creepy at times with very good ending, a bit too 
 short but after some time I got so much into this game that I wanted to get out of this house right 
 away so I'm kinda happy it's over but I absolutely don't regret the money and time I've spent on 
 it.
  
  Edit [06.02.2009] : It's been some time since I've been playing this game and I still cannot stop 
 thinking about it, that's why I'm adding one more point to the score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godziv
Rating: 2.4
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  First of all, Boring!
  
  The introduction is kinda cool but when the game starts the first thing I did is grab the box and 
 look what year was the game made. I had a feeling I bought a 15 year old game. I tried to play 
 with it to give it a chance but After a while I was too bored.
  
  I t has to be one of the most horrible games I have ever bought. I had to give it for free since 
 no one wanted to pay for this.
  
  I play adventure games all the time , and I have played some that are not great but nothing compare 
 to this one. The atmosphere would have been awesome if the graphics were better, you just don't 
 have the passion to look further like other games to see new exciting areas. 
  
  It is already in the cheap bins here. If you like horror adventure game , Penumbra Overture is 
 one that will keep you on the edge of your seat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sun_and_earth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  Honestly, never come to Gamespot expecting a nice, unbiased review of an adventure game. It seems 
 that they won't put a good word in for anything unless you carry a gun in it. Scratches is a perfectly 
 good game, if you don't mind inventory-based puzzles. Which there are a LOT of.
  
  Scratches casts you as the sucessful horror writer Michael Arthrate, who has just bought an old 
 Victorian mansion with the money from his debut novel. Hes is suprised to find the house in varying 
 levels of disrepair throughout. The electricity doesn't work, the third floor of the house still 
 seems to be under construction, and a thick layer of dust covers everything. You proceed to wander 
 the house, reading diaries, letters, etc., and pretty much invading the privacy of the previous 
 inhabitants of the house in true adventure-game fashion. Of course, since the plot is the most 
 important part of any adventure game, I can't say too much more about the story, but this game 
 can get pretty creepy in places, and has a great story, even if it does take a couple of play-throughs 
 to understand.
  
  Scratches does nothing new in the interface department. The Myst-style 360 degree panorama is used 
 here, and the inventory is reached with a right click, but the graphics are very well done. The 
 whole mansion realy FEELS old, like it's been uninhabited for years, yet there are a few odd signs 
 of life in the house that make you feel a little wierd, like someone else is there besides you. 
 A grandfather clock, still wound up and ticking after many years alone, an umbrella in the vase 
 beside it. It's little touches like these that keep you on your toes.
  
  That's not to say that Scratches is a masterpiece. While it's a GOOD game, it's not GREAT. Notable 
 problems are the near-complete lack of logic-based puzzles, and almost no non-inventory puzzles. 
 The puzzles are very easy, and the game can be completed in just a few sittings. For those of us 
 with slower computers, there is a noticable load time between every screen. While it's not enough 
 to kill the game, it does get a bit annoying. The games biggest problem is the very hard to understand 
 story. It will take you several times through the game to understand what's going on. On my first 
 time through the game, I thought something completely different from what was really going on was 
 happening. The notes may as well be written in code, with the characters talking about "their sins" 
 or "secrets" but never, through the entire game, revealing what thoose "sins" or "secrets" are. 
 Once again, tyhis does not kill the game, but it means that there is a lot of guesswork involved 
 in figuring out the story
  
  All in all Scratches is a good first outing from Nucleosys. I look forward to seeing more out of 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fma42081
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  This Game Was Great I dont know why the people on here give it such bad reviews... i think its cause 
 they dont leave their FPS world too often and everything looks "boring" to them outside of "Master 
 Chief" This game was great it had great sound good story fun game play and puzzles at times i found 
 myself a lil jumpy or scared lol but most of all what i loved was the attention to Detail you can 
 look at everything ... or close too it .. i also enjoyd the fact you can READ books and notes and 
 Journal and lose yourself in a book while playing the game ... i really enjoyd that aspect this 
 game reminded me of the Movie (The Others) With niccole kidman ... now i dont mean the story i mean 
 the english countryside house and look and feel of the whole situation... anyhow i highly reccomend 
 this game and the New Director's Cut Version but dont forget to download the patch and 500meg update 
 for the graphics ... anyhow Please try this game if you are an adventure fan... you wont regret 
 it ... infact you just may like or love it
  
  Faith :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XenaMungrrr
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  Concept: Set a point and click adventure game to the tune of an old school horror movie.
  
  Playability: The controls are solid, but the puzzles can get kind of daunting sometimes.
  
 
  Graphics: Decent for the price of the game.
  
  Sounds: The voice acting definitely isn't the worst I've heard, and the background noises are fairly 
 creepy.
  
  The bottom line: If I could go back in time, would I still buy it? No. Just not enough there to 
 make me happy with the full price purchase.
  
  It's not "Scratches" fault that it falls short, it's the whole concept in general. Point and click 
 adventure games work for a reason: their audience is comprised of people who like puzzle solving 
 in a fantasy setting. But to throw the whole horror scenario into the mix is just asking for a 
 let down. When you have an environment that is, for the most part, stationary until you click on 
 something the chance at being surprised is almost non existent. You get to brace yourself for the 
 action sequences with every single click. Sure the storyline can be creepy. I'll admit that I was 
 a little tripped out about going into the room with the drums thumping. But I got over it fairly 
 quickly because, again, nothings going to happen without my click of the mouse.
  Another aspect of the game that left me feeling a bit screwed out of 20 bucks was the length of 
 the game. Now some people will argue that it's quality, not quantity and I fully agree with that 
 on games with a high replay value. Scratches doesn't offer much of this either, so really the length 
 of the game left me feeling extremely unrewarded. 
  Something I will give it props for is it's story and environment. I continued playing for the simple 
 fact that the story did draw me in and I wanted to explore the entire mansion. I don't understand 
 the reviews that proclaim this game has nothing to offer, because it is mildly entertaining in 
 some aspects. Just not the greatest game ever.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: technolusty
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  A friend purchased this for me as my first foray into the gaming world. He explained how this type 
 of game required me to pick up clues to help solve the mystery. I got the hang of picking things 
 up soon enough, but I soon needed a walk through in order to follow intricate steps for obtaining 
 the information/clues I needed to move on.
  
  I was greatly intrigued by the story: a horror novelist rents out a haunted Victorian mansion in 
 order to get inspiration for his next book. He gets more inspiration than he bargained for because 
 he awakens in the middle of the night to the sound of scratches and drumming music in the house. 
 As a horror novel and ghost story fan myself, I couldn't wait to figure out what was going on in 
 this creepy house.
  
  The soundtrack was appropriately scary at several moments. I didn't like the step by step movement 
 of the character. Basically, you pointed the mouse in the direction you wanted the character to 
 go, then clicked to walk a couple of steps, then repeat. This made navigation through the house 
 and environment painstakingly long and tedious. Other than that, the graphics were pretty realistic, 
 and it was an enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 23, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok I wasn't expecting much from the horrid reviews everyone gives this game but hey I gave it a 
 chance. I actually thought that maybe I would get creeped out or even a bit spooked but this was 
 a total let down. The idea of a haunted house wasn't that original but hey if it worked for countless 
 crappy horror films then it might have worked for a PC game but no such luck. 1. The house was 
 not creepy. 2. Voice acting was horrid. 3. puzzles were boring and unoriginal and 4. plotline did 
 not make sense. The graphics were ok but movement was a bit jumpy. Overall it is not worth it. 
 If you really want to try it out despite my warning make sure you borrow it from a friend. Do not 
 spend anything over a dollar for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braa_ksma
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Okay, when I bought this game, I pretty much just randomly picked it off the shelf, thinking it'd 
 be an awesome game like Obscure:) ... Unfortunately, it wasn't. It appeared to be a cheap, point 
 and click adventure, with cheap visuals. Well, knowing that I had completely wasted $20 of my life, 
 I was just about to finish the game, and move on with my life. But don't let it all fool you... 
 I ended up using a walkthrough halfway through the game, and I kind of let the story get to me. 
 There was one particular part where you're crawling inside a furnace, and through a hole at the 
 end, you see a person run across. Scared the hell out of me and my little brother. I didn't expect 
 to actually see an animated cutscene in a point and click game. The rest of the game kept me on 
 the edge of my seat, because I really didn't know what to expect. Nothing happened really, and 
 I calmed down. But... When I got to the end, I was crawling inside the fireplace, where my brother 
 and I would just have to see what happened next. Well, if you don't mind my ruining it for you, 
 there was a door at the end of this tunnel under the fireplace. And in that tunnel... I found what 
 appeared to be the gruesome remains of somebody's dinner, a grimy little teddy bear, minus it's 
 neck. There was a little hole in the corner, and in that hole... Well, it didn't say on the walkthrough, 
 so were we in for a surprise. A raggedy old man appears from this hole, and chases you out of the 
 house. I didn't know who it was, because I had skipped all of the reading bits. It scared the sh** 
 out of us. My little brother was screaming his head off, and well, after I had felt like I wet 
 myself, I began to laugh hysterically. Now, I'm playing it again, maybe this time to show my 16 
 year old sister all of the jumps and scares of this game. I hope you didn't let this ruin your 
 gameplay!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olpfan
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I personally love this game. I thought this game was really well done. The graphics were very good. 
 I liked the atmosphere the most. Its kind of a creepy game in the sense that your all alone in 
 a house that has weird noises. I liked the puzzles a lot too they seemed very thought out. It had 
 its scary points too and throughout the game I found myself always guessing and wondering and trying 
 to figure out what the mystery could possibly be.
  
  I would recommend this to people who like adventure games and puzzle solving.
  
  Very good 
 graphics, gameplay, the sounds are the creepiest and get you right in the game. If your playing 
 this game to get right into it turn out all the lights and crank the sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medexx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  First of I have not played too many adventure games; in fact I have only played two others before. 
 I am into horror games so when I saw this at the store I figured I would give it a shot. I heve 
 to say this is one of the best games I have ever played! It doesn't have the greatest graphics 
 or effects of the action games I usually play but I have never played a game that created more 
 mental tension as this one. The atmosphere and the story is the whole game. For the 6 days or so 
 that I played this game I couldn't stop thinking about it! It's not an easy game at all and it 
 really requires some heavy thinking at times to figure out what to do next. Other than the excellent 
 story it's the music that really brings the whole experience together; it's some of the most eerie 
 music I have ever heard in a game. Scratches is a must play for people who like their horror mental 
 more than visual. If you are that type then trust me you won't want to put this one down. One Tip: 
 Make sure to play in a dark room; it will really help you to make out many of the important details. 
 Also; wear headphones (if you have the guts) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuaMn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Scratches benim iin gerekten ok ayri yerde duran bir oyun. Bu oyunda yle dehset grafikler, 
 olaganst ses efektleri ya da gnlerce sren bir oynanabilirlik sresi yok. Zaten proje olarak 
 bakilacak olursa da bu tr bir oyun olmadigini hemen anlarsiniz. Kk bir kadronun yaptigi mtevazi 
 bir oyun bu. 
  
  Oynanabilirlik: Scratches point&click tarzinda oynaniyor, oyunu birinci grs aisindan (first 
 person) oynuyoruz. Fakat btn mekanlarda oldugunuz yerde 360 derece tarayabiliyorsunuz. Kontroller 
 ok basit ve oyunun akici bir sekilde ilerlemesine katkida bulunuyor. Tarzinin p&c olmasi sizi 
 zmesin nk oyunda pek de piksel avciligi yapiyor sayilmazyiz. Bulmacalar sizi yeterince ugrastiriyor 
 fakat fazla sikmadan nihayetine ulasiyor. Sama sapan bulmacalar yok. Biraz fikir yrtmeyle zlebiliyor 
 ve inanin bu insana byk bir haz veiryor. nk kendinizi oyunun iinde hissetmeye basliyorsunuz. 
 
  
  Grafikler: Oyundaki grafikler oyunu yari yolda birakmiyor ve grevini yerine getiriyor. Atmosferi 
 ok iyi veren izimler kullanilmis. Insana iten ie bir rknt veriyor. Srekli ayni mekanlarda 
 dolasmak size sikinti vermiyor. Her yeni odaya geisinizde iimizi bir merak sariyor. Ayni zamanda 
 biraz da tirsiyoruz. 
  
  Sesler: Sesler de grafikler gibi grevini yerine getirmekten fazlasini yapmiyor fakat bizi oyundan 
 kopmama noktasinda tutmayi da basariyor. Oyun genelde sessiz ilerliyor fakat (ayak sesleri ve kapi 
 gicirtilari disinda) atraksiyon anlarinda ise bizi harekete geirmeyi basariyor. Mziklerse bana 
 gre ok hos. 
  
  Sonu: Eger gizemleri zmekten hoslaniyorsaniz ve artik elimeki silahi birakip sadece beynimi 
 kullanmanin zamani geldi diyorsaniz Scratches sizi ok hos bir maceraya ikaracak ve emin olun 
 sizi yari yolda birakmayacak. Oyunu bir solukta bitireceksiniz. Byk bir Quake 3 Arena hayrani 
 olarak bu oyunu oynamak ok ayri ve mthis bir tecrbeydi. Savas yok, dvs yok, kais yok; gerilim, 
 gizem, macera ve korku var. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBF9304
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 28, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Scratches is a pretty good game (especially if you like games like Alone in the Dark (GBC) and 
 Trace Memory (DS) ) . The graphics are very good and almost realistic looking (even though its always 
 cloudy or rainy, and then a bit bright in the house a night, and the fire in the fireplace is a 
 bit awful looking) .
  
  The sound/music is also very good for the type of game (especially with some good scare scenes)
 
  
  The play control takes a bit of learning though and at times can be frustrating (for instance you'll 
 have to click on an exact area) .
  
  Overall, the game is decent but is like people agree too short (for instance: We never meet Jerry 
 in person nor get the power working) . Also, the game is rather difficult to follow without a walk 
 through (for instance you have to call Jerry several times, and if you haven't completed all tasks 
 the line will be busy and other times you might have already done them so you'll just have to keep 
 calling him back up) .
  
  But overall if you liked the games above I listed, you should like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beccalynnetice
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 23, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Not all of us playing adventure games are in our early 20's and 30's and sometimes rather then 
 play a game that makes building a computer sound easy, its nice just to play by click. I found 
 this game interesting with all the places you could explore, open and read. Scratches kept my interest 
 enough to play everyday to the finish. It did make me angious to turn the next corner or open the 
 next door. I do agree it was short and could have had a better ending, but again not all of us 
 like the multi key and mouse games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LauraBow1929
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Scratches is a game that's designed to be part thriller (horror) , part mystery, and part adventure. 
 The game was put together by a couple of dedicated gamers and their musician. It starts off simple 
 enough (don't they all?) : writer Michael has just purchased an old Victorian home - a place to 
 quietly work on his book - and the game begins when he first arrives there to move in. The place 
 is old, but it's the perfect atmosphere for Michael to continue writing. Armed with a trusty typewriter, 
 he's ready to get settled.
  
  That's where the game begins and you take over as Michael. The game plays out over three days. 
 Much of your time initially is spent getting a feel for the house and grounds, taking into account 
 what's there and what you see around you. Further exploration reveals creepy rooms on the inside 
 and decrepit buildings on the outside. Reading through notes and journals left behind, Michael 
 finds that the house he purchased has a very interesting history. What happened to the previous 
 owner? What went on with the Blackwood family? It's up to Michael to find out. Alone in the house 
 to figure out everything on his own; although, there was the weird scratching sound coming from 
 the basement the other night...
  
  All of your controls while playing the game are done through the use of one cursor that looks like 
 a hand. If you can look closely at something, it will hold a magnifying glass. If you can pick 
 up or open something, it will turn into a grabbing hand. The index finger will point in a specific 
 direction if you can turn or move that way. You can look up, down, and all around, but there is 
 an option to play in slideshow mode if all that looking around becomes a bit much. In examining 
 your inventory, items can be clicked on for a description, or combined with other objects.
  
  The game is not meant to be fast-paced, nor will there be zombies jumping out from dark corners 
 that need to be blown away with the latest gun you might have acquired. The purpose of the game 
 is to simply be the character, exploring the environment, and figuring out what's going on. Nothing 
 is ever as simple as it seems and while some things will come to you naturally, other times you 
 may have to think about what needs to be done. The game, for the most part, is logically designed. 
 Not super easy, but not overly difficult. Sections of the game that I found easy, others found 
 hard, and vice versa, so I can't comment too much on the difficulty level of the game.
  
  The atmosphere of Scratches sets the mood. From the dusty old rooms with creepy paintings on the 
 walls, to the overgrown bushes outside, visually you'll feel like you've stepped into Michael's 
 shoes. The sound is what furthers the spookiness. The music is subtle, but keeps things going as 
 you're wandering through everything. A game's soundtrack really enhances the playing experience 
 and just listening to the songs even when not playing, conjures up memories of what it was like 
 to make that new discovery or come to a particular conclusion.
  
  The thrills and chills one experiences while playing are based on what you see, as well as what 
 you think you might see, and even what you don't see at all! I got more fearful by what I thought 
 might happen and then when something did happen, I was so worked up I had to take a break from 
 playing. The scare factor is on par with games like Shivers, The Blackstone Chronicles, or Amber: 
 Journeys Beyond.
  
  I enjoyed my time playing Scratches. It's the type of game that's invoked fun discussions among 
 other gamers and myself long after finishing. I think you get out of Scratches what you put into 
 it - there are hints and subtle clues you might not pick up on the first time playing, but will 
 catch your eye the second time through. At first glance, the mystery might seem like one thing, 
 but then will become something else when given a second thought. What really happened is for you 
 to decide! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5UPERMARIO
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 8, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Whats in the basement? Thats the only thing this game has going for it in my opinion. That mystery 
 is the only thing holding the game together.
  
  + Some Creepy Sound Effects
  + Some Nice Environmental Art
  + Great Storyline and Ending
  + Easy to Move Around in the Game
 
  
  - The Scratches World is small, most of the game you spend walking through the same 5 rooms over 
 and over again.
  - Some puzzles are impossible to solve without a walkthrough
  - Storyline gets interesting when you are about 85% done the game
  - Aspects of the story are 
 not explained fully and will be missed by some
  - The voice acting is poor in a few spots
  - Game is too short
  
  From the box art SCRATCHES seems like a scary / horror game.
  
  
 BUT
  
  If you want a scary game, this game only provides about 1-3 scares.
  If you want a horror game, this game provides no interaction with monsters / ghosts or gore.
 
  
  All in all, this game does not even stand a chance to games like Phantasmagoria or The 7th Guest, 
 and those games came out YEARS ago.
  
  There are many better games out there that touch upon the same genres as Scratches. There are better 
 puzzle games, better adventure games, and better horror games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmasri
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  This might have made an OK DOS game 10 years ago.
  However, I found unbelievably lame and boring. The story and the idea is great., but the game offers 
 little gameplay value. The puzzles are scattered with no linkage. It offers the comon adventure 
 game mistakes found in mediocre games : why is a knife not working here but a crowbar is? where 
 do I go from here?
  
  Your only guide is a boring friend that you have to call every once in a while, but the game has 
 no logical flow. You could be running around for hours trying to figure out what to do, when you're 
 actually supposed to end the day and sleep.
  
  The puzzles are difficult and they are more like nuissance than logical puzzles.
  It is cubersome, 
 overwhelming and short.
  
  However, as mentioned earlier the story is OK and sometimes the ambiance is a little enjoyable.
 
  
  I found myself playing it with a walkhrough just so I can finish 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jc924
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I agree with most of the other Players reviews - this is a good game, and most of you who like 
 Adventure games will find it enjoyable.
  
  The story is fairly well written, the voice acting is fine, and the music and sound effects lend 
 the proper aura to the story without being annoying. The game technology used IS old fashioned, 
 as some have complained, but the user interface is very straight forward and easy to work with, 
 and the scenes are generally quite attractively done and easy to understand - that is, there are 
 no weird camera angles that interfere with playability.
  
  The puzzles for the most part fit together in a logical way with the plot and draw you onward in 
 discovering more of the story rather than simply presenting you with a mechanical mess of levers 
 and pushbuttons to figure out. Moreover there is almost none of the teensy weensy, almost invisible 
 thing you were supposed to have picked up but couldn't see w/o a walkthru to tell you it was there 
 (well almost none) .
  
  If you liked Darkfall or Lightsout (both of which are referenced in this story) , you'll like Scratches. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kawaii_Rip
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Scratches is an extremely well done game! I am getting along slowly in the game, but that's just 
 because I attend college full-time. One just has to ponder: What are those noises in the basement? 
 I am completely enthralled by the elaborate graphics; it was extremely well done! The feel of the 
 game is you start off in this old Victorian house and must solve the secret of the noises in the 
 basement. It gave me the WORST shivers Ive ever had!!! The music reminds me of Midnight Syndicate 
 and the game itself is like Myst meets The 7th Guest, but scarier! But there are points in 
 the game when the music stops and everything goes dead silent. Makes you wonder 'Will I hear the 
 scratching? What's really hiding in that basement?'
  
  I HIGHLY recommend this to fans of survival horror games like Haunting Ground and the Fatal Frame 
 series. This is an instant treasure, a classic horror game that is, sadly, underappreciated and 
 not properly praised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helldancer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Firstly just check 'Other Reviews' ,U will see mostly 8's and 9's given by other major game sites 
 and entities. GameSpot, like I always say doesn't have the sense for adventure games, 3.9 is extremely 
 underrated as I see it. The game is lacking in some elements especially the puzzles. It starts 
 of a little dull, but once u dig up diaries and read them (u have to read everything, to understand 
 the story) , the game will get pretty interesting, as u find more and more, the game gets spookier. 
 A spooky old house, in an old era, if u like this sort of setting, u will like the game very much, 
 and its not 'a haunted house' or something as lame, it has both realism as well as minor imagination, 
 it never gets way off like a ghost or w/e. The Music and sound plays a very important role, this 
 is definitely one of the best game music. Its a very good game in my opinion, and the ENDING, this 
 game's true winning card is the ending, it will piece everything together, and u will start to 
 understand everything, all that u read, and most of the other questions are answered. The ending 
 is not detailed at all, infact it is brief and vague, u have to piece everything by urself, infact 
 I had to replay the game, and take notes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slack_Vity
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 7, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I can't stress it any longer : Scratches is the most boring game I unfortunately had the misfortune 
 to play in my life. I'm sorry to anyone who could have thought that this would be good but, nothing, 
 I mean NOTHING happens as the whole uninteresting story unfolds. The only thing you have to do 
 throughout the whole game is search for objects, put them in the right place, search for objects, 
 put'em in the right place..... this goes on forever until you say to yourself: This is enough! 
 This game has wasted more nerves in my brain than megabytes on my hard disk. The premise can't 
 be more clich and improbable : You're a great novelist who retire to a old, dark and scary mansion 
 to write your second novel in peace. How can anyone find peace in a place like that? This is THE 
 HAUNTED HOUSE that fills every children's nightmares. Oh ok, take this aside and then the story 
 comes where the character wants to know what's going on there, probably putting in own life in 
 danger to uncover some lame story about the previous owners. Anybody would get the cops over there 
 instead of conducting a dangerous investigation by yourself, this just "isn't" realistic enough 
 to keep me on the edge of my seat. A lot of people will be fooled by the case which looks like 
 the game is a survival-horror or RE-SH-Copy which it completly false. You never meet someone so 
 it can't make the game scary. You can't possibly die so it takes away all the tension and suspense 
 this game could have build over the ASTONISHING lifetime of ....6 hours that this game propose. 
 Come on, this game has everything to hate it: Lame gameplay, false cover, ugly-past graphics, crappy 
 music, unrealistic-clichd story, no action, no people, nothing to interact with.... etc. This game 
 is filled with all the void that the worst game of the past 5 years has to offer.
  
  Definately the worst game of 2006-2005-2004-2003-2002.
  
  Don't buy this game! Or at least 
 if you wanna try this trash, borrow it from someone but don't spend a penny on this, it's pure 
 stealing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepurple2004
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 30, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  Playing this game it was a great experience. I am not the diehard type of myst gamers but I really 
 enjoyed it. Great scenario, FANTASTIC music and sound fx. You have the feeling that you are actually 
 IN the game and sometimes that is really troubling. It's so spooky that you need some time afterwards 
 to get back to reality. The only dissapointing thing is that it does not last too much. You need 
 more and more. I've read the other reviews about the technical problems but I didn't have any technical 
 problem playing the game. I don't know if it's worth buying (due to the short experience) but it's 
 worth renting and playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrerep
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  This game is worth playing for anyone waiting on the next big Myst style game. Although it fails 
 to deliver what Myst brings to the PC there is a lot of good game play in what I thought was a 
 relatively short game. The graphics are really good and do justice to Myst style games where the 
 attention is placed on the details in your adventure. The sounds is really good and I recommend 
 using a 5.1 surround system and play this game on a good LCD with the lights off. Not a blockbuster, 
 but worth the time, money and effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supadave1
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 27, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Gamers like a great story over flashy graphics. I see that gamespot didn't care too much for the 
 old point and click but I think maybe they missed the charm about this game. Come on now, who hasn't 
 pulled out their old Diablo II and played that. Point and click, crappy graphics but still addictive 
 right. I am not a fan either but one thing I do enjoy is a good story with a great adventure. I 
 truly enjoyed this title, and I've placed it right next to Syberia as one of my favorite Point 
 and Click adventures. Sometimes the subtle charm and feel of an old school build is just sweat. 
 More companies should concentrate on story and content and less on trying to have ground breaking 
 graphics and all the fluff. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelwings1818
Rating: 2.3
Date: May 22, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game and thought it was fun, till I was 3/4 the way done with it and it stopped working. 
 It started crashing, and continued to crash more and more frequently. I figured there was a patch, 
 and there was. I installed it and now it will not work at all. It won't load a game. So now I don't 
 know what happens and I'm completily disappointed. Don't waste your time to play part of the game 
 and have it die on you. Also, from what I can tell, it's incrediable short. It is not worth the 
 time or the money. It's just a complete disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8r4life70
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS AMAZING! gamespot shoulda been WAY MORE SELECTIVE ON THE RATING! This game has a VERY 
 GOOD PLOT, GRAPHICS, and the BEST part... you REALLY have to pay attention to get what the plot 
 is and solve the Blackwood Manor mystery. YOU SHOULD BUY IT! NOW!!! I loved playing this game! 
 It's VERY VERY VERY scary too! I picked this game up for the first time, thinking it would be very 
 good. I played it and got my hopes down and didn't really think much of it. Then one day I started 
 to play it A LOT MORE and oh my god in the middle of the game is where the REAL ACTION STARTS! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 11, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  Scratches places you in the role of an aspiring writer who seeks recluse at an old Victorian house 
 in order to gain inspiration and finish his second novel. Naturally you won't be spending much 
 time hammering away at the typewriter as the house has many secrets waiting to be discovered. 
 
  On paper, the game sounds like a winner. Who wouldn't jump at the chance to explore a strange 
 house without having to strafe out of the way of flying skulls and zombies? A methodical pace should 
 lend the game a sense of realism and atmosphere. However, Scratches ends up being too methodical.
 
  Upon starting the game you'll realize that there's a thing as too much freedom in an adventure. 
 It's no wonder the best examples in the genre offer you a sort of 'starter' area that lets you 
 learn the gameplay and style of the game without having too many places to explore. Scratches plops 
 you down in front of the house with its many rooms and drawers, and you are free to do as you wish. 
 You'll immediately notice the flaw in the game's design. Each area is divided into several 'anchor 
 spots', in which you are free to rotate the camera up and around to your liking. Moving between 
 each 'anchor spot' isn't accompanied with a video, but rather a simple change of the screen indicating 
 where you've moved to. This slide-show feel is augmented by the fact that there are sometimes two 
 spots to move through before you get to the top of a staircase, with nothing important in between. 
 You just move and click because you have to. So to move from a room downstairs to a room upstairs, 
 you click on the doorknob, rotate towards stairs, click towards stairs, (move up one flight of 
 stairs,) rotate to face other flight, click flight of stairs, rotate to face door, click on doorknob. 
 The pitfalls of a first-person adventure become painfully apparent, and Scratches tumbles into 
 each one. You get the feeling youd rather be in the mansion instead of feeling like youre 
 in a mansion.
  Every adventure game has you searching for various items to use later but the items in the Victorian 
 house are far from intriguing. You find some papers and things, you write a letter, you post it. 
 You go search for candles. Activities that arent really all that interesting in real life 
 become even less so when it takes countless clicks to perform them. Not to mention the fact that 
 the game hides some things from you and forces you to be extra-perceptive. Which wouldnt 
 be a bad thing, but Scratches doesnt play fair. Theres a key to be found in an African 
 pot. The first such bunch of pots, when clicked on, yields the information that they are, in fact 
 African pots. Therefore you dont really pay as much attention to the next batch you find 
 when they yield the same information. However, once you click on the opening of the pot in the 
 rear, your viewpoint moves in closer, showing a key, which you may click on to collect. If you 
 just click on the pot, though, youll be told the same info (where are the pots from again?) . 
 This means youll want to scan every area you visit by clicking on everything possible, lest 
 it be hiding an important item. Most dont. Its these pixel-hunts that have relegated 
 adventure games to the sidelines, instead of them being the force they once were. 
  To be fair, the game picks up after your first day and the items and areas become more intriguing, 
 but its still the same click click click. Most exciting things happen at night, of course, 
 and you get glimpses of the tour de force the game could have been.
  The music and sounds of your echoing footsteps accentuate the feeling of isolation and are effective, 
 if a little hackneyed. Unfortunately even the authors dont have enough respect for the ambiance 
 theyre trying to create, as when I was inspecting some shirts I got a jolting reminder of 
 reality  the character laments the fact that some shirts in a drawer resemble his, and adds 
 lazy designers. Just as I was trying to overlook the controls
  I really wanted to like Scratches because there was some good storytelling inherent in its House 
 With A Dark Past setup, but found it a chore to play. Perhaps the most telling incident occurred 
 when I reloaded the game and realized I had quit without saving the last time. Instead of shrugging 
 and settling down to re-experience a portion of the game I thought oh no, I have to go get 
 all that stuff again and go through there and do that again. Hardly the mark of a fun game. 
 
  Scratches has managed to bundle old-school problems along with its design  pixel-hunting, 
 vague puzzles, and lack of interesting dialogue. Frustratingly though, the story is captivating. 
 There's a good game hidden somewhere in Scratches, it's just too much work to dig it out with so 
 many better adventures around. It may appeal to newcomers to the genre, but also risks them never 
 coming back. Games should be fun to play, even if they are horror-themed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarodh
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 27, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so you've seen it all before....7th Guest, 11th Hour (depending on how old you are) . And yes, 
 it's another adventure game set in an ever so creative environment: an old scary (hanuted?) mansion. 
 If you're new to adventure gaming and looking to try out the genre, I'd prefer you start elsewhere 
 for fear of tarnishing your first impression. However, if you've been around the block and enjoy 
 traditional adventure gaming, the $20 is worth the one night of nightmares this game will provoke. 
 GameSpot says it's short, but clearly the professionals over there at GameSpot HQ missed there 
 calling at NASA. Unless you're planning on playing this game for 48 hours straight (which I highly 
 advise aganist for ANY game) I think you'll find it worth the $20 of entertainment. Hey... it's 
 two movies these days (4 hours) or five drinks in an affordable city (1-4 hours depending) . So 
 value it as you will, but to me it was worth it. Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedeviant666
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  Scratches is unfairly portraid by many other reviewers in my opinion. The graphics aren't made 
 using the new source engine and the genre was at it's height a decade ago. However, the graphics 
 in scratches works amazingly well and adds to its dark atmosphere, and the genre needs reviving.
 
  
  The thing's that make this game a par above the rest is it's stunning soundtrack, amazing atmosphere, 
 gritty graphics and indepth story. 
  
  On the subject of the soundtrack, this is solely the only game I've played with the game music 
 on. Without the music the game would lake some of its scare factor (which believe me, this game 
 has a hell of a lot of) . The music changes depending on the location, time and the required atmosphere. 
 [Possible Spoiler] For example, when you first enter the basement, there is the most eary music 
 that makes you want to turn back and run back to the car, but that music only play's the first 
 time you enter, after that, the ambient sounds of the basement take over. [Spoiler End] .
  
  The atmosphere for me is the biggest selling point of the game. Never before have I sat in a room, 
 infront of the PC, lights out, played a game and felt like I was there, in that house, as the main 
 character. I've also never been so affraid when playing a game before (though thinking back to 
 Silent Hill when I was younger, that used to scare the hell out of me!) . The ambient sounds that 
 envelop the house and the surrounding grounds, the somewhat grainy graphics, perfect! One of the 
 best moments is when the rain is falling outside, you look at the windows and see the water running 
 down the panes. I've never see attention to detail on this scale ever! It's also interesting to 
 note that unlike most computer games, the house itself is completely possible (IE the top rooms 
 overlap lower rooms perfectly and there aren't any floating rooms) . Also, many of the paintings 
 (if not all of them) are actualy real. Watch out for the boy/girl painting on the second story 
 by the stairs to the 3 story!
  
  As for the story line. Well, I'm stuck believing this is a true story. The cat Scratches at my 
 door and I turn pale. I don't want to spoil it all, but believe me, you will love this story.
 
  
  All in all, this is a fantastic game, and I think my scoring reflects it perfectly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 7, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  This adventure come on 1cd but really worth much more , maybe little short to play but have great 
 
  atmosphere and very nice classical music which calm you in hard parts of wondering in house. Story 
 
  maybe not very original, you are writer who comes to finish the story in some old victorian age 
 
  house (very nice period of history i like it for games) and somethings going wrong from the same 
 
  begining. As i said before very short game on 1 cd but surprisingly good. First person 360 view 
 is in 
  game i dont like in adventure games cause is hard to find some stuffs in gaem and notice hidden 
 
  objects but there is no trouble in this one although have that camera movement.
  I recomend this adventure for lovers of adventures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldy26
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 15, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  The story is cliched: you are a horror novel writer who has just moved in a creepy Victorian mansion, 
 whose history features a murder and a disappearance. It doesnt take you long to discover that 
 the house is posessed by an (yawn) ancient evil, which you have to destroy. And then there are 
 those disturbing scratching sounds coming every night from somewhere below the house
  The game is semi-3D, which is to say that you can turn on the spot and look in any direction, but 
 not walk; you can only jump to the next such spot. The graphics are quite decent, and the game 
 locations look good, if hackneyed. The sounds and music add much to the games creepy atmosphere. 
 The game itself consists of reading diaries, letters, newspaper clippings and such, talking on 
 the phone with different people and, of course, gathering things and using them in some way or 
 another. As in many such games, you have to scan every single pixel of the screen lest you miss 
 something important, which is quite annoying. Also, some of the solutions are less-than-obvious 
 (not that they should be obvious, but one should be able to figure them out logically, which is 
 not always the case here) . The story gets rather confusing toward the end (Ive never really set 
 it straight, myself) , but the game manages to scare the crap out of you a couple of times, which 
 is a plus. If you can live with the aforementioned drawbacks, and you enjoy horror adventure games, 
 Scratches is worth adding to your collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madgino
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  I don't know if this can be consider a game, looking at what exists for now on the market.
  
  I don't want to play a classic game I want a new innovative one.
  
  I don't want to go 
 back in the nineties, I want to play the game of the future now.
  
  I was shocked that someone thinked to launch such a game in year 2006.
  
  Ofcourse I didn't 
 play more than 5 minutes of which 4:59 were spent on how to move my character on screen :) ) ) (dumb 
 me) .
  
  Oh, and by the way, developers, I don't want to see your names each time I close the game; I think 
 once, at the game ends (if you make me resist until that point) it's enough.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pashitos
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  This game is a gem, it`s spooky, atmospheric and very fun to play. Sure, it has some flaws in the 
 graphical department, but when graphics were important for a real gamer? It is like loving the 
 movie only for its special effects. If movie is dumb it is dumb and I can`t watch it. The same 
 with games and this one was exciting to play.
  
  I will rephrase this one if I may - 
  "Scratches is a walking, talking example of why most developers have either long since given up 
 on adventure games, or have committed themselves to twisting the genre into new and more relevant 
 shapes."
  
  And would say that - people like this reviewer are a walking, talking example of why most developers 
 have... given up on adventure games...
  
  P. S. By the looks of it, quests are not yet dead. Plenty of new titles are released recently and 
 it makes me so happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom_jabon
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I think Gamespot needs to re-review this game. Yes it has an old style of game play and the graphics 
 are not great by any means, but intrigue and the masterfully done sense of something being out 
 of place was done extremely well. The low score makes it seem like the game is not enjoyable with 
 is absolutely untrue. It is very enjoyable, it just doesn't win any awards for ingenuity or technical 
 advancement.
  
  Those rare moments that make you jump are done masterfully well. That, the music and the atmosphere 
 are what I will remember from this game. Technical originality is not the only reason to play a 
 game, nor the most important reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdityaN
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  A decent game totally undeserving of its review. when the reviewer lumps resident evil in as an 
 adventure game, he loses all credibility. 
  
  With some rather nice art, decent puzzles and some excellent sound effects, scrathes succeds in 
 building up a decent atmosphere of suspicion and dread, even when it isnt particulary scary. a 
 decent budget title for adventure gamers.
  
  It isnt very long an adventure, but its surprisngly jsut how spooky and immersive some settings 
 can be. Also, its interesting you can play it off live cd style, but in the end i found it more 
 or less a cookie cutter adventure game. However, theer are hardly even those in a market devoted 
 almost exclusively to sports, fps and driving games. Its not indigo prophecy, but its not one of 
 the "atlantis" game disasters either.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voivodul
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  First of all, I'll have to admit that Scratches is not quite a good piece as a traditional adventure: 
 many of its puzzles are badly designed as they limit too much the player decisions by forcing players 
 to strictly follow the author's will. In fact, you'll often find it's hard to play Scratches without 
 consulting a walk-through. These puzzles are fine examples of being counter-intuitive. During the 
 game I've been finding myself shouting "what? what the hell does that suppose to mean?" or "how 
 on earth would anyone except the author of the game know that?" For example, when I found out, 
 by reading a walk-through, that the crystal ball in the painting hanging on the wall in the main 
 bedroom I wasn't quite sure what to say - not being careful enough? Could be, as there were tiny 
 little hinges giving out hints, but the crystal ball was way to small - was I suppose to scan with 
 my mouse every painting in the building without any premises?
  
  But there still are good puzzles in the game such as the blue print puzzle, which I think is the 
 best puzzle in the game.
  
  Anyway, I'll have to say that the story telling (unfortunately not the story itself) of Scratches 
 is quite good, if not great. Thanks to the well polished sequences and trivial aspects (cleverly 
 designed and voice-performed telephone conversation, for example) . I have had emotional moments 
 of joy, fear and sadness, too, when playing Scratches.
  
  The art of Scratches is excellent (sorry, GS, I'm not agree with you guys on that) . The music is 
 tasteful and most of the scenes are well-done. It is easy for you to feel melancholy mixed with 
 scariness during play. The art job in the game did help the gaming experience a lot.
  
  I can understand why Gamespot had given a bitter score like that for Scratches to swallow - traditional 
 adventure games are dying if I may say and any attempt to retain the slow-paced myst-solving gameplay 
 is seen to be against the "trend". However, the artistic values reside in traditional adventures 
 could, as I see it, could shed some light on new generations of adventure games or hopefully many 
 other genres. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  I am now into the game. Actually quite in the beginning. I cannot understans why GS gave the game 
 such a low review, I do not think it is right... I mean I HAVE had my share of awful games. Names 
 aside but this specific one simply does fit in my profile of an awful game. I am quite a seasoned 
 gamer so I think I can identify a failure right after 10 minutes of gameplay.
  All about this game is above average, thus not exquisit, but very much playable and enjoyable. 
 It does have a spooky fell to it, starting from the outdoor grove which is damn spooky, I have 
 being alone in the woods man!!! The mansion itself is quite OK for starters, things make sense. 
 I am just waiting to see how & when things will get strange.
  To sum it up, if you are looking for jaw-dropping graphics and superb innovation then perhaps you 
 hsould pass this game. Now, if you have a bit of patience and can handle 2002 dated graphics then 
 this game is fine for you. I have a 2003 hardware system and the game runs fine (Radeon 9700pro 
 + 1GB ram)
  
  ! Happy gaming !
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frolawn
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything most adventure gamers are looking for in a traditional first person adventure. 
 It is atmospheric (at times to the point of being unnerving) , and I find the artwork quaint and 
 not the least bit ugly as it lends well to the overall experience of the game. Technologically 
 it is a throwback to the tried-and-true game play of traditional adventure games of the past, and 
 while this seems to be a downside in the eyes of the reviewer from this site, being on the cutting 
 edge of technology simply to present the illusion of advancement is the plight of many games on 
 todays market. 
  
   And as for the slow pace (concerning plot as well as movement in general) begrudged by Gamespots 
 reviewer  I find the flow of the game completely fitting (this isnt a First Person Shooter) 
 and expect most players will be content with the games progression. 
  
  *Very much worth the retail price (and then some) .*
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fraggy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Scratches horror adventure game does not disappoint. The story from beginning to end keeps you 
 wanting to move on even if the atmosphere is creepy and dark. The music and sound effects greatly 
 add to the Erie atmosphere. Graphics are very well done and the Victorian style house in the outskirts 
 of a small town was a great choice of location. The puzzles in the game required some thinking 
 but not to the extent of detracting from the game. The story flowed well and kept you on the edge 
 of your seat. There were some twists as the game went on and the ending was great. Even though 
 you did not actually see anybody else in the game the characters were very well done. The voices 
 for the characters were well played out. The use of the whole house and the surrounding grounds 
 for puzzle solving and to unfold the plot was well executed. Learning time for this game is minimal 
 and you can get in and exploring right away. Great game, well worth the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norm325392003
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 27, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  After finishing the game, I have changed my mind about the game itself. I think the interface and 
 graphic upgrade made a huge difference. The game is scary, and has a surprise ending. You kind 
 of feel like it ended too quickly. For whatever reason, I am stuck on The Last Visit, the add-on 
 adventure that takes place about ten years later, I guess. You're supposed to pour water down a 
 hole, and the game locks up and I can't continue. I have tried several times, to no avail. Anyway, 
 I recommend buying the Director's Cut if you don't own the game. At only 19.95, it's a great deal. 
 I think it's what the game should have been all along. I change my grade to a 7.5 for the Director's 
 Cut only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deejayc
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a fan of the 'adventure' or 'puzzle' genres personally. I played all the Broken Sword installments, 
 but I've never really got into games like Myst, The Longest Journey or Syberia, but yet I picked 
 Scratches up.
  
  It appealed to me because I am a fan of horror. Fear is a wonderful emotion to feed on for games 
 developers and Nucleosys did a sound job of tapping into that from the get go.
  
  You play a writer who recently just purchased an abandoned Victorian house in northern England. 
 When you arrive in your car with your suitcases and get to exploring the house you know very little, 
 but as you start digging around the dusty rooms, bookshelves and scattered pictures you begin to 
 reveal a very murky past. The game's story lures you in and drip feeds you with horrifying details 
 of these murky deeds and eventually you have to face the darker corners of the house with all this 
 in-mind.
  
  The game is controlled entirely by the mouse, allowing you with single clicks to combine items 
 within your inventory as-well-as look around and operate items such as doors and lights. It does 
 get tiresome sometimes whilst navigating the house and you encounter numerous doors as each one 
 requires you to operate the door knob which the game responds with a short animation of you moving 
 through the door.
  
  The graphics are immersive and although not on-par with some of today's more high-end games, is 
 beautifully rendered and does well to hide away the key items to the game.
  
  The puzzles throughout are ingenius and with no help or clues to be found, sometimes fiendish. 
 The first puzzle has you searching through the back of the house where you come across a bathroom 
 acting as a makeshift dark room. Two of the photos within the room are of the kitchen within the 
 house and one of a china pot on a sideboard in the kitchen. On further investigation you'll find 
 the pot missing from it's photographed position in the kitchen and instead in a hallway hidden 
 cleverly amongst other pots. In the pot is a key to an important door and without the visual clues 
 of the photos, would have been extremely hard to locate.
  
  Music as you navigate the house is paced and often intensifies the mood and some of the scores 
 are excellent. Sounds of the doors can get somewhat tiresome on opening your 500th door, but on 
 the whole the lack of sound actually punctuates the times when sound is playing.
  
  Overall a well crafted adventure game which seems to appeal to those outside of the genre due to 
 its content and offers an engulfing plot and mysterious air. Thoroughly recommended for adventure 
 gamers, but also to those who like a good scare, a good horror movie or an engulfing story. The 
 developers of the game certainly need more recognition for what is a suprisingly good release and 
 one that will keep me gripped for weeks to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _iMMuNiTy_
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  You probably already know that Scratches is a misty/horror adventure game made by Nucleosys, a 
 three man - or, rather, a two-man and one-woman - team. In the game, you play as a writer who comes 
 to an old, secluded and abandoned Victorian house for inspiration purposes, but there's more to 
 the manor than meets the eye; and you are bound to figure that out - the hard way.
  
  The first thing you are going to notice when you start up Scratches - shabby (although pre-rendered) 
 3D graphics. After the introductory cinematic scene (which, may I add, does little to introduce 
 you to the game's plot) you are standing in front of the house, next to your car. There are no 
 tutorials or in-game hints as to how to control your character, so Scratches may not be a good 
 game to start playing adventure games; if you consider trying out Scratches for your first adventure 
 game, you may want to reconsider. However, the controls aren't that complex, definitely not Myst-complex, 
 even though it requires getting used to: you look around yourself 360, as well as looking up and 
 down a bit, and move around the place scene-to-scene. You move your cursor - hand - around to open 
 a door, grab an item and whatnot. It's also worth mentioning that opening doors may get irritating 
 - you have to click on the knob, and when you're farther in the game and hurrying to complete a 
 puzzle on the other side of the house... It really does get slightly on your nerves.
  
  The graphics remind of earlier adventure games, and we're talking very early. But that's what makes 
 the game original - instead of eye-candy and pathetic gameplay/plot, we get classic graphics and 
 quite good both gameplay and plot. Classic doesn't mean bad - if you like to immerse yourself into 
 the game, Scratches is perfect. The house is lots of fun to explore, and for each part of the house 
 there's an appropriate atmosphere, and I'm not talking only about graphics - sound and music as 
 well. I've spent the night with nearly literally rubbing my nose against the monitor, exploring 
 the house inch by inch. On the other hand, those who don't like spending time reading journals, 
 diaries and notes alike in adventure games might get disappointed - Scratches has a fair bit of 
 reading to do. Other than that, even with the graphics that the developers given us, the game is 
 thoroughly enjoyable.
  
  And that brings me to another, last, but not least, great aspect of the game - sound. The game 
 isn't stuffed with varied sounds, there's no sound of drops, gusts of winds or whatever, but hey, 
 that's exactly what adds to the atmosphere of a house which has been abandoned for years! You do 
 stumble upon a great deal of ambient music, though, which is implemented into the game perfectly. 
 Entering the basement sent the shivers up my spine, and wandering around the manor during the night 
 made me slump in my chair like a hedgehog.
  
  In conclusion, the game is excellent and a must-try for adventure gamers; if you've tried an adventure 
 game recently and enjoyed it, or you're too young to remember the first adventure games, grab Scratches 
 off the store shelves (and pay for it of course, knucklehead) . The game contains classic adventure 
 genre gameplay and graphics, astounding sound effects and quite a good plot, which I won't spoil 
 for you. Hope you enjoy it as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imyoon28
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  When I started this game, I though it might be different. It was, in a way, but I just couldn't 
 get into it like other games. Maybe I'm just picky, I don't know. I understand great visuals ,environments, 
 and sounds, they do truly help to immerse you into the world of the game you're playing... but c'mon... another 
 point and click adventure... yay... add a little more freedom into the game and I might have had 
 a little more fun. I did enjoy the puzzles which always add a great deal of difficulty into it, 
 and I guess it could up the learning curve to the slightest degree. If you just want another game 
 to add to your collection, this is it, that's all it is. All in all, I wasn't knocked back by the 
 game, I had fun, but it was just another in a stick-a-fork-in-it-it's-done genre. I guess I'll 
 stick to the action/adventure, RPG, Shoot'em Up style games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demoness2143
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  This one's an excellent game!!
  Graphics are amazing, sound and music are beautiful and fit great, and story's better than I thought.
 
  I think the guys from Nucleosys did a great job here with Scratches cause the game is really immersive, 
 once you start playing you cannot quit until you find out everything. You just won't leave it there 
 rotting in your hard disk... the story's different from what I've played and you can actually feel 
 Lovecraft's spirit in the game... I totally recommend it for people of different ages, teenagers 
 and grown up's too, Thumbs up for Scratches. Yes!
  Guys, you should play this game, NONO, you MUST play this game! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
