-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Screamer 4x4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/screamer4x4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 11, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.4, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 104 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Virgin Interactive
Developer: Clever's Dev.
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date:     Dec 3, 2001
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're the type of driver who feels comfortable with digital acceleration and braking, there's 
 no question that Virgin's latest off-road racer has a lot to offer. 

 Screamer 4x4 may well be the slowest racing game ever to drive across a PC screen. It is also quite 
 likely one of the most technical. Unlike fellow off-road affairs such as GodGames' 4x4 Evolution 
 and Codemasters' 1nsane, Screamer 4x4 realistically and convincingly conveys the inherent difficulty 
 posed when a 4x4 vehicle attempts to negotiate primitive, untamed terrain. It is an unforgiving 
 and sometimes treacherously authentic game that minimizes the importance of top speed and accentuates 
 such real world concepts as torque, grip, gravity and four-point suspension. Unfortunately, those 
 who prefer the analog control of a joystick or wheel to the digital control of a keyboard or gamepad 
 may have to jump a few hurdles and endure several painful setup teething pains before they can 
 enjoy Screamer 4x4.           Screamer 4x4's narrow gates are often in the most treacherous locations. 
    

  While it may not appeal to fans of high-octane arcade action, those who prefer studied driving 
 and brutally realistic physics will certainly appreciate the intricate, subtle behavioral details 
 that Hungary-based designer Clever's Development has instituted into this game, one of the pleasant 
 racing surprises of 2001. Screamer 4x4 drops you behind the wheel of one of 10 real-world four-wheel 
 drive vehicles and asks you to navigate all by your lonesome over a series of checkpoint-dotted 
 courses distinguished primarily by their wildly rugged topography. However, the key to eventual 
 success isn't necessarily in coaxing the most power from your under-the-hood horses -- instead, it 
 is in learning how to keep your jeep or truck moving smoothly in the desired direction and on all 
 four tires. As you'll soon see, that's not an easy task.   

  The first thing you'll want to do is choose your transportation. The game offers a variety of four-wheel-drive 
 vehicles, including staples from the Jeep Cherokee, Mitsubishi Montero, and Toyota Land Cruiser 
 to the bulky Mercedes Unimog and colossal Hungarian-designed Raba. Most are unfortunately locked 
 away at first, and some -- like the ponderous Raba -- are surely included only for their entertainment 
 value. Nevertheless, of the two that are initially available, the Jeep CJ7 proves far more nimble 
 than the Land Rover Defender.           You can flatten pedestrians but you'll get disqualified 
 for it.    

  When you first hit the track, you'll undoubtedly be struck by just how slowly you seem to be moving. 
 This is in stark contrast with many similar games that clearly accentuate the speed of their vehicles 
 to artificially heighten the thrill factor. Another important element is the developer's aversion 
 to flat, even chunks of landscape. Unlike its name would seem to indicate, Screamer 4x4 compels 
 you to spend a good deal of your time either carefully scaling improbably steep inclines or climbing 
 over hazardous rocks. This forces you to judiciously use your transmission by gearing down to some 
 absurdly low gear that simply isn't capable of propelling your vehicle faster than 4 or 5 miles 
 per hour or activating your rock-crawling transfer case when your normal gearing just can't produce 
 enough low-level torque to keep the tires clawing forward. In the case of the latter, forward momentum 
 may at times seem imperceptible. And if the hill finally does win, you'll search about for alternate, 
 more graduated slopes to help make the summit ascent a bit less foreboding.   

  Driving downhill may be just as difficult. Gravity plays a huge role in Screamer 4x4, pulling you 
 down toward the center of the earth much quicker than you had probably intended. As a result, you 
 may end up missing gates, crashing into gates, or, if the grade is extremely steep and lengthy, 
 gathering unintended momentum and bouncing uncontrollably over maddeningly uneven terrain until 
 you have either spun to a stop in a swirl of dust or have been catapulted end over end and landed 
 on your roof. Yet even if you do pull off such a disastrous stunt, you'll realize your vehicle 
 has just behaved as it would in real life. Many off-road games can reproduce a crash scenario, 
 yet few can do it so believably. Screamer 4x4's suspension modeling is fully reactive at each of 
 the vehicle's four corners, compressing realistically at the appropriate spot when you've landed 
 off-center and bouncing you back and forth and forward and backward when you're traversing a particularly 
 rough section. This is just an example of the game's awesome physics model and one more reason 
 that Screamer 4x4 trucks are so incredibly authentic.    

 They look the part too. Whether you're in the cockpit with its fully realized dashboard, active 
 steering wheel, and instrument panel or perched in a chase perspective to get a better look at 
 the upcoming landscape and gates, Screamer 4x4 automobiles are beautifully detailed. Each features 
 a variety of customizable color schemes, a host of racing-oriented sponsor decals, and a full set 
 of translucent windows for a good look at the animated driver who works furiously in coordination 
 with your own actions. From the exterior viewpoints, you can watch the suspension bounce and rebound 
 back into place and the tires wobble after too much abuse. Real-time shadows shift position underneath 
 the car, thick black smoke billows forth from beaten engines, and tires cut grooves into the permeable 
 soil. Bushes, foliage, and even trackside spectators flatten nicely under your wheels, although 
 the latter will get you tossed from the race. Sadly, everything from bodywork to spectators remains 
 in pristine condition no matter how many hits they've taken.           Its cabin filled with smoke, 
 this Jeep tries to finish its run.    

  Yet the game's most remarkable visual achievement may well be its glorious depiction of shimmering 
 headlights. Whether viewed head-on from the replay booth or from a first-person or chase perspective 
 while racing, they're arguably the prettiest in the business. Unfortunately, the same can't be 
 said for the Screamer 4x4 scenery. Although its six environments are filled with plenty of vegetation 
 and more ups and downs than a roller coaster, the ground textures simply do not offer enough variety, 
 and the various zones are not particularly unique. You'll rarely get the impression that you've 
 moved from distinct geographic region to another.   

  One thing is certain -- only those who truly appreciate the art of the solo drive need apply. The 
 game offers no less than five modes of single-player competition, each of which is conducted purely 
 against the clock or the posted time of your peers. Although you will have the repetitive and often 
 flat-out wrong patter of your codriver and the game's excellent engine and road noise effects to 
 keep you company, you'll generally feel on your own. And if you do opt for the five variants of 
 multiplayer racing (including king of the hill and off-road rally) , you'd better know the IP addresses 
 of your competitors or be connected to a LAN, or you'll once again be racing alone.   

  Annoying codrivers aside, Screamer 4x4's most potentially serious problem lies in its erratic controller 
 support. In simple terms, the game seems to have trouble recognizing analog axes. We tried a variety 
 of controllers during testing, including such elaborate contraptions as Logitech's MOMO Force and 
 basic controllers such as Microsoft's SideWinder Gamepad and a standard keyboard. In every case 
 where acceleration and braking were handled by a digital device, such as the directional pad of 
 a gamepad, the buttons of a joystick, or the keys of a keyboard, the game's virtual cars functioned 
 as expected. Yet when we attempted to steer, accelerate, and brake with an analog control, the 
 results were quite different.           Screamer 4x4 challenges even the most capable 4WD vehicle. 
    

  Although the specific nature of the problem varied from controller to controller, we were often 
 compelled to go above and beyond the norm just to get the car to turn, accelerate, and stop as 
 it should. In the case of the MOMO, we referred to the readme file and soon discovered the game 
 correctly recognizes only those pedals that are configured on separate axes. Unfortunately, no 
 solution was offered for those pedal systems that don't support separate axis acceleration and 
 braking. Nor was there clarification for our Saitek Cyborg USB joystick, although we did eventually 
 get it working by configuring it as a Saitek wheel. In all fairness, we were usually able to rectify 
 the various situations through a few clever tweaks. Yet the game never should have been released 
 in this state. At the very least, Screamer 4x4 publisher Virgin Interactive should have supplied 
 proper documentation to make the whole procedure less agonizing for those with potentially conflicting 
 controllers.   

  Such a major oversight can hardly be forgiven, yet Screamer 4x4 is otherwise simply too intriguing 
 to ignore completely. If you're the type of driver who feels comfortable with digital acceleration 
 and braking, there's no question that Virgin's latest off-road racer has a lot to offer. And even 
 if you're not, chances are you'll somehow find a satisfactory controller solution. As part of Virgin's 
 new $20 budget lineup, Screamer 4x4 is a surprisingly authentic and involving motorized journey 
 into the wilderness.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
