-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Season Ticket Basketball 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/seasonticketbasketball2003/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 11, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.9, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 11 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Brian Nichols
Genre: Basketball Management
Date:     Sep 10, 2002

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Solid play, authentic number crunching, dedication to the fine details, and online league support 
 make this one of the best sports management titles on the market. 

 Professional basketball has never looked as good as it does in Season Ticket Basketball 2003 (better 
 known online as Fast Break Basketball) . The text-based management simulation almost lets you forget 
 about the Latrell Sprewells and Allen Iversons who dominate today's NBA, thanks to developer Brian 
 Nichols' dedication to bringing to life the sport behind the superstars. Few sports management 
 titles do such a thorough job of depicting the ins and outs of running a professional franchise. 
 Fewer still manage to convey depth and complexity while keeping the user interface so clean and 
 intuitive. Yet the developer has accomplished both objectives here, designing a game that is both 
 realistic enough to play for years and simple enough to understand that you can begin building 
 a dynasty right out of the box.           The game's computer AI is cunning, especially when it 
 comes to personnel moves.    

  Unfortunately, Season Ticket Basketball 2003 has no real sound effects or music to speak of. Fortunately, 
 the game's interface is almost a cause for celebration. Many low-budget sports management sims 
 feature menus that are really difficult to figure out. That isn't the case here, as the developer 
 has stuck to a system of neatly organized pulldown menus. All of the information is sorted and 
 categorized like a file cabinet. Use the file option for basic operations like saving and loading 
 leagues. Check the franchise heading for all essential team information. Use the roster option 
 to make coaching decisions or arrange a trade, and use the season option to go over standings and 
 other news from around the league. The progress option encapsulates a lot of events that take place 
 on the calendar, such as the free-agency period and training camps, while the draft option includes 
 all the features for running rookie and initial creation drafts, and the history option lets you 
 look over past seasons. Everything is exactly where you think it should be, so there is no interface 
 learning curve. It's a breeze to sit down and dig right into the intricacies of operating a pro 
 basketball club.   

  And there are lots of intricacies. The developer has spared no effort in making Season Ticket Basketball 
 2003 a complete simulation of life in the front office. You take complete control of a franchise 
 in a 29-team league patterned after the real NBA, overseeing everything from player personnel moves 
 to every possession during manually simulated games. Solo play is a strength, although up to 29 
 human players can take over clubs, and there are a number of Internet leagues out there.   

  Season Ticket Basketball's player and franchise names are fake, whatever graphical flash it has 
 is provided by colored text, and the game has no audio at all, but the gameplay is as authentic 
 as it comes. The game's team-management options are remarkably complete. Players are rated in six 
 categories -- inside offensive skill, outside offensive skill, hands, defense, rebounding, and potential -- and 
 are also characterized in terms of attitude. The latter comes in handy when you're looking to make 
 a trade, as does the preferred team listing that lets you know if the player is interested in swapping 
 zip codes.           Manually simulated games feature a wealth of detail.    

  The game's coaching options are equally expansive. You can set a pace between very slow and very 
 fast, establish how often you want to trap and press, and determine an offensive focus that favors 
 inside, outside, or balanced shooting. A depth chart governs substitutions, and the "offensive 
 key players" rating determines which three players get the ball the most. Managers can adjust these 
 settings before games and then simulate the results, or manually coach games and change them on 
 the fly. You can choose to simulate each possession, play a quarter at a time, or push through 
 full games. No matter which option you select, you have the ability to stop the simulation at any 
 time. Like the rest of the interface, the coaching screen is very well designed. A play-by-play 
 window shows all of the on-court action on the left, the scoreboard takes up the middle of the 
 screen, and a graphical representation of the court with basic player stats, current energy levels, 
 and a moving basketball showing possessions and shot attempts sits on the right. Pertinent facts 
 can be ascertained simply by glancing from one window to the next. All of these functions work 
 extremely well, giving you a great deal of impact on game results, although the adjustable simulation 
 speed could have used some extra tweaking. Setting the speed slider bar all the way to the right 
 results in play-by-play that scrolls by too quickly to read, while nudging it just one notch to 
 the left results in game sim times of 10 minutes or more.    

 The results from games in Season Ticket Basketball 2003 seem accurate whether you generate them 
 through coaching or simulation. The numbers are right in line with the statistics of the real-world 
 NBA, albeit the NBA of a decade ago. The actual scores are high for the present day, though they 
 seem perfect for that brief golden era of the early 1990s when the numbers weren't as inflated 
 as they were in the 1980s or as depressed as they have been over the past five or six seasons. 
 We noticed nothing out of the ordinary in the dozen or so seasons that we simulated in a couple 
 of career leagues. Even the most stat-conscious basketball fan will find very little to criticize 
 about Season Ticket Basketball's numbers.           Player cards are biographies with stats.   

  Season Ticket Basketball re-creates boardroom transactions as solidly as it does actual games. 
 The developer has obviously spent a lot of time working on the trading aspect of the game, which 
 is so true to life that the computer-controlled teams are absolutely cutthroat. This is particularly 
 noticeable in personnel moves. Computer-proposed trades are always astute, even cunning in that 
 the deals always benefit the computer-controlled teams in subtle ways that aren't always immediately 
 noticeable. Trades that look good in the numbers often seem less attractive if you check on the 
 offered player's attitude and desired destination. Free agency features more good design and smart 
 AI. A free-agent signing period opens up at the end of each season, giving every team the opportunity 
 to make bids. You look over the players, see if they have preferred teams, and then make an offer 
 before simulating a day's progress to see if any signings were made.   

  Computer clubs are also astute and aggressive. Make a lowball deal and you will lose out. Bidding 
 almost always rises well above the player-designated minimum. Also, players stick to their preferences. 
 Even if you offer a star the biggest contract, there is no guarantee that he will sign on the dotted 
 line unless he really wants to play for you. Players will also hold back on inking a deal if they 
 are at all reticent, in anticipation of getting a better offer from somebody else as the signing 
 period winds down. Some will even opt for good short-term deals over those with more money and 
 long-term security, especially if they're not fond of your franchise. The same general formula 
 works when hiring coaches and general managers -- if you don't put in serious, competitive bids, 
 you won't be able to sign the cream of the crop.           Simulating games is a smooth process, 
 even when dealing with injuries.    

  In Season Ticket Basketball, money is a serious issue all by itself. A salary cap dictates how 
 much you can spend on player salaries. Every city in the game is rated according to market size, 
 economy, number of teams in the region, and desire to have a team. This largely determines how 
 much cash you'll have to spend on players, as you have to balance what fans will pay with what 
 you will charge for tickets and luxury boxes. Additionally, you have to worry about ownership. 
 Every franchise owner in the game has his or her own name and a set of characteristics that govern 
 how much money will be put at your disposal each year to run the basketball club. Some are greedy 
 and put making a profit above winning. Others want to win at all costs. Either way, you have to 
 please the boss man, a welcome frill that most sports management games lack.   

  Actually, Season Ticket Basketball 2003 isn't like most sports management games at all. Few games 
 of this type are so fulfilling, so lovingly designed with a real appreciation for both the sport 
 in question and for sensible user interfaces. Solid play, authentic number crunching, dedication 
 to the fine details, and online league support make this one of the best sports management titles 
 on the market.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
