-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Second Sight
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/secondsight/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intriguing storyline.
 Nice variety of guns and psychic powers.
 Stylized character and background designs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not much replay value.
 Wonky AI and physics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 22, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.1, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 626 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Free Radical
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date:     Feb 18, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite a few rough patches, Second Sight ought to be an entertaining and unique ride for just about 
 any action fan. 

  The psychically powered adventure Second Sight was released last September on the three major consoles, 
 and now it's hitting the PC with the same story and gameplay, better graphics, and a budget-minded 
 price. Developer Free Radical is more famously known for twitchy first-person shooters than involved 
 action adventure games, but the team has imbued this one with an interesting storyline and satisfying 
 gameplay that blend to create a rewarding experience with its own unique identity. Despite a few 
 rough patches, Second Sight proves to be an entertaining ride while it lasts.  

          John Vattic's brain is on fire, and only you can help him find out why.     

  You'll 
 take control of John Vattic, a battered amnesiac who awakens in a medical facility with no clue 
 of how he got there or why he's so banged up. Pretty soon, Vattic figures out he has got an array 
 of nifty psychic powers at his disposal, so he sets out to discover how he ended up in this state 
 and why so many shady characters seem to be after him. The game uses a neat (and effective) narrative 
 device that tells two parallel, intertwined stories. In every other level, you'll flash back six 
 months to Vattic's involvement in Operation Winter Ice, a secret mission to investigate the doings 
 of a crazed scientist in Russia. The way the game feeds you small morsels of the backstory as you 
 play through the events of the present makes for a compelling plot that fosters a genuine desire 
 to find out more about what's going on.  

  In gameplay terms, Second Sight is essentially a stealth action game with useful psychic powers 
 included. Vattic can back up against walls and peer around corners; sneak up quietly and knock 
 out an oblivious enemy; or go for a headshot with a tranquilizer pistol to silently eliminate a 
 foe from afar. But then he can also use his telekinesis to fling objects (and enemies) around the 
 room or project an astral version of himself to traverse areas that aren't accessible to his corporeal 
 body. Other powers include a simple healing effect, a psychic attack projectile, and the extremely 
 useful charm, which renders Vattic invisible to enemies (but not security cameras) for a short 
 period. The game does a good job of presenting you with situations where using your mind powers 
 or shooting a bunch of guns are equally viable strategies.  

  Free Radical has a lot of experience with shooters -- TimeSplitters has been its biggest property 
 to date -- so it's fitting that the shooting in Second Sight is well implemented. You'll be able 
 to pick up an assortment of pistols, shotguns, assault rifles, and sniper rifles from enemies, 
 and the game provides a loose auto-targeting system that lets you fine-tune your aim for headshots. 
 There's also a useful sniper-rifle effect that pops up your scope in the lower right corner rather 
 than switching you to a disorienting first-person view. The psychic powers are a lot of fun to 
 use in both puzzle and combat situations, but it's nice that the game lets you fall back on good, 
 solid firearms if that's how you want to play.  

  What's also fortunate is that, with a few exceptions, you're not hitched too tightly to the stealth 
 yoke. Many times (depending on the mission) , you'll be free to shoot up an entire room, then lay 
 low until the alarm ends and you can go on your way. Some levels do require you to be secretive, 
 punishing you with an endless and overwhelming force of enemies if you're caught. But just as often, 
 you'll get to run in with guns (and brain) blazing if you're itching to get your action fix. Having 
 a choice between the two styles of play makes the game more interesting.  

  Second Sight has been mapped surprisingly well to the PC's keyboard-and-mouse control scheme. Auto-targeting 
 is as easy as holding the right mouse button and flicking the mouse between targets, and once an 
 enemy has been targeted, you can slide the crosshair up toward the enemy's head for a quick kill. 
 You can scroll through your weapons and psychic powers quickly with a mousewheel, and it's easy 
 to maneuver Vattic with the WASD key configuration. The camera is mouse-controlled and has a habit 
 of hitting walls, which can temporarily skew your perspective, but for the most part it's easy 
 to get used to and works out nicely.  

  There's a little more to do in most of the game's 17 levels than just shoot or mind-zap enemies. 
 Several levels introduce a buddy mechanic that sees you fighting alongside one or more friendly 
 non-player characters, and one of these levels even has you leading around and protecting a member 
 of Winter Ice who has lost her mind. You'll also tap into computers a number of times throughout 
 the game, and Free Radical has devised a simple graphical interface for them that, at the appropriate 
 time, lets you read e-mails, copy files to disk, control doors and security cameras, and even play 
 a couple of bare-bones arcade games. This may sound trivial, but it's far more gratifying than 
 running up to a terminal and just hitting the "use" button. A fair number of the puzzles fall into 
 the old standby "throw a switch" or "take an item from point A to B" categories; however, in this 
 game, the designers often find interesting ways to work your psychic powers into the solutions, 
 which keeps the game fresh.  

  Second Sight has got some cool ideas, as well as some noticeable shortcomings. In general, things 
 feel a little rough around the edges. The physics model is functional but shoddy -- objects will 
 occasionally continue to move indefinitely or pass through walls after you've bumped them. The 
 enemy artificial intelligence isn't extremely bright; at times it's unrealistically easy to evade 
 foes after an alarm has been sounded, while at other times it seems like you've been caught for 
 no reason. None of these problems are glaring enough to detract from the game in a significant 
 way, but together they do lessen its impact.  

  If you've played any of the console TimeSplitters games, you'll recognize the many stylistic similarities 
 that are present in Second Sight. The character models are chiefly responsible for this, as they 
 feature caricatured, cartoonlike qualities that give them a lot of personality, especially in the 
 many cutscenes. What really brings the characters to life are their expressive facial and bodily 
 animations -- they emote really well, with an exaggerated manner that's consistent with their features. 
 You'll get a lot of variety (if not overwhelming detail) in the backdrops, too, as you travel from 
 Dubrensk, Russia, to various locales in the United States. The game eschews lots of fancy graphical 
 effects in favor of a clean look, which is now even cleaner on the PC. In addition to the higher 
 resolution and frame rate that you'll get on modern PC hardware, the textures and special effects 
 look sharper, helping the game stay more or less consistent with contemporary PC games even though 
 it started out on consoles.  

          Despite a few small flaws, Second Sight presents interesting mechanics and entertaining 
 gameplay.     

  Second Sight is story driven and has a lot of cutscenes, so naturally there's a lot of spoken dialogue. 
 Fortunately, the quality of the acting is reasonably high. Some characters sound more natural or 
 appropriate than others, but overall this is like what you'd hear in the average animated series. 
 The music is quite good in the places where it successfully lends a slightly sinister mood to Vattic's 
 harried quest for the truth. The sound effects are also of a high quality. Whoever came up with 
 the sounds for the psychic powers deserves credit for making them sound convincing, since there's 
 not exactly a frame of reference for what they should sound like.  

  Second Sight is a respectable single-player adventure that shows Free Radical is capable of making 
 more than just first-person shooters. It's got some flaws and it's not very long or replayable -- you'll 
 probably finish it in 12 to 15 hours, without much incentive to go back to the beginning -- but it's 
 fun while it lasts. Better yet, the game is available on the PC for only $20, which we think is 
 a pretty fair price for a weekend's worth of solid action.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RJtheShadow
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2009 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Second Sight prepares you for a ride that will not let you go until you've seen the end of it.
 
  
  Starting out with John Vattic, a man with a shaved head and beat up face, using Free Radical's 
 model quality, instantly puts a few questions of "where did he get those wounds".
  
  When I got Second Sight, I had no expectations.
  Hell, we are 2009 now, and this one was cheap 
 as hell.
  So I didn't bother looking up the cover etc...
  Just imagine how surprised I was when John's first psychic power arrived. And immediately the coolest 
 one!
  
  The story intrigues you, and makes the game feel less important because of it. To me, that's a 
 good thing.
  I love it when you get the feeling as if you're in an "interactive movie".
  
  The arsenal of weaponry isn't top notch, but for cartoonesqued characters, its more then perfect.
 
  
  There are many sensations you feel throughout the game,
  but one feeling that you'll almost all the time feel is "does it stop?".
  Mainly referring to 
 plottwists, confusoin, and mostly, psychic powers.
  Don't think you've had all of them when you have gained the last one. There are "upgrades", and 
 they're not just flimsy power-ups.
  
  As said, Second Sight is one of those games that glues you to your screen until you finished the 
 game, or you fall asleep after being awake for 15 straight hours without a break.
  Might be more or less, I didn't exactly time mine.
  
  
  Oh, and for those psychopaths out 
 there:
  In the "training" level, there's an Assault Rifle hidden.
  I suggest you kill every friendly char that you can spot.
  It gives you a nice (perhaps creepy) 
 cinematic early-on when you die, which you only later on can see again (upon failure) .
  But somehow it doesn't spoil it for you :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2009 12:02 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - Shooting is easy but satisfying
  - Excellent psychic powers
  - Great story
  - Impressive visuals
  - Music fits in pretty well
  
  Negative
  - Can get tough
  - Most 
 of the time enemies don't stop coming
  - Enemy behavior is not realistic at all times
  
  First released on the PS2 and XBOX, Second Sight is a unique game which doesn't come very original 
 in the terms of ideas in gameplay, but it can be so fun and addictive that if you might ignore 
 that somewhere you played a similar game. 
  
  The story is excellent to follow. You'll be John Vatic, who when woken up finds himself in a facility. 
 He doesn't remember who he is and other details. The game is divided in missions, if you lose you 
 can start from the last checkpoint but be careful not to press Retry or you might make to play 
 from the beginning of the stage. The game's setting is set in the present or something, but after 
 each mission another mission involving John's past mission (he was a doctor or something like that) . 
 
  
  Some missions are really addictive, others are frustrating. While the difficulty can be brutally 
 tough while you get the hang of it, it is more the unbelievable number of coming enemies at you. 
 Most of the time you must stealth unless you want attention and many enemies surround you and you're 
 in trouble. If you're seen it is difficult to use psychic powers since enemy guns doesn't let John 
 focus. But if you stealth is more fun. For psychic power you have Telekinesis, which lets you levitate 
 objects. Healing, this is a superb idea. Because there aren't any healing items unless you're playing 
 a stage where John didn't have these powers. And then there is your attack. There are others and 
 these are fun to use, but beware of the enemy's presence.
  
  The psychic powers aren't the main attraction here because most of the time you're using guns. 
 Even though Second Sight might feels familiar to Psi-Ops: The Mindgate Conspiracy, it is still 
 a remarkably good game on its own. The movement is far from perfect. Enemy movement is slow and 
 not always blocks your way (that might be a good thing) . Second Sight offers third-person shooting, 
 unless you have a first-person view when you're under tables or in vent or hiding somewhere. The 
 camera is a little zoomed out of John, which is the only character you use. But the position is 
 excellent and doesn't frustrate, though it turns slowly. 
  
  Shooting is simply yet fun. After the first 2 or 3 missions, you get a special training in the 
 past you let you get the hang of it, which really help. Snipping is amazingly fun. And so does 
 normal shooting. There is a good variety of guns you can find on missions, depends on your enemy. 
 When targeting the aim goes to the nearest enemy, but not always. When using psychic powers, the 
 aim goes to the nearest item you can use and sometimes the enemy. 
  
  It's not worth exiting the mission unless you completed it all. At times missions can take more 
 than 1 hour and if you exit you can't go to the last checkpoint. The game saves automatically so 
 you aren't warned or promoted to save. There is one particular mission (can be spoiler!) , the mission 
 which you Rescue a person which you have to help this person even when scared. It is irritatingly 
 frustrating but I've seen worse missions that this. 
  
  Visually, Second Sight looks great. Environments are varied yet they all look very detailed and 
 realistic. The enemy character models are mostly identical but the rest look good. The cutscenes 
 are mostly amazing, but the lack of subtitles hurt a little (unless there are and I didn't see 
 them, not surprising) . The music shines up high. It fits so impressively that makes the atmosphere 
 just perfect. Voice acting rocks. Most of the time John talks alone and gives you what might you 
 must do next, but it's good.
  
  Not all things are new, but Second Sight is a really great game with some spikes along the way. 
 Though the shooting is fun, using the psychic power is satisfying and a well-implemented story 
 give a name to this game and make it worth playing. It's not for everyone, but those people who 
 are patient enough can get the most out of this game. 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics = 8.5
  Impressive all around. Environments are awesome everywhere and the character models look good, 
 but the enemy's faces look the same.
  
  Sound = 9.1
  The music is so good that it almost fits perfectly creating a superb mood in the game. Voice acting 
 is something. John likes to talk alone.
  
  Presentation = 8.3
  Menu could have certainly been a bit better. Can't complain about the amount of quality in the 
 production values and neither about the cutscenes. There are some minor slowdowns and frame-rate 
 hitches. 
  
  Gameplay = 8.0
  Both shooting and psychic powers are fun to use, but you have to wait for the right time. The fact 
 that the enemy doesn't stop coming and can't save in levels is frustrating but most people are 
 able to overcome this, right? AI can leave something to be desired. 
  
  Camera / Controls = 7.6
  Camera's position causes some minor problems. Movement is a bit slow 
 and unrealistic most of the time. And the keyboard isn't as good as the joystick. 
  
  Story = 8.2
  Exciting story will keep you going. Having missions from John's past and in the 
 present is a good idea and avoid some repetition. The narrative of the game is great. You'll meet 
 some interesting characters.
  
  Difficulty = Somewhere between Medium and Hard.
  It varies, but the fact that missions take too long is annoying. Plentiful enemies don't leave 
 to must room for maneuver. Also lessen the opportunities for psychic power usage. I found only 
 one mission frustrating and I've done around 5 or 6.
  
  
  OVERALL = 8.2 / 10
  A bit derived from other games, but it is still a unique adventure nonetheless. Second Sight's 
 fun shooting and psychic powers make up for some slightly difficult missions. But this game is 
 one of the finest and unique games to come around in a while, and it's worth it for those interested 
 in the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desmasic
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 11:02 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games which never get the right amount of press and just disappear under the 
 hype-fest in the press over generic games like WOW and Gears of War (just few of the many) .
  
  It may not have the best graphics for some people but personally, I loved them. Not to mention 
 the fact that the engrossing story and characters (including our hero of course) which manage to 
 bring out emotions and that bits of 'caring' you are otherwise missing in other AAA titles these 
 days for the NPC's/player character. 
  
  Gameplay is perfect, controls are good if not perfect and the 'only' problem with them is the game 
 camera. EVEN THEN, after you are done playing the tutorial or the first few levels, you will get 
 used to the controls and forget about the camera. Camera won't won't bother you at all as you dwell 
 deeper into the mind of your character and the people he meets. The game has suspense, thrill with 
 large dose of adrenaline pumping stealthy action in every level.
  
  Do note that this game is NOT made to be played in one sitting, else you WILL get bored very easily. 
 I played this game for an hour or two every day over 2 weeks. I have so many games installed (Crysis 
 to BioShock) and I would skip right past them to load up this game every day because I wanted to 
 know more, more about the past of the hero, more about the mystery and conspiracy he was involved 
 in.
  
  
  Action is great, but my favorite part was throwing enemies around from a distance, choking them 
 to death (like Darth Vader) before they could run and alert others or simply creating an illusion 
 of yourself that was invisible to their eyes but could interact with that dreaded lever at the 
 end of the room.
  
  Oh and I should probably mention one of 'the best' GUI's on computers I have ever seen in any game 
 ever. Or the chat you have with a flirting lover after strangling her love interest to death. But 
 you should just buy this game and play it, it's worth finding gems like this and more.
  
  
  
  IN THE END:
  
  9.0 
  (-1 because of controls.. but you get used to them FAST.. unless 
 you are a brain dead retard.)
  
  This game has way better story and gameplay than most games being released these days. Second Sight 
 is the reason why games can claim to be art and better form of entertainment than 2-3 hour movies. 
 THIS is why games are better than sitting through movies (well, most of the time) and THIS is why 
 it makes me sad that games these days are just average console crapwares (this game was out on 
 consoles first) while they could have been so much more if the developers concentrated on gameplay 
 and story first over next gen high poly models. Sigh! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drygor7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Second sight is about John Vaddick a man who wakes up in a strange medical facility bloodied and 
 beaten and with no memory as you play through the game you discover new psychic powers to aid you 
 in your quest and this is a story driven game so there is alot of spoken dialouge and the games 
 takes you between the present and playable flashbacks wich occur every other level all of them 
 surrounding a diastrous mission codename winter ice the puzzles in the game make you use much use 
 of your powers and weapons 
  
  
  But there are two sides to every story so heres the negatives
  
  when using a sniper rifle 
 instead of switching to first person they show a small scope in the corner of the screen and there 
 are some collision detection problems and the A. I can be somewhat dull they just wait for you to 
 shoot and sometimes it feels like you got caught for no reason
  
  you can get this game for free on gametap
  
  or got to a store and pay between 5-10$
  
 
  but i refer this game to anyone who loves depth in a story and just flat out being a psychic badass 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Second Sight is a game that could've been amazing. To some extent, it is. It's a game that's completely 
 structured around an excellent story, one that is filled with plenty of clues and details that 
 will nicely add up at the end. It's also a game that implements psychic abilities, something that's 
 very uncommon in games. This abilities are for the most part very well implemented and they let 
 you get out of problems in ways you probably never would've thought of. Unfortunately Second Sight 
 also involves a lot of shooting. Now that wouldn't be bad thing if it wasn't for a terrible targeting 
 system, one that was clearly designed with consoles in mind. In a game that encourages stealth 
 in many occasions and punishes you with an endless swarm of enemies every time you are detected, 
 a poor targeting system paves the way for many moments of frustration. Toss in a checkpoint save 
 system (another console port trait) and ultimately a game that could've been incredible ends up 
 being dragged down a few notches below. But, and I make strong emphasize on this, the story in 
 Second Sight is so good and told in such an engrossing way that you'll end up forgiving all those 
 faults. And by the end, you'll be glad you did.
  
  Second Sight tells the story of John Vattic, a man who wakes up in a laboratory not being able 
 to remember anything about himself, much less about why he's locked up in there. But he quickly 
 finds himself capable of using psychic abilities (telekinesis being the first he discovers) and 
 he manages to escape the facility, desperate to remember everything about himself. From there on 
 John keeps having flashbacks to six months earlier where he got involved in a mission with the 
 WinterICE team, who are trying to find out the truth about some experiments taking place in Russia. 
 Each flashback in Second Sight represents a level of the game, so you'll end up going back between 
 the past and the present as you progress in the game. And the deeper you go, the better the story 
 gets. It can be confusing at times and just when you think you got it figured out, it'll all change 
 in the end. Few games are structured entirely around a story and after playing Second Sight, I 
 wish more games were.
  
  As I had mentioned earlier, the psychic abilities are another neat feature of Second Sight. You'll 
 have the abilities of telekinesis, self-healing, invisibility (called charm) , a psychic blast, 
 and projection (a hologram of yourself that eventually can possess other people) . Aside from telekinesis, 
 all of these features are very well implemented; the self healing ability is terrificly useful 
 since it'll keep you within a fighting chance no matter how rough the situation is; charm allows 
 you to walk by guards without them spotting you, and it also allows you to persuade any allies 
 you're fighting alongside to keep going; the psychic blast is useful to save ammo and once it's 
 upgraded it can take down several enemies at a time; projection is by far the coolest, since it 
 allows you to go places you otherwise couldn't, scan an area for enemies without being spotted, 
 and it's best use, take over the bodies of your enemies and turning them against each other. Telekinesis 
 ends up being the only one that isn't very well implemented, mostly in part due to the game's poor 
 targeting system. It's hard to lock on the object that you want to control and some wonky physics 
 don't help it either. It ends up being useful to manipulate the environments, but not for combat.
 
  
  Second Sight's major flaw (and it is major) is it's poor targeting system. It just doesn't complement 
 the PC's controls with it's auto-aiming feature. You'll press the right mouse button to lock on 
 a target and then you can freely aim for any part of his body, but it's just very clunky. It takes 
 too much time and effort to properly aim at the right target and this flaw makes the shooting in 
 Second Sight more frustrating than fun. An even bigger offense is the game's tendency to infinitely 
 spawn enemies when you failed to remain stealthy, which means you'll be swarmed with dozens of 
 enemies from all flanks. That's a major flaw by itself but with a poor targeting system, you'll 
 just keep pulling your hair as you keep shooting at the wrong target, all the while the entire 
 room is filling your body with lead. In fact, another element that doesn't help is the camera, 
 which is set in third person view and it's here where the targeting system feels more clunky. Second 
 Sight also offers a first person view and in this mode, targeting is much easier since the auto-aiming 
 is mostly removed. Unfortunately, you can't move while in first person view, so it ends up being 
 kind of useless. It's a shame Second Sight's controls aren't more PC friendly, since this is the 
 one flaw that keeps the game from being outstanding.
  
  The presentation in Second Sight is solid. By now the graphics are kind of dated, but that doesn't 
 take away from the game's looks. Environments are well detailed, character models look good and 
 are capable of expressing believable emotions, and you can interact with many of the objects in 
 the game. One neat touch is the way you interact with the computers in the game. You can interact 
 with them in the same way you would with a real computer which is much better than simply walking 
 to it and pressing a button. The sound and music of this game is very fitting, with the music in 
 particular being very engaging. It really fits the psychic nature of the game. The voice acting 
 is also very good, specifically during the cut-scenes. The main characters all sound believable 
 and they successfully transfer the sense of urgency that abounds in the game.
  
  It shouldn't take you more than 10 hours to finish Second Sight, and though you'll have to drag 
 yourself through some of those hours (due to the lame targeting model) , for the most part they 
 are enjoyable. Discriminating and inpatient gamers should probably skip this game, since it's somewhat 
 rough around the edges and can be very frustrating at times (since you'll end up fighting with 
 the control scheme rather than the enemies) but anyone looking for an engrossing and unique story, 
 as well as the ability to play around with psychic abilities, would do well giving this game a 
 try. To sum it up, the engaging story and psychic abilities make Second Sight an experience worth 
 trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostantix
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Let's start off with the most attention-grabbing attribute of this game, its storyline. 
 You play John Vattiac. He wakes up in a medical facility and has no idea who he is or how he got 
 there. Soon after, he realizes he has special abilities. He eventually gains his memory back through 
 flashbacks (which are actual levels you play through) . The storyline flows very well and it makes 
 you interested in finding out more about Vattic's situation. Your special powers are nothing mind 
 blowing, but serve their purpose. The most useful is probably the possession ability, which allows 
 you to make a ghost of yourself and control guards. This is extremely useful for wiping out large 
 amounts of guards without harming yourself. You can just send the guard on a suicide mission (shooting 
 at everyone until he gets taken down or your energy runs out) . The enemy AI is very wacky unfortunately. 
 Logical standpoints aside, it's all based on luck. Sometimes you'll get caught, other times you 
 won't. However, this is very a very minor issue as the AI is functional enough to be somewhat challenging. 
 The controls are very smooth. There's an auto-aim function that'll really help the less experienced 
 players, while the more advanced gamers can feel the pleasure of moving the inner crosshair towards 
 an enemy's head. I'm glad, that the stealth in this game isn't too overdone. There are levels where 
 you can just go around shooting people and it's a relief when you've just gone through a level 
 which required all stealth.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: The graphics are pretty good. There are some clipping issues however. The 
 sounds are great, especially the voice acting.
  
  Replay Value: Unfortunately, this is just a onetime play. No reason to go back.
  
  Overall, 
 this is a fun game to play. It's entertaining for what it is, despite its minor flaws. The story 
 really compels you to finish the game. Unfortunately, once you've finished the game, there's no 
 reason to go back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  At first, the shooter action seemed kind of lame with an auto-aiming function that makes it too 
 easy, then it dooms you with an enemy alert system that throws enemy guards at you, unlimited. 
 Ok, that's when stealth comes in. Thing is, it works at some levels, but at times, it's a pity 
 that the bad camera movement often spoils your chances unexpectedly.
  
  Though you can switch between two camera angles, one fixed (something like Resident Evil) , the 
 other a mouse-controlled system (like Max Payne) , both of them in Second Sight have too many blind 
 spots - intentional or unintentional, that renders the game unnecessarily difficult at times. Luckily, 
 the innovative hybrid action between pure shooting and magic (psychic) powers allows more enjoyment 
 to cover the complaints.
  
  Your character in Second Sight is like Solid Snake-meets-Jedi Master, not only does he move and 
 shoot like Snake, he shows off a grandmaster level of psychic prowess that'll make Yoda proud. 
 Other than using the force on many occasions, he's able to charm friends and foes alike around 
 him, what's more, he had the ability to possess enemy soldiers. Freaky, but fun.
  
  I'd like to commend on the animations and voice work. The mocap animated characters move convincingly 
 in the game, and their facial animations are quite Disney quality. The voice acting is also superb, 
 like it's done for a movie. Overall, I enjoyed the little experience but the main gameplay does 
 suffer from bad camera work and unbalanced checkpoints. Those who can look past these problems 
 may find it a great stay-at-home weekend retreat.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaganzone
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Just in short
  graphics --&gt; OK ( a bit dated)
  sound --&gt; good
  Story --&gt; Interesting
  
  Features
  1) psycho powers
  2) weird physics
  3) Animated Computer 
 screens (as found in doom 3)
  
  Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second 
 Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight 
 Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second 
 Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight 
 Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second 
 Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight 
 Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second 
 Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight 
 Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second 
 Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight 
 Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second 
 Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight 
 Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second 
 Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight 
 Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second 
 Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight 
 Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second 
 Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight 
 Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second Sight Second 
 Sight Second Sight Second Sight 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilualmighty
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Second Sight tells a story of a man who wakes up in some kinf of medical facility with no memory 
 of who he is. Shortly after he discovers that he has some unusual psychic powers which he can use 
 to manipulate various things.
  
  The story is great. The story telling is awesome, and it hooks you in it instantly. This is one 
 of those games that you don't really want to put down because of the story. Infact, I'd go as far 
 as to say that the story is one of best I have seen in a long while. It's well supported by decently 
 casted voice talents, and because it's a very story driven game in the end, it's a blessing that 
 the cast is as good as they are.
  
  Controls are quite good. It's apparent that the console origins are there, but there really isn't 
 anything else to complain than the camera, but even that is only troublesome at times. Biggest 
 problem with it is that it doesn't go through walls. Because of this, it sometimes creates quite 
 interesting, but useless, camera angles. If the camera could go through walls (and the wall would 
 then turn transparent, of course, so we could still see the playable character) , there wouldn't 
 be a problem like this. But in the end, this is not so big of a deal.
  
  While some may say that the graphics are simple and ugly, I personally liked the comic style. It 
 looks personal and interesting, not of the same mold as 99% of the games are these days. Musics 
 and sound effects were quite okay. Graeme Norgate did quite a few memorable songs for this, it's 
 too bad that there is no soundtrack available.
  
  The game offers two difficulties, and while the normal one is quite fine for me, the challenging 
 one will provide something extra for seasoned veterans.
  
  All in all, this is very very good game, with interesting story and good gameplay. Definitely worth 
 checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdc720
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 31, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Second Sight is an extremly good game with great gameplay. I just love this game because of the 
 3 ways you have to go about most of the missions. The first option is to use stealth, stealth is 
 probably your best option to tackle the great but sometimes frusturating missons. The main character 
 can take cover, hand to hand over pipes and walls and hide in lockers. The second option is using 
 weapons. throughout the game you will have a number of weapons at your disposal. These weapons 
 range from pistols to shotguns and machineguns. Using weapons isn't always the best choice and 
 the game dosne't encourage you to use them except in the earlier missons in the past. Your third 
 option is your pyshic powers that go from telekinesis to astral projection. These powers are fun 
 and you will be using them allot through the games missons. The great thing is you don't have to 
 choose waht you want to do and stick with it , you can combine the three options for excellent 
 results. The story in Second Sight is good and keeps you guessing till the very end, So you only 
 know what the main character knows. You will play as a man named John Vattic who at the begging 
 wakes up in total isolation in a medical facility while discovering his powers and his past. The 
 takes place on two different time lines. The past and the present. The levels in the past are more 
 shooter focused, while the levels in the present are more stealthy. The cool thing about the game 
 is that what you do in the past affects the present. The graphics are okay and the blood is awesome. 
 The voice acting is good but only for the main characters. The guards and enemy soldiers you will 
 face pretty much all sound the same. The game also forces you to stop and go to a menu to change 
 weapons and powers. Problems aside the game is great for any platform and any sc-fi, shooter or 
 stealth fan will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lineker89
Rating: 5.9
Date: Sep 7, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  As i was installing the game, i was very excited. Nice looking cover, good idea. That all changed 
 after i played it for an hour.
  
  The story is that a weird looking geezer wakes up in a hclinic room, only to discover he has newly 
 aquired psycic powers. Great. He starts remembering things in his past, how he ended up there. 
 The plot is that he was on a mission with a spec-ops team to capture a mad scientist, but that 
 all goes horribly wrong.
  
  The graphics are ok, you could run it on a GeForce 2 mx. Although you get the occasional glitch, 
 it's pleasurable. You're only left wondering why the developers didn't spend some more time polishing 
 them up. Sound is average, loads of speech in game.
  
  The powers in the game are pretty innovative. The best skill in the game is one where you leave 
 your physical body and go and posses another, allowing you to get a guard to kill off his mates 
 and then kill himself.
  
  There's not much else i can say of this game, seeing as i'd rather poke a red hot skewer through 
 my rectum than continue playing this all round crap game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_tormentor
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  A short review for your pleasure.
  
  I found this game in a bargain bin and much to my surprise, this game surpassed my expectations. 
 The Graphics are definetely not flashy, but they are very smooth. Voices are done exceptionally 
 well, and the disproportioned characters (yay Timesplitters) are very well animated. The psychis 
 powers are a main part of this game and are implented well. They are given to the player very early 
 on, and the player can play though the levels any way the player chooses. Sleath can be a bit frustrating, 
 with wierd camera angles though.
  
  The greatest aspect of this game is the story, and I advise anyone who loves a twisting turning 
 plot to buy this game immediately.
  
  Overall, its a diamond in the rough, and a great game to add to any collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPagliarulo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  From the makers of Time Splitters and Time Splitters 2 comes Second Sight, a semi-psychological 
 thriller. Free Radical/Codemasters could have fine-tuned the controls and movement a little bit 
 better, and DEFINITELY added more psi-based powers. Playing as John Vattic for me was a little 
 bit frustrating, as it seems you can only enter First Person mode when (1) peeking out of a door, 
 (2) crawling in a confined space, or (3) hiding in a closet or cabinet. Since I'm used to playing 
 other Free Radical games in FP, I would have liked to see the FP mode available at all times. Also, 
 a few more psi powers could have been introduced -- the five that are available aren't that spectacular.
 
  
  This is my first review for Gamespot, please feel free to add anything, and share your thoughts. 
 Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Second sight is a very humble game in all aspects; that is it doesn't look much of a big title 
 right from the beginning, however, it reveals a great load of fun and good features deep inside 
 the package. First thing first, the graphics are very nice and they look just cool in most aspects. 
 the design of levels and characters turned just fine and well-managed overall. the second aspect 
 is the gameplay; it is for too many reasons the best and strongest point in the game for what I 
 could see myself; the psycho-power and nice movements of the character are really to enjoy so much, 
 I loved them all. the sounds are also great and the story is another good hit in the game, I am 
 not gonna tell it so as not to spoil the fun for you guys, however, i must say that Second-sight 
 has got an interesting and creative plot and intriguing story-line that I had the chance to enjoy 
 indeed. All in all, this game is hard to miss because it reveals more than you can imagine... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  I got this game for 12.99 and its definatley worth it for that much. For 30 dollars not so much 
 just due to how short the game is. Under 8 hours. The game is about a guy named john vatic who 
 wakes up in a hospital all cut up and bandaged and finds out that he posseses psychic powers. Through 
 the game you get more powers. The game also goes back in time 6 months to when john was with the 
 army investigating a base in syberia. Mostly these levels have you using sniper rifles pistols 
 machine guns instead of your powers but later in the game you are able to use them then. The graphics 
 I thought on this game were really quite good especially in cutscenes the way the characters move 
 and act. The main character is a major dork in this game though reminding me of Gordon freeman 
 from half life. The voice acting is pretty decent except for maybe the children later in the game. 
 I did find myself interested in the story of this game and thought the idea was cool. The music 
 is good and not to noticeable through most parts of the game but at certain areas or when an alarm 
 is sounded it picks up. Overall I would recommend this game for the price its at now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 16, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  I bought Second Sight from the bargain bin at the local store because I had heard about it and 
 I was looking for something to play during this dry time for the PC. What I found was a game that 
 was certainly not a bargain bin game, but something that was well worth playing. Nothing in this 
 game is original, but the way everything works together is what makes this game fun. 
  The storyline is what really makes this game work for me. Each level had a purpose and a motivation 
 that kept me going to find out what happens next. The story is sort of a mystery as you start the 
 game waking up in a lab not remembering anything and working your way through the game trying to 
 piece together what happened to you. I wanted to play the game just to find out how it ended. 
 
  The game mechanics are a bit clunky, the shooting is a pain at best, but not annoying enough to 
 make me quit. The psychic powers though I found to be well integrated and fun to use. The lack 
 of shooting ability actually makes you want to use your psychic powers unlike other games where 
 you would rather just shoot because your powers are useless. Many parts of the game are built around 
 your abilities, but you can solve problems in many different ways. 
  The presentation of the game is about average, not flashy, but not bad. It's a good enough game 
 that you don't mind playing and your not constantly thinking about how bad the graphics are. The 
 voices and sounds are good and add to the game. 
  Overall Second Sight is a sold third person shooter that integrates some nice features and an interesting 
 storyline to make a game that can be very fun to play and you can still pick up for about ten dollars 
 at the store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoy 3rd person shooters with a Max Payne type feel, plus you are looking for something 
 a little different, then try out this game. At it's core, the game is a 3rd person shooter/adventure. 
 However, there' s the added twist to the gameplay in that the main character's develops progressively 
 stronger ESP skills such as telekinesis. These skills become quite useful during the game in both 
 combat and getting out of traps/trouble. One of the best skills in the game - something I haven't 
 experienced much in other games - is his ability to project himself outside his body. This projection 
 can perform actions, in a limited timeframe, such as going through doors to pull levers/push buttons 
 - what have you - to get out of tough situations. Overall, this makes for a very enjoyable gameplay 
 experience. Additionally, the story is very exciting and intriguing and involves the character 
 playing in parts of his past and future to change his overall fate - all the while finding out 
 more about his special abilities.
  
  I really have nothing bad to say about the game. There are better games out there, but this game 
 certainly stands on it's own. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peltz999
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  When i first saw the game, i didnt really know what to expect, and i didnt have high hopes from 
 the game, so i was pleasently surprised when i completed the game.
  
  I think the only difference that sets it apart from most shooters, is the strong stoyryline, very 
 well written and executed. Its most defenatly the strongest side to the game. Although some of 
 the levels might seems like old-news, the story and the music and the enviroment really create 
 the right feeling for all the areas. And whats most important, the pace of the game is very good, 
 just when you think ok enough of sewers you get thrown to the otherside of the planet to icy landscape 
 of siberia.
  
  Although the rest of the game plays like your ordinary everyday shooter, the psi abilities sure 
 makes it more fun. Telekinesis for instance is one of the coolest things in the game.
  
  Well the game can never be compared to such titles as Deus Ex, it sure feels and plays better than 
 the DE: Invisible War. The game has potential, should they ever make followup, add some rpg elements 
 and you have an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  Last year, we saw our fair share of psychic-shooters. First, Midway paved the way with Psi-Ops: 
 The Mindgate Conspiracy; Free Radical Design responded by releasing the multiplatform Second Sight. 
 Unfortunately, the original formula for the game hasnt changed at all and despite being the first 
 PC shooter featuring psychic abilities, Second Sight just cant compete with other, better action 
 titles.
  
  You start the game in a hospital bed; you dont know who, or where you are and one glance in the 
 mirror makes it obvious that you may not want to find out. From this moment on youre assigned 
 the task of reclaiming your lost memories, to make right the wrongs of the past, and do it all 
 with cool psychic powers.
  
  The biggest part of Second Sight, without a doubt, is the inclusion of your characters psychic 
 powers. Youll gain these powers intermittently after you wake up and before you know it youll 
 have access to such things as telekinesis, psi-blasts, projection, charm, and the especially handy 
 ability of healing. Unfortunately, while each of the abilities has a purpose, some seem included 
 simply to solve a few puzzles. Even telekinesis seems restricted, mainly because the environments 
 dont lend themselves to be altered. A few boxes and stray pieces of equipment here and there can 
 be lifted and thrown around and it feels like the telekinesis aspect of the game isnt nearly as 
 explored as it could be. This is compounded by the fact that restrictive mouse controls dont let 
 you manipulate objects as well as you could.
  
  I digress however, and moaning about one specific power doesnt seem right since the game itself 
 lets you pick your own style of play which may, or may not, involve tossing guards around like 
 a rag doll. Instead of catering missions around specific powers, youre let loose with everything 
 fairly early, giving you the option of completing missions however you see fit You can meander 
 through levels using cover and eliminating guards secretly, thereby not raising any alarms. Using 
 stealth can sometimes be an exercise in frustration though because of some clunky PC controls. 
 Implementing the space bar as a way to subdue guards is like rolling dice on the Vegas stripyou 
 may get lucky and knock the guy out. On the other hand you may get snake eyes in a crushing twist 
 of fate in which all hell breaks loose. This is caused by having to frustratingly position yourself 
 precisely behind an enemy, looking directly at their back. Its rewarding if you can pull it off 
 but botching the procedure will result in an activated alarm and a swarm of never-ending enemies.
 
  
  Small issues like that highlight a number of irritating things about Second Sight. First and foremost, 
 the AI seems to have several different settings. Theres cowardly AI which will run away from you 
 and not even bother activating alarms. This is the same type of enemy that will cower in fear when 
 you float objects around using telekinesis. Lord knows if I have a military-grade shotgun, Im 
 going to be afraid of floating clipboards. In these instances, the AI doesnt seem to want to investigate 
 many things, leaving their ultimate demise a fairly easy job. In the off chance that you are discovered, 
 either by humans or security cameras, enemy guards will randomly spawn around you and display a 
 god-like quality of knowing exactly where you are at any given moment. The game has a knack for 
 being bi-polar; it can be humorously easy at times then immediately change to a frustration that 
 makes even hardened veterans of gaming weep. Before you know it, youll have an infinite amount 
 of guards on your position. 
  
  Its in this type of situation that youll appreciate the relative ease of firefights in Second 
 Sight, but even if you dont end up blowing your cover, youll get some chances to utilize the 
 games small arsenal of weapons. Every now and then your character will gain some of his memory 
 back and youll be transported to flashbacks of past missions, which are straight-up action levels. 
 Theres never much challenge here but youll have access to a full-arsenal of weapons like pistols, 
 assault-rifles, shotguns, and sniper-rifles. The aiming system is one of the neatest quirks as 
 it allows you to auto-target enemies and fine tune your aim to hit specific parts of the body. 
 This is even better implemented in sniping mode. Instead of taking up your entire screen, youll 
 be able to peer through the lens in a smaller, out of the way window in the lower-right of the 
 interface where youll still be able to adjust your aim and hit crucial parts of the body.
  
  Its hard not to like Second Sight for implementing small gameplay elements like that. For 
 what does seem to tarnish the games experience, theres a lot that will shine through as fun. 
 One of the things I liked in particular was the implementation of computers for various tasks. 
 Throughout the levels youll stumble upon PCs which can be used to unlock doors, switch off surveillance 
 cameras, and play the occasional arcade game. Including them in the game helps give the game a 
 little more personality.
  
  Graphically, the game doesnt offer much in the way of flashy visuals but is competent enough to 
 compete with rival games. Free Radical Designs, responsible for the TimeSplitters series, clearly 
 bases their visuals from previous titles. The odd-shaped and disproportioned characters would be 
 instantly recognizable for anyone who played either of the TimeSplitters games. Viewing enemies 
 far away in a rifle also reveals that drawing and rendering lengths are nearly as developed as 
 they should be. For a moment I thought I was either fighting extremely blocky characters or somehow 
 a platoon of Transformers was in my way. These visuals arent complemented by the odd camera angles 
 either.
  
  The audio, much like the graphics in the game, are mired in mediocrity. Voice acting isnt done 
 terribly, but it isnt done particularly well either. There are awkward pauses in dialogue and 
 the tones of some characters dont accurately reflect the emotion they are attempting to evoke. 
 The soundtrack to the game is your standard affair of generic action musicchances are you wont 
 even register that the scores differ whether or not the alarms have been activated. If anything 
 good can be said, the weapon sounds are fair.
  
  Overall Second Sight tries to be a stealth-action game at heart. When it comes down to it though, 
 you can elect to sneak around or run and gun, regardless of the designers intent. Clunky controls 
 and an average presentation prohibit this game from being any better than it is. If you never tried 
 the console version, you may want to look into this purchase; know that there is better competition 
 out there for you to invest your hard-earned cash.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-killaz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 6:42 am PT
Review:  The second Sight is a great game you can fight in hand and i weapons but the different thins is 
 you can control your power, you have many powers you can use, but the different thing is the other 
 can't have it and this make them too weak to fight against them.
  
  The control: The Story is to heavy you can't do so many thing when you fight people in the game, 
 you can't aim good like Max Payne and the controls is so suck
  
  The Story: The story is too great but there is some things is bad , like the childrens in the game 
 they are stronger than him and the swat team is too weak they don't have AI 
  
  The Gameplay: The Gameplay is so great but there are somethings bad in it the stealh isn't great 
 you can't stealh on people but there is something better , this thing is the power that he has 
 he can use them to be never seen or to carry people and throw them in the air
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  This Game Is good but not 
 great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JorgeDSantos
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 7:32 am PT
Review:  Honestly, i think it is a great game however it has some gliches.
  First, i would like to talk about the LOnGuEtIVitityy of the game, wich is small and very easy 
 to get to the end of it ( by personnal experience...) but, when playied it gets a good enjoying 
 game and a very detailed magic tricks.
  Kisses for the girls and a HI to guys
  GAMeSPOT RULES 
  (Watch HAcKERS 2) ============ AcIdBuRn 
  ~BE GOOD TO EXPERIENCE ALL THE CODEMASTERS 
 GAMES 
  ALL are quite good
  
  word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: never-named
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Last year the battle for the top underdog game was lead by Midway's Psi-Ops and Codemaster's Second 
 Sight, both of which made their transition from console to the PC early this year.
  
  In terms of comparision, Psi Ops is an adrenaline fueled third person shooter with some highly 
 fun and addictive psychic powers, on the other hand Second Sight is an average stealth shooter 
 with some exceptionally (yet equally) cool and addictive psychic powers.
  
  Anyway, the PC version of S. S. has a few key differences, in the visuals dept. the game includes 
 sharper textures, cleaner graphics and interfaces and most of all the option to choose higher resolutions. 
 S. S., being the first PC game from developer Free Radical, has a pretty good control scheme, though 
 the camera control could've been more polished. S. S. has a better story than Psi-Ops and the character 
 development is also much better, voice acting is a bit complicated, sometimes decent and sometimes 
 exemplary.
  
  So it's up to you to use YOUR psychic powers and choose wisely between P. O. and S. S. From my point 
 of view buy both as they are two distinct games in almost all manner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2005 11:27 pm PT
Review:  the value of this game is its really great story ,unfolds as you play and that drives you to play 
 it unstoppably. i think it is a great example of how games should be made.
  Now : the graphics are sometimes rough but generaly they put you in the mood and the environment 
 and the same result have the sound and music. The controls are typical only the camera is a bit 
 annoying (you cant always see and go where you want to)
  the aiming system works fine when you are behind a cover and not so well when you are not .The 
 overall gameplay is fantastic ,it's a good mixture of fierce fights and some very clever and interesting 
 tricks with your mind powers. And you are not alone in this story ,you will have partners which 
 you have to protect or follow.
  The only bad thing in this game is the lack of savings. The game is separated in chapters You cant 
 save in the game only when you reach a certain point of the chapter then the game is autosaved. But 
 if for any reason you want to quit and reload you will return in the start of the chapter. Anyway 
 this is a few times frustrating but it doesnt spoil the total good experience you will have by 
 playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seerix
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 7, 2005 11:30 am PT
Review:  Haven't played a game with such a great story for a long long time.
  
  Sorry for the introduction, but I just can't help myself. No RPG of Adventure would have to be 
 ashamed of such twisted and surprising story. It's the thing which makes you play it through in 
 one breath.
  
  The next best thing are the psychic powers, stuff you can do with them and related puzzles. You'd 
 think the developers must run out of ideas after several great puzzles, but there's still something 
 new and original.
  
  The next thing I loved about this game is the "genre variety". Sometimes it feels like a pure 3rd 
 person shooter (max payne?) , sometimes it's an action adventure with using these psychic powers 
 and sometimes it's just pure adventure with solving interesting puzzles.
  
  The graphics for this game blends excellently with the atmosphere, so does the soundtrack. If you 
 were in the main character's situation, you would surely hear something similar in your head.
 
  
  Sadly, the game suffers from some problems which spoil otherwise great experience. For example 
 the camera. You could argue that most 3rd person games have terrible camera, in Second Sight it's 
 just disastrous. Sometimes I got the feeling that no matter how I move the mouse, camera turns 
 as it pleases.
  
  The other thing i really disliked was the aiming mechanism while shooting. It uses automatic locking 
 onto most probable target and lets you fine-aim with the mouse. During the whole game I just couldn't 
 get used to it. There's nothing worse than your cursor locking onto a nearby box instead of a shocktrooper. 
 You can as well reload the last checkpoint.
  
  But overall I was willing to close my eyes and ignore these weaknesses because of the story, the 
 puzzles and the psychic powers.
  
  Finally: this may not be the ultrabest game on market. But never did Half Life 2 keep me playing 
 for so long in one session. I loved this game, it reminded me of Beyond Good & Evil - great surprise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taopix
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2005 3:34 pm PT
Review:  this game surely surprised me coz i never expected it to be this good. the graphic and sound is 
 not the cream of the crop but it's very decent and not bad. well there are sound bugs here and 
 there but it doesn't hurt the gameplay at all. when i first play the game, it gives me this metal 
 gear solid feel to it. you're alone and have no idea what's going on. i love games with good stories, 
 and this game will make you want to finish it coz' the story's very interesting and it'll keep 
 you pushing on. i liked psi ops, and if you like that game because of the cool and very, very violent 
 mind powers that you can use in the game, you'll be kind of dissapointed coz' the mind powers in 
 this game is not at all violent, but they're still very fun and cool too! the actual gameplay is 
 not that great though, and the targeting system needs getting used to but u'll figure it out quickly. 
 there is no mp, and afer you finish the game, there's really no reason for you to go back coz' 
 the strong point of this game is the storyline, and the storyline alone. things like gameplay, 
 graphic and stuff are really standard so if you like an action game with a great storyline, this 
 is a must-rent game! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
