-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Secret of the Silver Earring
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/adventuresofsherlockholmesthesilverearring/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  8, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.0, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 207 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Frogwares
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Sep 28, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The game features interesting characters, an engaging plot, and beautiful graphics, yet it's an 
 adventure with few puzzles and a mystery where you don't actually solve the mystery. 

  Secret of the Silver Earring is a breath of fresh air. Too many adventure games of late have lamely 
 aped the well-worn formula of the Myst games without capturing the true Myst mystique. The Secret 
 of the Silver Earring doesn't rely on someone else's formula, but instead confidently does its 
 own thing, albeit with mixed results. This adventure puts you in the shoes of the brilliant Sherlock 
 Holmes and his indefatigable assistant, Dr. Watson, as they try to solve a startling murder. The 
 game features interesting characters, an engaging plot, and beautiful graphics, yet it's an adventure 
 with few puzzles and a mystery where you don't actually solve the mystery.  

          Our intrepid sleuths, Holmes and Watson.     

  Secret of the Silver Earring takes you 
 to England in 1897, where Holmes attends a gala hosted by an industry magnate, Sir Melvyn Bromsby. 
 Bromsby is celebrating the return of his daughter, Lavinia, from school abroad, as well as her 
 18th birthday. Just as Bromsby takes the stage to deliver an address to the assembled businessmen, 
 army officers, and ladies, a shot rings out. Bromsby falls dead instantly. As the startled throng 
 rushes for the exits, Lavinia is left looking like the prime suspect.  

  Playing primarily as Holmes, and occasionally as Watson, you'll have to unravel an extremely tangled 
 web of intrigue to find the murderer. This mostly entails questioning everyone in sight and looking 
 for tiny clues. Both these tasks can leave something to be desired. Instead of questioning suspects 
 and witnesses with finesse and guile, all you do is exhaust a preset series of dialogue choices. 
 There's no true interaction here, which can make it feel like you're just along for the ride. Searching 
 for clues can sometimes make looking for a needle in a whole row of haystacks seem easy by comparison. 
 The game's environments are richly detailed, and you're expected to find little strands of hair 
 or suspicious smudges in them. Real-life crime investigators might engage in the equivalent of 
 pixel hunts, but this is a game, and games should be fun, not frustrating.  

  Happily, many clues are easier to spot, be it a book on a shelf or a letter in a lady's handbag. 
 Every time Holmes or Watson finds one, makes an observation, or engages in a conversation, it's 
 automatically recorded in a notebook. At the end of each of the game's five acts, you return to 
 Holmes and Watson's famed 221b Baker Street lodgings and take a quiz. Yes, that's right: a quiz. 
 Secret of the Silver Earring offers only a few conventional adventure game puzzles where you have 
 to manipulate objects with inventory items or solve pattern recognition or math challenges. To 
 take up the slack, the game's quizzes pose a series of questions that let you demonstrate how well 
 you've been paying attention to the investigation so far. You have to answer "yes" or "no" to each 
 question and choose the proper pieces of evidence, conversations, or observations to justify your 
 answers. If you get all the questions right, the game proceeds. If not, you have to keep trying 
 until you succeed. Unfortunately, the game doesn't tell you which answers are right or wrong, so 
 if you fail the quiz, you can't know where you've failed.  

  While Holmes is famous for his mental prowess, Secret of the Silver Earring throws in a little 
 action for a welcome change of pace from all the meticulous sleuthing. That's a good idea in theory, 
 but not so hot in practice. The game's movement controls can be maddeningly unresponsive at times; 
 you might click a destination, only to see Holmes just stand there or turn in circles. That's quite 
 a burden when you have to make Holmes elude a night watchman and his dog by running around and 
 hiding behind scenery. There's almost no room for error; your timing has to be spot on. Later in 
 the game, it gets even worse when you have to run through a forest maze while a timer ticks down. 
 If you don't make it in time, you lose the game. Word to the wise: save often.  

  With weaknesses like these, Secret of the Silver Earring surely doesn't sound too promising. You 
 can't fully discount such faults, it's true, yet the game does have ample charms. The engaging 
 story involves shady financial dealings, a notorious construction project in colonial India, a 
 thug from the Far East, a tragedy among a traveling troupe of English actors visiting South America, 
 and more. The game's depiction of late Victorian England is equally colorful if a bit dubious historically. 
 For example, some of the women are dressed too revealingly for the era, and gentlemen barge into 
 rooms without knocking or being announced by servants.  

  The broad cast of characters includes suspicious army officers, shady businessmen, overworked domestic 
 help, drunken coachmen, arrogant actors, humble villagers, stalwart constables, and other interesting 
 people. The major players are well realized and likable. Holmes gets to display his striking powers 
 of deduction right off the bat by taking a few seemingly innocuous details and generating a thorough 
 description of a stranger's character and social standing. You can almost hear an air of self-satisfaction 
 in his explanation to Watson. Elementary, indeed. Watson is always busily taking notes and sometimes 
 becoming a bit exasperated at Holmes' cool, detached demeanor. Inspector Lestrade of Scotland Yard 
 shows up from time to time, too; he means well but tends to be rash and doesn't prove to be much 
 of an investigator.  

  Generally top-notch voice acting helps bring the characters alive. Much of the game's dialogue 
 could be considered stilted and tedious by modern standards, but the actors speak their lines with 
 conviction and grace, helping evoke a bygone era. The game also boasts some of the best music you're 
 likely to hear in a game, which makes it ironic that it's poorly implemented. You'll hear gorgeous 
 chamber works by Dvok, Grieg, Schumann, and Tchaikovsky, yet the game plays the same 
 little snippets over and over with little relation to the onscreen action.  

          The game sports only a few pure puzzles, such as this.     

  Visually, Secret of the 
 Silver Earring is outstanding, with sumptuously colored and beautifully lit environments. They're 
 loaded with a wealth of fine detail, from ornate candelabras to fine old paintings to minutely 
 patterned rugs. The game's characters don't fare as well, with some stilted animations, sloppy 
 lip-synching, and clipping problems from time to time.  

  Drawbacks like that and the dearth of true puzzles hurt Secret of the Silver Earring, yet the entertaining 
 story and characterizations make it reasonably easy to live with such faults. There's one much 
 graver caveat with the game, though: You don't actually solve the mystery yourself. You can take 
 an optional final quiz to test your theories about "whodunit," but either way the game ends with 
 an extended cutscene in which you just sit and watch Holmes rather tediously explain the whole 
 case from start to finish. It's fun to see his prodigious powers of reasoning at work, but shouldn't 
 a game ultimately be about your powers of reasoning?     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Salar77
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This title is the best, a complete detective game.
  It is logical with related puzzles.
  For those who are smart like Sherlock.
  
  After all waiting for this I think it worth much 
 to buy and play this one.
  Secret of the Silver Earring has a good and strange story which keeps you alive during the game, I 
 don't remember getting bored playing the game.
  
  The story line of Secret of the Silver Earring is realistic and logical and it does not include 
 some magical or super human creatures which I hate too see in detective games.
  
  The dialogues are perfect, you can ask different question form people, which I think it is the 
 best feature of the game.
  
  About the environment and music I should say it has been done perfectly, you really feel you are 
 in the 19th century.
  
  Downsides are:
  
  The time element is not effective in the game, you can examine something forever; that is not realistic.
 
  The game lacks flexibility, when there could be dozens of solutions for a problem or puzzle but 
 you are limited to one choice; that is not creative.
  
  At the end I should say, I want to play as a detective to solve the mystery of the game not as 
 a puzzle solver who bought a puzzle magazine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 15, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Secret of the Silver Earring takes you to England in 1897, where Holmes attends a gala 
 hosted by an industry magnate, Sir Melvyn Bromsby. Bromsby is celebrating the return of his daughter, 
 Lavinia, from school abroad, as well as her 18th birthday. Just as Bromsby takes the stage to deliver 
 an address to the assembled businessmen, army officers, and ladies, a shot rings out. Bromsby falls 
 dead instantly. As the startled throng rushes for the exits, Lavinia is left looking like the prime 
 suspect. You Usually play as Sherlock Holmes and Occationally Watson you have to figger out who 
 did the murder. Looking for clues is rather simple and straite forward. You go up to a cubboard 
 or desk and look at it and try to pick things up and observe everything. What makes the game a 
 intresting is that when ever Holmes or Watson finds something, interact with some one or observe 
 something, it is recorded in to a note book which can make the game easier since you can go back 
 and look at the note you took. There are Quizes in the game, there are five parts and at the end 
 of each part you will be tested to see if you where paying attention closely or not. The broad 
 cast of characters includes suspicious army officers, arrogant actors, overworked domestic help, 
 drunken coachmen, shady businessmen, humble villagers, stalwart constables, and other interesting 
 people. The major players are well realized and likable. Graphics: The Graphics are amazing in 
 this game, They are fully 3-D and the Enviroment is very Collorfull and well done.
  
  Sound: The soundtrack is well done and the voice acting is exellently done I have to say.
  
 
  So in the end The game's characters don't fare as well, with some stilted animations, sloppy lip-synching, 
 and clipping problems from time to time. Drawbacks like that and the dearth of true puzzles hurt 
 Secret of the Silver Earring, yet the entertaining story and characterizations make it reasonably 
 easy to live with such faults. All in all this is a very entertaining game but it's a really underratted 
 game that got over looked. I give this game 8.3 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indianapepsi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 14, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I found this game at a Dollar General store near where I lived, I had never played a Sherlock Holms 
 game before but as it was only $6 I thought I'd give it a try and wow I was amazed at the level 
 of detail in the locations and the charater models, truly a beautiful game to play through for 
 the locations and movies alone, I think that makers of such games as the CSI trilogy should take 
 alot of notes from this game, the ability to walk around the locations was far more fun and in 
 depth compared to the very static movement in CSI: 3 Dimentions of Murder, Although the game did 
 require a little running around this just added to the depth rather than just moving from scene 
 to scene like in the CSI games, but i does however, unlike the CSI games, just deal in the one 
 case which is huge, with over 30 hours of gameplay, many movies and 40 rich and very realistic 
 locations to visit.
  
  In short if there is to be another CSI game i suggest they all play this game and take notes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saba47
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  First Of All, This Game is Great For Sherlock Holmes Fans.
  Gameplay: As a Video Game The Game Has Many Problems. Many Graphical Bugs And Control Problem Will 
 Appear During Gameplay. For Example In Some Levels a Bug Make Some Of The Doors Locked (Holmes Will 
 Do Nothing When You Click On The Door) And You Must Restart The Game To Fix This Problem.
  As An Adventure Game Sherlock Holmes Has Good Graphics. The Characters Objects Are Made Well And 
 If You Turn On Anti Aliasing And High Quality Shadows You Can See Very Good Graphics Among Adventure 
 Games. The 2D Backgrounds Are Great And Is Not Like Some Other Games That You Can't See Anything 
 On Them.
  The Sounds Of The Game Is Not Good But It's Musics Are Amazing!
  You Can Hear Some Of The Best Classic Musics During Gameplay And Each Place Has It's Own Musics 
 That You Can Listen Them In That Place.
  
  The Story Is Great And Specially When You Complete The Game You'll Like Complete It Again. It Begins 
 With Murder Of Sir Bromsby In His Own Villa During A His Daughter's Birthday Party. After That You 
 Must Take Control Of Sherlock Holmes And Somtimes Doctor Watson And Ask Every Body In The Place 
 About The Murder.
  In Fact The Story Is Good You Will Become So Eager To Complete It.
  
  Sherlock Holmes Is A Good Game At All And If Like Adventure Games You Should Play It And Have Some 
 Fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xstephosx
Rating: 4.1
Date: Sep 18, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Sherlock Holmes the great detective The only detective work here is how this game scored so highly.
 
  
  I bought this game on budget, as it installed I was impressed by the graphics I thought I was going 
 to be in for a gaming treat that I havent had since the days of cruise for a corpse How wrong 
 I was, from the moment I pressed play the motion video stuttered and jerked its way on to my screen, 
 no problem I thought I will just skip to the game. This is where the problems lie, the story is 
 revealed in motion video which is just plain unwatchable every 6-7 seconds there is a 1-2 second 
 pause. If I had a slow machine which I havent I could blame it on that but the facts are this 
 game is badly made.
  There can be no name calling of the graphics they are spot on for the time and one can only think 
 that the software teams efforts were used up here. There is better voice acting in a B-Movie, 
 the characters walk like zombies and talk like they are reading from a book.
  What ever good story there is here is destroyed by the unresponsive controls and game engine.
 
  At one point in the game you need to find finger prints / marks on a door frame, if you can achieve 
 this without activating the command to open the door then you're pretty good at these games or 
 extremely lucky.
  
  Good Points :
  Graphics, believable story
  
  Bad points
  Too many to list!
  
  I consider myself an adventure game fan but this game is unfinished and 
 dull. Which is a shame because the last Sherlock Holmes adventure game I played Sherlock Holmes: 
 The Serrated Scalpel was fantastic gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwells
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Sherlock Holmes and his various side-kicks (Watson, Lestrade, etc) are such great quirky characters, 
 and this game does an admirable job of capturing their spirit You can tell from the first instant 
 of the game, where Holmes goes on one of his rambling, free-association logic sprees that the 
 game will be heavy on character and light on game. And, you know what, that is OK by me.
  
  I was worried from reading the GameSpot review that the action sequences in the game would be 
 difficult and would take away from the adventure experience. I was dreading getting to one, figuring 
 Id be spending hours doing and re-doing those sequences, but they turned out not to be that difficult 
 at all. The mystery itself made as little or as much sense as any normal Sherlock Holmes story. 
 To me, this game was about atmosphere, and the game got that much right. Even having Watson call 
 Cabby, as ridiculous and unimportant as it was to the game, was a nice touch. This game was all 
 about nice touches and detail.
  
  There are many ways to get Sherlock Holmes wrong. The admirable thing about this game is that 
 it basically got Holmes right and it was still an engaging enough game that I wanted to keep 
 playing it. If you are Holmes fan (which I was long before I started playing video games) and an 
 adventure game fan, then I highly recommend this title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianpoetzel
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  BORING! Graphically this game is okay but thats about it. The voice acting is bad. It sounds like 
 everyone is talking with a clothes pin on their nose. The controls are clunky. Holmes moves slowly, 
 stops, turns, moves slowly again, stops, turns, and repeats. You have to be right on top of a clue 
 before the cursor will register which means its easy to overlook something. And you have to use 
 the clues in a very specific order otherwise they wont register. For example; in Holmes lab you 
 need to move a water bowl, put in some soap and put in the towel to get a result. It took me forever 
 to figure out the water needed to be moved from one side of the table to the other first to get 
 the other steps to work. Why? Who knows? 
  
  And then on top of everything you have to take a quiz at the end of each day. I think theres something 
 like 10 questions. You have to answer each question right AND back it up with evidence youve collected. 
 So, you have to sift through all of the testimony and clues and pick the ones you think fit best. 
 And if you get one wrong itll tell you that you need to study more and take the quiz again. But 
 it doesnt even tell you which one you got wrong!
  
  This is an awful game. Dont buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjbigham
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 12, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  This game's documentation boasts that it has more than 3 hours of dialog. Actually, it seemed like 
 30. There were times when that's all you do: listen to people talk talk talk, and that's before 
 you come to the VERY lengthy end "movie" (more about that later) .
  
  During the game, in which you are usually Sherlock Holmes and occasionally Dr. Watson, you search 
 several locations for clues about a murder (and ultimately, several murders) . This entails "painting 
 the wallpaper" with your cursor, searching for hotspots that lead to things as minute as hairs 
 and a feather. At times you (literally) need a magnifying glass to find them. It also includes 
 reams of documents and transcripts of conversations, all of which are recorded in your notebook 
 for future reference. 
  
  There are only three or four real "puzzles" in the game -- ranging from ludicrously simple (the 
 box at the end of the game) to impossibly difficult (the safe 'combination,' which even most walkthrough 
 authors say is nearly impossible to figure out) . 
  
  To make things easier (or duller, depending on your point of view) the game is extremely linear. 
 You can't leave a location unless you have found all the clues for that segment. Once you find 
 the last clue, you are normally zapped to another scene. 
  
  Even the "crime laboratory" scenes at 221b Baker street do nothing to add interest to the game. 
 You click on an item in your inventory and Holmes tells you what to do with it ("Hmmmm ... I wonder 
 what heat will do to this item?") 
  
  The second worst feature of the game (I'll get the to worst feature in a minute) are the periodic 
 "quizzes" that take place at the end of each "day" of investigation. You are forced to answer questions 
 and even provide the "evidence" to justify your answer. If you're wrong, you have to just keep 
 at it until you get them all right. Is this a game or a classroom? 
  
  To its credit, some the graphics are gorgeous, with incredible color and detail. Spend time really 
 looking at the interior of Holmes' Baker street apartment, or even the cobblestone street. In addition, 
 for the most part, the voice overs are good, with a real feel for the speech patterns of the old 
 Holme's movies.
  
  Yet, the navigation is awful. You're supposed to be able to click when you see the "footprints" 
 icon, but half the time you have to click all over the screen to get Sherlock to move. To complicate 
 matters, the perspective keeps shifting so you hardly know if you're coming or going! And when 
 was the last time you had to work your way through a maze? Wasn't it back in the Zork I days?
 
  
  The absolute worst feature, though, is the extended cutscene at the end, with Sherlock reviewing 
 the entire case and explaining how everyone was killed, by whom, etc. Granted, I had guessed early 
 on that it was ... oops, can't tell you! ... but the convoluted explanation at the end brought 
 in facts that we never had throughout the game. If I wanted to watch a movie, I'd have rented a 
 DVD rather than buy this game.
  
  All in all, despite the few good features that kept me going until the end, I can't recommend this 
 for anyone who wants more than a bit of eye candy for graphics design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icewindy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 15, 2005 7:53 am PT
Review:  Dr. Watson reads a letter from Lord Cavendish-Smith asking Sherlock Holmes to attend a party given 
 by Melvyn Bromsby for his daughter. Lord Cavendish-Smith asks Holmes to pay attention to Gallia, 
 an Italian diva that will be performing at the party. She is of concern to the government because 
 she will be one of the performers in the birthday party of an important government personage.
 
  
  Guests arrive at Sherringford Hall. At the ballroom, listen to Holmes' deduction of the character 
 of Melvyn Bromsby. Bromsby will say something of importance about the future of his business during 
 the opening address. As Bromsby starts to address his guest, he is shot. Lavinia Bromsby comes 
 out of the right door beside the columns.
  
  Gameplay: This is a point and click game. The main menu has new, load, save, resume, exit game, 
 options and credits. Pressing ESC during gameplay bring back the Main Menu. The options menu has 
 graphics and sounds controls as well as preferences selections for anti-aliasing, subtitles, slow 
 reading and shadows. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
