-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Secrets of the Ark: A Broken Sword Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/brokensword4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great selection of commonsense challenges and logic puzzles.
 Well-told story with lots of atmosphere.
 Outstanding visuals.
 First-rate voice acting and script.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too-close camera frequently gets in the way.
 Conversations go on forever and can't be skipped.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  5, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.5, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 479 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Dreamcatcher
Developer: Sumo Digital
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Feb 13, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Secrets of the Ark is a little too in love with itself, but this is still a first-rate traditional 
 adventure with a great story and mostly commonsense puzzles. 

  Nine years after the debut of the Broken Sword series, and accidental adventurer George Stobbart 
 is still getting into jams. The hero of one of the longest-running franchises in adventure gaming 
 returns to delve into yet another of history's mysteries in Revolution Software's Secrets of the 
 Ark (known in Europe as The Angel of Death) . The game is a traditional point-and-click jaunt that 
 doesn't break any new ground and has a few presentation problems, but it still reminds fans why 
 they fell in love with these games in the first place. Great visuals, exotic backdrops, and a largely 
 sensible lineup of brain twisters make this a must-play for anyone who likes adventures that follow 
 the tried-and-true Sierra formula.  

          This medieval manuscript is what all the fuss is about.     

  Much of the storyline 
 rolls out as a mirror image of the previous Broken Sword games. George has lost his patent business 
 and now toils for a bail-bonds dump in the middle of the Bronx, but he still has the same luck 
 with beautiful women. In this case, that woman is Anna Maria, and she arrives at Big Bros' Bail 
 Bonds telling a story about a manuscript leading to a "priceless treasure" and being trailed by 
 a pack of mob goons looking to kill her. She's a lithe, doe-eyed blonde, though, so George wastes 
 no time helping her escape from the thugs. Soon after that, the two of you are away to hunt for 
 a Biblical legend that takes you to exotic locales like Topkapi Palace in Istanbul, the catacombs 
 beneath the Vatican in Rome, and, um, a massage parlor in Phoenix, Arizona.  

  Gameplay in Secrets of the Ark is virtually identical to that in Broken Sword III: The Sleeping 
 Dragon. This is an old-fashioned adventure with point-and-click mechanics where you scroll around 
 every screen looking for hot spots and pick up everything that isn't nailed down. Almost all of 
 the obstacles here are refreshingly straightforward and require little to bypass, aside from careful 
 observation and use of common sense. Instead of crazy, all-too-typical adventure-game antics like 
 the infamous "tape on the cat" puzzle from Gabriel Knight III, here you stick to sanity. Gimmicky 
 goofiness regularly rears its ugly head in moments like the one where you swing across a chasm 
 between buildings with a chain and a golf club, or the time when you use a toy to distract a guard, 
 but the game requires relatively few leaps in logic for the genre. Adventure games generally aren't 
 this sensible.  

  Basic "how do I get over there?" challenges are spiced up by nifty logic brainteasers that both 
 test you and build an Indiana Jones atmosphere. The catacombs beneath Rome are home to an elaborate 
 system of puzzles where you arrange medieval coats of arms and walk on a map of the world to open 
 passages and reveal secrets. Golden angels in the Vatican hold hourglasses that must be manipulated 
 to access a hidden stairway. A bit of a  Mission: Impossible  vibe is also established courtesy 
 of the frequent need to hack computer systems on your PDA and mess around with modern, high-tech 
 security devices like laser beams.  

  All of the above is accentuated by tremendous production values. The game uses 3D visuals that 
 are on par with some of the better adventure titles in recent years. Characters look great, animations 
 are realistic (even if the controls are a bit clunky and the pathfinding a little messed up, especially 
 when you're dealing with doorways and pillars) , and locations boast a lot of color and detail, 
 along with superb use of light and shadow. The script and voice acting are excellent across the 
 board. Rolf Saxon again does a great job with George, lending his lines a "not this again!" weariness 
 that anyone would feel after being lured into yet another dangerous expedition by yet another mysterious 
 dame. Regina Regan does mostly first-rate work with Anna Maria, as well, and even incidental roles 
 like the thugs and guards are acted with a subtlety that you don't often find in games. Usually 
 even the best-acted games feature what sounds like the developer's pals in the lesser roles, but 
 every character here seems to have been voiced by a pro, or at the very least a first-rate amateur. 
 And the musical score perfectly weaves in and out of the action just as if this were a movie -- always 
 adding to what's taking place onscreen, never interfering.  

          Who wouldn't risk life and limb for her?     

  Unfortunately, Revolution is a little 
 too in love with what it has to show off here, and this gets in the way of playing the game. The 
 camera is locked on your character at all times and is always too close to the action, which gives 
 you a great vantage point when checking out George's chiseled features or Anna Marie's lovely eyes 
 but puts you at a big disadvantage when it comes to scoping out all of the hot spots in various 
 locations. Camera closeness even makes it a pain to just walk around. You usually can't see far 
 enough away to get across a room in a couple of clicks, so you're often forced to stutter-step 
 your way to and fro. Also, the dialogue and voice acting may be top-tier, but there is way too 
 much of it. Conversations typically drag on forever, and many lines are there simply to add flavor 
 and provide no pertinent information. Making matters even worse, you can't skip over any of this 
 blah-blah-blah wordiness and often have to exhaust all of the dialogue options to open up new discussion 
 topics or the ability to solve a problem. So even while you admire the script and acting, you soon 
 come to almost dread having a conversation with anybody.  

  While its old-fashioned flair means that Secrets of the Ark is less a modern adventure than an 
 updated take on something that grandma used to make, this game doesn't feel like a relic. Revolution 
 has done a great job blending new and old here, with gorgeous contemporary graphics and sound accompanying 
 traditional puzzles that get back to common sense. You need some patience to deal with the visual 
 problems and the wordy dialogue, but if you like adventure games, don't miss this one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (29 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: davemk7
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 7:03 am PT
Review:  although im a fan of bs 1-3, i recieved this game as a gift from my sister.
  
  And its just as well i didnt buy it outright, because after playing this game for the guts of 5 
 hours im well and truly fed up with it.
  
  when i first got this game, i loaded it on my full spec pc and it ran like a dream, but since im 
 painting and decorating atm ive loaded it on a dell laptop and turned the visuals down to rock 
 bottom in order to play it.
  
  anyways,
  im a counter strike player, and it actually kept me from playing bs4 for at least 2 years. i still 
 have loads of games in wrappers and they are un-opened because of it.
  but better late than never ? eh ! hmmm, better never i think.
  
  being a fan, owning the first 
 3 broken swords, and clearing all of them kinda gives me a full entitlement to completely diss 
 broken sword 4.
  its just not anywhere near as good as the previous installments. which, in my view, is a complete 
 let-down and is frustrating to say the least.
  
  where does this game fail? 
  the answer lies in the puzzle riddled gameplay.
  it also fails in broken swords number one aspect, 
 immersion.
  
  let me explain a bit here, broken sword 4 is the equivelent of going to the dentist and doing the 
 work on your teeth yourself. it just makes no sense at all. 
  firstly, the whole pda thing. it may act as a phone, which could be handy, but isnt, but for the 
 love of god if you give somone a pda you shouldnt have to try and hack it, and you also shouldnt 
 be able to hack a pda in the way bs4 does.
  its like your moving satellites around the globe just so you can get access to a website. stupid?? 
 yes my friend it is. its the equivilent of swatting flea's off a dog with a baseball bat.
  
  as for the puzzles.
  omg! someone freakin shoot me.
  you may need to find a gun first to 
 do that , but when you do find the gun
  to shoot me, make sure you dont have to go ino puzzle mode and xray your hand and play with tendons 
 or nerves in order to get your finger to pull the trigger. because thats what this game is like.
 
  
  movement alone is like a puzzle. hmmm, lets press right arrow, oh no, he turned into the wall. 
 maybe i should try forward and left !! oh no, this wall avoidment puzzle is tricky i tells ya.
 
  
  ok, let me go into depth here about a puzzle that really annoyed me.
  im in a meat factory. more precise, im in an office with a big safe.
  i can see that there are 
 glass windows to my left.
  i can see that the safe has wheels.
  i put 2 + 2 together = make the safe fly outta the windy. should be a result.
  
  but no, in 
 order to do anything here, your not allowed to jump the gun or use proper common sense. 
  im clicking on the safe, then im right clicking on the safe.
  if i right click i get 2 options, 
 LOOK or ACTION.
  ok pc game, i want to throw the safe out the windy, i choose ACTION.
 oh no that wont work heresays mr stobbard with 2 b's. 
  so wtf do i do now? how do i get 
 this safe out the windy?
  
  i go online and look up a walkthrough.
  seems like i cant have foresight and i must click on the windy im trying to send the safe through 
 first. then, and only then can i get the 3rd option to send the safe out the windy. 
  
  its things like this that really do my head in.
  
  so to sum it up, the puzzles are lazy and 
 dont work properly.
  they are overcomplicated and most times dont make any sense, 
  eg - the receptionist locked in the cleaning room.
  
  the game is not immersive even if it 
 is built on an emmersion engine.
  oh the irony. 
  the dialogue is long winded and doesnt make any sense most of the time.
  the movement controls 
 are a puzzle in their own right.
  
  so, thats it, my review of the game.
  its just like broken sword itself.
  long winded, lots of errors, and boring.
  
  games developers 
 should take steps forward and not backward.
  bs 1 can never be copied or updated. 
  
  move on, come up with new idea's and stop reverting to your back catalog. 
  ( that comment was 
 also aimed squarely at the prodigy ) .
  
  thanks for reading.
  
  dave.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panos83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  At first I have to say that I'm a broken sword fan... I've played and finished every game in the 
 series.
  
  In very few words I'll describe what Broken sword games have to offer... A mixture of Sherlock 
 Holmes-Indiana Jones storylines and riddles/puzzles, travels to real places either exotic or historical 
 or just big cities, tons of humour and a great leading character named George Stobbart, a lawer 
 who has a passion for adventure, beautiful women and solving the mysteries of ancient/medieval 
 legends across the world but not by choice.
  
  Let's go now to the game itself... This time you'll travel to New York, Rome (and the Vatican) , 
 Instabul (Constantinople) and a desert base in Phoenix to find clues about an ancient artifact 
 which has an important religious value and powers to terminate the faithless. Once again, by coincidence, 
 you have the most important role, to find this unique item and protect the world from the bad guys 
 who have plans to use it for evil purposes. 
  
  The graphics are great, not spectacular but are working fine and have lots of details (for example, 
 shadows from light and objects are carefully designed) . Voice acting is top as usual (except, for 
 me, Nico's voice  different actress this time for her) . Music has a background role but along 
 with the ambient noises of each enviroment you are into, it creates lots of atmosphere.
  
  The storyline has a great structure and flow but it's a bit cliche... Actually the first half of 
 the game was boring for me. I didn't find the places you visit so interesting comparing with the 
 older Broken Sword games. Most of the riddles/puzzles are based in logic, okay... some of them 
 are based in Broken Sword's creators logic though, well, at least for me. Anyway not extremely 
 difficult to solve. The most annoying thing in the game is that you can't skip dialogues or at 
 least have the option to boost the speed of the msg flow. Some play testing from the creators before 
 the release was enough to realize that, I think... Also, the ending is very brief and poor...
 
  
  All in all not the best in series, in some parts boring and "slow", but I can't say that it's a 
 bad game or a disappointing sequel.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blixxard
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 8, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I cannot help but like the Broken Sword series and previous instalment of The Sleeping Dragon was 
 a really good game and had the qualities that seemed to be lacking in The Angel of Death. This 
 game immersed the player into a storyline with its twists and had something for previous Broken 
 Sword characters, returning 'legend' George and Nico. The game started well but slowly deteriorated 
 into a tedious routine of puzzles that would test even the most of Broken Sword players. Whereas 
 previously you were rewarded with hard puzzles by a thickening plotline this instalment just appeared 
 fell flat as you reached the end. 
  
  It almost felt when playing the game like the developers wanted to add more and by the end had 
 given up with any decent ending that rewarded a tedious barrage of silly puzzles. Even Georges 
 famous one liners disappeared as the game progressed. Perhaps I am being over critical of a game 
 that is, a story with puzzles and an ending. In the other departments, the voice acting was brilliant, 
 some good puzzles, great destinations to visit and a nice clear interface. 
  
  
  Good Points
  - Good start and a plotline that did put you in the realms of intrigue.
  - Fantastic 
 characters. Archie Lonsdale, Thelwell Minster and Brother Mark were all good characters which were 
 amusing and likeable. 
  - The computer hacking mini-games which were really good, even if they did become rather hard later 
 on. 
  - Gameplay was good you could move George around pretty easily and didn't find any sticking issues. 
 
  
  Bad points
  - Unfulfilling ending. 
  - Tedious puzzles that needed a guide to solve. When you finally did solve a puzzle it would of 
 been a really stupid combination of items that achieved it. 
  - Not much exploration, you seem confined to the exact path of the storyline and the next storyboard 
 in the line. 
  - Once you have completed the game there isn't much more to do. Something that lacks in all Broken 
 Sword Games. Perhaps unfair to pin it on BS: AOD but nonetheless I did finish the game wanting 
 more. 
  
  It did start out well but slowly the game eroded into a poor manifestation of a game that felt 
 incomplete, leaving many questions unanswered. It is a game you play once and then never pick up 
 again. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lesteristheone
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 21, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  THE FACTS:
  
  # I remember 1 and 2 having so much to be intersted about, but this story is just not as interesting 
 at all why is the mafia involved?
  
  # The other broken sword games had a good feeling of adventure in them but i just don't feel it 
 in this one. Because alot of it takes place in urban areas too much. The general feel of game is'nt 
 right. 
  
  # Some of the puzzles get on nerves and not really to fun to do. Like the there is a part where 
 you have spin mirrors round to get light to reach a certian area and these just happen too many 
 times and get too frigin hard its just so dam boring as well. I found a couple puzzles insultingly 
 hard , like theres a part where you have to stand on certain countries in a certain order with 
 little hint on how to do so. 
  
  # I almost prefered it when it was 2d, im not sure why maybe its because i thought you could see 
 the land scape better and it just looked nice to look i at times and it was easier to get around. 
 If they made another good broken sword game in 2d grapics again i would'nt care 2d grapics can 
 get better two ya know. Who cares about grapics.
  
  # Mr Sobart thank god is still a likeble guy. 
  
  CONCLUSION:
  Thats it i give up with broken 
 sword it has been brought to its knees. 
  The games ok but i still think the seris has been ruined. There are better adventure games worth 
 playing now shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redserpentmetal
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 2, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  I've been a Broken Sword fan since the first installment. The series was brilliant with lots of 
 funny dialogs and entertaining puzzles that made a perfect time killer. Those were the good ol' 
 days.
  
  Angel of Death aka "Secrets of the Ark", starts great. Stobbart "two B's, 2 T's" is once again 
 being dragged through a mystery and followed by a bunch of bad guys, the Mafia in this game, while 
 trying to solve a manuscript related to the Templars. All seems good until Stobbart get betrayed 
 by Anna Maria. The story starts to drag and the plot gets thinner and thinner, the voice acting 
 gets worst as time goes by until the very end which leaves you cold and wonder why you bothered 
 waisting all that time on solving ridiculously easy puzzles, except for the "Assassin, Turk, Hospitilar, 
 Templar, Mamluk" Battle which on second thought wasn't that hard. I don't really know if they are 
 planning for sequel to this one and I hope they do because the game ends cold, not even a decent 
 end movie. It's disappointing, really not worth the play time wisted on it nor deserves the name 
 "Broken Sword". George Stobbart, think again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruca
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  The controls are a bit awkward and it's a bit annoying to get in certain spots. The graphics show 
 a quite substantial upgrade. The storyline though wasn't that impressive and ended too abruptly 
 with lots of questions unanswered. Some puzzles were too easy where they shoulda been harder and 
 hard ones in common places which should have been easy. Like in the building where u have to make 
 a cross over the floor by knocking down a door which kinda seemed a bit "stretched". And that wasn't 
 the only one... there are lots. The game didn't really need state of the art graphics... the storyline 
 was making it a great game like other adventure games. It seems that these type of games get a 
 bit worse by every sequel (for example The Longest Journey... and the sequel Dreamfall which was 
 very disappointing) .
  
  Hope there will be a BS5 soon... and that the story will be as good as the first 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valon34
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 2, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  The game play in this game is great. But, can be kinda of hard to play with at times. You have to 
 interact with so many things in the fourth installment .The graphics are amazing I haven't seen 
 graphics like this game in a while now. The sound is good and everything. But, the music can be repetitive 
 after hearing it again and again you get sick and tired of it. If you like the other Broken Sword 
 games I suggest you get this one as well to try it out. If not, then don't buy this game at all. The 
 ending of the game was pretty good but, could of been much better. After playing this game I still 
 say Broken Sword 3: The sleeping dragon was a better game. I can't wait until Broken Sword V comes 
 out. I will give at least 2-3 years until we see another Broken Sword game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arwenator
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  OK - Let me start by declaring my huge admiration for the three previous titles in this gaming 
 saga: Shadow of the Templars, Smoking Mirror &amp; The Sleeping Dragon. These games, at times, 
 crossed the once unbreachable boundary between great films and video games. With vividly realised 
 storylines, intriguing plots and impressive historical invention, Broken Sword makes thrilling 
 and compulsive playing &amp; viewing - I am still puzzled as to why no one has approached Revolution 
 for the film rights.
  
  So when I learnt that another BS game was in development I was understandably delighted but also 
 a little nervous. Let me explain.
  
  I'll never look at The Matrix, for example, in the same way after watching those terrible sequels 
 and truth be told, I was fearful that the good name of Broken Sword would be tarnished in the same 
 manner; a glued on, cashed-in sequel.
  
  And I'm afraid my fears were realised. Clunky controls, a ridiculous spec for graphics cards, stale, 
 patchy and plagiarised narratives, shockingly bad character acting, poorly implemented programming 
 (did anyone actually test this game?) and no WOW factor whatsoever. Even the puzzles were crap. 
 They were either too easy or completely random to contribute well-earned progression and this, 
 more than any other fault, is what kills this game. Broken Sword's appeal is founded on getting 
 through a difficult phase and delighting in the 'what's-going-to-happen-next' feeling. In BS4 this 
 sense of anticipation just does not exist and I have now stopped playing it completely. I gave 
 it a chance, and another, AND ANOTHER, but the control method is so poorly realised that it usually 
 ends in a frustrated ALT + F4 thump.
  
  BS3 was a 3D, interactive version of the 2D originals and worked very well indeed. Why they changed 
 the game's processing engine and control method from the last instalment is truly baffling. Only 
 high spec PC's can run BS4 and the game's actual visuals are really no better than BS3 which can 
 run on a much lower spec machine. And the control system has so many bugs in it; you'd think it 
 had just frequented a British hospital. I doubt I will ever finish BS4. I couldn't bring myself 
 to watch the Matrix Revolutions from start to finish and this disappointment is possibly even worse. 
 Gamespot - your reviewer should be ashamed and embarrassed to give this a score of 7.7, he must 
 have been either been bribed or has no future in the industry, possibly both.
  
  A huge let down and a wasted opportunity. Sometimes the good and the great should be left to rest 
 in peace. Pro Patra Mori. 
  
  Owen Bryant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 20, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Broken Sword: Secrets of the Ark (or Angel of Death depending on localization) , is a finely crafted 
 adventure game that gives you a lot of history along with its great story and locations. It is 
 a testament to the series that it always seems fresh and new with each adventure. With the exception 
 of some mechanical flaws and steep graphical requirements, the game is a great achievement for 
 adventure gamers everywhere.
  
  The Broken Sword series follows treasure hunter/adventurer/lawyer George Stobbard. This time out, 
 George is having serious financial difficulties. He has resorted to running a bail bond shop. While 
 working at the shop one evening, a woman comes in seeking assistance in locating and translating 
 a map that is suppose to lead to a huge treasure. But Georges life is never so straight-forward, 
 so it is no surprise that someone is after the young lady. On the run and in search of treasure, 
 George and his compatriots search several locations that will lead them to the secrets of the Lost 
 Ark of the Covenant.
  
  Game play is your standard adventure game fare. You search locations for items that will help with 
 solving puzzles that advance the game. One huge difference is that this is one of the first games 
 I have played where each puzzle makes sense. There are no obtuse puzzling uses for something in 
 your inventory. The all work in a way that seems sane and normal. It adds to the immersion of the 
 game, because you dont start scratching your head wondering what obtuse way did the designer want 
 me to use this device. The mechanics of the game are revamped from the last go around. A complaint 
 that was voiced by several, including myself was the action sequences where you have to complete 
 a set of actions in a certain amount of time. Some of these sequences were far too fast in deciding 
 your fate in the last game. This incarnation gives you plenty of time, to a fault on some occasions. 
 You never seem too rushed, but you still can run out of time. You just have a lot more of it.
 
  
  The look of the game has gone through a complete make over. The engine runs in full 3-D and it 
 shows. Character models show a lot more detail and emotion. Facial animations are well done. There 
 were several times that George inferred information in the game to the player via facial and body 
 animations that really stood out. Background graphics are good, but never stand out too much, because 
 the action is confined to small locations. There are details there, but not as much as you would 
 expect, considering the upgrade of the graphics engine. The engine was also pretty stable. There 
 were no real crashes and no evidence of serious clipping. One thing that the game has a lot of 
 is strong female characters. The two female characters that you use in the game are Nico Collard, 
 your faithful adventuring friend and Anna Maria, the strange female that got you involved with 
 the games main quest. Both are strong independent female characters, which is a rarity in gaming 
 today. They are not overly drawn, but possess intelligence and strength that they are not afraid 
 to use. I was a bit upset with the way that Nico was used as an object of desire in one puzzle, 
 because I have always found her to be stronger than George when it comes to a character. It is 
 something worth noting, because it is a good thing to see in games in general.
  
  Sound is very important in a game like this, because so much info is delivered to you in dialog 
 in an adventure game. All the voices are top notch save one. Nico Collard has a different voice 
 actor performing her role and she is horrible. There is no way to gloss over her performance, especially 
 when compared to the outstanding voice work by all the other voice actors. No explanation was ever 
 given as to why they switched voice actresses, but they dropped the ball with this decision. The 
 background music is good and helps build up dramatic moments, but it is a bit too quiet at other 
 times. It needed a bit better flow. Sound effects were good, when needed, but you do not run into 
 a lot of big time sound effects in games like this. But when the occasional explosion is made it 
 sounds good.
  
  While the game is good, the new graphics engine will cause problems for those systems that are 
 less current. When I installed this on a laptop at work with an Athlon TL-56 X2 processor, Radeon 
 x1150 Video card with 256MB of memory and 2GB of RAM, it ran slow. Almost slideshow like until 
 I turned down the details. On a good sized system it ran well, but if you have a bottom end system, 
 you will have to crank the detail way down. Also, there is one story twist that will kind of send 
 people into a bit of confusion. It worked well with the story, but it was definitely not something 
 most were expecting, and there are some that may take offense to it.
  
  In the end, Broken Sword: Secrets of the Ark gives the player a solid adventure game that gives 
 you a smart, well written story that is delivered, most of the time, with top notch voice work. 
 All the puzzles work well and it will be a rare time when you get truly stuck with any of them. 
 It is another great effort in the series that will fulfill the appetite of gamers everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tba405
Rating: 6
Date: May 17, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I used to play this game since i was about 13 ever since part one, i love the series and how smart 
 they WERE . . . . in the games . . . . . . . . . . anyway point is im half awake from the night 
 before writing a pointless review that maybe no 1 will read BUT ima still do it . . . hopefulli!!!!!!!!!!! 
 it will help the franchise . . . . . and also i have NO idea how this game poppped in my mind ???? 
 it seroiusly!! is 6.33 am ???? an what am i doing ??? hahaha aaaaaaaanyway . . .. . . this broken 
 sword difers it from every other game . . . . the first 3d look ?? ? .. first off it made it MUCH 
 to realistic (mature) for its comedy genre . . and didnt suit george or his jokes he does all the 
 time .. . . cause he looks too serious! with his jokes being very childish/lame . . . . . . . . 
 secondly it also made the game more expensive to make and thats why its SO!!! SHORT!!!!!!!! and 
 the places to go are very very veeeeeeery limited . . . . . . .. personlly it may be THQ's fault 
 ? ? . . or it might be the adventure companys fault for letting this happen to their best franshise 
 . . . . . . . . . i mean afterall . . . . it did take 3 and a half years in the making! ? ? . . 
 . . . . . and thats how long it takes for a well perfected metal gear solid game ????????? and 
 this is what we got after 3 years ? . . . . nice . . . . i like it when companys listen to there 
 customers . . . . . i trully hope monkey island doesnt fall down the same path . . . .. . . so 
 personally .. . . . . the game was still good . . . a bit boring at times . . . . it felt like 
 i just wanted to beat it . . . . . . . . thats it ? . . . noooooooooooo whats! so ever feeling 
 ? . . . . . . . anyway still a good game . . . . . . . just under the well crafted franshise name, 
 so . .. . . if you like the adventure games . . . . support this one . . . overall it is a good 
 game . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vlur
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Well, we all like to play adventure games and there are not many titles popping up nowadays. Broken 
 Sword games have always been fun to play so when this game caught my eye I rented it - thank god! 
 The first and biggest problem I had were the graphics. My lower-end PC has an ATI 9500 PRO gfx-card 
 in it and this game was laggy as HELL, even when I turned down the graphics and everything. I had 
 to manually edit the games .ini files to get various poorly written game-engine crap disabled and 
 game run smoothly.
  
  But the game was fun. Puzzles were cool and quite hard, despite the linear game-play. I really 
 enjoyed the dialoge - made me rip some of the dialoge from the .pak files :) And when a game makes 
 my laugh, I like it. There are huge cons here; graphics, unskippable dialogue, very very very crappy 
 character-movement, camera angle, and boring ending. But the fun-part scales cons down a bit.
 
  
  So, if you can, rent the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizzo2711
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  And then there was a fourth part in the trilogy. What? A trilogy with four parts? Well, yes. Okay, 
 not exactly, but still there is a fourth part. Although it sounds complicated, the explanation 
 is simple: while the Broken Sword series originally set out as a trilogy, a part 4 was created 
 due to popular demand by the fans. And behold, we got what we wanted! Although this time the game 
 was not created by Revolution Software but by Sumo Digital, Charles Cecil, father of the Broken 
 Sword series, worked closely with Sumo Digital (as did other members of the original Revolution 
 team) and came up with the story once more.
  
  Needless to say that once more you take on the role of George Stobbart and again you help him save 
 the world from an ancient evil (so far so good as far as the fans are concerned) . However, this 
 time we meet George at a point in his life where he seems to have hit rock bottom. No longer a 
 patent lawyer after the events of Broken Sword 3, due to bankruptcy of his firm, and unable to 
 get another job as a lawyer because hes been blacklisted, George has taken on the only job available 
 to him at a bail bond agency. Although at an all-time low, George his life seems pretty calm Until 
 a beautiful woman visits him about an ancient manuscript and tells George that her life is in danger 
 because of it. And now so is his as George will soon find out.
  
  
  The game
  
  The game compares best to part 3 in the series. This seems logical, since that game was in 3D as 
 well, but there are some differences. The controls for example are different, but more on that 
 later.
  What I like to mention is that Charles really took to heart the comments that people gave on the 
 previous Broken Sword game. This means that the crate puzzles are gone, with the exception of one 
 or two of them and the same goes for the sneaking parts. Also, the split-second decisions have 
 disappeared entirely, although there are some parts in the game where you have to perform certain 
 actions in a set amount of time. But usually you have plenty of time to perform these actions, 
 so dont worry. It is just nice to see that creators of games actually listen to the fans when 
 creating a sequel and you notice that this certainly has happened concerning Broken Sword 4.
  Does this mean that everything about Broken Sword 4 is better than Broken Sword 3? No, certainly 
 not. I must confess that I liked Broken Sword 3 more than I liked Broken Sword 4, although this 
 is personal. Why? I will try to explain.
  Primarily it comes down to the looks of the game. And Im not so much talking about graphics. Im 
 talking about the impression that the game makes visually. What you notice immediately is that 
 the game is more dark than its predecessors. The other Broken Sword games were always very colourful. 
 Broken Sword 4 has a somewhat darker setting.
  Also, the looks of the characters are somewhat different than that of Broken Sword 3, which makes 
 sense, since the game is newer. But to be honest, I liked the George of Broken Sword 3 better. 
 As did I like Nico better in Broken Sword 3.
  I guess it all comes down to this: Broken Sword 1 and 2 had this cartoonish look. Its what made 
 them charming in my opinion. Since this cartoonish style looks very different in 3D, the developers 
 abandoned this look somewhat in Broken Sword 3, but they still kept the colourful settings and 
 looks of the characters, which I liked very much. The last remnants of these cartoonish looks seem 
 to have disappeared entirely in the latest part, which is probably why I like the looks of this 
 game somewhat less than its predecessors. But once again I would like to stress that this is personal 
 and has nothing to do with a crappy look whatsoever, plus the fact that Charles has really listened 
 to the fans, which I believe should really rule in favour of this game, even if you dont like 
 all the changes; at least they dared to take a change on the things that were received negatively 
 in the previous part.
  The setting of the story is pretty much what youre used to. An ancient secret has fallen into 
 the wrong hands and George must save the world from this ancient evil. Theres not much more to 
 say about this, because if youve played the previous Broken Sword games, then you know what I 
 mean and if you havent played the previous games, I have one advice for you: Do not start with 
 this game. This game more or less requires you to know the characters and their backgrounds. Is 
 the game unplayable without this knowledge? No, but youll sure miss out on a lot. For example, 
 the return of Nico will make no sense whatsoever (although it doesnt make many sense even if you 
 know their backgrounds) . So basically: play the previous games before playing this one.
  And theres one more thing I want to say about the game in general and that is that I found the 
 story to be far less developed than the previous games. This may sound a bit harsh, but from the 
 Broken Sword series weve come to expect pretty thorough stories, although I think that 99% of 
 the fans of the series would agree with me when I say that Broken Sword 1 had the best story, followed 
 by Broken Sword 2, Broken Sword 3 and now Broken Sword 4. It is not even the story itself that 
 I do not like; on the contrary. Once more they have created a story with a proper background. But 
 this time the game really seems to miss out on certain details. At some point there is even a small 
 inconsistency concerning some happenings in the previous game. Granted, it is minor but it are 
 those kind of things that can annoy a fan and I can certainly call myself a fan.
  That said, it certainly doesnt mean that the game isnt worthwhile. In fact, I find it one of 
 the best adventure games of 2006, but it just doesnt live up to its predecessors in terms of story 
 and details.
  But lets also take a look at the other aspects of the game.
  
  
  The controls After a previous statement that Charles Cecil made, that point &amp; click is dead, 
 it is funny and admirable to see the return of point &amp; click in this game. Fans made it clear 
 that they did not all agree with this statement and once again, Charles listened to the fans, which 
 meant the return of point &amp; click in this game. Partly. Because you can still control the walking 
 of the main character with the keyboard (which I did) , but you can also choose to play the game 
 with the mouse entirely. Whatever you choose, youre going to need the mouse. There are however 
 some issues which I must point out.
  First of all, I did not think that the controls were optimal. Although the return of point &amp; 
 click in Broken Sword 4 was fun (and gave me some feelings of nostalgia; I know, Im getting old) , 
 I handled myself better with the controls of Broken Sword 3, the controls which many fans found 
 to be troublesome. With Broken Sword 3 I just found that the controls took some time getting used 
 to, as I do with these controls, but after a while the controls of Broken Sword 3 felt more natural 
 than the controls of Broken Sword 4 do. Maybe I did not like these controls so much because they 
 did not feel that necessary. Usually, when you have point &amp; click, this means that there will 
 be al lot of clickable objects on which the main character will give you at least some comment. 
 Those objects did not seem to be overly present. There were of course objects present (wouldnt 
 be much of a game without them) , but if you compare those with the clickable objects from the first 
 two games, then there are very few of them.
  But the controls in general are okay. The inventory system is the same one that we know from part 
 1 and 2, which means that if you go to the top of the screen, you can see all items in you inventory. 
 Furthermore, a right click on those items gives you a description of the object, while a left click 
 lets you select it.
  On the play screen itself the left mouse button will activate a default action that is programmed 
 for that object (for example, a left click on a character will start a conversation with that character) , 
 while a right click opens up a mini-menu in which you can choose from several actions (for example: 
 examine the object/character) .
  So the controls are once again pretty straightforward, although they may take some time getting 
 used to. And although I encourage the return of the point &amp; click option in the series, I feel 
 that it is rather redundant in this game.
  
  
  The graphics
  
  I read somewhere that Broken Sword 3 had 2.000 polygons, where Broken Sword 4 uses 10.000 polygons. 
 Im not very technical with all that stuff, so I wont go into it too much, but I do know that 
 this means that Broken Sword 4 should therefore have far more detailed environments and characters. 
 The environments looked somewhat more detailed, but to be honest I did not see a huge difference. 
 And if I can be entirely honest: I do not understand why they simply did not reuse the engine from 
 Broken Sword 3. Granted, that engine isnt state of the art, but an adventure game engine hardly 
 ever is and I think that the graphic differences between Broken Sword 3 and Broken Sword 4 are 
 not that huge that an entirely new engine was needed. In fact, if the same engine would have been 
 used, that would have saved a huge amount of the total budget for the game, which maybe could have 
 been used to make a PS2/Xbox (360) version as well, as many of the fans would have liked. The fact 
 that Broken Sword 4 uses 10.000 polygons apparently also made it impossible to make versions for 
 these consoles, although that decision was made by THQ, not by the developers.
  
  
  The sound
  
  Once again George is voiced by Rolf Saxon. As weve come to expect this, because 
 Rolf so far has done Georges voice in every Broken Sword game, fans are always very excited when 
 they hear that Rolf has accepted the job once again. And for good reasons, because Rolf his voice 
 just makes George. If anybody else would do it, the game just wouldnt be the same.
  However, the same cannot be said for Nico. She has had a different voice in each game and part 
 4 is not an exception. Personally I liked Nicos voice in part 3 the best and was rather disappointed 
 to hear her with a different voice this time. Not that the voice acting was bad (I cannot recall 
 a character in the game with bad voice acting) , but it was less than I had hoped.
  Also the music is as good as weve come to expect from Revolution. This is a really good thing, 
 because throughout the years, theyve set pretty high standards for themselves with their previous 
 Broken Sword games. Ive said it before and Ill say it again: music can, for a large part, make 
 or break a game. In this case the music makes the game.
  Overall
  Although a very good game, I found this game to be the least compelling in the series. Graphics 
 are good, sound is great and also the story isnt that bad, apart from some loose ends. However 
 throughout the years Revolution have set high standards for the Broken Sword series and somehow 
 I feel like this part doesnt quite live up to it. Having said that one should not forget that 
 this game was created due to popular demand by the fans, which is of course great in itself. My 
 advice would be that for a possible next part, Revolution should do the developing again themselves, 
 because in my opinion that worked better than working with Sumo Digital to develop this game.
 
  So its a nice game, but it is certainly not as great as the other parts in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TitanExtremer
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 16, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Being an enormus fan of adventure games, and especially the broken sword series, It hurt my eyes 
 to see many of these classic games turn 3D.
  
  Dicount, Dull and utterly Demised.
  
  The Adventure genre, is overall being overlooked. Besides a few new classics such as Dreamfall 
 and The longest journey, it has simply become a discount game market.
  
  Broken Sword: The Angel of Death Is a perfect example. With a very short production time, very 
 outdated visuals, and in a lack of good voice acting and a driving storry, the future of this classic 
 series has suddenly turned into an ugly affare. The Angel of death is a broken sword game alright, 
 but sadly only comes to show in a few quick glimps and flashbacks through out the game. Situations 
 like talking to the old demented, gangster who now serves as a store cleark in the familys salami 
 store, or the time when u trick you way into a monestary, using your witss and a cheesy german 
 accent. Situations like these, makes the game feel like a true broken sword classic, but the sensational 
 feeling quickly peels of, as your eyes are hurt, by the awfull 3D visuals, your ears wants a break 
 from the incredibly bad voice acting and you cant stay awake through even just half an hour of 
 its boring and unpersonal story.
  
  Revolution software, once had the economy, the spirits and the investors to create two games, that 
 turned into instant classics with their dragging storylines, exceptional voice acting and its buitefull 
 2D animations and drawings. Unfortunatly time and technology has cought up with this once respected 
 software developer, and it has now finally put an end to its once great reputation. Releasing this 
 horrid game that, shows you just what to expect from a low budget, under developed, and now unrespected 
 software developer who just wants to squeese the last penny out of a once well respected name.
 
  
  My advice, dont even rent this if you like the previous broken sword games.
  You will be utterly disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pornoke
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Prisioner of ice, jack orlando, fable... mmm, pues no, creo que no hay ninguna peor que broken sword 
 4. Yo soy un fan de la serie, los he jugado todos varias veces y los dos primeros me encantaron. 
 El 3 me parecio bastante mas flojo, pero comparado con este es una obra de arte. -Para empezar, 
 el control es malisimo. Se puede manejar con puntero, pero parece que en un principio fue dise&ntilde; ado 
 para jugar con teclado, un desastre.
  -Los graficos son simplones y con falta de detalle. Los escenarios no tienen el encanto de sus 
 predecesores. Mientras que en anteriores capitulos viajabas por bellas ciudades, paradisiacas islas 
 y junglas, etc, en esta entrega juegas la mayoria del tiempo en calles corrientes e interiores 
 nada carismaticos.
  -El sonido esta bien y ayuda a introducirte en la aventura.
  -Los personajes no son nada creibles. Se dejan enga&ntilde; ar facilmente y algunos se comportan 
 de un modo surrealista.
  -La idea del guion es buena pero no esta bien desarrollado. Hay un monton de cabos sueltos, como 
 por que aparece nico vestida de monja sin mas.
  -La dificultad es muy irregular, pasando de puzzles que los resolveria hasta mi sobrina de 5 a&ntilde; os 
 a otros que pueden llegar a desquiciarte.
  -El humor es malisimo. George no para de hacer chistes malos al final de cada comentario que realiza.
 
  -Hasta el final es una porqueria, bastante corto, soso y predecible.
  -No paran de pasar situaciones estupidas. Personalmente me quedo con la parte en la que George 
 tiene las manos atadas a una silla y tiene que escaparse. Si quereis un buen consejo no jugueis 
 a este juego nunca. En lugar de eso sacad al perro a pasear, apuntaos al gimnasio, leed un libro... cualquier 
 cosa antes de eso. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shalashaska88
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  I loved the Broke Sword series since the first game. I like George's wise cracking antics, Nico's 
 attitude and voice, and the chemistry that they had until the 3rd game. Somehow, all that is gone 
 in this 4th installment. Geoge aint funny, Nico sounds like a whore, Anna Maria comes in and makes 
 this situation even worse. The game's interface was one of the the problems that plagued the game, 
 as it is hard to click on an object when the camera wobbles and changes angles. The game isnt well 
 optimised even when you have a good system, you're bound to have some perfomance issues. Many loopholes 
 in the story, and stupid things happen (how does a an old man on the street gain access the pope's 
 cellar in the Vatican?!! Its not even explained!) Suffice to say, im dissapointed, but i still 
 want a sequel, and hopefully they give us fans a game worth installing on the pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: attila_9
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Broken Sword: The Angel of Death
  Well friends and fellow adventure players. I'm not really sure what I expected when I got this 
 game. I'm not even sure I looked at the darn box when I bought it. It said Broken Sword so I just 
 had to get it being the fan I've always been.
  
  So, well at home I unwrapped it and installed it. Started it and dropped my jaw. What the hell 
 had they done to my game? George in 3D? And an ugly looking George I might add too. Broken Sword 
 in 3D isn't Broken Sword any more. It's some piece of crap wannabe game that tries to look modern.
 
  
  I actually didn't play this game all the way, I just couldn't. The little I played seemed rather 
 good even if there was a couple of flaws (not being able to jump forward in conversations for one) . 
 The puzzles are challenging and quiet hard to get through some times. Later I learned from a friend 
 that the game itself was kind of confusing and some puzzles pretty darn hard to solve. The good 
 side of it all was the voices. George is still fun, comments swiftly and all, but those hilarious 
 things from the first and second games just isn't there.
  
  All in all. The game is good if you haven't seen or played the first two (this being the fourth) . 
 Sadly it falls flat on it's face with alot of old school adventure players thats been around for 
 quiet some time now (That would be us. The ones who saw Gabriel Knight before it turned Cinema 
 , Monkey Island, and other games like that. When Point &amp; click adventures was E X A C T L Y 
 that) .
  
  By all means DO buy and play this game and the rest of them too because they ARE fun. But my favourites 
 will always be the first two games in old style 2D with a George and Nico as cartoon figures.
 
  
  A side note:
  I did get the Broken Sword: The Sleeping Dragon today... Comment: GEORGE! WHERE DID YOU GO!? COME 
 BACK!
  
  Runaway: The Dream of the Turtle looks promising by the way. Something the developers of Broken 
 Sword: The Sleeping Dragon and Broken Sword: The Angel of Death should have a look at maybe? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for the next game in the Broken sword series for a long time, since I'm a big 
 fan of the last three games, but nothing could prepare me for the huge let-down the fourth installment 
 Broken sword - The Angel of Death is.
  
  The game is just plain bad, with just the voice-acting and the well created characters to redeem 
 it from total embarrassment; at first I was surprised to see that the mouse interface is back, 
 in addition to the keyboard based one which was introduced in the third game (where it worked pretty 
 well) . the mouse based game-play work fine most of time, until the moment you realize you need 
 pin-point accuracy just to talk to someone, not to mention the constant pixel searching every new 
 area in the game, which can get you really frustrated in a matter of minutes.
  
  as I said before, the only good thing about The Angel of Death is the voice acting. George is still 
 witty, funny and well voiced, same as most of the supporting characters (especially the women) .
 
  During the game you encounter some reappearing characters from previous games, but none stick 
 around for too long.
  
  the game looks pretty decent for an adventure game, but nothing too flashy for a game released 
 in 2006.
  
  One last word about the many many puzzles in the game. most of them are quite good and challenging, 
 although some are annoying in a major way, for example: hacking into secure computer system (which 
 you do often in the game) with your PDA requires you to direct a beam of data using mirrors and 
 pipes from one computer station to another, without setting of the alarm.
  
  although not very long, the game takes forever to finish, during to the fact it is so damn boring. 
 dialogue cant be skipped (even the lines you already heard) and you back-track way too often.
 
  If you're not a die-hard fan of the series, I'd recommend you the skip this pointless game.
  and if you are a fan of the series, don't even bother with the game... you'll just end up with 
 the bitter taste of failure in your mouth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khatibi22
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 12, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  After playing and not enjoying 2 of the most well known 2006 adventure games, I am wondering maybe 
 I am not an adventure fan altogether?
  I played the first Broken Sword some 10 years ago, I found it more or less interesting but had 
 to stop in the middle because I just couldn't solve the puzzle. That game was witty and funny with 
 a lot of humor and this really good looking 2D graphics.
  Another BS I played was the third one, I am not aware of a second one. I liked Sleeping Dragon 
 because it had some action elements, a bit like TR series, but it also had this extremly boring 
 level in that British town.
  Now comes The Angel OF Death in 3D. OF course one doesn't expect to see 2Ds these days anyway but 
 the graphic is so bad and old fashioned totally without finesse and attention to details.
  The story is confusing and not really engaging and the characters especially George are not likable 
 at all. Then the puzzles. A lot of them are extremely difficult and I have to congratulate players 
 who could finish the game without a lot of help from walkthrough (which I seriously doubt) . In 
 many of them,
  there were no logical context and the player had to go around examining everything in order to 
 find out what to do.
  I really could not find anything positive in this game. I just played it out of nostalgia and it 
 was a quit disappointing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodnut
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Let's start off by saying that after playing all the previous games of this franchise I'm not welcoming 
 this title happily.
  
  First, the pros:
  *Has good graphics and nice control (mouse or keyboard) but BS3 was better in the terms of control.
 
  *The in game puzzles were pretty fun to solve especially those that relate to manuscripts.
  *The music always kept the tension when needed and was generally good.
  
  But now, the cons:
 
  *Throughout the game you can always see how the writer was almost forcing himself to put so characters 
 from previous games without explaining why! So you can just feel like old times again or something.
 
  *The story wasn't interesting at all. I mean, yeah the beginning was pretty solid but then again 
 how did Anna Maria knew that George is good in manuscripts? It all seems too forced. Even those 
 almost insignificant characters you meet will somehow stupidly help you out just in the right time.
 
  
  Conclusion: after I started playing it, this game became just another title I wanted to finish 
 already. Just more puzzles kept coming and I truly believe you can put you money on something else 
 (Dreamfall for instance) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  I was expecting much more from this release...
  
  The graphics do not impress regarding the previous release (sleeping Dragon) , i mean they are the 
 same, graphically speaking.
  
  Rest of the game is great, the sounds, the voice actings, the characters and again the story ... 
 as usually the story keeps disappointing the player at the very end of the game. You struggle so 
 much during the game, resolving puzzles, go forth and back just to have that ending? I'm getting 
 tired of this weak endings.
  
  But what can i say? All in one the game is great , they brought a new character in the game, and 
 God how happy i was when i saw Nico, i thought she was never going to appear. I had some laughs 
 especially with the salami factory.
  
  The game is great, i'm happy i wasn't that disappointed, but still it could have been a lot better.
 
  
  Just for the collection i have bought this game first and played, though i do not feel sorry for 
 the money. Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilualmighty
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Broken Sword: The Angel of Death has it all. Well, almost anyway. Well told story, good voice talents, 
 good music, challenging puzzles. What more do you need?
  
  Well, a better mouse control would have been a blessing. Often I found myself miss-clicking objects 
 because the camera angles move almost always, and sometimes the target objects are tiny.
  
  Another thing to mention is characters route finding. A few times the characters tried to walk 
 through boxes, plants or anything else that might be on the way, on their way to desired destination.
 
  
  I would have also wanted an option to fast-forward dialogue. This should be standard practice on 
 adventure games.
  
  Those things are not earth shattering though. I can easily get past them in favour of the splendid 
 story, witty writing and excellent puzzles. Few of the puzzles were a bit obscure, but as a whole 
 they are very well designed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Final Form
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 18, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Despite some technical problems and a rushed ending, Broken Sword 4 is still the best adventure 
 game I've played in the last several years. Adventure games live and die by the quality of their 
 stories. While the plot may be ridiculous, where BS4 really excels is the dialog (particularly 
 George's) . Rolf Saxon returns as the voice of George Stobbart, and once again he brings the character 
 to life. I found myself always examining every item just so I can hear George's funny remarks. 
 The rest of the voice acting is also pretty solid although Nico's french accent sounds pretty fake.
 
  
  The puzzles are all pretty good, balanced at just the right difficulty level. Never too easy and 
 never too hard. Just when I'd start to get frustrated trying to find the solution to something, 
 I'd discover the answer. Although a lot of them are silly, they're all pretty logical, and if you 
 think about things enough, you'll eventually find the solution.
  
  The game does suffer from some technical problems though. The graphics are kind of dull, some of 
 the animations are stiff, and it runs too sluggish considering how it looks. I also had a weird 
 problem with my soundcard. Apparently the game doesn't work right with older creative soundblaster 
 cards, and I ended up having to turn the hardware acceleration down to get the voices to work. 
 There's also a couple problems with the controls. George frequently gets stuck in doorways and 
 there's no way to permanently toggle on run. If you're an adventure game fan, who's depressed at 
 the lack of quality adventure games in recent years, you won't want to miss this one. Despite it's 
 lack of polish, BS4 is still miles better than most of the other bargain bin games that makes up 
 the adventure genre at present. Here's hoping it sells well enough for another sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shushens
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Though I wonder why there is no official review from GameSpot on this blockbuster title, but regardless, 
 this game deserves much more attention than most casual productions out there.
  
  Broken Sword IV: Angel of Death is a very cool game as long as you play it, but it fails to qualify 
 as yet another classic in the series. Though I have set the attributes by convention, but I am 
 afraid they're not quite appropriate to evaluate this title.
  
  In order to write a no-nonsense review, I will get straight to the point. First, the bright sides. 
 Very satisfying conversations with perfect dose of humor. No adventure game/movie is not nearly 
 satisfying without proper humor and lots of traveling and believe me, this game lacks none! Voice 
 acting is pretty impressive. Immaterial issues are never much bothered about to keep the flow of 
 the game undisturbed. For example, none really seemed bothered about how Mevlut came to know Nico 
 or what had she been doing all these years really. Music is one of the best components in the game. 
 Not only they keep entertaining, but they indicate the correct proceeding of events and also match 
 perfectly with the environment. The story has some quality twists often found in movies but not 
 so often in trendy adventure games such as this one. Anna Maria and Nico both look sweet, theirs 
 costumes do not undergo much variation throughout the game though. The puzzles are a bit different. 
 I would say, they changed for good. This time, more medieval text-reading and thinking is needed 
 to solve the puzzles than before but those who already have a working knowledge of medieval history 
 should solve them in a jiffy. The hacking puzzles using the PDA is a completely new kind of puzzle 
 introduced in this title and it is a nice move to break the monotony of the gameplay (not that 
 the gameplay is very monotonic) . All puzzles are designed in a way that makes them look more naturally 
 found, not some complex scenario created for a video game's sake!
  
  Now, the dark sides. Drawings in the game are poorly planned and finalized. The medieval structures 
 look lifeless and banal. No matter how sweet Nico looks, George not only looks unimpressive, but 
 also distinguishably poor-drawn. The story itself if not very impressive. Needless to mention, 
 it had to be a global conspiracy theory involving The Knights Templar. But, this theory has already 
 been used before (Raiders of the Lost Ark) and under much more appropriate circumstances. The Ark 
 of the Covenant kept on the floor of a simple room like a tea-table is just not acceptable! As 
 the result of many imbecile conclusions of the story developers and level designers, this game 
 lacks the punch. It is a cool game alright, but the gamer won't feel the adrenaline rush in high 
 tensile situations. Because there aren't any! The ending of the game leaves much room for criticism. 
 After staying with the game for so long through and through, the games would most definitely demand 
 and deserve a more prolonged ending sequence with more emotions and a few words of forthcoming 
 nature. The fault could mostly be made up with a touchy title song that plays right after the ending 
 but ALAS! It too fails to impress! The game follows a totally linear path and except some PDA hack 
 puzzles, no work can be done in more than one ways. The console-like control system punched with 
 mouse control that's unreasonably slow acting for some unknown reason makes the gameplay a bit 
 bitter. Support for analog controllers would be much appreciated. Double clicking on a spot does 
 not make George run to it, regardless the need of the hour! The game has almost no replay value, 
 if at all, and once the gamer sees the ending, chances are really low he/she will ever try installing 
 this game again.
  
  Finally, the bottom line is, Broken Sword: Angel of Death is a casually developed game that turns 
 out to be a not-so-worthy follower of its predecessors. Those who are not familiar with the Broken 
 Sword series and expect nothing special from it may find unexpected depth in the same. But, it'd 
 most probably fail to impress the Broken Sword veterans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fl4rty
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  Ive been a broken sword fan for years, one thing ive allways relished about the games is the cartoon 
 style animation, It was pleasing to the eye, and was done better than most lucas arts games that 
 used the technique. So straight away i realise that the producers want to move things forward, 
 But id prefer the old skool 2d animation over this 3d rendered world anyday, I do believe with 
 keeping the series in 3D the game would of better off keeping the same kind of gameplay in Broken 
 Sword 3, as the point and click control doesnt seem very accurate, or more to the point you have 
 to be incredibly accurate to get the characters to move about to where you want them, which can 
 be a little fruststrating at times.
  
  As usual the chrarcters are strong with good dialogue and witty remarks, but i found the story 
 to end just abruptly, and it was not as good as the previous 3 story's either.
  
  All in all, this is a good game, but it could of easily been great, if stuck to the original blue 
 prints of the first 2 games, (maybe thats just me being nostalgic) .
  Or kept the tomb raider type of gaming from the sleeping dragon.
  But ultimately it feels like 
 a game thats been chucked together to cash in on its name with hardcore fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stamatis
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  The good news are that The Angel of Death is a true Broken Sword adventure game. The bad news are 
 that it is probably the worst in the series.
  
  I liked the puzzles and enjoyed the dialog (George's comments are always very funny to listen to) 
 which should have been enough to make this a good adventure, if it wasn't for a number of wrong 
 design decisions and technical issues. Unfortunately, the game is not immersive or interesting 
 enough. I found my self peeking at the walkthrough, just because I was too bored to try and solve 
 a puzzle myself. The main reason is that the environment looks so empty. There aren't many hotspots 
 to interact with and the game forces you to follow a very linear path. There is also a problem 
 with many puzzles that are time-based, instead of purely logical, that make you miss the solution. 
 Nevertheless, you get used to them after a while.
  
  There are a couple of technical problems too. Namely, you can't toggle running on/off and the character's 
 movement in the 3-D environment can be tricky sometimes (I just couldn't make George walk through 
 a door!) .
  
  All in all however, Angel of Death is still one of the best adventure games out there. The story 
 and characters are great and the puzzles are ok. If you like the Broken Sword series, buy the game. 
 If not, ignore it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Re_Das_7
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 31, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Broken sword angle of death is one of most good parts of broken sword... this part is different 
 than the other three parts..
  not hilarious than the other parts and not have much difficulty as part 1,2 and it have a little 
 of stupid game play and puzzles.
  but at first i'll discuss some point of the game:
  1- Graphics:
  - New graphics style is added to this part but i see it was un necessary may be 
 the graphics in part 3 (BS TSD) is better than this part.
  - Main characters graphics was not good but i was acceptable... but the other characters was great 
 specially the Italian Gang.
  - Anna and Nicole costumes and graphics was greater than Gorge's...
  - Environment graphics was 
 good.
  - Items graphics was great and detectable .
  2- Sounds:
  - Background music was good but the main theme and credits was not good.
  - Anna's and Gorge's 
 sound was great of course if we neglected the sad tone in Gorge's voice... but Nicole voice was 
 very bad was not like the previous parts.
  3- game play:
  - controls were the weak point because i had to use both mouse and keyboard.
  - character movement 
 was great.
  - background motion and marginal characters movement was great.
  - great idea to use i-mate to hack into computers and also the hacking was great.
  4- Story:
 
  - the story was good bu it was more tragic than the previous three parts.
  - Gorge was not funny in this part.
  
  * adv:
  - hacking
  - detectable items
  - great 
 puzzles specially scroll's clues.
  - great story.
  
  * dis:
  - high unnecessary graphics.
  - Sad Gorge.
  - game contain a gigantic game play stupidity such 
 as:
  1- (when Gorge and Anna were escaping)
  the door at the collapsed hotel . how a normal man like gorge make a door and the wall that contain 
 the door fall down???
  2- at Alfanso's hotel (Bug puzzle)
  i had to talk to alfanso about the clock and lighter then i will be able to but the bug on the 
 clock.
  (Hostage lady)
  Give one reason to make me think that the tied lade behind the door will write the code. (her hands 
 was tied !!!!!)
  3- (Anna's laptop)
  I had to read the name at the top of the great gate then i would be able to hack into the labtop.
 
  4- hacking was so difficult specially when the puzzle does not contane firewall.
  
  at last BSTAOD was a great part put not much good than the previous parts and i hope something 
 happen to Gorge to cheer him up....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockyking
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Broken Sword The Angel Of Death is the best adventure game whith great scence of humor
  The game is good sequel to Broken Sword games but frankly BS Sleeping Dragon is better
  It has 
 very good graphics it need 256 graphic card i play with 128 card and it was just amazing
  The story is like the other BS games very good it takes u different country from New York to Turky 
 in search for one of knight of the tempel treasure [The Angel Of Death]
  The puzzle variets from easy to very hard it becomes harder in every level but it's challenging 
 and attach u to the game
  You will play with more than one character the main one is George the secondary is Nico while Anna 
 is just helper u can't play with her
  The adding of another female in George life was fun cuz that make Nico jealous so u can imagine 
 how much she annoys Goerge because of her jealousy
  The most thing i like in this game is the A. I. of the other characters for example if u tried to 
 do the phone trick with character in front of him/her he /she will discovers u and say r u stupid 
 and they will know u every time u call him/her
  The associating music is nice and it tells u if u solved the problem or did something wrong
  
 They add new thing in this game cell phone [i-mate] which u can use it to distract people and even 
 hack to webs and systems
  If u have vey good PC u won't face a problem with the controls but if not u will be very unpleasent 
 and u will maybe throw the game or even your PC from the window
  The game needs atleast 1 giga RAM and 256 graphic card and 2400+ full cash CPU to gives its best
 
  I hope u liked my review and i hope u recomment it cuz i worked very hard with this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotsofgunfire
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 12, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  the 4th game in the broken sword series is a great classic one that should be played, once every 
 3 months at most.
  
  the return of the mouse controls have a large impact on the game, not only is your control back 
 to basic point and click, but has also become the control scheme of the game which in practise 
 on the 3D broken sword games isn't a good idea. when the game says you can control George by keyboard 
 you better keep you hands in the fps style (w, a, s, d, shift) controling George by mouse is just too 
 clunky as the game's camera changes and is complete suiside when you come to puzzles that require 
 speed to complete. the keyboard controls i found need a bit of a workout since when you move if 
 the camera changes it keeps going in the same direction, good in some cases, bad in others, and 
 people who thought they would allow you to just use your dual analog instead, news for you NO.
 
  
  the graphics are touched up from Broken Sword 3 but most are still the same. nice backgrounds, 
 average texture pallete. character animation seems motion captured but is done well. the sudden 
 lack of certain death animation is shocking, during the time you impersonate Eamon O' Mara to gain 
 access to the palace *SPOILER sorta* if you show the guard the fake ID he will pull out his gun 
 and shoot and guees what, NO DEATH ANIMATION. also on the subject of animation, the when you break 
 the cabnet open on the bone cruncher *I only need one warning for spoilers* it seem to have a sudden 
 switch of position to fasing the diretion of the back wall to fasing the left wall and burst openwith 
 the manuscript on the ground, awkward.
  
  sound is on par with BS3 and maybe a bit improved but nothing to really note but recycles.
  
 
  the gameplay puzzles when you get past the ones solve in the game manual have 2 difficulties, 
 easy enough and completely horrific some puzzle I found are so weird that i couldn't figure out 
 how it even works, I like the hard puzzles but not hard and weird.
  your inventory is hidden at the top of the screen and if you have a mouse that goes spastic every 
 now and again your gonna get frustrated as you stop moving when you have an item out or have the 
 inventory open, pesonally i had no problems. I have only played half of the game I will confess 
 to that but I still find the game lacking the helpful hints on what the current goal is and a button 
 to skip dialog, the game feels still half a game. well at least there's still the 'stop the badguys 
 using the elevator' puzzles that show up once every game. And say hello to your new lucky charm 
 it's you telescopic 9-Iron golfclub that you keep trying to sell to people.
  
  this game is worth the buy just make sure your ready for some frustasion with finding out what 
 to do in puzzles and the ever annoying lack of personal characters thought's on what to do next. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xstephosx
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 5, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Broken Sword: The Angel of Death is the 4th instalment of the excellent Broken Sword series. Revolution 
 Software have learnt from their mistakes and gone back to the original point and click interface 
 but in full 3D and it looks amazing.
  
  The problem with this is that unless youre running a decent machine you are not going to be able 
 to enjoy the game. Playing on my high spec machine was a joy but when I tested it on a medium powered 
 machine the controls became cumbersome and unresponsive. I am not going to let this sway my decision 
 because if software developers did not utilise the hardware available then great games would not 
 be made; and this is a great game.
  
  I love adventure games and its great to see Revolution Software going old school with a flashy 
 new engine. Lets hope it sells well and inspires other people that there is most definitely life 
 in the adventure gaming genre.
  
  If you have never played an adventure game before you may want to start with an earlier Broken 
 Sword game or adventure game because this game is tough. Some situations require a lot of thought 
 but a good puzzle has you thinking I cant believe I didnt think of that in the first place 
 and this game has a lot of those moments.
  
  If you are a fan of adventure games then stop ready this and install the game already!! If you 
 are not then this could be the game to change your mind!
  
  Thank you THQ for allowing Revolution Software to make the game how it should be and not what is 
 popular at the moment, it really is a breath of fresh air within the gaming world.
  
  One last thing dont forget to use your right mouse button, after all its there for a reason ;) 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
