-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Secret Weapons Over Normandy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/secretweaponsovernormandy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 24, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.3, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 172 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Developer: Totally Games
Genre: WWII Flight Sim
Date:     Nov 18, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Secret Weapons Over Normandy is a decent air combat game that takes a stripped-down, arcade-style 
 approach to the genre. 

  Secret Weapons Over Normandy is not a flight sim. This is perhaps the most important thing you 
 need to know about LucasArts' new game, as it's contrary to what most people who walk in to a WWII-themed 
 flight game would probably expect. Secret Weapons Over Normandy is a spiritual successor of sorts 
 to the 1991 PC classic, Secret Weapons of the Luftwaffe and, at its core, presents itself as a 
 mission-based shooter with some very arcadelike qualities. While it accomplishes its goal of providing 
 a fun WWII-themed shooting gallery, it doesn't really shine in any one particular area, resulting 
 in a game that's competent but not very compelling.  

          It's easy to pick up and play, but there's also barely any challenge to it.     

  In 
 SWON you'll play as an American pilot named James Chase. It's 1940, and you've been assigned to 
 Britain's Royal Air Force. After proving your skill right off the bat, you're enlisted into a secret 
 flight outfit known as the Blackhawks. The Blackhawks are the best of the best, and, as a member, 
 you'll be tasked with some of the hairiest flight missions of the war. You'll also travel as needed. 
 First you'll start out in Europe, from where you'll begin your flight assignments as you go after 
 German Field Marshall Erwin Rommel in an attempt to prevent him from taking command in Africa. 
 Then, after the attack on Pearl Harbor creates a Pacific theater of operation, you'll move on to 
 Japanese targets. Then it's back to Europe to thwart some of Germany's more-devastating special 
 weapons programs. The game tells its story well by presenting grainy black and white photos and 
 offering narration from James Chase as he records the events in his journal.  

  The mission design in SWON is pretty straightforward. You'll be given a basic task (which usually 
 consists of ensuring that some target remains safe) , and the mission design spins out from there 
 by adding objectives in midflight. Though most of the game's missions involve some sort of defensive 
 element, the enemy AI doesn't immediately pound your primary targets, which means you don't have 
 to watch over your protected objective terribly closely. This gives you some leeway for dogfighting 
 or taking care of secondary objectives, and it prevents the defensive portion of the game from 
 ever really becoming frustrating. Completing missions and secondary objectives earns you upgrade 
 points, which can be spent to better your planes with increased flight and weapons capabilities. 
 The game contains 26 different planes, each with a handful of different stats. More often than 
 not, you're able to choose which plane you fly, though certain missions require certain models, 
 so you'll occasionally be forced into an unfamiliar (and non-upgraded) cockpit. Xbox Live owners 
 can download the Corsair F4U, which is quite overpowered when compared to most of the other planes 
 you'll see throughout most of the game.  

  While the PC version of the game has been designed to allow for the use of a flightstick, the game 
 really plays best with a gamepad. This fact, alone, should speak volumes about what sort of game 
 Secret Weapons Over Normandy is. You really should have one device or the other if you're planning 
 on playing the PC version, as the mouse-and-keyboard control option really doesn't work very well 
 at all.  

  The game's easy-to-learn controls and simplified flight physics let you fly like an expert almost 
 immediately -- which is good -- but the game really lacks challenge. The fact that you have a Max Payne-like 
 slow-motion option available at all times to slow down the action makes lining up shots even easier. 
 Regardless of that, enemy planes are easy to get behind and practically pop immediately after you 
 open fire on them. More-hardened targets, like tanks and aircraft carriers, usually only require 
 a few blasts from your secondary weapon to go up in flames. By comparison, your planes start out 
 pretty tough, and you'll earn three levels of armor upgrades as you progress through the campaign, 
 which means that you won't really get shot down very often. In the event that you do take too much 
 damage or run out of ammo, most missions have nearby friendly airfields that let you land for repairs 
 and rearming. The difficulty ramps up a bit near the end of the game, but by this time, you're 
 so powerful and so comfortable with the controls that you can tear through the enemy forces like 
 nobody's business. This makes for a pretty short game, though SWON does contain a handful of optional 
 missions that roughly double the game's mission count. When you add it all up, you can expect to 
 get through the game's campaign in around 10 hours, though that number can fluctuate a bit depending 
 on how many of the optional missions you take on.  

  The console versions of the game have a two-player split-screen option that lets players, along 
 with computer-controlled wingmen, fight each other over the game's different environments. Obviously, 
 online play would have been a very strong addition here, but no version of the game has any online 
 support whatsoever.  

  Graphically, the game looks good but doesn't really stand out in any way and just sort of has a 
 plain look to it. The game maintains a decent frame rate, and the models and terrain are passable. 
 The Xbox version stands out as being the clearest while also keeping the smoothest frame rate. 
 The PC version has display settings that let you pump up the resolution, but this only really serves 
 to put a finer point on the game's graphical blandness.  

          The game looks good, but doesn't really excel in any one area.     

  There's a great 
 deal of voice in SWON. You'll constantly hear radio transmissions from both your allies and your 
 enemies, and the voices are all well done. The game also contains appropriately militaristic music, 
 and the sound effects, which mostly consist of weapon fire and explosions, fit the action well. 
 The Xbox version of the game has Dolby Digital 5.1 support, so you'll hear enemy planes coming 
 up from behind and other sorts of surround sound trickery.  

  Secret Weapons Over Normandy is a decent air combat game that takes a stripped-down, arcade-style 
 approach to the genre. Anyone who's looking for a meaty challenge or something with some simulation 
 aspects won't find much to like here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I still fondly remember playing Lucas Arts wonderful WWII air combat flight sim Battle of Britain 
 1942 - Their Finest Hour which preceded the even more popular Secret Weapons of the Luftwaffe title 
 also released by Lucas Arts long ago. Both were of course the creations of Larry Holland and I 
 had very high hopes for this new game by the same famous designer.
  
  Well, as the old saying goes: The road to hell is paved with good intentions. I think that sadly 
 applies to this game. I feel like they had the right idea at heart here which was to create a highly 
 accessible, action packed WWII flight combat experience that didn't get bogged down with the complexity 
 often associated with flight simulation games. Unfortunately, somehow they really managed to miss 
 the mark here badly by going overboard and creating an experience so arcade oriented that it ranks 
 as the farthest departure from a combat flight sim I have ever played and I've played plenty of 
 them over the years since I fell in love with the genre playing BoB 1942 a long time ago.
  
  The game is several years old now at this writing and of course the graphics looked dated. 
 The thing is, they seem not very good to me even for three years ago. There simply is not a lot 
 of detail in anything ranging from the ground scenery and targets to even the planes themselves. 
 The failure to include a first person cockpit view is in my opinion, an unforgivable sin. For me, 
 this utterly destroyed what little possible sense of immersion I might have enjoyed playing this 
 game.
  
  I also disliked the inclusion of a Max Payne-like slowdown feature for an air combat sim. Rather 
 than make the encounters impossible to win without slowing the action to a crawl, it would have 
 been far better to balance the missions such that victory is attainable with some semblance of 
 immersion and satisfaction. For me, the experience to slowing the enemy to kill them, kills the 
 experience and eliminates any sense of satisfaction in winning a mission.
  
  The sound was good, the weapons sounded pretty good and the music and voice acting wasn't bad but 
 it wasn't exactly stellar either. It was just OK which would not be bad if the rest of the game 
 didn't suffer such fatal flaws in execution.
  
  Lastly, the lack of any multi player is another sore spot here. Had this game had at least a detailed 
 cockpit view and a decent multiplayer experience that could have gone a long way to redeeming it. 
 As it stands however, it just falls flat on most measures according to the standards many who like 
 these kind of games would have.
  
  I really, really wanted to like this game but in the end I was instead very disappointed here. 
 It could have and should have been so much better. Why they could not take the winning formula 
 of the previous games I mentioned and render that with modern graphics and sound is beyond me. 
 If they had done so, you would probably be reading glowing reviews of greatness here but sadly 
 this game is nowhere near great and I cannot even call it good really. It is fair at best and if 
 you are a combat flight sim player who loves these kind of games I think you would more likely 
 consider this game a poor one.
  
  If you just want an arcade style shoot-em-up experience that is easy to play and probably runs 
 well on an older system given its lackluster visuals then you might like this game and have fun 
 with it. If you like combat flight sims, even those that tend to have a more arcade than sim kind 
 of feel to them, just be mindful that this one takes that to an extreme that you too may find to 
 be as disappointing as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flippr_NF
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  As with so many games, beauty is in the eye of the beholder. If youre a flight sim veteran, then 
 this title may not have everything youre looking for. But me? Im a first person shooter guy, 
 who also likes some racing games, and the occasional sports title. SWON is the first flight combat 
 game Ive played, and I loved it. There was some variety to the missions, the story was pretty 
 good, and the game was just challenging enough to keep me interested without becoming either bored 
 or overwhelmed.
  
  So I guess how much you enjoy the skies over Normandy is based on where else youve been. If youre 
 new to this genre, this is a great place to get your feet wet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffrok
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2004 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Very surprised at how fun and addicting this game is. An amazind deal, since it's now selling for 
 around $10 for the PC version. I highly recommend to anyone who likes flight sims... it's defintely 
 worth getting. Even though this is not reallly a simulation, nor does it claim to be, it is a very 
 superbly done action flight game. (key word is action) This has the feel of playing Crimson Skies, 
 which was also an action oriented flight game, and still very fun to play today. Secret weapons 
 however is less realistic than Crimson Skies was, since you can have no actual in-cockpit views, 
 and the whole feel is more arcade like. However... putting realism aside, SWON is a very fun game 
 to play, lots of action, lots of cutscenes during missions, lots of challenge missions, bonus movies, 
 & bonus planes for you to earn, etc. Oh yeah did I say lots of action? The gameplay features rewards 
 for completion of objectives, and this style of play get's quite addicting keeping you glued to 
 the game to just get a little further... and unlocking more. The campaign seems very fast moving, 
 but get's very tough... it's way cool each time you get a new plane to fly during the course of 
 the progress, many of them the "secret protypes". All and all SWON is an extremely fun romp through 
 the WW2 skies, and a nice break from those "more realistic" but slower moving flight sims. Graphics, 
 sound are top notch like you'd expect from Lucasarts. Oh yeah... it's cheap, it's alot of gaming 
 packed on 4 cd's, and for the current going prices it's a real steal.... run and go buy it!!! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomad_wolf
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 1, 2004 3:42 pm PT
Review:  If you try to take this game too seriously, you'll miss the enjoyment! I've enjoyed all of Mr. 
 Holland's games immensely - from SWOTL and on through the Star Wars genre. While this product is 
 not a true flight simulator (i. e. the flight physics are no where near what they would have to 
 be) it still delivers a great arcade-style experience. If you're looking for a more true-life flight 
 simulator, stick with Microsoft FS or the IL series. If you're looking to spend some mindless hours 
 just blowing away the bad guys, get this game. The behind-the-scenes vidoes are educational and 
 pretty well done. I'm not sorry that I purchased the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spunky1207
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2003 11:39 pm PT
Review:  This is a great (if not challenging) game! I'm not going to judge this game by the first level 
 (cough cough) like some other people. This game, however is NOT a flight sim. Remember this! This 
 game is pure arcade fun. But, by yourself... Thats right, no multiplayer Yeah, but fear not! This 
 game's pure gameplay is just awesome! The graphics are competetant but not ground breaking our 
 drool inducing. Unless you count some of the huge Japan levels. The sound is just... great! You 
 may, however, find yourself getting distracted by the beautiful sounds and crashing into the ground 
 (this happened to me) . The gameplay is intense, though. Its just a great game all around. Still 
 wish there were some multiplayer : (. Overall, though, I give this game a total woot woot 9.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melkior13
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 30, 2003 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game.
  The guy who designed this has totally lost his touch. XWing and Tie Figther - awesome. This and 
 Star Trek Bridge Commander - suck a$$
  
  The missions in this game amount to nothing but throwing hordes of enemies at you - there is NO 
 WAY to win these missions without keeping the thing on the slow down mode almost all the time.
 
  
  Does that make it fun? NO!
  
  Give me a break.
  
  Personally I think the Holland guy should stop touting his name on games he designs - I won't be 
 buying another - nor would I ever recommend any of them.
  
  This one totally missed the mark.
  
  A better game like this is Crimson Skies. Both the new 
 one on Xbox AND the older PC game that didn't do too good sales wise.
  
  Such a shame - this style of air combat is fun, but this game misses the mark on the pacing - basically 
 it is just an annoying struggle.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
