-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Secret Service: In Harm's Way
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/secretserviceinharmsway/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 21, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.1, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 75 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: FUN Labs
Genre: Action
Date:     Nov 23, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Secret Service has a lot of potential that's hampered by sloppy execution. 

  Secret Service, Activision's new value-priced tactical shooter, has this one really cool effect: 
 Instead of going through canned death animations, characters react realistically according to the 
 physical properties of their surroundings. For instance, shoot a guy who's standing right in front 
 of a building, and he may fall backward, hit the wall, slide down it, and then slump forward -- all 
 apparently in real time. It's a great effect, and it's a wonder more games don't use something 
 like it. Unfortunately, it only works about half the time. As often as not, guys will fall with 
 their head through a wall or their whole body magically lodged halfway through a staircase. Alternately, 
 the body may land correctly but never completely settle and just lie there undulating forever. 
 This half-great, half-broken effect epitomizes Secret Service -- a lot of potential hampered by sloppy 
 execution.           Some of the missions in Secret Service are extremely hard.    

  Secret Service is subtitled "In Harm's Way." Just to prove the title isn't kidding, the game includes 
 the most difficult first level ever. Instead of offering you some training or making an attempt 
 to ease you into things, level one starts you right in the middle of an intense firefight. You 
 can hear gunshots and people screaming, but, luckily, you're standing in a windowless room inside 
 a building. That lucky feeling lasts about a half a second, though, because, more or less immediately, 
 bullets start tearing through the room's walls. Again, this is all part of the game's admirable 
 physics engine. Bullets realistically penetrate things like furniture, windows, drywall, and other 
 things made of flimsy materials. In fact, you can blow most doors right off their hinges, which 
 is especially satisfying.   

  Your first inclination may be to watch the light streaming through the bullet holes in the wall 
 and think, "Hey, that's pretty neat." If so, your second inclination will be to hit the retry button, 
 because -- seeing as Secret Service is a tactical shooter -- a couple of hits will kill you. And not 
 only do you have to get yourself to some safe cover almost instantly, but the US national security 
 advisor is also standing right next to you, and it's your job to keep him alive. Using a series 
 of hotkeys, you can issue commands to him such as "follow me," "wait here," and "get down."   

 
  Once you and the security advisor manage to sprint to safety, more problems arise when it becomes 
 evident that your goal for the mission isn't entirely obvious. The mission briefing clearly states 
 that your protectee's code name is "Kingsize." Twenty seconds into the level, a radio transmission 
 tells you to get "Mud Mover" "across the street." Who's "Mud Mover"? This may be a spoiler, but 
 it's actually a double-secret code name for "Kingsize" -- a state secret that you evidently don't 
 have security clearance for, since nobody ever mentions it.   

  "Across the street" is also kind of vague. Secret Service's graphics engine, while not exactly 
 state of the art in terms of architectural details, lighting, and quality of textures, can render 
 some impressively complex cityscapes. The first mission takes place in a large cluttered section 
 of a Middle Eastern urban area. Most of the buildings can be entered, and you can get out on balconies 
 and rooftops in order to get the drop on the level's throngs of terrorists. However, the tangle 
 of streets and alleys makes it sort of unclear where the heck you're supposed to actually take 
 the mysterious Mud Mover.   

  Assuming you make it through the first level, the following 15 offer the same mix of excitement, 
 confusion, and frustration in various proportions. In level two, you don't have to protect anyone, 
 but you must navigate a terrorist-infested maze of streets to reach a safe house. The complicated 
 mission-briefing map is intimidating, but it at least marks your destination with a big green square. 
 Unfortunately, the in-game map doesn't note this destination area or any other points of interest 
 necessary for completing a given mission. The second level is almost as difficult as the first, 
 and it's also longer, which is a problem, given the fact that Secret Service doesn't permit you 
 to save during a mission.   

  Later levels are insanely hard, moderately tough, or incredibly easy, but not in any particular 
 pattern. In fact, as if to reject the classic design principle of escalating difficulty altogether, 
 the final level is as ridiculously simple as the first level is ridiculously hard.   

  Some missions put a few fellow agents under your command. The interface for controlling them is 
 well developed -- there are about 10 different orders you can give them. Unfortunately, for the most 
 part, your teammates are more inept than useful. They'll often stand there and stare into space 
 while a couple of terrorists five feet away take turns blasting you with shotguns. In what might 
 be a tacit acknowledgement of these AI deficiencies, only four of the 16 missions include teammates. 
   

  The enemy AI isn't great, but it's serviceable. Sometimes terrorists will duck behind cover, and 
 sometimes they'll just stand there. However, the damage modeling is realistic enough that each 
 enemy is potentially deadly. Thankfully, in direct opposition to a design flaw common to the genre, 
 the enemies aren't all inhumanly good shots. Often, their shots will whiz by you and impact something 
 in the surrounding environment. This small detail makes the firefights significantly more exciting 
 than in games where every opponent is a deadeye sniper.           Even when fellow agents are backing 
 you up, they aren't of much help.    

  Four multiplayer modes are included: deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, and survivor. 
 Between its 24 multiplayer levels, its cool physics engine, and its 16 realistically modeled weapons, 
 Secret Service potentially offers some decent competition to tactical shooters such as Ghost Recon 
 and Counter-Strike. Here again, though, Secret Service undercuts its strengths by not including 
 a key component -- there's no in-game server browser or support for a third-party player-matching 
 service, such as GameSpy. So, regardless of how good Secret Service's multiplayer mode may be, 
 actually finding a game is unduly difficult. This difficulty, combined with no bot support, means 
 you may never even get a chance to try the multiplayer game.   

  At moments, Secret Service is thrilling in spite of itself. A few of the levels offer a great blend 
 of architecture, enemy placement, and barely survivable mayhem. One level, which has you rescuing 
 a protected witness from a besieged motel, is an incredible gauntlet of shotgun blasts and exploding 
 panes of glass. It's worth five bucks all by itself. As with all value-priced titles, you have 
 to take the good with the bad. However, since it retails for $30, Secret Service doesn't even manage 
 to be a full-fledged budget title. The game just can't catch a break.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: chwynn
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 8, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  From the moment you insert the disc, this game is buggy. The installer is a custom build that doesn't 
 allow the game to be installed on any other drive than C.
  
  One you get into the game though, it goes from bad to worse. The game menus are far from intuitive, 
 the controls are confusing, the game is near impossible on easy, and the Sound, Graphics and Laughable 
 Storyline are worse than atrocious. A five year old with a box of crayons could have done better.
 
  
  The only saving grace this game has for me is that it was a gift and i didn't spend money on it 
 myself. Worst. Game. Ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWiseolDragon
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 23, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is based on Secret Service, and your mission is to protect the vice presidents and other 
 leaders ( Also some rescue operations) The mission can make you fustrated and time comsuming. The 
 sound quality is suprisingly the best then the game itself. To my knowledge, this game is better 
 rented then purchased. I'll show you why. In my opinion, the gameplay is incomplete, do to the 
 lack of bugs and glitch corrections in this game. The Person probably wondors, I hope they make 
 a patch for this game, but in the end no patch was ever created. The game is very hard, because 
 the AI computers are messed up. Not even real. The action looks like it came out of a comic strip. 
 I doubt most of you can't beat the first level, because the protectee always get shot and killed. 
 The only way to make this game simple is to put a some cheatcodes
  and make a welled-planned-ou stragety to beat this game. You can also picked a ally AI computer 
 player that helps you out, still the computer disquises me. The graphic is a little out of date, 
 which make the game bad.
  There is no onlines servers for this game. Just like the gamespot review said, there is no in-game 
 search broswer and no third party supporting servers like gamespy. Also you can practically tell 
 that this game is a total letdown. The game is only good for making you laugh though. So I woudn't 
 recommend you buy this game, but just rent it and you'll find out the hard way.
  
  This is though to be the most hilarious shooting game for PC. I'll
  gve it a 9/10 on comedy fun. 
 ^ ( ( ( ( (*** GLITCHY!!!! ***) ) ) ) ) ^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman45
Rating: 3.9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  Absolutely horrible. Thats what I would say. I mean come on it has great potential and they have 
 to screw it up. When i bought it I asked myself, how much fun would a game about the secret service 
 be, right? Fun, I thought to myself. Well I have to hand to them, Activision did a great job of 
 proving me wrong. GAMEMAN45's RECOMMENDATION- I recomend this game to all ages. The gameplay is 
 horrible, no story line at all. The graphics are about the only thing in this game that would bring 
 up the rating. The Gun graphics were way ahead of its time but not enough to make the game good. 
 I mean come on, a game with peoples blood green or black? Please. The sound is putrid, I've never 
 heard a game with so little dialogue. The gun sounds are ok. if you like first person shooters 
 and you are thinking about getting this, well don't get F. E. A. R or something cause this game stinks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_unit489
Rating: 2.1
Date: Nov 8, 2005 5:42 pm PT
Review:  i love eb games, i shop there and get all my good games but THIS one. i bought it for 4 dollars 
 and thought what the hell. with lots of guns that are pretty cool and iraqi enemies that you get 
 to shoot thats even better, why did i rate it bad? because when your protecting the president he 
 runs up into the arms of the enemy, dies, then you gotta restart the mission. same thing different 
 day. either a retarded president or a deaf blind and dum senator both are always in the wrong place 
 at the wrong time. the cheats for the game dont even work!!! damn! i traded it in a week later 
 and got 20 cents! i dont care id sell it for free. having it in my pc game library is a disgrace! 
 heres a message to the creators: dont make a sequel even though you already are, and make it EASIER 
 and smarter ai, and why are u making it for the 360? thats for the next generation games only punks 
 not the last generation. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
