-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sensible Soccer 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sports/sensiblesoccer2006/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Simple to pick up and play.
 Very enjoyable in multiplayer.
 Plenty of game modes with unlockable extras.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Custom teams cannot be edited.
 Incorrect player names.
 Cannot switch players manually.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.8, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 91 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Kuju Entertainment
Genre: Soccer
Date:     Jun 09, 2006 (EU)

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The first game in the series for seven years, Sensible Soccer 2006 plays as well as its predecessors, 
 albeit with little innovation and a few gameplay issues. 

  Originally released on the Commodore Amiga, Sensible Soccer was a top-down arcade-style game that 
 was immensely popular with football fans. Ironically, for a series that eschewed realism, the greatest 
 entry was Sensible World of Soccer, which offered a wealth of teams from around the globe and even 
 basic management features. After a couple of roster updates to SWOS, and a mediocre PlayStation 
 and PC update in 1999, the series was abandoned and gamers moved on to the realism of FIFA and 
 Pro Evolution Soccer. But after well-received mobile phone and TV-game versions of Sensible Soccer, 
 a proper update was announced by Codemasters under the supervision of original designer Jon Hare. 
 That version is here in Sensible Soccer 2006, and for better or for worse, it travels familiar 
 roads.  

          Despite the enlarged heads, the game attempts player likenesses...     

  In updating 
 the classic formula for modern hardware, developer Kuju has tinkered with the game's control system 
 and graphics. Whereas one button was previously used to shoot, three buttons are now used to cover 
 different types of shots. And where players were once rudimentary sprites, they now feature a cartoony, 
 cel-shaded appearance and enormous heads. Alas, not all recent technological advancements have 
 been utilised in Sensible Soccer 2006, as the game features neither online play nor in-game commentary. 
 Technically, Sensible Soccer looks and plays identically between the PlayStation 2 and Xbox, although 
 the PS2 pad is arguably more suited to the frantic style of play. The resolution can be increased 
 on the PC, but this isn't a game that will challenge a top-of-the-range graphics card. Two gamepads 
 or a PS2 adapter are a much more important consideration.  

  Despite the subtle change in controls, the game plays an incredibly similar game of football to 
 the original Sensible Soccer. Seen from an overhead view, players can make either short passes 
 or long crosses/shots, and an arrow at the player's feet shows the trajectory of the ball. As with 
 all Sensible Soccer games, an enormous amount of aftertouch can be applied to long shots, letting 
 you bend the ball into the goal or pick out a player after you've crossed it. Players can now sprint 
 at the touch of a button, although they have a limited supply of stamina that you need to use strategically 
 through each game. You can tackle by approaching the opposing player and pressing the pass button, 
 whilst using the long pass button performs a sliding tackle, although this is riskier.  

  These simple controls provide an incredibly frantic game of football. Even though the ball sticks 
 to your feet when dribbling, the opposition can take the ball off you with ease. Success is therefore 
 down to making accurate short passes and curling long balls that can either pick out teammates 
 or curl from obscene angles into the goal. While being incredibly simple to pick up and play, the 
 game does reward experienced players, especially those who can curl the ball. However, with such 
 frequent changes in possession, the camera's shaking and changing of direction can make you rather 
 disoriented. And despite mapping more buttons on the controller, the game still chooses which player 
 to place under your control instead of offering a 'change player' button.  

  Players used to Pro Evolution Soccer or FIFA may find Sensible Soccer 2006 too simplistic, but 
 those with a fondness for previous versions of the game will find its simple charms as alluring 
 as ever. However, the designers have tweaked the game subtly to warrant slightly more tactical 
 play than before. Players feature new classifications such as generals, hatchers, poachers, stoppers, 
 and playmakers, and although these are supposed to affect player's skills and attitudes, there's 
 little evidence of it on the pitch. What's far more noticeable is player stamina, which forces 
 you to choose when to sprint instead of just doing it as soon as you get the ball. The meter is 
 finite and will run out if you use it too often, but it's replenished slightly at halftime, and 
 you can make substitutions through the game.  

  As a Europe-only release at this time, Sensible Soccer 2006 focuses on this region in terms of 
 team offerings, with the top two divisions from each of the major countries. However, without the 
 officially licensed FIFA data, the team and player names have been subtly altered from their real-life 
 counterparts. The acquisition of a license is somewhat unnecessary for a budget arcade football 
 game, and the lack of sponsorship and cheesy pop music makes a refreshing change from the glossy 
 FIFA series. Having said that, the game features a remix of the 'Goal Scoring Superstar Hero' theme 
 from SWOS, but it's played at a mercifully low volume as not to drive you insane.  

  Sensible Soccer 2006 features most of the cups and leagues available to European teams in real 
 life, but you can choose to create a custom team and take on competitions to improve it. Without 
 the official FIFA license, team and player names are incorrect, although you can edit the data 
 as much as you want. Some sort of roster update will undoubtedly be released for those with Action 
 Replay cartridges or similar, but this game certainly isn't for anyone expecting authenticity. 
 Presentation on the whole is very low key, which does the game some harm in terms of atmosphere. 
 Audio is particularly weak, with only a few crowd reactions to what's happening on the pitch and 
 a complete lack of commentary or team-specific chanting. The animation of the players is generally 
 very good, but goalkeepers will often dive and snap from one place to another for no reason.  

 
          ... but the overhead view makes individual players difficult to identify.     

  The game comes into its own in multiplayer where up to four players can compete at once, and despite 
 some of the faults, the game is certainly worth the asking price for this mode alone. The game 
 also offers a lot of longevity thanks to the number of cups and trophies to be won, and there's 
 the incentive of unlockable extras, such as stadia, to keep you going. You can also create a custom 
 team and play through the leagues and cups to raise their profile, until your team is ultimately 
 the best in the world. Unfortunately, once you've chosen your starting lineup in this mode, it 
 can't be changed midgame, which is rather annoying.  

  Sensible Soccer 2006 succeeds in retaining the feel of the original series, but with some important 
 niggles in the gameplay, it doesn't usurp SWOS as the best game in the series. True, the budget 
 price, wealth of tournaments, and fantastic multiplayer mode make this a recommendable purchase, 
 but anyone expecting the next stage of evolution for the franchise won't find it here. Hopefully 
 another update is on the cards; one that will address the small issues, lack of online play, and 
 mediocre presentation. But for what it is, Sensible Soccer 2006 is still an enjoyable update of 
 a classic formula.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jhayprakash
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is like an insult to football. This is just a massive piece of **** game just makes me 
 feel sick, Bad graphics, bad game play, bad sound, bad music, bad intro video and everything else 
 about it, is so bad. This game should simply be banned and people buying it should be banned from 
 gaming..... Guys from Codemasters, Kuju Entertainment , please don't ever even think of making a 
 football game..... I just hate this game and I am sure many football fans will agree to that... Its 
 just so bad to be true and is nothing like a pure soccer game like PES or FIFA. I am giving the 
 game a 1.0 out of 10 simply because i can't choose anything lower than that. I'm gonna play some 
 good traditional PES and try to forget that "Sensible Soccer 2006" ever  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Przem0
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 21, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  It is hard not to notice that the Jon Hares most recent baby is what Sensible Soccer 98 was supposed 
 to be, but never was. But lets get started with the game. It starts with my all time favorite Goal 
 Scoring Superstar Hero and short in-game movie presenting some actions. After we get through that, 
 certain urge to score goals seems to be the only thing important in life. Well, the menu that is 
 revealed to our eyes is more-less the same we could see nearly 14 years ago when Sensible Soccer 
 came out. At this point we have to realize that this game is not a football simulator, its an 
 old school football game that puts fun before anything else. If you look at it like that it seems 
 all right, but it is hard to fight the feeling that in 2006 it is not enough. We can choose between 
 friendly game, preset competition, do it yourself competition and custom team. Unfortunately 
 no multiplayer nor career mode.
  Friendly mode is pretty much self explanatory. Preset mode lets you to play a season in one of 
 the best leagues. After winning a cup or league we unlock new turfs, shirts, shorts, balls, shoes 
 and hair styles we can use to create our team in custom team mode. Well, another let down here. 
 Game lacks license to use real teams or player names but it is not hard to figure out who is who 
 and for what team he plays, plus there is a data editor that lets us change players and team names. 
 DIY mode gives an opportunity to create our own competition and win it, or not. Custom team is 
 the place where we can create our own team using data editor and compete in one of preset competitions. 
 This time wining them increases skills of your players.
  The implemented data editor gives you chance to name all the team and players in the game correctly.
 
  
  Truly, all the modes and options are just an add-on, to what this game essentially is  great and 
 fast paced arcade football game old school style with a bit of humor. But first things first. Graphics 
 is nice and detailed, but pretty demanding and simplistic. Since we can only play with the overhead 
 camera that is pretty far away from the pitch and it cannot be changed, graphics is not so essential 
 here, so playing with lower details is almost unnoticeable. Graphics itself is nowhere near the 
 level of FIFA or even PES series just because of its simplicity, lack of fireworks, its just raw. 
 Although faces look nice and the effect of big heads looks great here, just like those collectable 
 figures of players that can be bought.
  The pitch itself is pretty nice, looks satisfactory and can change condition during the game, but 
 this doesnt look that good. Only the muddy turf was a big letdown. You can actually see the tiles 
 the pitch consists of. It looks awful.
  Balls are a mystery here. I just have this feeling, that something is funny about them. They differ 
 in colors and looks but it seems that they are not scaled correctly during the game.
  Sound is generally missing. There is no commentary (just like in original Sensible Soccer, but 
 thats nothing to be proud of) and the only thing that can be heard is apathetic crowd, referees 
 whistle and ball being kicked or hitting the bar or post of a goal.
  If you remember, and some of you may, it wasnt stunning graphics, great sound, multiple options 
 or the shape of a ball that made Sensible Soccer great. It was gameplay, and gameplay is what this 
 game is about!. This game does some outstanding job giving pleasure of scoring goals like any other 
 game since SWOS 96/97 in my opinion. It really beats even Pro Evolution Soccer. Variety of player 
 animations, uncanny passes and shots that look very realistic and superb Sensible style after-touch 
 (after-shot more likely) ball control makes every goal worth watching over and over again. Unfortunately 
 we cannot save our goals and replay is useless after the whistle, so if you want to view replay, 
 do it just after the goal is scored. Controlling players is very easy since besides managing the 
 direction our player goes only actions that game makes us worry about is passing, shooting and 
 sprinting. Game seems perfect for game pad, which as a keyboard lover since I was born I am unable 
 to master, but since the steering is much more analog than in FIFA and much less complex, it is 
 fun like never before.
  Here I have to mention about some messed up goalkeeper animations, game seems just to lack some 
 of them and that causes ball to disappear sometimes from the goalkeepers surrounding and mysteriously 
 appear in his hands. During the game I have also encountered some stability problems.
  
  In conclusion I can say that this is the best arcade football game with some outstanding gameplay 
 that exceeds even the one from Pro Evolution Soccer. Unfortunately the lack of license, dated squads, 
 no career mode and many other minor bugs that make me think that the game should have been polished 
 for few more months before it was released are the reason why this game will not repeat of its 
 great predecessor and is nothing else but just one step forward since Sensible Soccer 98. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gods_Son23
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 5, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  I got the demo of SS06 and apart from being a bit easy I liked it and thought this should be good 
 on a harder difficulty level. Which the full game should have.
  I was WRONG. Being very very easy but still fun it only kept you entertained for a week because 
 of this easiness. Why the developers wouldn't put a difficulty setting in a SPORT game just doesn't 
 make sense. Another beef i have with it is that it that some games run normal and quick as you 
 would want it to, and others just run slow. No matter what graphic setting you have it on. Its 
 like they didnt play it before they tested it. Also the keepers animation could have alot better 
 as you fell like you are being robbed half the time they save it. The penatly system is stupid 
 also.
  
  So if you are looking for a good game with good single player and are older that 8 look else where. 
 Multiplayer is the only way this game will keep you occupied for longer than a week. The game has 
 premise but its like codemasters rushed it out. Hopefully if they make another one it will be much 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yian_Korpe
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Continues the Sensible Soccer series to the 3d level, but doesn't quite keep the excitement and 
 pure joy of playing that the previous ones provided. Simple to learn, though to get the amazing 
 goals possible takes some practice and experience. Also, rather easy, especially if you've played 
 the older version, although there are some modifications available that increase the difficulty 
 and AI skill. There are some problems with the goalkeepers, although an interview with one of the 
 developers maintained that this was a problem with the AI system, so not much could be done. The 
 sound quality is bad and there are too few crowd noises. And if you are looking forward to managing 
 a team in career like in the old versions, forget it, it was not implemented in this game, which 
 was a big dissappointment for me. Custom teams can only be made out of pre-made templates, and 
 there are no transfers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayL6
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 30, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I don't particularly like the game of football; I never watch any games and don't really care about 
 the sport. What I do like though is fun, playable video games and Sensible Soccer 2006 is definitely 
 one of those.
  
  Being a big fan of the original Amiga version of Sensi Soccer, as soon as I heard about the 2006 
 version was coming out I placed a pre-order for it. Then I started to read some negative comments 
 on various forums and thought "had I wasted my money?" I quickly downloaded the demo and all my 
 fears were put to rest.
  
  I have been playing the full version of the game for a couple of weeks now and I am very pleased 
 to say that this game is just as good, if not better than the Amiga version. The action is fast 
 and furious and the gameplay is spot on.
  
  There has been criticism that the game isn't accurate enough, i. e. the players names are incorrect, 
 some of the team colours are wrong etc. But as I couldn't personally name any football players 
 except for Beckham and Owen, and I don't have a clue what colours various teams wear, does it really 
 matter? The game plays exactly the same even though some of these superficial details are incorrect. 
 The other criticism I have heard is that the high scoring games are not realistic; once again, 
 does this really matter? I think that the game is actually better for it; after all it is a fast 
 action arcade style game, the more goals and the more action the better.
  
  I highly recommend this game, but only buy this it if you are after a fun arcade style football 
 video game, it doesn't offer the depth of some other football games available and in my opinion 
 is better for it. Sensi is great for quick 5 minute blasts, although once you are hooked be sure 
 to keep track of the time as the hours tend to fly by.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prophet1980
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Ok im gonna assume that you have all played sensible world of soccer, one of the best footy games 
 EVER in my opinion and i spent my entire youth playing the game with a friend of mine. (the amiga 
 version that is, the pc version looked crap cos' of the VGA monitors) .
  
  Im a really big fan of Jon Hare and the whole sensible software crew. The games they published 
 back on the Amiga system were and will forever remain in my gaming history as my favourite ever 
 games. Cannon Fodder was simply amazing!
  
  Having watched a recent interview with Jon i knew what to expect from this game. Its been rushed 
 for the world cup, many features have been dropped for this reason and hence this is no SWOS so 
 dont complain about it! They are going to make a new one so anyone thats thinking about buying 
 this game should do as its gonna fund the next one :-)
  
  Right, there are many things that i love about this game. It feels like the good old sensible soccer. 
 The passing and the shooting is almost identical in every way and anyone can pick up and play this 
 game. Playing the game in the outfield is a joy, quick passing and crazy slide tackles all over 
 the place, very fast and fun. You now have the added addition of the sprint button just like Pro 
 Evo or Fifa at which if used too often you end up with fatiuged players. I think this is a good 
 move and adds something new that doesnt detract from the old style.
  
  Ive been playing this game solid for 2 days now and there are a few major flaws with this game 
 that force me to make my score FAR lower than it should have been. They really do make this game 
 average when it should have been great and quite frankly they are so obvious that the designers 
 and playtesters must have known about them. So boooo to you for putting out a flawed game. 
  
  Here is the main problem:-
  
  THE GOALKEEPERS!
  
  MY GOD! what have they done to the 
 once fantastic flying goalkeeps of sensible world of soccer???? The animation is bloody awful. 
 Most of the time the keepers save top corner screamer shots by just running over to them and tipping 
 them, no diving at all hardly, no tipping it around the post or full out superman style dives like 
 the original, its all gone horribly wrong. Not only that but they actually WARP themselves into 
 position sometimes. This is unacceptable and makes it blatently obvious that this game was rushed 
 and on a tight budget. They also seem to save all of your great shots and let in the simple ones. 
 Ive passed te ball back to the goalkeeper before, just a normal pass back and they end up DIVING 
 at the ball and parrying it away. AWFUL! They never move off the line if its 1 on 1 and the so 
 called "goalkeeper control" feature doesnt work correctly.
  
  The front end is very basic and is easy to navigate and get into a game so i dont have too much 
 to say about it other than its not even as good as SWOS but that my friends, is all in the pipeline!
 
  
  There are many competitions to play in and shed loads of teams to choose from. Each one of which 
 unlocks a new feature when you win them, for example, winning the world cup would unlock a new 
 pitch or a new ball style etc. A nice touch.
  
  There is no management option to this game. That was SWOS main feature and it was awesome! Its 
 more like Sensible Soccer - European Champions than it is Sensible World Of Soccer. Its been stripped 
 down to the bare bones. Fear not however cos as i mentioned, its all on the way. This version of 
 SS is concentrating on the gameplay not the management and dressing room options.
  
  The graphics are OK but dont really do much to enhance the game as you spend 95% of the game looking 
 from the good old sensible camera view of which you really dont need much detail as its quite a 
 far away camera angle. It does zoom in and out nicely and gives you a good view of the action however.
 
  
  The tactical options are very limited and the layout is very confusing and not very clear when 
 making a subsitution. Why the hell didnt they put the player names directly under the positions 
 in the tactical screen??
  
  The AI is crap and ive hardly been beaten since ive been playing it. In fact most of the time i 
 loose on penalties because its so awful to control the shooting on penalties and the ball doesnt 
 go where you are aiming even though in the actual game it goes exactly where your thunb stick is 
 pointed, strange.
  
  All in all, this game is about gameplay and what you are doing on the pitch. And that side of the 
 game has been done well (except for the keepers!) . I am having alot of fun with this game.
  
  Played with a friend this game is great fun. Played solo it doesnt really have much life compared 
 to the old amiga version from over 10 YEARS ago! but this is all to do with a tight budget and 
 codemasters rushing the developers to get this game out for June 9th, world cup kick off.
  
  Great on the pitch but on the whole dissapointing!
  
  Great things are coming from this 
 franchise, i can feel it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuzzard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  So simple to play but just like the old versions takes so long to master. So much more fun than 
 the games like PES and FIFA. 
  
  The graphics are simple but very charming and effective with nicely animated players and refs and 
 the cute big heads of old.
  
  Sound is little bit disappointing with very sparse crowd noise.
  
  The gameplay is classic 
 with almost the same basic controls but with the addition of a sprint function which works pretty 
 well. Hopefully this game will sell well and encourage them to do another version with the career 
 options found in SWOS which is still the best footy game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yukmizzy_06
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jun 13, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  In the months leading up to the game launch, I was wetting myself with anticipation for this game. 
 But then i thought how can they recreate the awesome sensible soccer from the old Amiga days on 
 the new consoles.
  
  The answer is simple, they havent recreated it. The new graphics engine is ok, the big heads are 
 amsuing for a while but you soon forget about them. The "trying to be 3D view" just doesnt suit 
 sensible soccer.
  
  There is so much wrong with this game its unbelievable....
  
  1. The ball phsyics are a joke.
  2. The goalkeepers are a joke
  3. Its far to easy to score, 
 most goals are run up and hit shoot at an angle and its in.4
  4. Front end ? What front end, bolted on, put together in 5 mins, cant read the text rubbish.
 
  5. Wheres the old funny commentary gone ?
  6. Give me Sensible World of Soccer (amiga) anyday
  7. Same as 6
  8. Why are you still reading 
 this, go and play something else.
  
  Sorry codemasters, you have ruined the beat ever football game from the old days, you have destroyed 
 my childhood memories of sensible soccer.
  
  I could rant on and on about how bad this game is, even for 20 its not even worth it, so I wont 
 go on, I`ll just say if you buy this and think its great, your mentally ill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thumbandit
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jun 10, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a simple review and i will concentrate just on the game and the important things ....... 
 
  
  First off . 
  
  Upon loading the game you notice the simple but effective graphics, unfortunately even though my 
 machine can run Half Life 2 and Oblivion at a high setting the game jerks and slows down around 
 the edges of the pitch and in the goal mouth. 
  
  There is no licence which is acceptable but annoying, just like in pes i hope there will be a patch.... 
 well i would if i was ever to play this again. 
  
  Onto the actual game, there is a major flaw with the game, and thats the fact that you must do 
 what the computer tells you i. e. You make a pass to your forward but you cant control him untill 
 the ball touches his foot by that time a sliding tackle has taken you out and the ball is still 
 ... no foul is given, both players get up at the same time and they win the ball and run in a straight 
 line shooting wide but my keeper jumps to the right misses the ball by about an inch then the ball 
 jumps onto his hand and is tipped wide resulting in a corner which is taken and none of my defenders 
 move as i have control of a midfielder . The striker passes the ball which misses the other striker 
 my keeper stands still as the pass trickles into the net as he dives .
  
  Another example ... im through 1 on 1 on goal i tap shoot and the ball hits the bar, my player, 
 the keeper, the bar, my striker then slide tackles with the ball at his feet and fouls someone 
 getting a red card, following the free kick i nick the ball im through 1 on 1 on goal again and 
 get chopped down in the box no contact with the ball and nothing is given, 
  
  The game is annoying, a ruined classic, a travesty and a poorly made excuse for a game. 
  
 
  Avoid at all costs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwissCamel
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 9, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  First off I suppose I should say I don't usually like football games for the P. C. I feel that the 
 style of play lends itself better to a console (or at least a pad) but that said I did absolutely 
 love the original Sensible Soccer on the MegaDrive and I would have to say it would make my top 
 5 games of all time.
  
  Due to my previous enjoyment of the original, I decided to give this a go. Sure it was a football 
 game, but the extremely simple style of play (4 direction buttons and shoot and kick plus the newly 
 added sprint) should lend itself to the P. C better than other football games, plus the Sensible 
 Soccer name should have been a mark of approval.
  
  Yet oddly Sensible Soccer finds a way to prove me wrong on both of the fronts where I believed 
 it would be strong. To start with, it completely betrays the good name it had, this game really 
 is poor. 
  
  Secondly, and perhaps more oddly, it lets you down because, as a simple game, it's practically 
 unplayable. In my experience, simple games tend to be more immediately playable and have less variation 
 in playability. They are almost the dead certs of the game world. A safe bet. If you get a game 
 as simple as this, it should be fun for at least a while, and you should get sick of it, it's because 
 of the lack of depth, not because of the game play. However Sensible Soccer 2006 bucks the trend 
 in this respect also.
  
  Looking at the actual game, Sensible Soccer suffers from the same problems as the previous one 
 with regards to licensing. (They haven't done it) . Whilst some of the more familiar names can be 
 worked out, good luck working out the names of the Togo defence. The menu presentation is reasonable, 
 efficient perhaps being a better word. Everything is there but it's nothing amazing.
  
  Setting up leagues and cups is simple enough, although setting up a Tournament is a little more 
 frustrating as it is impossible to even group the teams together in the group stages let alone 
 determine the path of each qualifying team to the finals and even the pre set World Cup, whilst 
 containing the correct teams, does not have them in the correct group!
  
  There is some unlockable content which you can obtain by winning tournaments, but most of this 
 is superflous (a positive in my opinion) and I couldn't really be bothered to unlock most of this. 
 
  
  The in game graphics are, I must admit, pretty good. They are not good in the breathtaking sense, 
 but that's not what Sensible Soccer is supposed to be about. That said, everything looks reasonable 
 for what you'd expect. 
  
  The real let down for this game though is where I had expected it to excel. They had actually made 
 it simpler than the Mega Drive version (where there were three buttons to shoot as opposed to two) . 
 The real let down though is the control of the players. It's difficult to make them do ANYTHING. 
 Want to make some sort of midfield run? Forget it! It's almost impossible to get past any player, 
 and that works both ways. It's incredibly easy to tackle the opposing team, and they seem to have 
 100% success in their tackles. It doesn't matter though because whoever gets tackled will get tackled 
 pretty shortly after. No your only chance of getting the ball out of midfield is to aimlessly kick 
 it towards your opponents goal and hope one of your players is on the recieving end. But this is 
 where it really gets boring. Shooting under pressure. The control system is unbelievably frustrating. 
 With the LEFT DOWN RIGHT UP controls, it's almost impossible to aim at the goal or cross from the 
 wing. By far your best bet for scoring is to run perpendicular to one corner of the goals and just 
 blast the ball, and somehow with the psuedo 3D environment, this just inst particularly satisfying. 
 
  
  The game is quite easy once you get into it also. Once you learn the three or four 'tricks' within 
 the first three games you can easily win friendlies (I never could be arsed with cups or leagues) . 
 However I would have to say the learning curve on this game must either be enormous (more time 
 than I have played) or it is just impossible to get enjoyable gameplay out of it.
  
  My disappointment with this game really cannot adequetly be put into words. It's so bad I would 
 think it was a waste of time if it was a freebie off a website. For 15, it's frankly asonishingly 
 bad. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
