-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sentinel: Descendants in Time
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/sentineldescendantsintime/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 12, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.0, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 61 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Detalion
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Dec 14, 2004
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sentinel boasts attractive graphics and high-quality puzzles. Unfortunately, the game often undermines 
 its biggest strengths by taking those captivating puzzles and turning them into extremely repetitive 
 busywork. 

  In some ways, Sentinel: Descendants in Time is your typical weak Myst clone. Sparse story? Check. 
 Hardly any characters and none to really interact with? Check. Gameworld built around the puzzles 
 instead of the other way around? Check. But there are a couple of things that set Sentinel apart 
 from its peers, namely unusually attractive graphics and a lot of high-quality puzzles. Unfortunately, 
 Sentinel often undermines one of its biggest strengths by taking those captivating puzzles and 
 turning them into extremely repetitive busywork.  

          This would be a fun puzzle if it weren't repeated four more times.     

  Sentinel was 
 crafted by Poland's Detalion, and in many ways it resembles the developer's last adventure game, 
 the mediocre Mysterious Journey II (aka Schizm II) . Both are first-person adventures that put too 
 much emphasis on puzzles and too little on other adventure hallmarks, like storytelling and actual 
 adventure. But Sentinel is still a clear improvement on Mysterious Journey II in a number of important 
 ways.  

  The story, while nothing great, is tighter this time around and at least tries to give you some 
 pertinent motivation. You play as Beni, a man who grew up idolizing the great tomb explorers of 
 his society, men who risked everything venturing into the final resting places of an ancient civilization. 
 In one of the game's perfunctory and clunky cutscenes, you learn that Beni's sister has been kidnapped 
 by a villain. To win her freedom, you'll need to venture into a particularly dangerous tomb guarded 
 by a mysterious AI construct called the Dormeuse. In occasional cutscenes, this virtual woman appears 
 and chats a lot, leaving you guessing what she's all about and what her motivations are.  

  While the writing won't win any awards, it's certainly better than the silliness of Mysterious 
 Journey II. It gives you at least one moderately interesting character, the Dormeuse, in a gameworld 
 otherwise devoid of life. It ends with a clever twist, and it also helps explain the seven wildly 
 varied worlds you enter via the central tomb, worlds that are supposed to be little bits of the 
 deceased's favorite places from life, preserved for eternity.  

          Captivating graphics help set Sentinel apart from lesser Myst clones.     

  You reach 
 these miniworlds via teleporters, exploring them from a first-person perspective. Sentinel uses 
 the Jupiter engine, which has powered games like No One Lives Forever 2 and Tron 2.0, to good effect. 
 Instead of jumping between fixed nodes, as in many Myst-style games, you explore locales freely, 
 using a shooter-style WASD control setup. This increases immersion by letting you roam about more 
 naturally.  

  As you make your way through Sentinel's tiny worlds, you'll find diverse, well-crafted brainteasers 
 that are admirably challenging, usually without going over the top. You'll get to solve puzzles 
 that challenge your skills of spatial visualization, pattern recognition, tone memorization, and 
 more, sometimes in the same puzzle. You'll work your way through a maze with moving parts, match 
 moving patterns on giant flowers to coded control panels, and of course align lots of bridges (a 
 clich in need of rethinking) . Optional onscreen hints tell you your basic goals for each 
 puzzle without giving away too much, a welcome feature all adventures should offer.  

  As interesting and challenging as the puzzles can be, they're far from perfect. Inventory puzzles 
 are conspicuously absent, so it's all about manipulating strange machines. The puzzles feel rather 
 arbitrary, too. You get the distinct impression that Detalion crafted the story simply to justify 
 a big bundle of puzzles, rather than creating a unified gameworld first and then inventing puzzles 
 to fit it. Then again, considering the quality of many of the puzzles, that's a fault you may be 
 able to live with.  

  Some flaws are harder to swallow, though, even for dedicated puzzle fans. Some of the puzzles are 
 relatively easy to figure out, but often a real chore to carry out. Sometimes it's hard to see 
 how certain moving puzzle pieces are aligning in the 3D world since the game occasionally forces 
 you to stand in one place as you work the puzzle's controls. Just as problematic is the way you 
 might look at a puzzle, quickly say, "Eureka!" (or something less geeky) , and then slump in your 
 chair as your realize just how much traipsing back and forth you'll need to do to actually complete 
 the challenge. Because of the way puzzle components are often spread far apart, the requisite walking 
 can feel interminable at times.  

  You'll also encounter way, way too much repetition. For example, there are a handful of nearly 
 identical puzzles in a strange fishing village that require you to move colored ropes into particular 
 positions. After you figure out how the first set works, the others are just tedious busywork. 
 It gets even worse later, on a series of volcanic islands where you have to align five bridges 
 according to identical principles. Once you figure out what you're doing with the first one, you're 
 left with an hour or so of walking back and forth, taking notes, and pressing button after button. 
 It's pure drudgery. One such bridge would have been enough. In later segments, Sentinel similarly 
 starts with good ideas and then drives them into the ground through loads of repetition.  

          Bizarre machines are commonplace in Sentinel.     

  Still, despite such big flaws, 
 the overall quality of the puzzles is a cut above that in many Myst clones, and so too are the 
 graphics. While Detalion's last game jumbled a bunch of pretty scenes together more or less randomly, 
 Sentinel boasts a lot more cohesion, at least within each of its worlds. Not only are the graphics 
 technically assured, with nuanced textures and believable character models (not that you see many) , 
 but each area you explore also fits together well. In the fishing village, some walkways are made 
 from nets, and the puzzles are crafted from other simple materials you'd associate with seaside 
 living, like rope and shells. By contrast, a strange floating observatory dazzles the eye with 
 massive spinning machinery and metal walkways perched high amid the clouds. It's too bad Sentinel's 
 audio doesn't match the quality of its visuals: All you get are some sparse sound effects, generic 
 ambient music, and middling voice-overs that can't hide the clunkiness of the game's script.  

 
  Sentinel is also quite short and could have used more polish. Sometimes voice-overs unintentionally 
 overlap or don't match the optional subtitles properly. Still, despite its problems, Sentinel can 
 be good fun for a thinking gamer eager to analyze, ponder, and take a heck of a lot of notes. If 
 you want memorable storytelling, characters, and exploration in your adventures, give Sentinel 
 a wide berth. But if you're really just after interesting puzzles, and you can put up with a whole 
 lot of repetitive busywork along the way, you'll want to test yourself against Sentinel's challenges. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LauraAdama
Rating: 5
Date: May 27, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  All I can say here is dear god thats one annoying game. After all, when I first started playing 
 sentinel, I thought this looks great, it has great looking graphics, what seems to be a decent 
 storyline, and all of that. But alas, my patience wore out after me and a friend, without any help, 
 took around six hours to get through 4 puzzles. Fortunately I found it in the bargain bin for only 
 ten bucks, so Im not too peeved about the waste of money that Sentinel turned out to be for me. 
 Hopefully, one day Ill try the game again, and maybe redo the review, but alas, right now, thats 
 going to be a very strong NO. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
