-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sentinel Returns
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/sentinelreturns/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 30, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.6, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 24 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEE
Developer: Hookstone Prod.
Genre: Action
Date:     Aug 31, 1998
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Once you get the hang of it, the game reveals itself to be a unique hybrid of styles and moods. 
 

 At first glance, Sentinel Returns makes no sense at all. We looked at what appeared to be an early 
 beta several months ago and couldn't make heads or tails of it. It seemed like the engine didn't 
 even allow for movement. You could push buttons to make giant silver triangles appear or disappear, 
 and likewise with grotesque fleshy dirt clods and featureless statues with disembodied heads. Oh 
 well, we figured it was just an early build, with nothing solid realized yet. When we received 
 the finished version, it was almost identical. What the...? Now there were spectacular shifting 
 clouds of foreign gasses and a terrifically eerie score, but you still couldn't move? What gives? 

 While confusing at first, it's actually a fairly straightforward game. In Sentinel Returns, topography 
 is everything, and elevation equals power. You begin the game at a low altitude in a world of perpetual 
 night, checkerboard plateaus, and inhospitable mountainsides. You don't move. Instead you instantaneously 
 create and destroy various objects on the plateau. You can only absorb or create an object if you 
 are above the square on which it resides. That's the key thing and the most difficult to pick up 
 initially. You have a limited amount of energy, so anything you don't need, you must reabsorb. 
 You get around by creating "robot hosts" and teleporting into them. You can also create boulders 
 and place the hosts on them, so that they're higher. Thus, the basics of gameplay are to create 
 a stack of one-to-three boulders, with a robot host on top. Teleport into the robot host. Then 
 absorb the old one (you'll need the energy) . From your new vantage point, you should be high enough 
 to create a robot host on the next plateau - without any boulders underneath, using less energy. 
 Do so and absorb the old host and the stack of boulders. You now have as much energy as when you 
 started but are higher and therefore more powerful.   

 Powerful? In what sense? Well, the higher you are, the more metallic trees you can absorb from the 
 landscape for energy (go figure) . Beyond that, your goal in all this is to destroy the Sentinel, 
 a strange hybrid of fleshy colossus, abstract sculpture, and gun tower. Destroy him, and advance 
 to the next level. To do so, you must (you guessed it) attain a higher elevation than his. This 
 is a dangerous proposition, though, since the higher you are the less protected you are from his 
 gaze, which is slowly rotating in place, scanning the level with a 28-degree field of vision. Inside 
 this invisible field, your energy is rapidly drained. Once your energy is gone, you're dead. Sounds 
 easy, right? Twenty-eight degrees. No big deal. Wrong. At later levels there are multiple clones 
 of the Sentinel to deal with, and the odds of survival decrease exponentially. Add that to later 
 levels' increasingly barren environments, and there's really nowhere to hide.   

 All this is accomplished with simple controls, which are relatively intuitive considering the strangeness 
 of the game. The mouse can be set to move the cursor across the current view, which slowly pans 
 when you reach the edge of the screen; or you can freeze the cursor in place and employ a faster 
 Quake-like mouselook. Separate keys are used to create trees or boulders or robot hosts, as well 
 as to absorb objects and teleport from one robot host to another. In case of emergency, there is 
 a hyperspace key that teleports your current robot host to a random location. It's only a last 
 resort, since it requires a fair amount of energy and always places you lower than your original 
 location.  

 Once you get the hang of it, the game reveals itself to be a unique hybrid of styles and moods. 
 For all its first-person urgency, it is ultimately a puzzle game. Realizing your objective on each 
 of the games 650+ levels has as much in common with the fast and addictive logic of Tetris as it 
 does with anything from the first-person 3D realm. Early levels are a sort of balancing act between 
 energy and visibility. The higher you are, the greater each becomes. Later levels are more tactically 
 interesting. You have to climb fast to knock out the clones first, but no sooner do you rear your 
 head over the first peak than you're caught in something's deadly gaze. These levels require a 
 sort of guerrilla approach in which you make multiple sudden rapid climbs from corners of the map 
 (where you're less visible - it's simple trigonometry) to take out clones in short bursts before 
 being seen.   

 Throughout the game, the sensation of being pursued is undeniably frightening. While you must think 
 fast to survive, movement is always painfully slow and deliberate. This is to the game's credit. 
 As in horror movies and nightmares, it is the inability of the pursued to move fast enough that 
 makes the pursuer so terrifying. And the game's amazing soundtrack emphasizes this eerie, adrenal 
 mood. It should come as no surprise, since much of it was provided by John Carpenter, who directed 
 and scored Halloween, Escape from New York, and dozens of other classic science fiction and horror 
 movies.  

 There is a visual simplicity to Sentinel Returns that is both a strong point and a weakness. The 
 world itself is breathtaking and eerie. The continually shifting otherworldly skies, the darkly 
 ominous peaks, metallic trees, and the ever-looming Sentinel itself are awe-inspiring and terrifying. 
 Yet, at a design level, the game chalks a lot up to surrealism as an excuse for not creating any 
 kind of palpable reality to play in. What exactly are those featureless pylons? Why are they called 
 "trees" at all? Why do you create them at will? It's all swirly backgrounds, checkerboard surfaces, 
 and geometric shapes. It's not that I'm unwilling to stretch my imagination. It's just that the 
 relationship between the game's visuals and play mechanics and any kind of objective concept is 
 so abstract that sometimes it feels like you're playing a beta. This doesn't rob the game of its 
 catchiness or its sense of urgency. It's just that every once in a while, in between levels while 
 you're catching your breath, you'll ask yourself again, "What the heck is this game?"   

 The unfinished quality of the visuals and genuinely alien play environment may throw some folks 
 off. In fact, the initial confusion and steep learning curve may narrow its audience considerably. 
 Which is a shame, because Sentinel Returns' unique combination of fast-paced puzzle logic and the 
 slow, creepy paranoia of being watched is thoroughly refreshing.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BoldoAsesino
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  The first time I grabbed the box of this game, and looked at the suspiciously identical screen-shots, 
 I told to myself: "Gee, this must be the most boring game of the century". After all, I haven't 
 read any reviews of this game, my friends didn't know a thing about it, and the retailer shop was 
 selling it for U$S 0.60. Well, I decided to buy it, anyway. Could be useful as a cat-eye for my 
 bike.
  
  But once I installed it, I changed drastically my mind. You may think this game is non-sense, but 
 once you play it you will discover an amazingly perfect gaming experience.
  
  It has been said that Sentinel Returns is only a 3D puzzle game. That's not so accurate. As a matter 
 of fact, it's a genre-blending game that includes elements from puzzle games but focuses on real-time 
 strategy from a first-person point of view. The whole point is about escape: you must get away 
 from the kafkian nightmare you are imprisoned into. In order to accomplish this, you must get rid 
 of the Sentinel, some kind of ugly-looking bio-mechanical monster that constantly scans and search 
 the world looking for you. You won't like being on his grasp, I assure you.
  
  To get rid of the Sentinel, you must destroy it. That may be done by climbing the mountain cliffs 
 of the world you're in and getting in the same level as the Sentinel. Why, you may ask. Because 
 in Sentinel's landscape you are allowed to absorb any kind of life that lurks in the same level 
 of altitude as you are. If you can get as high as the Sentinel itself, or higher, you could absorb 
 him and... hasta la vista, baby.
  
  Climbing is not an easy task. First of all, the Sentinel always watches. It rests on the highest 
 point of all the world. That gives it a very good, and very ample, angle of scouting vision. Second, 
 any move you make it's not free. You move yourself placing teleport hosts, and teleporting to those 
 afterwards. You spend energy doing it, and energy is limited. In order to move and climb, you must 
 do what Newton's physics prescribe: conserve energy. You must absorb older teleport hosts, and 
 additionally any form of life from the landscape in order to get more energy. Third, in later levels 
 the Sentinel gets additional help in the form of Sentries, which are some kind of disciples to 
 him. Of course, you must eliminate the Sentries before getting rid of the Sentinel itself. Try 
 to imagine how hard is to survive from a landscape with 4 Sentries plus the Sentinel.
  
  The nightmarish, surreal aesthetics of the landscapes, plus the scary musical score by filmmaker 
 John Carpenter, plus the paranoid episodes you'll suffer knowing that maybe your next move could 
 be the last one, plus the desperation you'll feel when the Sentinel's alarm drone starts howling 
 around the whole landscape because it saw you gives as a result a amazingly wonderful gaming experience. 
 Simple to learn, hellish to master. It's a shame that this game rested unappreciated and unnoticed 
 even now... So, if you are looking for a completely innovative, hardcore gaming experience, then 
 you really should add this game to your collection. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
