-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Serious Sam II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/serioussam2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Goofy humor gives the game personality.
 No-nonsense action stays focused on shooting lots of stuff.
 Plenty of levels and good variety of environments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Shooting action feels hollow.
 Extremely repetitive level design.
 Numerous failed attempts at humor.
 Not as satisfying as the original.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 11, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.6, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 2,042 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Croteam
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Oct 19, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Serious Sam II has a lot of levels and a few good laughs, but its simple shooting action is less 
 likely to get your adrenaline pumping as it is to make you go numb. 

  When Serious Sam: The First Encounter quietly appeared in 2001, it was a real breath of fresh air. 
 The game delivered fantastic-looking, incredibly intense first-person-shooting action without any 
 of the genre's pretenses of grandiose storytelling, all with its own unique style and for a bargain 
 price of $20 at that. Serious Sam has made appearances a handful of other times since then, but 
 only now has a full-fledged sequel finally arrived. The good news is that this is Serious Sam all 
 right, packing in all the silly humor and massive shooting-gallery-style levels you'd expect from 
 the previous games. The bad news is something's been lost in translation, perhaps due to the passing 
 of time or due to the new 3D graphics engine, or -- more likely -- because of a combination of each. 
 Serious Sam II has a lot of levels and a few good laughs, but its simple shooting action is less 
 likely to get your adrenaline pumping as it is to make you go numb.  

          Sam is back in Serious Sam II, and this time he'll have to shoot his way through a whole 
 bunch of levels filled with lots of enemies.     

  "Serious" Sam Stone, casually dressed in a T-shirt and jeans, has been summoned to rid the universe 
 of Mental and his nefarious forces. To do this, he'll need to travel to different worlds to collect 
 medallion pieces from their oppressors. And to do that, he'll need to run from point A to point 
 B through nearly two-dozen levels, stopping frequently to gun down literally hundreds of foes. 
 Along the way, you'll find a variety of big guns, grab lots of health, armor, and ammo power-ups, 
 and probably discover some amusing secret areas. But mostly you'll just shoot and shoot and shoot 
 as enemies pour in from all around you, attacking from the ground and from the sky, either hanging 
 back and firing at you or rushing right toward you -- sometimes using a combination of the two.  
 

  The original Serious Sam boasted a 3D graphics engine that could render incredibly huge levels 
 packed with incredibly large numbers of enemies. By comparison, the levels in Serious Sam II seem 
 smaller, and so do the enemy counts (or at least these factors don't stand out like they used to) . 
 Both on the PC and the Xbox, when large numbers of enemies clutter the screen, the frame rate noticeably 
 bogs down, which hurts the experience.  

  The bigger issue is that the action in Serious Sam II just doesn't feel all that satisfying. The 
 game's weapons look big and bulky onscreen, but the interaction between your firepower and your 
 enemies' bodies feels rather hollow. Enemies just kind of break apart into bits, then quickly fade 
 away. So despite the high volume of enemy casualties, you just don't get that sense of wreaking 
 massive havoc and carnage with your ridiculously oversized guns. The weapons don't behave as you'd 
 expect them to in other ways, as well. The very first weapon you find, a multibarreled shotgun 
 that looks far too much like a toy, turns out to be perfectly accurate at extreme ranges, contrary 
 to first-person-shooter canon, which stipulates shotguns should only be effective up close. So 
 this boring gun actually becomes your mainstay throughout most of the game. Using a shotgun to 
 snipe aerial targets from miles away just feels silly, but it's not the same "silly" that Serious 
 Sam II is going for. The rest of the weapons are pretty straightforward. You never have to reload, 
 but just keep an eye on your ammo count.  

          There's more variety to the scenery than to the action.     

  Serious Sam II doesn't 
 do much with the original game's formula, but it introduces some vehicle-driving and turret-gun 
 sequences into the mix. These aren't anything you haven't seen in numerous other shooters prior 
 to this one, but they help alleviate Serious Sam II from what's a very monotonous level design 
 overall. While the worlds you'll visit have their own unique visual style and enemies, the underlying 
 level design and enemy behavior doesn't change much from one level to the next, and the game's 
 challenge doesn't really escalate all that much either. In fact, at the default difficulty, most 
 of the game is fairly easy, though certain end-of-level sequences will probably take you a few 
 tries, at least until you figure out where all the enemies are coming from. Many of the game's 
 levels end with an anticlimax. You battle waves and waves of foes until they simply stop coming, 
 and then the level ends. Some decent boss fights are thrown in, but it's all been downhill for 
 Serious Sam's boss fights since the jaw-dropping battle at the end of the first game. All the game's 
 levels are bookended by little comedic cutscenes, some of which are absurdly amusing. However, 
 just as often the humor falls flat. The same can be said for Sam's various one-liners during the 
 course of the gameplay. Later on in the game, Sam even starts recycling his material, as if you 
 needed to be reminded of such gems as "I eat resistance for breakfast."  

  The differences between the PC and Xbox versions of Serious Sam II may seem purely cosmetic, but 
 they add up to a lot in practice. Specifically, the Xbox version looks worse, and the auto-aim 
 feature that's enabled by default to compensate for having to use a gamepad instead of a mouse 
 and keyboard sucks away some of the game's challenge. The auto-aim feature makes it laughably easy 
 to hit your mark, though it's necessary in the many instances when you're shooting at targets from 
 very far away, where the Xbox version's low resolution and sketchy frame rate conspire to make 
 it difficult to line up your shots. Also, the PC version supports online cooperative gameplay for 
 up to 16 players, while the Xbox limits you to four (though we had a lot of problems getting into 
 a stable co-op match on the PC) . The Xbox version also retails for more than the PC version, neither 
 of which, incidentally, is coming out of the gate for the budget price of the original. So, yeah, 
 don't spring for the Xbox version unless you haven't upgraded your PC since the first Serious Sam. 

          Serious Sam II gains some mileage from its absurd humor, but the action itself could have 
 felt a lot better.     

  On a nicely equipped PC, Serious Sam II does look great. It's now got a physics engine like pretty 
 much every other shooter, so expect to see some boxes flipping around from explosions, and that 
 kind of stuff. Some aspects of the game's environments blow up good, and there's another neat effect 
 in how trees shake wildly, shedding their leaves from the violent impact of nearby blasts. The 
 levels look pretty, though the designs aren't very imaginative, for the most part (a giant-sized 
 level filled with giant-sized stomped-out cigarette butts stands out) , and the enemies look purposely 
 absurd. The game's grainy cutscenes seem like they could have easily been rendered in real time 
 using the game's engines, but they probably weren't to cut back on loading times, which aren't 
 bad. As for the audio in Serious Sam II, it tries too hard to be silly. Some of it's great. Sam's 
 guns are plenty loud, and his gruff voice is perfect for a generic action hero. But the nonstop 
 babble of the occasional friendly villagers you'll run into, as well as some other specific sounds 
 (like a gratingly unfunny voice that announces when you've earned an extra life, which is often) , 
 can be annoying. The music matches the game's lighthearted theme well but picks up tempo and drops 
 off abruptly whenever enemies appear.  

  A cooperative mode is the only multiplayer option available in Serious Sam II, and while games 
 like this can certainly be more fun if you play them with friends, the co-op mode doesn't do anything 
 to fix Serious Sam II's shortcomings. Fans of Serious Sam will enjoy some aspects of being in Sam's 
 red sneakers again, and the game's goofy humor and corny references to other first-person shooters 
 do give this game a distinct personality. But while the action will keep you on edge, it rarely 
 achieves the sort of teeth-grinding, fist-clenching intensity that you'd expect if you played the 
 original Serious Sam games or are otherwise looking for a totally satisfying no-nonsense shooter. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (125 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 12:29 am PT
Review:  Flying in the face of the ever-increasing sophistication of PC shooters, a little developer called 
 Croteam decided to make an FPS the way they used to be made. The original Serious Sam was a colorful, 
 chaotic romp through a world filled with numerous inventive enemies. Sam's Second Encounter offered 
 loads of new content but few actual improvements in terms of gameplay or graphics. Today Croteam 
 finally released the first "official" sequel to the original, the imaginatively named Like its 
 predecessors, Serious Sam II is all about shooting the crap out of everything you see. The action 
 is fast and intense from start to finish. You'll have tons of beasts to blast and a wide variety 
 of vibrant levels to run through. There are a few puzzles here and there but they're mostly solved 
 through a little exploration or common sense. Exploration shouldn't be too much of a challenge 
 either; the levels here are almost all very linear and you'll know you're going the right way if 
 there happen to be hundreds of enemies swarming towards you. 
  
  have to admit, there actually is a little bit of story for Serious Sam II, but it really doesn't 
 matter that much. Mental's back, there's some sort of thing about a medallion and all manner of 
 bigheaded moppets. The action in the game provides its own context and the game becomes more about 
 your survival than about the collection of the scattered pieces of a medallion. Honestly, when 
 a team of football-playing orcs are chasing you down, you really don't care why they're doing it. 
 As long you keep blasting away, you'll eventually finish out the few plot points that are scattered 
 through each chapter. 
  The highly informative Netricsa system makes a return here, this time with spoken dialogue -- something 
 to do, Nettie explains, with "having a bigger game budget." Her comments about Sam's dalliances 
 and Mental's capabilities are genuinely funny but she's more useful in orienting Sam towards his 
 next objective. While that might sound sophisticated, it rarely means more than simply telling 
 Sam to find a key or jump in the giant monkey's mouth. 
  
  Sam's arsenal is quite a bit more inventive this time around but you'll still find yourself relying 
 on old standbys like the double-barreled shotgun, the chaingun and the rocket gun. Between the 
 three of them, you should have pretty much every situation covered. More specialized weapons certainly 
 find application during the game -- the enemy-seeking parrot bomb is great for chasing down highly 
 mobile enemies and the levels are often large enough to accommodate the sniper rifle, for instance 
 -- but those situations are fairly rare. Your ammo supply might become a problem on the higher 
 difficulty settings but there are so many pick-ups scattered throughout the game that you won't 
 run out of ammunition even if you try to squander it. 
  
  You really might as well just tape the fire button down because there's never a second in the game 
 that you're not shooting like crazy at every thing around you. The wide variety of enemy types 
 keeps things from getting monotonous. From the hilarious zombie stockbrokers to the deadly patchwork, 
 wind-up rhinos to the giant robotic spiders, you'll find a wide range of enemies, each with their 
 own attack styles. Some individual enemies have deadly attacks but the enemies in Sam II are dangerous 
 because of their numbers, not because of their intelligence. Some flying enemies even get stuck 
 in tricky parts of the environment. 
  
  The pace of the action keeps you from appreciating the visual look of most enemies, particularly 
 the smaller ones. Some of the orc footballers or wind-up rhinos can get a little too close for 
 comfort but, generally speaking, you'll be too busy killing stuff to care about how it looks. It's 
 a little easier to appreciate the larger enemies (and there are plenty of these) but, even there, 
 you'll notice that the models are getting by on personality rather than poly-counts. 
  
  If the creatures don't look quite as good as some in other recent shooters, the game makes up for 
 it by regularly putting dozens of them on screen at one time. At nearly every turn, you'll find 
 yourself confronted with large groups of different types of enemies. You'll have the ability to 
 scale the graphics quite a bit to match your machine's capabilities. We were able to run with better 
 than average options on a 3GHz machine with a 256MB 3D accelerator. More advanced systems can scale 
 up to get even better graphics with little drop in performance. 
  
  Outside of the enemies, the rest of the game looks quite good. The vegetation is excellent overall, 
 with loads of trees, grass, flowers and other greenery dotting the landscape. Nice textures are 
 found on nearly every surface and the lighting, while not eye-popping, is still good enough to 
 lend a little atmosphere to the game. As with the enemies, the levels here are remarkably varied. 
 Over the course of the game players will run through massive bases in the snow, fairy tale cities, 
 giant-scale backyards, Asian carnivals and a host of other inventive areas. 
  
  There's a rudimentary attempt at a physics engine but it falls short of what gamers have come to 
 expect in the days of Havok-driven ragdolls. Enemies fly back from your blasts or tumble to the 
 ground in a very unspectacular fashion. You'll find a few opportunities to interact with the game 
 world but this merely involves picking up dead bunnies or basketballs and pointlessly flinging 
 them around. Stacking boxes is the one area where physics intersects with actual gameplay but even 
 here you'll find that the boxes don't have any sense of substance at all; they just seem like weightless 
 pieces of geometry
  Vehicles have also been added to Sam's arsenal this time around but the various hover cars and 
 spinning spike pods are little more than an extra layer of armor that Sam wears in certain levels. 
 The rolling ball of death that's introduced very early in the game is actually the only vehicle 
 that doesn't feel like just another gun but it's gone before you have a chance to really appreciate 
 the fun of rolling through crowds of enemies. 
  The sounds in Sam are pretty stock. Weapon sounds, explosions and dialogue aren't terribly impressive 
 by themselves but they serve the action well enough. Though we'd like to hear a little more out 
 of the game here, the visuals and feel of the game are what really sells the experience. 
  
  Like the previous games, Serious Sam II offers up an easy to use and highly flexible cooperative 
 mode. Getting together a group of friends is about the only way most of us have a hope of tackling 
 the game's ultra hard difficulty levels. Loads of difficulty settings allow you to scale the game 
 to your ability level. The game can even change the power of the enemies as players join and leave 
 the server. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam series, from Croteam developer, are popular FPS games that bring amazing action sequences, 
 where the hero, Sam "Serious" Stone, is alone killing literally hundreds of monsters summoned by 
 the evil entity Mental. The first engine (Serious Engine) was capable of rendering dozens of enemies 
 at once without slowing down, as well extremely big levels that works much like arenas. Then, with 
 your (intentionally) overpowered weapons, you can finish the hordes in length battles.
  
  Trying to recreate that feel, Croteam 2005's Serious Sam II comes with both better and worse qualities. 
 While the updated engine (Serious Engine 2) looks great, it isn't possible to render lots of enemies 
 and those huge levels without lagging. The result is a game with more linear levels, filled with 
 less monsters and detail. Nevertheless, Serious Sam stills an old-school FPS, and just because 
 instead having 1000 monsters the player will actually get 500 per level, it doesn't mean the game 
 is bad. It still have a lot of fun secrets (some important, while others are just cool) and several 
 areas with literally dozens of monsters, all mindlessly attacking Sam Stone at the same time.
 
  
  Most weapons were recycled from the original Serious Sam games: The Double-Barreled Shotgun, the 
 Minigun, the Rocket Launcher, the Grenade Launcher, the Sniper Rifle, the amazing Cannon, the 'problem 
 solver' Serious Bomb etc. And there're new ones too: Klodovic (a parrot that carries a powerful 
 explosive) , a sort of an energy pistol (I found it a rip-off from Unreal II's Dispersion Pistol) , 
 a plasma gun, which is as powerful as the Laser Gun from the original Serious Sam. All of these 
 weapons are useful against certain types of enemies. You'll prefer to use the Sniper Rifle to take 
 down ranged enemies at distance, while the Double-Barreled Shotgun is amazing in close combats.
 
  
  Serious Sam II delivers some good action sequences, although it isn't as tactical as the first 
 two games. I mean, in both 'The First' and 'The Second Encounter' the player needs to pay attention 
 to the sounds that most monsters have. If you hear a scream, then you know that the beheaded kamikaze 
 is near (almost exploding you) . Or if it's a galloping sound that you noticed, then stay alert 
 because a Kleer skeleton must be nearby, if it's not already attacking you. Those things don't 
 make sense anymore in Serious Sam II. Additionally, most of your weapons work perfectly fine in 
 almost all the situations. The shotgun can fire with extremely precision, no matter the distance 
 in question. This makes Serious Sam II a bit easy, even at 'Normal' difficult. The dual pistols 
 are another problem: they're pretty weak, and I can easily include in that category the energy 
 pistol (I didn't use it a single time in the whole game) and the chainsaw, which was very useful 
 in 'The Secound Encounter'.
  
  Now, differently from many reviewers here in Gamespot, I found the monsters and the levels amazing 
 in this sequel. The game is much bigger now (nearly 40 levels) , the environments aren't never the 
 same, and there're a good variety of monsters, although most of them are repeated over the time. 
 Some enemies are just remakes from the original Serious Sam, such as the bull, the beheaded kamikaze, 
 the orc soldiers and the galloping skeleton; while others are completely new to the series: the 
 suicide clown, the helicopters (as well much other flying things) , the towers and so.
  
  The levels are divided in seven episodes (or worlds) , each one with an unique look, as well some 
 few monsters that you'll see only in that particular world. Some levels are cartoony, while others 
 are so well-done that even beat the quality even of most great games, such as DOOM 3 or Quake 4. 
 The Kleer world, in my opinion, is exactly how DOOM 3 should look like in most of the time (instead 
 of that indoor environment in the UAC facility) , Also, the Sirious world is one of the most well-designed 
 scenario ever in a PC game. The levels still big, although they don't have those big arenas as 
 the ones in 'The First' and 'Secound Encounter'. While Serious Sam II is surely a lengthy game, 
 it doesn't mean it will consume all of your free time. I managed to finish the game in less than 
 10 hours playing at 'Normal' difficult. Of course, if you decide to search for all the secrets, 
 you'll spend several additional hours to do the job.
  
  If the sound isn't as good (or useful) as it were in the original Serious Sam, at least the music 
 still good in most of the levels. Yes, there're a few exceptions where the soundtrack is terrible, 
 and will annoy the player in just a few minutes (luckily you can turn it off anytime you want) . 
 However, the weapons sound good, especially the Sniper, the Cannon and the plasma gun; also, the 
 parrot Klodovic is really funny. 
  
  Talking about fun, this game is filled with good humor. Unfortunately, it has some false attempts 
 of humor, making the game silly (not in the fun way) . The cut scenes are mostly really cool, but 
 sometimes they're stupid and you'll want to skip them in no time. Also, the NETRICSA, a system 
 that lives in Sam's head giving all the information you need, isn't as useful as it was before. 
 It still important to read the info, but doesn't have all that cool stuff about monsters behavior, 
 local story and weapon strategy tips.
  
  The Multiplayer is still there, especially the excellent Cooperative mode (up to 16 players) . The 
 bad news is that you'll need to apply the official patch (v2.070) to add the Deatchmatch mode. 
 But playing with friends against Mental hordes is the real deal, the boss battles becomes even 
 more interesting in that way. 
  
  So, considering everything that is new and really good, you can easily forgive the flaws present 
 in Serious Sam II. An old-school FPS game with good Multiplayer, great graphics, lengthy campaign, 
 generally funny moments and unique arcade gameplay cannot be so hated, or receive bad reviews just 
 because isn't equal to its antecessors. There're good features that shines over all its problems. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hl20302
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam 2 is the sequel to the arcade-inspired first person shooter action game, Serious Sam. 
 Serious Sam 2 was a disappointment though and i didn't like it too much, but it was pretty good. 
 
  
  Storyline: ****** 6/10
  Gameplay: ******* 7/10
  Graphics: ******** 8/10
  Sound: ******* 7/10
  Lasting Appeal: ******** 8/10
  
  THE GOOD:
  The funny humor in this 
 game makes this a pretty... unique sequel, Grenades are useful, New vehicles, Good controls, Odd 
 but great game engine, Cooperative mode is really fun, New physics.
  
  THE BAD:
  Game tries to be too funny, Deathmatch isn't very stable for online, Weapons don't feel... strong, 
 Online isn't very stable, No Split-screen mode like in Serious Sam First and Second Encounter, 
 Game gets a little repetitive later on.
  
  STORYLINE: 
  The storyline in Serious Sam 2 is pretty bad... but i don't think that really counts for a game 
 like this, but i'll just continue the subjuct anyway. The game's storyline is supposed to take 
 place after the ending of Serious Sam: The Second Encounter. Sam gets teleported to some random 
 area with three "Sirians". They told Sam they have a way to defeat Mental (He's the main Villian) 
 by getting the 5 pieces of the "Medallion of Power", making Mental vulnerable. Then after collecting 
 all of the pieces of the "Medallion of Power", Sam goes to Planet Kronor (It's a small moon orbiting 
 around Planet Sirius) to disable Planet Sirius' shield (Planet Sirius is Mental's home planet) 
 and hunt him down from there.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as the first two games, blowing the sh*t out of every monster 
 wave you see. The levels are not arena like levels anymore, which kinda ruin the Serious Sam feel. 
 But there is vehicles, which should be new to some people (Unless people played Serious Sam: Next 
 Encounter before this because Serious Sam: Next Encounter was released before Serious Sam 2) . The 
 weapons feel a little weak, but it's not as bad as Serious Sam: Next Encounter's overpowered weapons. 
 The online cooperative is actually good, but not very stable. There is deathmatch IF you updated 
 to the 2.070 patch. The deathmatch isn't as good as the first two games and is actually pretty 
 unstable. Also, there is no Split-screen mode anymore, which really sucks.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Hmmmm, the graphics look pretty nice for a 2005 game. Although, i didn't like the new cartoony 
 look (Which they will take it out for Modern Warfare for Serious Sam 3, thank God) , the moveable 
 clouds are nice, there is some physics in the game like picking up boxes. The grass doesn't look 
 bad at all, even in 2008 it still looks pretty good. The engine that Serious Sam 2 is using is 
 Croteam's Serious Engine 2 which is great for remaking Serious Sam First and Second Encounter maps. 
 Too bad the engine is actually getting old and when Serious Engine 3 comes out, Serious Engine 
 2 will be pointless. The shadows and lighting looks pretty good and so does the models. 
  
  SOUND:
  The sound isn't as good as the first two games, like the weapons sound... uhhh... weak. 
 The music on levels is pretty good. Sam's voice somehow sounds a little different compared to the 
 first two games. The voice acting is supposed to be funny, other than that, i think it's actually 
 pretty good (Except for Prince Chan's Voice, which sounds like an Asian kid on Helium) . 
  
  IS THE GAME WORTH BUYING OR RENTING:
  Well, it is worth renting that's for sure. But it's definitely 
 worth buying for any Serious Sam fan out there and is actually a pretty good sequal, unlike Unreal 
 2.
  
  SCORE FOR THIS GAME:
  My score for this game is:
  
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erniemink
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I read a lot of reviews and I think sometimes people just miss the pure fun and delight that goes 
 into a game by being biased or by making the wrong judgement. The whole Serious Sam series has 
 been a delight for me since the beginning and the game looks better than the original First and 
 Second Encounter. I do admit the first series of games had that nice continuous Egyptian theme 
 and huge open spaces, but what Serious Sam II does is add to the graphics engine with a refined 
 and new update for more refined detail in unique and unexpected ways and add new enemies and bosses. 
 Plus as anyways knows in this game series, you almost always need God mode at some point in this 
 game especially at the higher difficulty settings. It is a known fact that the Serious Sam games 
 have more enemies on stage at one time coming at you that are nerve-rackingly fun at the same time 
 but very intense also. These games will always push your graphics harder because of that extra 
 graphic detail and movement activity that never seems to grow old. But this is also what makes 
 this game series so much fun, and I even find myself going back to the original series to, not 
 always remembering everything thankfully, so it makes a good experience time and time again. FPS 
 (First-Person Shooter) games have that nice first person feel and envelopment which is why Serious 
 Sam games are so enjoyable to begin with and stand out from the other shooter games. Very well 
 done! I give it a 9.5 for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Taking a hiatus from gaming during the 90s, I never got a chance to play the original Serious Sam. 
 So the days-of-yore shooters like Duke Nukem and Serious Sam (where overly buffed-out heroes nuke 
 entire planets worth of enemies) were lost. Now that I've played SS II, I'm glad I got the chance 
 to dip my toes into the past, and catch a glimpse of the hype.
  
  The game definitely doesn't attempt to do anything different. Sure, the graphics are pretty good 
 (even 3 years later) , the polish is there, but most of the gameplay is simple. And that's just 
 what I liked about it.
  
  I shot waves of weird-looking enemies, found hidden objects (a carcass produced by a secret ninja 
 chicken) , and destroyed big bosses at the end of the level. The game also throws in campy humor 
 during the pre-level cut-scenes, and that helps to establish the game's not-so-serious tone (lame 
 pun intended) .
  
  The only thing that I can fault this game for is having occasional hiccups on my 2007 hardware, 
 which did not come from a dip in FPS (I used fraps to determine this) ; and for ENORMOUSLY long 
 levels. Honestly, this game could be the poster-child for "cut out 25% of each level and it'd be 
 great" games that I often **** about in my blogs. The salt in the wound: when one of the final 
 levels makes you replay two earlier portions.
  
  Overall, I can't fault the game too much, and it's pros definitely outweigh its cons. It's above-average, 
 but with a few annoying issues that drags its score down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cunhao
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Sam 2 have a great visual. But all this beauty have a cost: the game CAN'T make hundreds of enemies 
 appear without make any pc comes to the ground trying to renderize all that mess! The reflexes 
 of the game is very ridiculous.. they don't reflect the environment, they reflect some 'fixed' 
 background, and even Sam isn't reflected. I'll not talk about the water, because Sam 2 have very 
 few moments that you interact with it (in truth, you can't interact with the water..) .
  
  The sound effects are very limited. You can't even know where a enemy come only listening the sound. 
 The music just feel right in almost every moment.
  
  Sam 2 tries to use a physics system, but fails to make it work right (even because the game make 
 the objects stay floating...) , but works fine with crates and shelves.
  
  Like I said before, almost all the enemies have a bad design, making many times boring fight with 
 them, because they just can't make you feel fear. They're all too colored, making all look like 
 a cartoon. In the place of the fear when facing many enemies, you just can't stay preoccupied when 
 you look to Sam 2 enemies, unlike in the First and Second Encounter, where listen to any monster 
 to make the player stay alert, and, in Sam 2, they almost don't make sounds. It's normal to take 
 a shot in the back for not having heard an enemy behind you....
  
  Kill them isn't fun at all. Unlike in First and Second Encounter, you just couldn't get tired at 
 killing so many enemies. In Sam 2, the weapons many times don's sound right, and they have the 
 worst design that I had seen. The first time that I get the rocket launcher, my little sister asked 
 me "What's that?", then, I fired with it, and she asked again "Ah! One weapon made with lego's 
 pieces..". 
  
  The weapons are also very unbalanced, like the enemies... and Serious Sam is very fragile (and 
 I'm saying that because I played in normal difficult...) . If some enemy rocket hit you, will just 
 make you easily lost 30~50 health points... And this sequel don't bring nothing of new to the Sam's 
 arsenal. They just changed the way they look. Only two new weapons that you'll forget to use them 
 because one is ridiculous weak and another have very few ammunition. 
  
  About the stages... I have to admit that Sam 2 make beautiful. All have a great design and have 
 it's own characteristics, with jokes, enemies, buildings, music and challenges, sometimes overcoming 
 First and Second Encounter.
  
  Croteam tried to make a funny version of Serious Sam. In my point of view, they failed. The weapons 
 don't look and don't feels right, making them look like a toy. The enemies don't give the same 
 challenge than before and many elements of the game are unbalanced. Luckly, in the end appear "To 
 be continued...", now is just wait Serious Sam 3....
  
  #2 Revision# 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imortal986201
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam is one of those puns to First-Person-Shooter players who want to call themselves "hardcore". 
 Its a fun game with a bit of humor. I'd say its worth a play although it does have some issues. 
 As you progress further into the game you begin to encounter more and more mobs in one sitting. 
 Eventually you get to the point where it can bog any computer. Still if you can get past an occasional 
 dip in frame-rate and you enjoy comical FPS games than definitely check this one out. Everything 
 about the game has a unique twist. Creatures range from windup rhinos to walking bombs. Weapons 
 include parrot (as in the bird) delivered bombs, an electric saw, automatic shotgun, and much more. 
 The plot is a bit corny but enough to satisfy FPS craving.
  This game gets a 7.0 for many hours of enjoyment, despite a strange and thin plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam has always been about over-the-top arcade action in the form of an FPS game. His first 
 two games were nothing short but amazing and pure fun, leaving room for the much anticipated third 
 chapter. Sam has returned to raise the roof with a new engine and the same great gameplay fans 
 have come to expect. This time some great cut-scenes are added to the game making it feel much 
 more immersive over the first two games. These can be really funny at times while often overplayed 
 and moronic. The only thing you need to worry about is how much fun you will have blasting a massive 
 amount of baddies, which come at you in impossible waves. This is what makes Serious Sam stand 
 out from other FPS games, and why fans love it!
  
  The new engine displays some excellent visuals as you progress through the levels. Many objects 
 in the game world can be destroyed not only by weapon damage but also by a run away npc charging 
 through it. The bosses are once again obnoxiously large, making your adrenaline pump as they close 
 in on you. The engine is designed to display lots of activity seamlessly, making every fight extremely 
 fun and rewarding. I do admit that sometimes the waves of bad guys can become repetitive but I 
 feel the developers did this for a reason, to keep it simple. I never go into a Serious Sam game 
 expecting anything but casual gameplay and neither should anyone else.
  
  I did not get a chance to test the multiplayer options for SS2, but if they are anything like the 
 first two games you can expect some extended fun past the single-player campaign. The campaign 
 itself will keep you busy for a few gaming periods, providing a lengthy game full of interesting 
 locations and locals. You will get to tour everything from a fantasy kingdom to a Star Wars inspired 
 metropolitan city. Serious Sam 2 is a game worth picking up that provides solid gameplay while 
 not being too serious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desi_gangsta911
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam 2!
  
  Are you serious?, the only good thing about this game is the multiplayer modes ( mostly campaign 
 mode) the graphics are not as bad as I thought they would. The main topic is too comic and funny (not 
 like it made me laugh) . Overall, this game is not the type of FPS game you want. I is only if you 
 like to kill giant spiders and robot fish. Dogs are boring and annoying to kill. Some levels of 
 this game are nice bu only some!!!. The blue people are major boring. Shotgun zombies are a waste 
 of time. You can't pick up guns from the ground. The guns are pretty creative. I love the serious 
 bomb. It makes life easier in difficult situations. It is not the best serious sam I have played. 
 BUT!! pc is still the best. If you want a nice FPS with a lotof action and nice twists on the side, 
 you should buy F. E. A. R. Serious Sam 2 is not worth the money. If there is a demo (I don't know 
 if there is? :-p) you should try that first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natsist
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 24, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  That isn't the hero with who i finished the second encounter. That isnt continue of the best game 
 ever! Its just a slushy garbage. Serious fans, if you are still not played this game my advice is: DON'T-THAT 
 ISN'T OUR SERIOUS SAM!
  All old thinks are missing-there is no the old feeling, the freat music and glorious cityes, there 
 is no NOTHING OLD! Everythink in this game is someone new SLUSHY SHjT!!! If you wanna play it please 
 find and instal first the Classic Serious Sam mod-it makes the game better!!!
  It is just a disapointing game-short levels with small arenas, funny monsters and cut scenes, missing 
 old weapons and all enemyes and more, and more, and more...
  What doing the Serious Sam 2: Classic Serious Sam mod
  This mod includes old light efects (created 
 special for the new engine) spawn effects, shockwave for the rockets and grenades, TURN BACK OLD MONSTERS-like 
 the Aludran reptiloid common, the lava golems, biomechanoid minor and more, more, more...
  All this thinks are created BY ONE PERSON (too disapointed by Serious Sam 2) . And i want to tell 
 him something:
  -Dude, i don't know you, but i really wnt to tell you one big THANKS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blumagoo2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  A Fun Fast action Frolic, Although Not as good as the first two SSam games, It Still A fun game. 
 SSam 2 Has lots of new "Bells and whistles"
  (Vehicles and weapons) But the new engine has some SERIOUS Kinks in it, and the game lacks the 
 polish that the previous versions had.
  Most noticeably is the fact that there is a myrid of places where Sam can get "stuck" or "hung" 
 on the maps. In my first hour of playing, while exploring the map a little, (after some frenetic 
 battles) for secrets or ???
  I found myself stuck in three different places on two different maps! 
  We are discouraged from 
 exploring the game for fear of having to start
  The whole level over again or quick saving upon every movement ?
  Now for me, the first time 
 I just ignored it, and wrote it off to a Winkle in the universe, The Second time I was mildly annoyed, 
 the third time...
  I was pissed! and decided to write this... My first review... come on Croteam!
  Wheres the polish? 
 You guys are WAY WAY WAY Better than than that!
  Have we all succumbed to the all mighty $$?? Cranking out raw slabs of raw meat for the hungry 
 consumer to divower ??? Was this software Beta tested by more than one person ,on more than one 
 machine?
  
  The only other gripe is that they, like all game developers these days
  TOTALLY LIE about the system requirements
  OK... My rant is now over ... And I still recommend 
 this game to anyone who
  loves Mega fast action and shooters!
  PS. CROTEAM still RRR RIP'S!!! Howsabout a little tiny patch boys !? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbob12123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  really good action packed game, i bought it for ten pounds and i don't regret it one bit. its one 
 of the best FPS games i own. i find the graphics a little bit poor but overall its a really good 
 game to play when your bored or just if you feel like playing an addicting shooter. a quite challenging 
 games with 5 different difficulty modes. this game is similar to other great first person shooters 
 like Half-life 2, Halo and doom. the game play is really good, but the story line is a bit weird. 
 awsome game, worth the money! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackfnBurton
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I will admit at the outset that I have never played the original Serious Sam - part 2 I obtained 
 with the purchase of an Geforce 5600 card a while back and I found it to be amusing at times with 
 quality graphics and fast paced game play but I had a hard time not feeling as though I was playing 
 Sonic the Hedgehog on a Game Gear circa 1991. 
  
  It isn't that the levels aren't designed well or the game isn't interesting, it is just that the 
 presentation is quite cartoonish and the gameplay itself if very retro - think Doom II or Duke 
 Nukem 3D style gun and run and you're getting warm. 
  
  I found quite to my surprise that while I became bored with this game long before I finished it 
 that my friend's children couldn't put it down. So in addition to donating the Geforce 5600 to 
 a new gaming PC for the tots I handed over Serious Sam II and a few other titles I couldn't bring 
 myself to enjoy like Prince of Persia - trust me, kids will enjoy almost anything so I was Uncle 
 of the Year. 
  
  In short, a moderately entertaining retro shooter with colorful graphics perfectly suited for your 
 pre-teen, but grown ups may decide to pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnddmdb642
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam II is the sequel to Serious Sam: The First Encounter. Unlike it's predeccesor however, 
 the gameplay isn't as good. In Serious Sam II, you once again control Sam "Serious" Stone, and 
 you have to rid the Universe of the threat Mental. You navigate through 5 main worlds to collect 
 pieces of a medallion and one extra world, with several levels throughout. Although the scenery 
 of the levels somewhat varies, it gets sort of repetitive.
  
  The absolute mindless killing is back, but a little more mindless. The battles can get repetative, 
 and the A. I. isn't that great. All the enemies do is run towards you and shoot you. That's it. 
 
  
  There are some pretty cool new aspects of the game, though. You can man turrets and ride in vehicles, 
 which simply lead to more killing. The weapon selection is pretty cool, and there are absolutely 
 TONS of easter eggs and jokes. Sometimes pretty bad ones though. But, the bosses you will fight 
 are absolutely gigantic! Even the sub-bosses are bigger than average.
  
  The game is pretty fun, but as I said before, the mindless killing gets repetative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuaMn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  This game is a first person SHOOTER. That's it. You shoot, they die, and you shoot again and they 
 die again. That's the all what the game is about. Maybe you don't like FPS, then that's your problem 
 because this is one pure FPS and serves its purpose perfectly. I played the for many hours, and 
 I can say its sense of humor is suits to me. Variety of the enemies, environments, and guns are 
 really rich. So, I can say, only reason to not like this game is not liking the FPS genre totally.. 
 Making 40+ level is not a easy job. But they did it perfectly well. I know lots of games that made 
 only four levels, and they are not even different. But Serious Sam 2 is not like that. Also all 
 art in this game must be appreciated. They are totally cool. What I am trying to say is, if you 
 want to shoot anywhere you see, and this is fun for you, you don't need to have this game, you 
 MUST have this game. Because this is the best Senseless Shooting Game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarcadoz
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  The Serious Sam series offered something outstanding to FPS players back when the first game was 
 released. Lots of action, lots of enemies and lots of fun. I remember playing through almost 12 
 hours of straightforward Serious Sam action with a couple of friends at a LAN party. So in a gaming 
 world where everything constantly becomes more realistic or at least tries to seem authentic, Serious 
 Sam II stands for the out-of-the-box FPS-fairytale action some of us need once in a while.
  
  First off, the graphics look great. The levels have been carefully designed with lots of detail 
 and following the plot we also get a frequent change of scenery resulting in some pretty enjoyable 
 themes (such as the scrapyard where everything is HUGE) . The map design is pretty straightforward 
 - even taking you by the hand most of the time - and is freshened by some of the typical puzzles 
 we all love. Like collecting four of the greatest singles of all time to impress the king.
  
  The game in general feels pretty good with its smooth controls but even for a Serious Sam game, 
 the weapons are far too big compared to what they can offer. They look rather clumsy and don't 
 deliver the bang you would expect. But other than that you have a pretty impressive arsenal at 
 your disposal. Ranging from the classic dual-handguns to the futuristic plasma gun, there is something 
 for every taste. A notable improvement is the ability to throw grenades while shooting (I still 
 have no idea how he does it with two hands, but hey: Is there really anything that Sam couldn't 
 do?) . It comes in handy often and is bound to the RMB by default.
  
  Except for the trademark Kleer and Kamikaze Bombers, you usually meet only new and interesting 
 character types, some of which are hilarious - like the Orc Footballer. As an improvement to the 
 previous games, in Serious Sam II you can also drive various vehicles and use a couple of different 
 turrets. Not also are they very powerful but mostly the parts of the game where you can use them 
 are impossible to beat without! But apart from the great shooting action, the funny level design 
 and the humorous cutscenes and one-liners something's really missing: VARIATION!
  
  We had it all in the first two games, how much more could a fan possibly take? Even for a Serious 
 Sam game the action gets repetitive and dull pretty fast and sometimes I even fell asleep while 
 playing (I literally hit the keyboard with my head) . Of course this kind of action is what made 
 the games so special. But they could really have spiced it up a bit.
  
  Concerning sound, the background music perfectly underlines the current theme and instantly changes 
 when enemies appear. So most of the time you will rather rely on the music to see if enemies are 
 still around. That's another notable drawback of the game. Due to the colourful character and level 
 design you probably won't even notice certain enemies unless they're shooting at you. Furthermore 
 the soundtrack is as repetitive as the action. The multiplayer mode offers something we already 
 had and enjoyed before: The co-op mode which allows you to play through the whole game with your 
 friends. It's nothing new but it still rocks!
  
  So to sum it up. If you are a fan of massive but repetitive FPS action in a funny, comical setting 
 you will enjoy Serious Sam II. But even though it's a great game, the content is not in comparison 
 to the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afpabon
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  I must start saying I never really cared too much for Duke Nukem 3D. Sure, it was a funny little 
 game, but with Quake being released a few months later, who could care for a 2D shooter? The 3D 
 part of the title made it even a bit funny.
  
  Flash forward 9 years, and another shooter comes up. One with crappy graphics, reminiscent of Duke 
 Nukem 3D ones 9 years before, and with a character that can only be described as a Duke-wannabe. 
 Not happy enough to rip off a 9-year-old classic, the developers then wanted to make it a challenging 
 experience. So instead of developing a good AI, or at least good maps, they cranked up the number 
 of enemies you had to fight. All at once.
  
  What kind of fun could that be? If I wanted to blast away zillions of dumb enemies I'd go play 
 Robotron, thank you very much.
  
  This game is awful, and by no means I could recommend anyone at all to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Like the header says, it is one of the most fun LAN shooters around. I admit the single player 
 story lacks any soul. But the multiplayer portion more than makes up for it. It's just fun to run 
 around and blow everything up. While it may be brainless, it leaves you with an odd sense of satisfaction 
 and the game has its moments. The graphics aren't top notch either, but I doubt you'll be soaking 
 in your surroundings when you have a 100 exploding zombies running at you. The game was clearly 
 designed with fun in mind. It wasn't designed to be the best shooter out there - it was designed 
 to be the most fun shooter out there. This is one of those games you play when you're bored of 
 all the other shooters out there. This, however, is just my opinion. If you look it, I'm happy 
 for you. If you don't, I respect your opinion. All in all if you're getting this game, get it for 
 LAN parties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 10, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  When the first two Serious Sam games were released back in 2001 and 2002, they had a fresh approach 
 to the FPS genre: Let's not take it too seriously (hence the name)
  
  Backed by a superb game engine, SS had a lot of things going for it. A good sense of humor, weapons 
 that 'felt' right and an legion of suicidal monsters. And lets not forget - a budget price.
  
  But when Serious Sam II was released 2005, the game just didn't live up to its potential. The 
 main reasons, IMO, is the somewhat failed humor, the guns didn't feel right and more importantly, 
 the quality of the other FPS titles had improved. Actually, even though I bought the game at its 
 release, I haven't really played the game to its end 'till recently. So, whats my opinion?
  
  Basically this game is as close to the standard FPS conventions as possible, with the only 
 exception being the funny monster designs (Zombie stockbroker, anyone?) - Serious Sam II is still 
 backed by one of the better game engines out there, but primarily uses this engine to show gazillions 
 of monster on the screen at any time. The levels are designed accordingly, and although gazillions 
 of monster has been the trademark of the series, Serious Sam II proves, that its time Croteam made 
 a few changes here and there to the core idea of Serious Sam. Because honestly, it doesn't feel 
 as fresh as it did back in 2001. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CharlesPMyers
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 24, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Where did Croteam go wrong? Cartoonish looking graphics, ridiculous looking natives , TERRIBLE 
 voice over work (not even funny sounding -- just plain bad) , some of the worst cut scenes I have 
 ever seen -- by trying so hard to be funny they ruined the one liners and fun aspect of the first 
 two Serious Sam games, and to cap off my tirade: The most anti climatic ending of ALL TIME!!!! 
 Remember how awesome it was to face off against that 700 foot tall Ugh Zan in the first episode? 
 I remember how much satisfaction I got from blowing holes in him after slogging it through each 
 level. It felt great to get a chance to get some payback!!!! In Serious Sam 2 the end boss is: 
 a building?????? WTF???? It seems as though the developers just ran out of ideas with this game. 
 I bought this game right after it came out but never finished it until today. That is how bad it 
 was. I just finished it because I always finish what I buy. I know, why torture myself, right? 
 Because I was hoping that the end boss would make up for the BS crap that I put up with through 
 all the crappy levels but no deal. The end was the worst part of the whole game. I will NEVER pull 
 this one out of the closet after this. One more thing, the copy protection on this game is picky 
 about the DVD drive you run it in. I had to update my BIOS to get it to accept the disc as real. 
 Hardly worth the effort to play this game. There are other FPS games that are worth the time and 
 effort -- the first two episodes of Serious Sam for example!!!! I only can hope that for the next 
 episode Croteam will get back the magic that they lost with Serious Sam 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotch69
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  I have played all of the Serious Sam games and found them to be finger numbing, but fun regardless. 
 This game got off to a bad start when my saved game crashed and I had to restart it, but after 
 that it was very good overall. Blowing up as much crap as you possibly can is fun, but not to a 
 point where it gets to be too much. I made all the way through to almost the end of the game, when 
 the giant spider/bull onslaught was overwhelming. I had to change the difficulty and win the game 
 on easy. This was still a challenge, but took a little away from all of the hours it took me to 
 complete the game. On to the positive. The creatures were interesting, the graphics were great 
 and the bosses were fun to blow up. Hopefully the next game will allow you to change the difficulty 
 for one particular fight and not a whole level. I will definitely buy the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ognen
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam 2 is an fps with much humor. The game is pretty interesting because of the funny story 
 and the funny characters, but it is very bad optimized. From my personal view, I play it when I 
 rly need to relax, and forget about all those hard core games. It's very easy even to a man who 
 havent played FPS and is new to all that world. I hope these guys are proud of that game, even 
 if it has some bad sides... To those who liked this game, (to those who dont mind the graphics 
 of a game) i would suggest, somethink real crazy, like Postal 2, or some previous versions of SS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 18, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7/10
  Serious Sam is known for it's simple premise: shoot everything that moves. In this instalment, 
 nothing has changed. And that's the problem. Whereas the original game - while not exactly inventive 
 - was fresh, fun and addictive, Serious Sam II falls a little flat. Some of the levels are quite 
 well designed, but there are no real puzzles to speak of and mindlessly spewing bullets at wave 
 after wave of alien monstrosities gets old rather quickly. It's good for a quick pick-up and play, 
 the multi-player is decent, and it's certainly fun for a short time, don't be surprised if you 
 get bored.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The game does look nice, I will grant it that. With the settings turned up, a reasonably powerful 
 computer will do it justice. The colours are bright and the cartoony style is fun, especially in 
 the frequent outdoors areas, a welcome break from the recent shadows-for-all trend in modern shooters. 
 It's not shattering any boundaries, but it's still pretty.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  While Sam's cheesy Duke Nukem wannabe lines grate after a while, the sound effects are nothing 
 to complain about. The music is generally good fast-paced shooter fare that is just bland enough 
 to be automatically tuned out when the repetitiveness kicks in. This is the sort of game that probably 
 works best when you put your own soundtrack to it - since you're not going to be listening for 
 enemies sneaking up on you or anything - just stick on your favourite CD and let loose.
  
  Value: 7/10
  There's nothing innovative, and it's repetitive as anything can be. But there's 
 a fair number of levels that will keep you going for a while if you can be bothered to slog through 
 them all with their endless waves of enemies. I wouldn't pay full price for it, but it should be 
 popping up in bargain bins soon enough.
  
  Tilt: 7/10
  Good.
  
  Pros:
  It's mindless fun, perfect for a quickie gaming session, and it looks good in most places.
  
 
  Cons:
  It's much too repetitive and drags as a result. Despite having the same idea as the first game, 
 it's just not as fun, a state not helped by various poor attempts at humour.
  
  Conclusion:
  Good as a non-serious alternative to your standard shooter fare, but try the first 
 game out instead if you can find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 19, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Good games do not necessarily have to have good storyline all the time. There are some games which 
 lack much intellectual inputs -- yet they just make you feel entertained. Serious Sam 2 falls into 
 that category.
  Serious Sam 2 has the same spirit and style as the first encounter -- you are transported to some 
 ancient city location -- now go kick some alien monster butts. Nothing new. But no -- its the light 
 hearted attitude to kicking butts that makes this game attractive. Yes -- this sequel to the first 
 game does not necessarily give you something very different. In fact, you might mix up the first 
 game with this one -- barring some extra items and new kind of layout for the game. So expect to 
 play this game like the previous one, if you have played it. The magic of this game lies in its 
 vast levels, clear bright environment -- even when its dealing with indoor levels and crazy and 
 wild numbers of enemies.
  Like the first one, the enemies of this game are weird and at times they arrive by thousands. Kill 
 them all and change your mouse. If you are in the mood to enjoy some quick butt kicking, this is 
 the game you were looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JGrieger
Rating: 3.1
Date: Mar 29, 2007 1:16 am PT
Review:  I'll keep it brief.
  
  At first I was thinking this'll be good fun just running and gunning. But then, as you keep hitting 
 invisible walls, see yourself getting railroaded for the hundredth time into a ravine with monsters 
 spawning left and right, get constantly bombarded with the same monsters from the last game, you 
 start to just get bored. I was finding myself falling asleep in places because all you end up doing 
 is just holding down the fire button and run around.
  
  Don't get me wrong. I've played the previous games. But after a while, you're just asking yourself 
 how much more of this crap is coming? The problem here is that this is way too much been there, 
 done that all over again. The only real difference is that you have some different environments. 
 Ultimately, you just start thinking about just giving up since the level you're on is pretty much 
 the same as the previous one...
  
  It's about time to move on... Croteam's time has come and gone. Unless they plan on finding something 
 else to do, they might as well stop developing and playing Crysis when it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam &amp; The Second encounter were the best FPS-s at their times &amp; the funniest games 
 too. Serious Sam is back to save the universe from Mental. Superb graphics, with very good textures, shaders 
 &amp; very colourfull. Superb sound, music, sound effects &amp; funny voice acting: Sam's comments 
 are the funniest I've ever heard. Superb gameplay, with nice puzzle, a lot of crazy creatures, crazy 
 weapons, crazy ideas, crazy puzzles &amp; crazy places. visit many planets in search of diamonds,&amp; 
 finally beat Mental. SS 2 has the funniest cutscenes on Earth,&amp; Serous Sam 2 is the funniest 
 thing in the Universe. I don't know why it's underappreciated. But I tell you this, Croteam: great 
 job (again) &amp; I want Serious Sam 3 (you said Will be continued) . So, will be continued (in the 
 Serious Sam 3 review) ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frag_1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The game that follows Serious Sam: The Second Encounter has definitely improved in terms of humor, 
 pleasure, graphics but has failed as far as gameplay is concerned.
  
  The predecessors in the series were by far much better in terms of the fun and excitement that 
 was presented by their action packed sequences in the missions. This installment was marked by 
 comic and insanely funny cutsenes in between the missions but badly failed when it came to the 
 character of the game; the game has become that of a children's puzzle with a twist of superlative 
 amounts of violence. Though the graphics of the game was good but the childishness of the characters 
 made the game somewhat bland and distasteful but, many of the missions still have the fun in them 
 for you to have the urge of completing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghurish
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  When the first Serious Sam came out it was the right moment for gamers needed something that would 
 gamemakers say okay, this is fun, lets cut the crap and deal with the basics . Since Doom that 
 nothing alike it had come out and yes it was fun. A few years later we got Painkiller which nails 
 such oldschool concepts better but with a darker tone and less variety. And then we got Serious 
 Sam 2 which can be fun for a while cause essentially it's more of the same. It has much more varied 
 environments, more weapons, more pick ups, and more of that random humor even if this time it falls 
 flat a lot of times.
  
  Let's say that in a way the sense of scale in Serious Sam 2 has improved a bit but it has pretty 
 annoying enemies and allies as well, and we're no longer in that era where switching back weapons 
 forwards and backwards to kill each type of enemies in a bunch of a whole horde composed with a 
 lot of different enemies is exactly... new. Imagine you have to kill a 100 monsters. And each 20% 
 of them you have to kill with a different weapon depending on your location and distance from them. 
 Doing this the whole game is kinda boring. Also boring is when they throw only a type of enemy 
 at you cause normally this tends to be easy. Sometimes it manages to be fun when you're dealing 
 with the same type of enemies but they're quite lively and don't do the same as all the others 
 of their species which results in having you circling around looking back and shooting them as 
 they come. You know like in old games when you're outnumbered and you've got yourself walking in 
 circles and shooting back till everyone's on your tail is dead. And then there's these really annoying 
 enemies like witches and all sorts of flying annoyances. Or kamikaze clowns. You see this time 
 around it's like they modeled crap at random and then put em some AI and there's an enemy. Most 
 of them don't seem to fit well with others and with the sets themselves. In the first game some 
 of em were in the same sci-fi goofy department (except for those pumpkin headed chainsaw wielding 
 guys) , but this time it's like anything goes for you to kill. Or for you to be killed. It used 
 to have more of a sense of style back then. Now it's like you have a zombie stockbroker, robotic 
 spiders, three headed dogs and a orc football player which looks like a Street Shark action figure 
 next to each other. And the coolest enemy imo of the first game, those things with huge mech legs 
 and a brain and a mean fish face who'd shoot laser beams at you are just horrible now. Still there's 
 some cool enemies. What else is new this time around. You've got vehicles which don't make much 
 of a difference like in any other fps game, but still it's pretty cool to ride on a velociraptor 
 which shoots fireballs. Only happens once. Meh.
  Some levels have some parts that look kinda misplaced like everything else and some areas of some 
 levels are just stupid cause they corner you on these really open ended outdoors areas with so 
 many enemies so that you can't go forward without getting hit and staying where you are will get 
 you cornered. And hit by the way.
  I didn't get to finish the game cause I installed the editor and since then the game crashed quite 
 often and so I uninstalled it but I was on the level after the last level. One with this hideously 
 misplaced purple dragon which is a ripoff from Shrek's dragon.
  
  It's kinda worth playing but I think that I like Painkiller more than this even if with only 5 
 weapons and respective alt shots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdmbuzz
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  all u do is just stay in one area and kill all the stuff around u!
  in the last level u dont even fight the boss!
  the controls are really easy to learn.
  and 
 it says u can play multiplayer but u can only so that on xbox live!
  the game play is bad!
  the graphics r okay.
  the sound is good.
  the values ok.
  and the tilts good.
  overall 
 5.5
  wow this game really sucks balls!
  but if u think ur gonna like serious sam buy these 3.
  :serious sam first encounter
  :serious 
 sam second encounter
  :serious sam next encounter
  now those r good games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DooM-ftw-
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam2 isn't a very impressive shooter but it is very funny and relaxing.
  There are several cutscenes that are very funny .Unlike other shooters the monsters have no AI. Although 
 monsters have no AI the game is still a little bit difficult because you dont fight 2 or 3 monsters 
 ,you a fight legions of monsters.
  The graphics are decent and the sound is relatively good but the game dosen't make any kind of 
 atmosphere, but you can slay about 400 monsters in a battle and this is cool: D
  So if you are looking for a game to relax you, to give you many kills without thinking very much 
 about it and to be also funny........ SERIOUS SAM2 is perfect.... otherwise is a little bit boring. Oh 
 yes ..... almost all the monsters are from the previous games in the series.. so this game is a little 
 bit disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flippr_NF
Rating: 5.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  When you start Serious Sam 2, you get the chance to choose a difficulty level. I chose the standard 
 level for experienced FPS players, having played shooters since Wolfenstein and Doom 1. After a 
 couple of levels, I just got sick of dying over and over. SS2 just throws dozens and dozens of 
 enemies at you, even more than the first Serious Sam &amp; Serious Sam: The Second Encounter. I 
 suppose it might be possible to win the game, but for me it just wasnt fun. The game doesnt take 
 itself seriously, so after only a few levels I decided not to take it seriously either.
  
  I looked up the cheat codes, activated the God cheat, giving me invulnerability &amp; all weapons, 
 and had fun. The levels look fantastic, and its fun to blast all those enemies. I enjoyed exploring 
 the various levels, looking for the hidden secret items. The Croteam designers do have a sense 
 of humour, even if they were a little heavy-handed with it. Still, after completing Doom 3 the 
 week before, I was ready for a little fun in the sun, blasting space aliens and uni-cycling clowns 
 with the myriad of weapons at my disposal.
  
  So heres my advice. Dont take it seriously, turn on the cheats (lesser ones are available if 
 you want to remain somewhat more vulnerable) , and just have fun. Youll get tired of it soon enough, 
 and you can get back to playing a real First-Person Shooter. Just think of Serious Sam 2 as a fun 
 diversion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3VOLV360
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  If you want a continuation of the Serious Sam storyline in the same way that Serious Sam: The Second 
 Encounter did so well; then you'll be more than slightly disappointed.
  
  One of the bigger problems that I have with this sequel, is that it is too colourful. Now you may 
 not think this is much of a problem but it is so colourful to the extent that your weapons feel 
 like toys and the silliness of the game is taken a bit far. And the weapons are so futurised 
 and have new appearances (e. g. the revolving shotgun or the gauges on the cannon) that it feels 
 youve gone from Serious Sam: The Second Encounter into Sci-fi Sam. Almost as if the developers 
 thought that more is better but in this case I felt they crossed the line of too much.
  
  The voice acting on Sams part wasnt that great. Not necessarily the voice acting itself but the 
 way its played back sounds like Sam is speaking into an old microphone and the sound is coming 
 over old, scratchy speakers. This seemed odd since he is standing right in front of you so I dont 
 know why it should sound like this. Other voices are done well, such as Netricsa (your onboard 
 computer) .
  
  The other problem is that everything is a lot sillier. Once again I feel that they crossed the 
 line from more is better to too much is worse. For example in The Second Encounter there was 
 a fair amount of silliness but that was usually contained in the secrets but now it has leaked 
 into the game right up into your face.
  
  The action, albeit repetitive, was fun. The same expected  
 Although once I finished the game I put it down hoping that the next Serious Sam will be based 
 more on the Second Encounter and not Serious Sam II 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azirra
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Serius Sam 2 proves 1 thing: Gamers like us is just to old to this kind of **** But it is fun :) 
 Gameplay: The gameplay is oldschool shoot-whatever-that-moves. Its crazy and the humor is exemly 
 bad but its still fun to shoot hundreds of badguys. Serius Sam 2 offers the crazy action nothing 
 more. Its actully hard and sometimes it can be nearly impossible to get futher. Graphics: The graphics 
 is good and fits good to the game. it looks like carton, the landscapes and enemies are very well 
 maked and the bosses are some gaint barstards. Its not fantastic but it is still good Sound: The 
 voiceacting are terrible. Sams voice is fits good to him but the rest is some dam **** Its bad 
 but it fits good to the crazy gamestyle. The music is good though. Value: Serius Sam 2 is a long 
 game and the varity dos that you will keep playing. The coop is also good but i miss some deathmatc. 
 Reviewers Tilt: If you wanna love Serius Sam 2 you must first understand that its not a good or 
 well-maked game. Its just fun and great action and thats what I wanna see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeeemadudbomb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  There was this one time when I went to Best Buy, and they had a bargain bin of some old (And a 
 couple not old) PC games. As I rifled through the pile of games, a few of them caught my eye. One 
 of them happened to be Serious Sam 2, and it also happened to be 10 bucks. I was thinking that 
 it would be cool to buy it at that price since EB games had it for 25 dollars. Well, sorry to get 
 your hopes up cause I didn't buy Serious Sam 2 that day! I mean TEN dollars? I bought Medal Of 
 Honor: Pacific Assault for 10 bucks instead.
  Wait a second...
  
  Anyway, without going in-depth about things that don't matter. I got this game for christmas. So 
 yea I ended up getting this game anyways.
  
  I was originally bob-sagoted because it came on 4 CDs and for the last while I haven't had to use 
 multiple cds for anything. Everyone, get DVD DRIVES! No more disk swapping!
  
  The first thing I realized when I saw the first level was, 'waoh, these graphics own'. The draw 
 distances are absolutely massive, there are lots of Shaders and reflections, models are relatively 
 high poly, and the textures... well, you get the idea. It's even got HDR and bloom lighting!
  
  As I mentioned before, the gameplay can get very repetitive relatively early on. I never got 
 annoyed with the lack of variation with the gameplay, because they add new weapons, enemies and 
 settings. The basic premise is that you go into all these different levels with an ass load of 
 weapons, and you blow the crap out of everything that moves, and also some stuff that doesnt' move.
 
  
  This game has got 7 worlds, each made up af around 5 levels. Each of these 5 levels took me at 
 least 10 minutes to complete, and the longest level took me about 20 minutes. So what if I was 
 playing the easiest mode? You wanna go or something?
  
  I can't recommend this enough especially if you are a fan of other Serious Same games, or similar 
 shoot em' ups like the Quake Series or the Unreal Tournaments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  Well this game didnt disopoint me it was fun to play it , but at ending it got more and more borring 
 , but still its a great game , it wasnt very hard cuz i played on easy , there wasnt such thing 
 as no ammo you have it allways , boss fights were eazy vell it in the ending said to be countinued 
 ,well i gues we must waight and see what they will create for us...
  Gameplay: its a shooter , what can you want from it
  Graphics : sometimes colours looked a lil 
 bit chilldish
  Sound: nice , funny sam's jokes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunately, I would agree with the Gamespot review here. I wanted this to be better than it 
 was but it wasn't. I wonder if people praising this game simply never played the two previous Serious 
 Sam games, which were much better. Maybe part of my reaction stems from the fact that I have seen 
 exactly this, done better, twice before. The over-the-top shooting madness with huge waves of monsters 
 was new then and it was fun. The coop was great and I played both of the previous ones that way.
 
  
  I lost interest very early in the foolish single player campaign with its dumb story, kiddie characters, 
 etc. So then I jumped into a coop game where at least you could blast through the same story faster 
 with several other people. But you know, after several hours of blasting through level after level 
 and wave after wave, it got so old that the guy running the server shut it down and I was glad 
 myself. I'd had enough.
  
  Sometimes it is good to quit while you are ahead. I think Serious Sam seriously just hit the end 
 of the road. There's noplace else to go for this series. Thanks Croteam. It was fun while it lasted 
 but you'd better come up with something new to replace old Sam because he has sure gotten old.
 
  
  The graphics are just ok. The sound is unremarkable. The weapon sounds are almost bland really 
 and lack the serious punch they ought to have. The cut scene graphics are awful but then so are 
 the cut scenes. I think the GS review was kind really. I was annoyed by the lame attempts at humor 
 here more than entertained.
  
  Who ever would have thought Serious Sam could devolve into this mess of a boring, completely uninspired 
 shooter? Do yourself a favor and pass this one by is my recommendation. I really could not even 
 recommend this when it gets to be a 10 buck jewel case edition. Yeah, it really was that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelle_schepens
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Like i said, serious sam II is one hell of a game, you know these shooters where you need total 
 concentration at all time, well not here, here you have a lot of these non purpose scenes where 
 you just shoot everything you cross, pretty fun, sometimes you have to search things but most of 
 the time that doesn't take more than 5 minutes.
  you can blow up about eveything you see, there is humor in everything to, you have a great arsenal 
 of guns with lot's of fire and ammo, you know just some evil fun, kill some scum and have fun to, 
 the enemy is not scary at all , they're fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZiRa-Bosnia
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Games like Serius Sam are allways welcome to my collection becouse you
  will never throw them and say Thats enough , cant play you more becouse
  at least 15 min a day 
 , everyone including HardCore RTS , RPG Fanatics
  run game like SS*.
  
  Now lets talk about game shall we? Serius Sam present Fantastic Graphical
  Engine , Wide Areas 
 , Funny Monsters and Neverending Action (I love to say like this xD) . Do i need to talk about Story 
 of the game, If you wanna know story then go
  and see few screenshots , you got BIG BAD Shootgun , MINIGUN of course , and similar FPS weapons.
 
  
  The only bad thing in game is that u cant play it like 3h or you will gone mad.
  Monsters Spawn so fast and such things. There are few funny Quotes in game
  and there are some 
 stupid ones. Music is OK , could be better , somewhere is GREAT somewhere is BAD. Its Duke Nukem 
 Style of the game.
  
  I advise people to buy this game , its cheap . Its good game to waste your time
  and have some 
 fun with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joarc
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 19, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  So the single player lacks a little creativity but the multi-player is a blast! S o the single 
 player lacks a little creativity but the multi-player is a blast! So the single player lacks a 
 little creativity but the multi-player is a blast! So the single player lacks a little creativity 
 but the multi-player is a blast! So the single player lacks a little creativity but the multi-player 
 is a blast! So the single player lacks a little creativity but the multi-player is a blast! So 
 the single player lacks a little creativity but the multi-player is a blast! So the single player 
 lacks a little creativity but the multi-player is a blast! So the single player lacks a little 
 creativity but the multi-player is a blast! So the single player lacks a little creativity but 
 the multi-player is a blast! So the single player lacks a little creativity but the multi-player 
 is a blast! So the single player lacks a little creativity but the multi-player is a blast! So 
 the single player lacks a little creativity but the multi-player is a blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  Serious sam 2 is undoubtedly a great laugh. This refers to the humourous situation and the gameplay 
 which has been made a somewhat joke. This game entirely lacks what the first 2 installments incorporated 
 so well, except for the humour which has been accelarated so profusely seems like croteam developers 
 didnt see much to the gameplay part. They emphasised on the graphics too much that they made it 
 too demanding. I played this on a system with 160mb ram and 256mb system ram and experienced severe 
 mouse lags and frequent hang-ups. While the first 2 installments worked fine even on 32mb video 
 ram and 128mb system ram while giving great graphics by using less memory, now that was an achievement. SS2 
 has small sized levels with small durations. Weapons have been revamped but seem to lack something 
 except for ofcourse the double barrell shotgun. Enemies are not all so good some are pretty cool 
 while some seriously suck. Like those red things on tank wheels and that pink eyeball thingy, who 
 uses pink I mean come on! The enemies somehow feel very disconnected. Though it still has mindless 
 killing and blowing up things for which we have come to love SS so much. The cutscenes are good 
 and they ought to be as they are not engine generated. They are beautiful and very funny but very 
 much lack to capture serious sams facial expressions. Nevertheless It is a long hard slog. The sound 
 is pretty good but I still prefer serious sam second encounter to this any time. Yeeeeeeehawwwwww. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slappywhite2001
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I got this game free with my video card, and decided it was worth a go, especially since the first 
 Serious Sam was so much fun. This game again delivers what it promises, a fun-filled adventure 
 with the returning hero through perils and plot twists. Packed with random, fun, odd secrets, this 
 game never ceases to be amusing the entire way through. The weapon system is a little iffy, with 
 most of the game relying on a select few. The dialogue is fun and lively, and the creatures you 
 encounter (although repetitive at times) are strange and entertaining. Overall, the graphics and 
 sound are a bit lacking, but thats not what this game is all about. I had a blast playing it, and 
 I think you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 19, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam II (mind you this is my first Serious Sam game i have played) is a very... unique game.
 
  
  Graphics: Seemed actually... good, i never noticed slow downs or anything, and was pretty detailed, 
 was surprised.
  
  Sound: Voices sound good, and the weapon makes the kind of noises that they are supposed too, so 
 i really never found anything wrong wih the sound.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game is kind of odd, the creatures that you have to kill are bugs 
 and flying robot things, and helicopters. Very wacky but i actually enjoyed the game because i 
 was bored of playing Battlefield, Quake, Doom, and Unreal, this game was just kind of a breather. 
 One problem though is that the shotgun is way to overpowered, it can kill enemies from a far with 
 only 3 shots, which i didn't mind at first, but then is just got way to easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mp3_bk
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  First of all. I've loved the previous Serious Sam games. My first ever Serious Sam game was Serious 
 Sam: The Second Encounter, and it was just what I needed: A mindless First Person Shooter. It was 
 successful due to the engine the game was using, which allowed hundreds of enemies on screen without 
 any slowdown. I had a great time with that game. I then brought Serious Sam on the Xbox and it 
 was just as good as the PC version.
  In early 2005 I heard that Serious Sam II was coming out on the PC late 2005 so I brought it and 
 was hoping it would live up to the hype. Unfortuantly, Serious Sam II lacked something that the 
 first Serious Sam games had, and didn't impress me as much as the first two games.
  
  Now, Serious Sam II follows the usual story, such as getting past all of these enemies sent by 
 someone called "Mental" and working your way to the guy, but like every usual Serious Sam game 
 before it, you don't actually get to fight him yet, so there's obviously going to be a few more 
 sequels.
  
  Now, the main reason we loved the other Serious Sam games was because of the mindless shooting. 
 Well, that's still in Serious Sam II, but the main problem are the weapons. The weapons don't seem 
 as good as the ones used in the original, for example. The standard shotgun in this game is like 
 a multiple cannon gun and doesn't feel like a shotgun at all. Worst of all, it's probably the most 
 accurate gun out of the lot, and in the first game you had to get quite close to the target to 
 take alot of damage. On this, you could hit the target from quite a distance.
  The other weapons such as the futuristic double-barrelled shotgun also has its problems as well. 
 It's very close to being the most powerful weapon in the game. Now, the double-barrelled shotgun 
 in the first one was powerful but you couldn't kill super large enemies in about three shots. In 
 this (with the exception of bosses) you could easily kill a really strong enemy in less than five 
 hits close up. You're better off using this shotgun for the whole game, because it's so damn powerful 
 it even takes alot of health from the bosses.
  There's even more powerful weapons in this game, such as the exploding parrot, which is as powerful 
 as the Cannon gun, and can home in onto enemies. The trouble is, this makes the game really, really 
 easy, and although you don't get much ammo, you could easily take out a boss in under 10 hits with 
 it. The rocket launcher seems weaker in this game, but it's a fast weapon so it's not much of a 
 problem. The laser gun isn't quite as satisfying in this one, and there's another laser gun which 
 completly rips-off that Halo plasma pistol and it's only powerful when you charge it up.
  
  Now, the worst guns in this game are probably the the two uzi guns (which replaced the Tommy gun, 
 big mistake!) and the sniper rifle. These guns are so weak it's just ridiculous!. The sniper rifle, 
 for example, can only zoom in by 4X, but in the first one, it could zoom in up to 8X the zoom. 
 Why was it lowered, and who misses how the sniper-rifle reloads? I do!. Oh, and the two uzi guns, 
 they're so weak and slow!. In fact, they reminded me of the Klobb guns in Goldeneye!. Ok, they're 
 not too bad for weak enemies, but they don't seem as satisfying as the tommy gun from the first 
 one. I would have been happy if the game had two tommy guns instead of the two uzi guns, but changes 
 have to be made unfortuantly. 
  The chainsaw and the knife arn't in this game, but the two pistols are still in there and so are 
 the serious bombs. However, the chainsaw is replaced with a mechanical saw, which isn't quite as 
 fun as the standard chainsaw.
  
  The only weapons that I was happy with were the grenade launcher and the cannon gun. They were 
 the only ones that didn't feel too different from the first Serious Sam games. Oh yeah, and the 
 flamethrower isn't in this game unfortuantly which was one of my favourite guns in the first one. 
 However, you can launch grenades at any time by pressing the right mouse button which I thought 
 was a very handy feature in Serious Sam II.
  
  Now, for the main gameplay. Now, you still fight quite alot of enemies, but I hate to say this. 
 There's just not as many enemies in this game as there were in the first one. As you can see, all 
 of these enemies come out in small waves rather than large ones, and the maps don't seem quite 
 as big in this one as they were in the first one. There are also more annoying enemies in this 
 one as well, and lots of them seem to have a very childish look to them. For example, the beheaded 
 bombers from the first one (which were one of my favourite enemies from the first game) had bombs 
 in their hands. Well, now they have the bomb on their heads with a dodgy spring, well, for some 
 reason, it's just not as funny or humourous this time, and they don't shout at you as well in this 
 one either. 
  The other enemies, such as the Mech Walkers, are not as good in this one for some reason. They 
 all have dinosaur heads in this one and it just seems really childish. Clowns that look really 
 kiddy try to replace the beheaders with dynamite in their hands, and the bulls which charged at 
 you in the first one, now have tiny wind-ups on the top of them. What were the developers thinking? 
 Perhaps they tried to make this Serious Sam game targetted for kids (hence the 12+ rating this 
 game got and the original got a 15+) but obviously added the blood in to please the 15+ players. 
 Come on! This is Serious Sam! We wanted this game to be mindless but at the same time not for little 
 kids!. They obviously made these changes to make the game more humorous, but unfortuantly, it just 
 doesn't make anyone laugh except the little kids.
  
  Now my next problem with this game were the invisible walls. There were placed in some of the worst 
 places I've even seen in a game. For example, in this futuristic city, there's a spaceship you 
 have to use to get across to the other side of this city, and this area is huge, and really, you 
 can only go forward. If you go left or right, you're going to hit an invisible wall, even though 
 you're no where close to a building in the city. 
  Now, this is disgraceful, because the level design in Serious Sam 1 was excellent. There was so 
 much freedom in that game you could literally walk anywhere where you couldn't see a wall, but 
 on Serious Sam II, no!. In the earlier levels such as the jungle ones where there was water you 
 couldn't even jump into it because of the damn invisible wall which covered the edges of the entire 
 water. Well, that's very good work you've made there developers, I can't even commit suicide!. 
 Speaking of suicide, if your near the edge of a cliff or at the edge of a platform, chances are 
 you won't be able to fall or jump off!. Then again, these invisible walls were probably there to 
 make the game easier for the little kids so they don't fall off all the time and lose.
  
  Speaking of losing, if you get killed you lose an extra life. Now this wouldn't be too bad if you 
 started from where you got killed, but you don't!. You start off from the closest savepoint and 
 it just seems pointless. Now, an extra life obviously means your limited on how many times you 
 can die and once you lose all your lives you have to start the whole level again!. It's just stupid 
 and you're better off using the quicksaves!. I mean, what kind of PC First Person Shooter would 
 use extra lives?. It's just ridiculous!. I suppose the developers got this idea from Serious Sam 
 1 on the Xbox, but it wasn't too bad on the Xbox because you always started from where you died. 
 However, the extra lives make it seem like Serious Sam II was ported from the Xbox onto the PC, 
 and we all know Serious Sam was originally on the PC, so were the developers trying to make Serious 
 Sam II a console First Person Shooter?.
  Oh, and the power-ups. What happened to the Serious Speed powerup? That was one of the most useful 
 powerups in the original. Instead, they've replaced it with this crap powerup which only doubles 
 the scores you receive from your enemies. Big deal!. I wanted something useful like the Serious 
 Strength powerup they originally had in the game. Luckly, the Serious Damage powerup is still intact.
 
  
  I don't know why this game needed these really new physics. To be honest, it was one of the biggest 
 letdowns in this game. You pick up objects the same way as Half-Life 2 but there's not really any 
 reason for it. Do you really need to throw objects around in a Serious Sam game? No, but the only 
 reason they are needed is because you needed to move objects in certain places. But, other than 
 that it's completly useless, and you can't chuck your enemies around or anything like that. Oh 
 yeah, I also forgot to mention that there's no modifying gravity areas and bouncy ramps on Serious 
 Sam II so that's a big letdown as well.
  
  A new feature in Serious Sam II were the vehicles, but to be honest. You'd only use most of them 
 for the better weapons. The only vehicle I really liked was the rolling spiked ball because I thought 
 it was hilarious running over the bad guys with it. However, it's not really used alot, and doesn't 
 get shown that much in the game. The other vehicles, such as a Dinosaur, a Hovercraft, and a Spaceship 
 are used a couple of times in this game, but to be honest. It doesn't really feel like Serious 
 Sam at all, and it really kills the main reason of Serious Sam: To survive on your own by just 
 using your own weapons. However, I really thought the spiked ball was a great addition, and maybe 
 their could be more vehicles like this just to make the game more fun.
  
  The things I really hated about this was the overuse of humour and the new Netricsa that was used 
 in this game. I found Netricsa the most annoying thing about this game. Her voice just got onto 
 my nerves and she wasn't funny at all. Worst of all, Sam always comments after what she says and 
 it's never funny. I preferred when she used to be a mailbox system and all I had to do was press 
 a button to find out the objectives and information I needed to know. She also says things that 
 are so obvious that you don't need to hear them. Luckly, I can turn her speaking thing off but 
 it's still annoying because the subtitles always appear, and so does her big head which gets in 
 my way of playing.
  Now, another thing that really super annoyed me was the cutscenes that were used in this game. 
 Now, in Serious Sam I they were always real-time cutscenes. However, in this one they're always 
 low quality videos and the humour that's used in them always fail about 9 out of 10 times. It seems 
 the developers were focusing on the humour too much here. I didn't laugh as much compared to the 
 original. 
  
  Now, the main menu. Oh my god!. It's just so obvious they were making this like a console game!. 
 The low quality videos obviously gave that away, but another thing that gave it away was how you 
 used the cheats on this game. So, you have to get the cheat menu by typing in a code in the console 
 screen and then afterwards you accessed the cheats by going to the menu and press F1 and then the 
 cheats would come up like they did in the Xbox Serious Sam 1. Now, on most proper PC games (Like 
 Serious Sam 1) you'd have to access the cheats by typing them on the console, but not this one!. 
 Not only that, but when you access the different menus there were labels that told you the shortcut 
 keys on the sides of the screen. Now, I'm guessing what the developers did for the Xbox console 
 was to replace them keyboard keys with the Xbox buttons. That's kind of lame, and a lazy move for 
 the developers.
  
  The sound in Serious Sam II at the moment is kind of disappointing. I was kind of expecting to 
 hear more screams from the beheaded enemies but to be honest, the enemies don't seem to make that 
 much noise anymore. The only noise I hear when I'm playing is my gunfire and the background music, 
 which sucks because I always liked hearing the enemies since they always helped me track them down, 
 and there's no more chainsaw guy. WHY? WHY?!?!?!. However, this problem might only be for me, so 
 I'm only judging this by what I've encountered in the game.
  
  It's a shame for me to say all these bad points about Serious Sam II, but that's what's in the 
 game at the moment. However, there are some positive things about Serious Sam II, for example, 
 the graphics are great in this game!. All of the textures are bright and sharp and all of the character 
 models are detailed. The reflections are great in this game as well. If you went to the futuristic 
 city and saw the reflections on that level, it's just amazing and jaw-dropping. 
  The only downfall for the graphics are you're going to need quite a recent graphics card in order 
 to play this game at a reasonable framerate. You can have quite a few enemies on screen still, 
 but the main thing that's going to slow your computer down are the details in the environment. 
 To be honest, this game on medium settings still look great, but I'm sure it's even better at the 
 top graphics settings. It still has a cartoonish look but some may complain it's very childish. 
 I, however think the graphics are fine and what I expect for the sequel.
  
  However, there are still more positives. Serious Sam II seems to be getting quite a few patch updates 
 and new tools recently. This will make Serious Sam II last longer, and hopefully fix many problems 
 I am facing with the game at this very moment. Maybe these patches can help me like Serious Sam 
 II even more, and there's always a good chance that there will be mods made from this game. So, 
 there's always going to be replay value here, and always some new levels to try out.
  There's always the multiplayer mode as well, but at the moment there's still a few glitches that 
 need to be fixed to make it worthwhile. There's the co-operative mode and the deathmatch mode. 
 So, if you have some friends which have this game then it can be pretty fun beating them online 
 and playing with them in the co-operative mode, so it's all not a loss. There will always be some 
 patches to improve the multiplayer anyway, and maybe some new character skins as well.
  
  So, overall Serious Sam II hasn't quite lived up to the potential at the moment. However, at a 
 budget price, you may as well give this game a go and see if you like it. But remember, just because 
 this game might not be as good as the original it doesn't mean it can't be improved. As time goes 
 by the developers will learn from their mistakes they've made from their sequel, and they're always 
 making some bug fixes and improvements in the game. So who knows? Maybe Serious Sam II will be 
 rid of the many negatives it has at the moment, but only time can tell, and we all know that Serious 
 Sam II could reach on par with its original 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teuvan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Fans of the series may be displeased by some of the differences between Serious Sam 2 and its predecessors. 
 While I myself haven't played the other games in the series, I greatly enjoyed Serious Sam 2 and 
 find it to be one of the funnest games to have been released in years. Despite its budget price, 
 this game has a ton of content and can make for a very enjoyable experience.
  
  Serious Sam 2 definitely has some of the most unique and enjoyable combat of modern shooters. The 
 first few levels can be considered rather simple, but the game quickly becomes intense and challenging. 
 Many fights include hundreds of enemies and may require half an hour or more of continuous shooting. 
 Don't let that fool you into assuming the game is simple, though. Quick thinking and combat strategy 
 are essential; not to mention reflexes and skill.
  
  As far as diversity goes, this game is king. There are over forty-five unique enemies present in 
 the game, meaning you'll constantly be coming across new things to kill. And with fifteen weapons 
 that do anything but conform to the standard FPS arsenal, you won't be running out of new ways 
 to slaughter your prey any time soon. In addition, the forty levels spread across seven different 
 environments will ensure that you won't get sick of the scenery while you're on your rampage.
 
  
  If all those nice, large numbers weren't enough to convince you of Sam's value, you might like 
 to hear that Serious Sam 2 also offers plenty of replayability. There are several difficulty settings, 
 including the nearly impossible 'Serious' difficulty. I can promise that even the most hardcore 
 of FPS fanatics will be able to find challenge in this game. In addition, there are loads of well-placed 
 secret areas. Most of which include hilarious movie, game, and cultural references.
  
  If you're a fan of Duke Nukem 3D, stop reading this review right now and buy Serious Sam 2. This 
 game borrows a lot of elements from Duke and even includes several direct references to the classic 
 series. Plus, if you're in the mood for the same kind of over-the-top FPS experience that hasn't 
 been seen since the era of Nukem, this is pretty much the only way you'll be getting your fix.
 
  
  The graphics and sound aren't exceptional, but they aren't bad either. Besides, when you have over 
 a hundred enemies charging you simultaneously, I doubt you'll be taking time out to complain about 
 the texture quality of the grass. The artwork is befitting of the series, however, and there's 
 nothing specific to complain about. I suspect many gamers will enjoy the bizarre, colorful designs 
 in contrast to the unimaginative patterns established by many other games in the FPS genre. I'd 
 recommend listening to your own music over that which is included in the game. The voice acting, 
 however, is quite good, and the sound effects aren't bad either. Don't buy this game for the aesthetics, 
 though.
  
  If you're looking for a purely fun gaming experience that still presents a challenge while offering 
 enough extra content to keep virtually anyone interested, this game is for you. If you've become 
 accustomed to somewhat realistic shooters that take themselves seriously and present cutting-edge 
 graphical technology, perhaps it's time to expand your tastes a little bit. Either way, Serious 
 Sam 2 is a solid choice for virtually any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 2, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  I always felt the the Serious Sam series was about just shooting, shooting, shooting, oh and blowing 
 up fantastic enemies. Well, this one doesn't disappoint in that area.
  
  Gameplay, is still of the standard fare you will be destroying everything in your way in the standard 
 non-realistic way as it has been done in the past. So don't expect too much in the way of realistic 
 weapons or reloading. The game is extremely fast paced.
  
  Graphics are very cartoony, which isn't too my like when there are soo many other titles breaking 
 through with some visually stunning games while keeping in gameplay. I think Sam could of used 
 a better face lift, but looking at in a different way, a superior graphics engine may cause problem 
 with numerous enemies on screen.
  
  Sound is mostly loud and raucous, being that you will run into alot of funny sounds to go along 
 with all the enemy death animations. Its nothing spectacular, but it ties into the theme.
  
  If you like a fast mindless game then this is something up you alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolman_2006
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 31, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam 2 is a good game but suffers from a few problems. There are around 100 cutscenes which 
 all have jokes in them. Some of the jokes arre very funny and some are just plain bad. The graphics 
 could be some of the best i've seen on PC for a while. The level design is beautiful with lots 
 of colours and weird objects thrown around the whole place and the enemies look fantastic! The 
 graphics are the best feature in this game by far.
  
  This game is non-stop action and pretty much nothing more. The gameplay isn't as good as it was 
 in the first few serious sam games. I think croteam have concentrated too much on trying to make 
 the game have good graphics and to make the game funny (lots of failed attempts at doing that) . 
 There's not a minute in Serious Sam 2 where your'e not shooting something which i don't like. You 
 don't have time to quick save the game because everytime you defeat a wave of enemies, another 
 wave of enemies come along.
  
  The game is very repetitive and gets real frustrating with the amount of enemies. Apart from that, 
 Serious Sam 2 is a non-stop action game. For fans of non-stop action games such as Will Rock or 
 previous Serious Sam titles, this would be a must buy and for fans of games such as Prey, F. E. A. R, 
 Doom 3 and FarCry, I think they would get bored with it after an hour or two of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anton012
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  I got the game from a frend and played it i want to say its not as good as the first and the second 
 encounter (PC) the last level in the encounters were full with monsters that are coming at the 
 same time first from two sides and the second from all the sides at this game they come from one 
 side and one by one its too easy and the end is not what i was looking for.
  But i liked the game play it fun but i thing its not that serious as it was the bulls were replased 
 by some toy bulls and the game was filled with short funny looking gnomes i liked the go and kill 
 some monsers on tha way with out some one standing on my way and tell me to go some were all i 
 wanted to kill the monsers and kill theyer commander. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalMan666
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 3, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam II is an awesome looking and really fun game to play. It is a lot like it's predecessors 
 in that you will fight wave after wave of monster hoards but it seems to be a lot easier, and more 
 fun, than the first 2. The audio is the best part of the game, the ambient and background sounds 
 are perfect for your current location and hearing an enemy from afar is very useful to get a good 
 jump on them.
  
  The game may have gotten a low score because it didn't deliver on it's promises, but as a Serious 
 Sam game it is perfect. The guns are sweet, the enemies are nuts and the environments are beautiful, 
 what more could you need from a mindless shooter. They even put in cut-scenes to help further the 
 story which I think helps the overall goofy feel of the game. All in all it is a great game that 
 doesn't take itself too seriously (pun not intended) and is perfect for some mindless first person 
 action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 30, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely superb. What can i say? Croteam take my vote for being the best Humour Game Developers 
 on the planet! They simply know how to have a good laugh, and not take thing's too seriously (no 
 pun intended) . As Serious Sam, you fight your way through hoards of enemy troups, created by the 
 evil Mr. Mental. The bosses are downright insane! What've we got, let's see; A giant ape, a giant 
 bee, an obese sumo wrestler, a massive undead wizard and a poof dragon (who happens to be the only 
 boss you reason with and don't blow to hell, funnily enough) . All your enemies are insane, but 
 i personally look forward to the end of level bosses because they are so damn funny/hilariously 
 crazy. Netty, who now talks, is your level guide, who gets pissed off with you every time you look 
 at a pretty girl.... lol!
  
  The new Serious Engine 2 is very well made, very efficient and the graphics and sound are superb, 
 to the point of being classed "next-gen graphics" for 2006. In game, the graphics are rich, have 
 depth and to be honest, are real candy for the eye.
  
  I would recommend the game to all FPS fans, but be warned, the game isn't actually as serious as 
 the title suggests. Lets just say that even the title for the game is a joke. Brilliant stuff Croteam, 
 as usual. I want more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam 2 ... too much fun, and a 100% shooting game, actually serious sam is quite of a hilarious 
 game with much to appreciate. The atmosphere and level design is always fantastic in serious sam, 
 from the beautiful nature and mountains to the obscure levels and that's what make the graphics 
 look great and catchy. On the other hand the game delivers a none-stop shooting kind of game play, 
 that once you start a level you cannot stop firing that thing in your hands. also there's been 
 a good addition, or let's say modification of weapons from the previous series and fortunately 
 now we can have double machine-guns and a heavy shotgun and some really weird guns that are interesting 
 indeed ! the bad side, however, is that the game is a bit repetitive and unless you have a soft 
 spot for FPS games, you might get bored with serious sam 2 after tow or three hours of playing. 
 the other dark side of the game is that it has got a very high difficulty... in fact the game is 
 tough even in Normal-mode since you often end up by getting thousands of enemies on your shoulders, 
 thanks to the weird weapons!! anyways, Serious Sam 2 after all is a good game with much to offer. 
 I personally did not regret it at all !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09n
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 27, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam 2. It's repetitive. Its shallow. But god is it fun.
  Blasting your way through hordes of aliens has never been more enjoyable. Ok, the engine isn't 
 as great, there are a few collision control issues, but the aliens themselves look amazing. Which 
 all adds to the sense of mass carnage as, armed with a trusty shotgun, Sam does some serious damage 
 to a hell of a lot of aliens.
  The story line isnt great. Something about a medallion and going to five planets getting the damn 
 pieces putting it together and saving the universe. But the storyline is not why I, or anyone else, 
 bought the game. No, what you bought the game for is mass alien carnage and this is what the game 
 delivers.
  Now I got this game at the same time I got FEAR. I played FEAR for an hour, and then installed 
 Serious Sam 2. I haven't played FEAR since. I've not had the chance. It is just too addictive, 
 running from place to place destroying alien scum with kill counts of 500 and over. You cannot 
 describe the emotions with in you as you blow up wave after wave of men with bombs for head. Its 
 never been more satisfying to blow up a robot shaped like a football player. And I go back to this 
 game time and time again.
  As I said before it is shallow, very shallow, there is little beyond killing aliens, but you dont 
 care when playing this game. Every now and then you get a cut scene, most of which are fairly funny. 
 Not hilarious but funny none the less. 
  Now the value is the best bit, you cannot get tired of shooting these damn aliens. And with four 
 difficulty modes ranging from Tourist to Serious the replay value is great for a mere 15 ($20) . 
 
  So in the words of Sam "We can do this the hard way or my way. They are both practically the same"
 
  By this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wasted256
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam 2 has turned a new cheek; it now offers a more solid storyline and a sexy netricsa 
 voice over. graphics are amazing and gameplay somewhat stuck to the old sams games. as usual, the 
 game gets frustrating when you get sodemized by masses of enemies, but its fun when you get a hang 
 of the environment and really show em whos boss. Lots of fun guns, and lots of shooting. Silly 
 gags and tricks and a silly-er storyline allow you to stay away from those tense FPS's and have 
 a silly and unpredictable firefight. Its a good game, and its well worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewmccluskey
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 22, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  This game could use some thing to make it more interesting. Like a story and some challenges that 
 involve more than constantly unloading your weapon into to an endless steam of mindless although 
 imaginative targets. It is too bad because this game has some really cool bad guys but they don't 
 talk or interact with the invironment really well. like I said an endless steam of AI week bad 
 guys. Lucas arts could teach these guys a thing or two just try out "Armed And Dangerous". Way 
 more satisfying and plenty of targets. You can blow absolutely every thing up and the AI made the 
 game come to life. Too bad Lucas arts only does Star Wars now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  In most magazines this game got rather unfavorable reviews around 70 75 range. While I agree with 
 the point that the game does get repetitive the game is extremely fun as well. Most other shooters 
 rely more on atmosphere than the shooting at times while this game makes u hold down the trigger 
 button throughout large parts of the game which is hordes of enemies attacking you at once. The 
 enemies are varied and dont seem to blend together to well like witches on broomsticks to orcs 
 in battle armor fireing lasers at you. I found myself using most of the weapons in different situations 
 and most weapons except the grenade launcher got a lot of use. I think it improves on the original 
 in ways and keeps the same type of gameplay intact. The addition of vehicles is a lot of fun to 
 and add strategy trying to keep them intact long enough so you dont have to use your serious bomb. 
 The graphics on this game are very colorful and mostly bright. Some levels are actually very purty. 
 The enemies look great as well as some of the bosses are huge. The sound effects are decent and 
 I like the extra life voice in the game as well as for serious damage and others. The games length 
 is a little over 10-12 hours which is a good length for the game. Overall I would recommend this 
 game to people who like fps. It may not be for everyone but I thought it was a lot of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thommy007
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  I'm not a die-hard fan of Serious sam, but I can enjoy it.
  I have played serious sam next encounter on GC and my first glance at the game, got me thinking: 
 Man! This game is nuts! And I was right. I had to fight headless freaks, suicidal runners, gladiators 
 and even rhino's with pants on! I really began to have fun when I played co-op with a friend.
 
  
  The co-op mode is the strong point of serious sam games .
  Well... Serious sam 2 is everything like the previous ,but better!
  You have far better graphics, that 
 are more adapted to the wide environments. You have more weapons, more enemies that look mad like 
 always, and more vehicles.
  If you don't know serious sam, this is a very short subscription of how the game works:
  1) You 
 slaughter hordes of enemies 2) you see pick-ups of health, ammo, armor. 3) More enemies appear, waiting 
 for you to help them out of their misery.
  
  And don't forget the humor of serious sam which is very pleasant at times.
  
  This concept 
 may get you bored after a while, but when you co-op with someone it's a lot of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stabby
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  Of course the title "Serious Sam" is just a plain joke, yet within this package does contain some 
 serious gameplay, seriously destructive that is...
  
  Gameplay
  You should good value for your money if its a old fashion big boom n' bang shoot em' up. The game 
 is widely streched over a good lengthy selection of straight forward linear levels, each in a catagory 
 with its own structure, enemy selection and environment. Although this may sound to dull and repetative 
 and at times it can be, its mostly a well put together package of just big guns, lots of enemies, 
 mass slaughter! Weapons are destructive and easy to use and fun to watch and the war machines you 
 can drive do help when under a bums' rush of foes. The game is perfect in the sense that if you 
 just want to keep it simple play but intense to experience then Serious Sam II works quite nicely. 
 You'll move on again and again with new arenas with more enemies, each with crazy acts but with 
 incompitant AI and tactics, but the game is more of a light humour show. The boss fights are a 
 nice treat with large titans towering over you blocking out the sky with all the ground smashing 
 to keep you coming back for more...
  
  Graphics
  Graphics is a big bonus which keeps the game from being a total letdown... the areas and fantasy 
 world'd you'll roam through are vast, well detailed and full of life whether that will be rain, 
 soft grass and/or free range chickens! The enemies are in large varity all in size, shape, movement, 
 attack, strength. Some will be your basic alien soldier, others will be sinister demons from hell 
 and other will be just a pure cheap laugh... some are on obvious gimic... but besides that they 
 all tie in nicely. No reason but alot of **** to blow up still LOL! Textures can be a little to 
 smooth and when you blow enemies apart, theres no blood splats and the limbs disappear faster than 
 you can blow more away...
  
  Sound
  The environment digetic sounds are great for just a simple strole in the woods and the gun fire 
 adds if you want to blow the woods to hell... but non digetic music and character taunts are a 
 feblie attempt to just be different, but trust me, they're not... The music is in a obvious loop 
 and leaves little to the imagination to figure out what comes next... enemies grows and splats 
 are of a cartoon value, even to childish for this game, and is this game childish at times... Character 
 jokes will give you a cheap laugh and amusing film references yet at times you may feel embarrised 
 just listening, even if you're all alone while playing it...
  
  Controls
  Click and shoot, click and shoot... maybe to odd button here and there to jump and drive that tank... 
 all in a days work *breathe*
  
  In conclusion this game is 100% NOT FOR EVERYBODY... and even for those traditional FPS gamers 
 may be turned of by its cliche story and play system, but for most of you guys its just a great 
 stress reliever, you can laugh and blow them all the raining guts and limbs over your victory dance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fama14
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam 2 is the true sequel to the serious sam series. The game offers lots of action and 
 it can take you up to 20 hours to complete the very very long single player. Graphics are great 
 so I dont really need to say anything about that. The story isnt all that great but they do manage 
 to give you cutscenes of your next objective. 
  
  The gamplay is all action and is quite varied. You can use vehicles, turrets and a large arsenal 
 of guns. Sometimes the battles are huge and sometimes they are small. When you get in those huge 
 battles with loads of enemies and finnaly kill them all, you will need to take a big breath.
  
  The enemies dont have perfect A. I but you will never say that there bad. They give you a real 
 challenge and if its not enough for you then you can change the difficulty. The guns are also very 
 varied. Some shoot fast while some shoot slow. Some of them are powerful but slow while others 
 are weak but shoot constantly. You will need to choose the right gun on a certain enemy or you'll 
 be doomed.
  
  The audio for this game is great. Most games these days have good audio. The weapon sounds are 
 very realistic the ambient sounds are well done and the music fits with the enviroment. The voice 
 acting might make you mad or might make you laugh. The main charecter and your helpers voice are 
 good. Sam will sometimes make you smirk, laugh or ignore. Humor is a miss and hit.
  
  If you like full action games then this is for you. In the future they will probbely add some more 
 multiplayer support but until then the single player is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChotaZorro
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam: The First Encounter and Second Encounter were the first FPS I played. I enjoyed both 
 of them so much that I was sure to buy Serious Sam 2. I thought SS2 would be a big hit like it's 
 first parts. Unfortunately, it wasn't that great. The story was lack and didn't continue the Second 
 Encounter. Sam looked like a Chinese hero. Come on, Same is supposed to be the man, make him tough 
 and cool! The game is very repetitive and gets boring a while before reaching the last few levels. 
 Although the game has good graphics and lots of humor which I really enjoyed. It's also shooting 
 all the way, which I really enjoyed. Overall, this game is great but can't be compared to it's 
 first parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion85
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  When I think of serious sam I always remember running from one big hall to the next one and killing 
 everything that moves on the way. Thousands of ennemies arrive and sometimes you just start shooting 
 while turning around because you are surrounded by so many foes. However in this game you start 
 off rather gently and of course during the (relatively short) campaign you will encounter a lot 
 of ennemies.
  
  However I miss the hordes of ennemies jumping at you and pressing the trigger for at least half 
 an hour before all your ammo is depleted and you gear up at the backpack. This game lacks the intensity 
 of its predecessors and therefore despite the good humor and graphics only make this game an average 
 one which you might play through once or twice before laying it aside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  i love this game!
  everything is massive and mental. with huge amounts of enemies and huge amounts of bullets in your 
 gun, the only option is to go in all guns blazing. if you are looking for a sensible game, turn 
 around now because this is what fps games were made for.... sheer fun. you never get to a point 
 in the game where your life isnt in danger by over 10 enemies at once. although there are huge 
 numbers of them, they are pretty easy to kill, especially with the aresenal of guns you are equipped 
 with, from pistols to rocket launchers, machine guns to shotguns, you have it, and they can die 
 from it... so make the most of it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baterxxx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  This is one of best FPS games for sure, beautifull grafic, interesting lelels and creatures, so 
 fun and good. I think this game is much better then Quake IV or Doom III, it isn`t all gray and 
 boring, it`s interasting, full of jokes, funny creatures and levels. Maybe non Croatian players 
 want understand some things and jokes in game but that isn`t important, you don`t need to understand 
 everything to see how great game it is. CroTeam did a great job once again and Sirius Sam maybe 
 isn`t game with best story but it is one of best shooters, becous of his funny side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 4.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  The first game in this series was great, it is a shame that this one does not live up to the history.
 
  
  It's only redeeming grace is that it is quite fun, but only in short bursts and has a fun co-op 
 mode.
  
  I think that the problem with the game is that it has not progressed in terms of gameplay since 
 the first one. The AI of the enemies is atrocious and they have no common sense at all. Everything 
 looks the same and nothing really stands out when you play and you just have this feeling that 
 you have done it all a thousand times before.
  
  I would stay away from this, there are so many more games out there that are so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etofield
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 28, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I'm Spanish sorry.... (need Admin translate ;p )
  
  Este ya no es el juego con el que disfrutamos (almenos para mi) .
  Si se llama Sam y es muy serio 
 pero ahora tiene vidas (no se por que) y tiene carita manga (sera para atraer mas) con armas muy 
 vistosas y muchas luzecitas, pero, donde esta la jugablidad que tenia antes?
  
  Donde estan esas pantallas donde era mejor andar paso a paso que pasar corriendo por la cantidad 
 de enemigos que esta contenia?
  Y eso de los cochecitos? 
  Que no quieren que estiremos las piernas?
  
  Bueno por eso y porque me ha dejado un regusto 
 amargo le doy el 5.
  
  Eso si, animo a los de CROTEAM a que hagan SERIOUS SAM 2 MASACRE y se dejen de coches y cositas 
 visuales, los Jugadores queremos accion.
  
  Good it will try it 
  
  This one already is not the game which we enjoy (for my) .
  If he is called Sam and is very serious 
 but now it he has lives (not for that) And sweet little face has sleeve (to attract more) with 
 very showy weapon and many lights, but, where this the "playable" that tape-worm before?
  
  Where these screens where it he was better to cover stepwise that to happen pass traversing for 
 the enemies' quantity that this content?
  And it of the cars? 
  That do not want that we stretch the legs?
  
  Good because of it and because it has left a 
 bitter retaste me I give him 5.
  
  If, I encourage those of CROTEAM whom they make SERIOUS SAM 2 MASSACRE it and be left of cars and 
 visual, the Players we want action.
  
  p. dI sit it for the spelling
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-Strike
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Pros: I've always been a fan of the series, just playing all weekend in co-op mode with a friend 
 was just great. This time Sam has a lot of different worlds bosses and new enemies. The Serious 
 Engine has never been prettier. The humor is back and with an bigger arsenal he's more aggressive 
 than ever. 
  
  Cons: Too bad a lot of the old weapons have been redesigned to a Toy-weapon, the shotgun and minigun 
 aren't that much fun anymore as before. A lot of enemies (like the bulls and skull horses) are 
 just pathetic to look at, why haven't they left them the way they where?! Also Sam's humor is just 
 sumb most of the time, he's just a dumb guy who pretends/thinks he's funny. This could have been 
 a super game but instead it's a major step backwards! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyril_ryser
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam II is a FP-shooter, for which every effort has been made to let you experience a really 
 bad-ass over the top action spectacle that is blended with lots of cranked-up homor.
  
  Gameplay:
  It sticks to the very basics of this genre: Walking / flying / riding, shooting and 
 those combined are about all you need to be skilled in for playing this game. Serious Sam II will 
 unleash massive hordes of enemies coming for you to kick your ass. So, you will have to turn the 
 tide and let them feel the weaponry of Sam Stone.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are based on the Serious engine II, which is really doing a very good job in rendering 
 the huge variety of environments trough which you will be battling your way. Nearly every Shader 
 Model 3.0 effect is supported (incl. HDR and parallax mapping) . With all details at max SSII looks 
 gorgeous! 
  Many gamers say, that the graphic looks a bit comic like and that the totally new style of this 
 sequel don't looks real... And they are right. But weather
  you like the graphic style or not, you have to say that on the technic side it is one of the most 
 modern Engines out there.
  
  Sound:
  It won't take you long to realize that you should download the latest patch to prevent synchronizity 
 issues with the sound on multi-core CPUs. But since this problem is fixed the sound really works 
 fine. Features like EAX are supported and on a good soundcard you will get trigger happy with the 
 way SSII sounds.
  
  Some minor critics:
  Many people prefer games that are more serious and look less comic like... And if you don't like 
 humor in action games and if you're looking for a realistic gaming experience you definetly won't 
 get what you expect with this game... Furthermore, I must say that some passages in the game are 
 quite numb and just trigger smashing.... Better get a renovation-kit for your left mouse button 
 ;)
  
  Worth playing? 
  If you like the series and if you like humor and a graphic blended with some comic-style, you can 
 buy this game without thinking twice. And last but not least, the cooperative mode is a blast for 
 every LAN-party! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahuskey1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 6, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I'm 30 and my kids are 7 and 4. We have so much fun playing this game together. Just think if Far 
 Cry and Doom3 or any of your favorite First Person Shooter had Co-Op mode like this. I'm not saying 
 that SS2 is the best game ever but it puts the F and the U and the N in FUN. This game is now $20 
 bucks and worth ever penny. I know there is a mod for Far Cry but it is too buggy and the levels 
 do not load to the next level. So basically you are just playing a level together and then manually 
 loading the next.
  Developers need to make Co-Op in more games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AROWRAJA
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  AMazing game that dosen't require much intelligence but full of fun if you like big guns .one day 
 a wise man told me a piece of advice, that advice was" double the gun double the fun"as i said before 
 this game have alot of huge guns like chaingun, double shootgun"my favourit"the cannon on the other 
 hand this game is full of massive bosses with tiny heads
  and believe me when i say that you won't spend a moment without laughing on sam's comments & movies
 
  any way i have to go as "i smell an ambush"
  i think that you must play this game this"6.9"thing resulted from that the game have no story with 
 the meaning we know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam II follows closely in its predecessors game steps. Critters and demons are coming 
 at the player from everywhere, almost all the time. There is little time to pause. Have to go to 
 the bathroom? Too bad, maybe after this level. The author has played the previous Serious Sam games 
 by Croteam with high honors. This game is all-out, full time action. One knows there are demons 
 on the way by the change in the pace of the music. On the other hand, when the field has been cleared, 
 the pace of the music slacks off to a mellow background.
  
  The Serious Sams character (the player) has plenty of wisecracks at every turn. It makes the game 
 interesting and fun. The author is not surprised at the lower ratings of this third game in the 
 series. Players expect a great deal of difference between games in a series or the game is not 
 worth a high rating. The rating should stand-alone. There are five levels to this game, so there 
 should be plenty of gaming time (especially at a higher than tourist player role) . Each level 
 has its BOSS. In order to progress to the next level the player will need to retrieve a medallion, 
 usually held by the BOSS - De Jour.
  
  Over all, the author highly recommends this game to players who have had the previous Serious Sam 
 experience. If you want a games with puzzles requiring mental gymnastics to level-up, look somewhere 
 else. Many weapons, lots of shooting, plenty of excitement; that is this game - Serious Sam II.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  serious sam II
  is a good game i really liked it
  i played on the normal mod and the game is hard but really fun...
  a lot of weapons and a lot 
 of enjoy . . .
  good maps and very good graphic oh and allso lots of defrent enemys . . . .
  so gett that game 
 because its really worth it and this game is very good
  but need allso a lot of thinking because enmys are coming together , fast and with one time so 
 plant an estradegy . . . . . ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first serious sam games. When I heard they were making serious sam 2 and that I heard 
 you can ride vehicles. I was totally EXCITED!! But when I started looking at the screenshots I 
 thought it kind of childish, but I thought it will have the great gameplay just like the originals. 
 But when I tried the game out it is A BIG FAT DISAPPOINTMENT! It's just a simple shooter that tries 
 to make you laugh. Unfortunely it's horrificly unfunny. The bad guys arent as cool as they were 
 from the first games. Serious Sam: FC was great and liked the game. Serious Sam: SC was awesome depite 
 it had the same gameplay as the first one. It was for some reason... better. But I think they went 
 to far for this one. Trying to make the game funny and make the monsters look cartoony. And what's 
 with the weapons!!?!? What happen to the great classic pistols and double coach barrel shotgun 
 and the great sound of the minigun. The minigun doesn't sound as cool as the first serious sam 
 games. I'm sorry but let's hope you developers do better with the next serious sam games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 13, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Pros: Fantastic graphics; wall-to-wall action; not much in the way of girly pretense; just plain 
 fun
  Cons: Hard as hell; not for gamers looking for substance; no deathmatch multiplayer options; battles 
 arent as huge
  
  Sam is back, and this time, hes really serious. Well, not really, but Serious Sam 2 is definitely 
 the game for shooter fans serious about adding more carnage to their diet with none of the unsightly 
 fat of things like story, goals, points, or depth. And, yes, to us, thats a good thing. Seriously.
 
  
  Sam Times Two
  
  Serious Sam 2 takes the original game and pumps it up in almost every direction. Sam 2 is bigger, 
 harder, and, for the most part, better than the first game. The story oddly starts with a bit too 
 much cinematic setup. It seems that three strange aliens need to find the one to fight off the 
 evil of Mental (the big bad guy in the Sam games) , so they transport Sam in to help. The plot gets 
 even more threadbare from there. To get rid of Mental, Sam must find the five fractured pieces 
 of a special talisman. Of course, each piece is guarded on a different world, so off Sam goes to 
 fight through ocean paradises, swamps, futuristic cities, prisons, and other diverse locales.
 
  
  In an era where even Doom is striving for substance (or the appearance of it) , and games like Halo 
 and Half-Life 2 have elevated the shooter to interactive movie status, Serious Sam 2 seems like 
 a quaint throwback to olden days. You run around the usually large levels, grabbing as many guns 
 and as much ammo, armor, and health as possible, while mowing down droves of enemies that come 
 at you from all directions. There are a few switch-based puzzles here and there, and a commendable 
 amount of hidden areas to find, but Sam really is, as he always has been, a one-trick pony. 
  
  Swimming in Shallow Waters
  
  That said, for gamers who prefer swimming in the shallow 
 waters of the gaming ocean, Serious Sam 2 delivers enough pointless violence to quell any office-time 
 frustrations. Quirky developer Croteam hasnt exactly outdone themselves with upping the gameplay 
 complexity -- in fact, it might actually be less complicated than the original. Enemies come at you 
 fast and furious, but they're as dumb as iron. Also, the game lacks the really huge battles of 
 the original where youd fight hundreds of bizarre enemies at once.
  
  Despite the lower enemy numbers, the difficulty of some of these battles is borderline insane, 
 and casual shooter fans might find some of these levels a bit too overwhelming. Another change 
 in the design is the inclusion of vehicles and gun turrets. Youll ride a fire-spewing dinosaur 
 near the beginning of the game, and then move on to various hovercraft-type vehicles later on. 
 Many of the levels have gun turrets you can commandeer to fight off waves of oncoming bad guys, 
 and youll often be trying to protect the weird looking natives of the worlds you visit. 
  
  Serious Graphics, Not So Serious Multiplayer
  
  There are over 20 levels, and at a price 
 tag of about $30, there's more gameplay than the original Serious Sam budget release. The reason 
 why the screen isnt quite as filled with badness probably has something to do with the improved 
 3D engine. Serious Sam 2 is gorgeous, with special effects like fire, water, and explosions good 
 enough to rival any other game out there. The enemies are remarkably detailed, and the textures 
 through most of the game are stunning. The rest of the presentation is solid as well, with plenty 
 of Sam quips, and suiting, if forgettable music.
  
  The multiplayer aspect of Serious Sam 2 is unfortunately not-so-serious. Deathmatch in the original 
 game was an incredibly fun, surreal experience, yet the sequel lacks even that mode. Instead, Sam 
 2 has cooperative-only multiplayer. Now, we all love co-op play, but the lack of any other online 
 modes just seems wrong. Still, the game is a lot of fun to play through with friends, and hopefully 
 a multiplayer patch with more game modes will be released soon. 
  
  Mindless Carnage=Love
  
  Serious Sam 2 is a game that aspires to be big, loud, obnoxious, and 
 fun, and it succeeds. Much like the original, theres virtually no depth here, but the focus on 
 pure, unadulterated explosions is the perfect alternative to the heavy-handed, dramatic shooters 
 weve seen lately. Although it's rather disappointing that the battles arent as epic as the first 
 game, and the lack of deathmatch multiplayer is shocking, Serious Sam 2 carries the mantle of Sam 
 well, with gorgeous looks and excellent gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonely188
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  It was more than I had expected. They did a great job on making it feel like the same game, but 
 better gameplay/graphics than the first one. Very comical and funny. I was very amused at a lot 
 of the voice acting in the game and they whole game fit together really well. Everytime I went 
 from one level to the next, the games boses and inbetween parts somehow really well fit what they 
 should have been. I give it a 8.8 out 10 because it was exactly what it should have been from the 
 first Serious Sam encounters... not to mention the plot in this one really helped the game make 
 more sense. The only downside is that by the end of the game your tired of killing some of the 
 really common monsters... but that happend in the first one too, and since a lot of the original 
 monsters are back, you might just be tired of killing them right off the bat... but hey, it makes 
 for a lot of fun in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyjimbo72
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was really good. Graphics wise, there were some very high-res textures and 
 the geometry was really good. The sound was good, but the voices can be "embarrasing" sometimes. 
 The actually gameplay itself was brilliant, because the weapons were original, there are lots of 
 enemies that attack you at one time, the bosses are well designed, and the veichle-based combat 
 was superb. I would say that the only drawbacks to the game are that some missions where you to 
 find keys to open doors can be annoying, and the multiplayer is awful, as you can only play a co-op 
 mode of levels which you have already beaten in singleplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yimingwuzere
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Colourful graphics, and it's a lot less demanding than other shooters with fancy graphics.
  The multibarreled shotgun isn't really a shotgun (although it still consumes shells) , so it isn't 
 illogical.
  Level design is not as fantastic as some others, but is certainly better than the FPS of 2005, 
 FEAR. At least it doesn't have long intervals of the same old crappy buildings. Plus, the variations 
 are extensive, from a lush tropical world to wastelands to hi-tech cities.
  AI is dumb, but then again, so was Painkiller, Will Rock, and every other clone of Serious Sam. 
 If you had smart AI there wouldn't be a Serious Mode.
  Gameplay is what you can expect from Serious Sam, and it's not mundane.
  The item physics leaves 
 a lot to be desired, though. Boxes stacked on top of each other tend to bounce for no reason, as 
 if repelled by same-pole magnetic forces.
  
  Anyway, this game makes an ideal LAN party at home. Seriously. This feature makes it worth the 
 price of the game alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomer101
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This is game is great because of it's simplicity, and just plain non-stop shooting action. The 
 type of game where you don't have to worry about your ammo indicator, because even though there 
 are numerous enemies, you always have ammo near you :) :) :) ..... The type of game where you don't 
 want to have to worry about your health bar.... all you want to do is just shoot n kill.... and 
 in addition to all of this, its a great stress reliever... 
  
  So in conclusion, you must play this game, no matter what, though it must be admitted that the 
 humour fails often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manciny911
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2005 5:35 am PT
Review:  Yo
  
  There is not much to say abot this exept is a MASTER PIECE I mean everything 
  is gret the graphics, gameplay, onine mode everything just what you need don't think SHOOOOOOT!!!!!.. 
 I hope you all agree with mee I Mean Common People 
  there even are funny jokes in it the Guns are the best of all This Is a game who can be played 
 by anyone who likes shooting and if you don't well buy yourself another game with stupid puppies 
 or whatever but anyone who likes shooters with a great gameplay and even a bit of humor and cool 
 graphics don't wait buy this game and everyone who disagrees post a reply and when you do agree 
 post a reply to this will probably the people with the most brains and recognize a good shooter!!!!
 
  
  Greetings Manciny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostownguru
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:29 am PT
Review:  I just simply love this game. Serious Sam II is worth every penny. The single play is action packed 
 and just as funny as ever. There are just enough levels to keep things interesting without making 
 the game go on forever and ever. The replay is great, I can start on any level and end up playing 
 two. Multiplay co-op is the best. The graphics are great and very smooth. I love the arcade style 
 extra life and the MP setup is by far the best I have ever seen. Croteam hit a grand slam with 
 this one, these guys can truly make a game. I can not wait until the sequel comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kudos2000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2005 6:08 am PT
Review:  Well if you played serious sam and serious sam: second encounter you'll know that this game is just 
 a plain FPS, it does not try to make itself serious, instead it appeals to the gamer by just letting 
 you shoot the hell out of everything.
  
  This game is good old fashion classic doom fun, the game has not lost any of the humour that it 
 had in the other games, and if it could be said it has gained some. The scenes add to this fun 
 with some great areas and characters.
  
  A couple of characters I think where not really in keeping though was the end boss who I thought 
 was boring and unimaginative (boss from the first still the best) , and the rocket dinosaurs just 
 looked terrible, like they should be a 4 year old's toy.
  
  The engine has improved (as it should has, its been a while) , with great graphics across a large 
 space, these are not the best graphics you can see in a game but when overwhelmed with enemies 
 and being able to see for miles then you have to appreciate the time Croteam has put in to it. 
 They have also been able to squeeze in an adequate and modern physics engine and a better sound 
 engine.
  
  If you liked the previous Serious Sam's then I would say buy this game, but wait till its on budget, 
 it won't be long and its not worth spending all that money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bybeach
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 13, 2005 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I`m going to write a short review, and it goes like this. the gamespot reviewer (Greg Kasavin, sp?) 
 was right. There is something that is a bit 'off ' in this game, and they tried to make it up w/ 
 a way, way over extended mission (using the term loosly) . Every step you take is contested, yep,.. that 
 they do pull off. But so what? It could of worked, but the story line is such a joke that there 
 is no epic feel to it, as there was a bit in "the Second Encounter" where Necrissa actually makes 
 a statement of Mental and his overwhelming numbers fall 'not being in the eyes of "God' (no less_ 
 eh!!) But that had some class, in the sense that Sam Stone iswas a very desperate last chance, thrown 
 in against a smothering and evil enemy. Here, as Ser. Sam Stone is protrayed (and seems at times 
 to be aminated) he well.. he don` think too hard. Not the sharpest pencil in the box.. Kinda has a 
 stupid look to him also. Lucky ole nessies there to hold his hand /be his brain.
  
  And the humour.... jeez, almost all this stuff misses, and there is an awfull lot (too-much!) of it 
 .In 'the Second Encounter', Sam sees some sort of Alien 'video display' of another world, festooned 
 w/ bizaare creatures and odd shapes. His response,.. he fervently wishes he had one of those as 
 a stand for his entertainment center back home. Jus`One line, and it really worked well. Here we 
 have shovelfulls of inflated blah-blah, and it all seems to go over the edge ,mostly. Necrissa 
 stays to point/ makes sense. And something almost.. creepy ,has interjected itself ,where somebody 
 has a fascination w/ dead /decomposing rabbits, little babies getting snuffed, overflowing toilets (see 
 enough of that at work-heh) . And I actually got stuck at one point. The game had done some kind 
 of scene skipping once, and I had to retrace a level. Because of that, I simply gave up in a cirtain 
 section, because I started to think something hadn`t loaded again. But no, I jus needed to keep 
 killing and killing till they stopped coming,.. missed that big point of the whole game. Jeez.
 
  
  Graphics are nice for what they try to do. Sound jus` is, tho` that rock and roll bit in Sirious 
 Metro changing back and forth kind of got awkward.
  
  I rated this game a 7.1, taking into consideration that humour is a subjective thing. Despite some 
 flaws, an attempt here was obviouly made to make a 'good' game. Simply put, thats what was all that 
 was accomplished ,at best, and the 'good' is very much a technical and shallow definition of the 
 word. My next review will be for 'Quake 4', a game very worth playing, and in my book, was a little 
 underrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dennylson
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 10, 2005 9:54 am PT
Review:  I read Gamespot's review of SS2 before I bought it as it did not get released in England until 
 a bit later than the USA. After rating it at 6.9 I couldn't understand why and it did put me off 
 a bit. I loved the previous two games so much though, that I had to buy it. I'm pleased I did because 
 I disagree with Gamespot on most aspects.
  
  The new Serious Engine pumps out some excellent graphical rendering and it ran really smoothly 
 on my 2.6GHz machine with Radeon 9800XT loaded in. It is not quite up too the standard of Half 
 Life 2 or Quake 4 but I didn't really expect it to be as it is not what the game is all about.
 
  
  No complaints about the game-play at all. Its very easy to control Sam who has a massive range 
 of weapons at his disposal, along with some fun machines to ride in. This gives you a break from 
 first person view for a few minutes, although you can play the game in third person view but this 
 is not really recommended as Sam looks a bit silly running around.
  
  The bad guys have been designed very well but some of them are very weird, especially the clowns, 
 football players and witches (must be an eastern European thing) . The humour is a big factor throughout 
 the game but I feel the developers have gone a bit over the top with trying to be funny at times 
 and rather than laughing you might sit there feeling a bit confused. They have a few good digs 
 at Duke Nukem Forever which I found quite amusing though.
  
  My only real complaint from this game is the ridiculous anti-climatic ending. The Mental Institution 
 building as the last boss was stupid and far too easy. I beat it after only 2 attempts and then 
 the ridiculous ending credits with Croatian people trying to speak with English and American accents 
 was very irritating. Will we ever get to fight this Mental guy? I suppose they are leaving themselves 
 open for another sequel I guess.
  
  In all, Serious Sam 2 is great like the First and Second Encounters and then some so if you liked 
 them, you will most definitely love this!
  
  DENNYLSON
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2005 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam II is a crazy game, nothing in the game is serious. I find this game really humorous, 
 but some just don't make you laugh. The variety of mosnters and weapons are great, because in this 
 game, you just practically shoot every monster you see. They'll flood you like crazy, from all 
 directions, ground and air. Now the good part of the game is good graphics (that's if you run it 
 on high) and the framerate is excellent. It would've been nice to see your monster's corpse after 
 your crazy firefight to see what you've mowed down, but the corpse just simply disappears, I guess 
 that's to smoothen the framerate but when you fight monsters that are sometimes 50 stories high, 
 it's a pride to see them lying on the ground, admiring what you've accomplish. Firefights get really 
 boring after a while, until enw weapon/vehicle or monsters comes up, then it's another 30 minutes 
 of stop 360 degree shooting. Aside from that, this is a bargain game and is a decent FPS for all 
 you hardcore FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitulescu2005
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:43 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam 2 is a intresting game and this time is more activ in game. U can sey is a great game. 
 I rating with 9.
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
  
  Va da-ti seama ca nu vorbesc serios 
::::::

::::::
UserName: human_urb
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Fantastic graphics; wall-to-wall action; not much in the way of girly pretense; just plain 
 fun
  Cons: Hard as hell; not for gamers looking for substance; no deathmatch multiplayer options; battles 
 arent as huge
  
  Sam is back, and this time, hes really serious. Well, not really, but Serious Sam 2 is definitely 
 the game for shooter fans serious about adding more carnage to their diet with none of the unsightly 
 fat of things like story, goals, points, or depth. And, yes, to us, thats a good thing. Seriously.
 
  
  Sam Times Two
  
  Serious Sam 2 takes the original game and pumps it up in almost every direction. Sam 2 is bigger, 
 harder, and, for the most part, better than the first game. The story oddly starts with a bit too 
 much cinematic setup. It seems that three strange aliens need to find the one to fight off the 
 evil of Mental (the big bad guy in the Sam games) , so they transport Sam in to help. The plot gets 
 even more threadbare from there. To get rid of Mental, Sam must find the five fractured pieces 
 of a special talisman. Of course, each piece is guarded on a different world, so off Sam goes to 
 fight through ocean paradises, swamps, futuristic cities, prisons, and other diverse locales.
 
  
  In an era where even Doom is striving for substance (or the appearance of it) , and games like Halo 
 and Half-Life 2 have elevated the shooter to interactive movie status, Serious Sam 2 seems like 
 a quaint throwback to olden days. You run around the usually large levels, grabbing as many guns 
 and as much ammo, armor, and health as possible, while mowing down droves of enemies that come 
 at you from all directions. There are a few switch-based puzzles here and there, and a commendable 
 amount of hidden areas to find, but Sam really is, as he always has been, a one-trick pony. 
  
  Swimming in Shallow Waters
  
  That said, for gamers who prefer swimming in the shallow 
 waters of the gaming ocean, Serious Sam 2 delivers enough pointless violence to quell any office-time 
 frustrations. Quirky developer Croteam hasnt exactly outdone themselves with upping the gameplay 
 complexity -- in fact, it might actually be less complicated than the original. Enemies come at you 
 fast and furious, but they're as dumb as iron. Also, the game lacks the really huge battles of 
 the original where youd fight hundreds of bizarre enemies at once.
  
  Despite the lower enemy numbers, the difficulty of some of these battles is borderline insane, 
 and casual shooter fans might find some of these levels a bit too overwhelming. Another change 
 in the design is the inclusion of vehicles and gun turrets. Youll ride a fire-spewing dinosaur 
 near the beginning of the game, and then move on to various hovercraft-type vehicles later on. 
 Many of the levels have gun turrets you can commandeer to fight off waves of oncoming bad guys, 
 and youll often be trying to protect the weird looking natives of the worlds you visit. 
  
  Serious Graphics, Not So Serious Multiplayer
  
  There are over 20 levels, and at a price 
 tag of about $30, there's more gameplay than the original Serious Sam budget release. The reason 
 why the screen isnt quite as filled with badness probably has something to do with the improved 
 3D engine. Serious Sam 2 is gorgeous, with special effects like fire, water, and explosions good 
 enough to rival any other game out there. The enemies are remarkably detailed, and the textures 
 through most of the game are stunning. The rest of the presentation is solid as well, with plenty 
 of Sam quips, and suiting, if forgettable music.
  
  The multiplayer aspect of Serious Sam 2 is unfortunately not-so-serious. Deathmatch in the original 
 game was an incredibly fun, surreal experience, yet the sequel lacks even that mode. Instead, Sam 
 2 has cooperative-only multiplayer. Now, we all love co-op play, but the lack of any other online 
 modes just seems wrong. Still, the game is a lot of fun to play through with friends, and hopefully 
 a multiplayer patch with more game modes will be released soon. 
  
  Mindless Carnage=Love
  
  Serious Sam 2 is a game that aspires to be big, loud, obnoxious, and 
 fun, and it succeeds. Much like the original, theres virtually no depth here, but the focus on 
 pure, unadulterated explosions is the perfect alternative to the heavy-handed, dramatic shooters 
 weve seen lately. Although it's rather disappointing that the battles arent as epic as the first 
 game, and the lack of deathmatch multiplayer is shocking, Serious Sam 2 carries the mantle of Sam 
 well, with gorgeous looks and excellent gameplay. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seraphymz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 11:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing because it sticks to the serious sam gameplay of run and gun with humor laced 
 into it. The graphics are very good and it never bogs down on my moderate PC, its a great game 
 and well worth the 30 i payed for it. The people that dont like it are the ones that are looking 
 for something other than serious sam gameplay. This isnt half-life or doom, its definently serious 
 sam gameplay so i dont know why people were looking for anything else, so take what you get and 
 enjoy this great game! Its a brilliant game and funny too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heretic1987
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Somewhat of a good game, although for beginners it is still are hard game, the amount of enemies 
 that it throws at you is amazing. But it can get very frustrating at times. Sometimes you will 
 have to play a section over and over again because all the enemies overwhelm you at times. Most 
 of the rest of the game is somewhat messed up. Many of the guns are pretty cool to play with, every 
 time you play you can use different weapons to get through the levels, a different experience every 
 time. Unfotunately i thought the game was not as good as it could of been, but being around thirty 
 dollars you should pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 12, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  Hi im gonna tell you about serious sam 2 and i can tell you all the stuff i know.
  
  Sounds: 
  Serious sam 2 offers very good music, especially in the first planet and the last planet.
 
  The music from mental institution for example, its just addicting.
  Enemy sounds are a bit weird but that makes the enemies funny.
  Other sounds like the environment 
 and weapon sounds are quite good but not good enough.
  The movie sounds and the voice acting is OK.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics of serious sam 2 
 are a bit cartoony and are very colorful, but the graphics are decent and good enough to work on 
 a slow computer, so dont worry about serious sam 2 not working on your computer, even with low 
 graphical settings the game looks good and has lots of colors.
  
  Variety of the game:
  The game offers lots of levels and enemies, so the variety of the game is good, some levels are 
 a bit disapointing though.
  
  Gameplay: 
  This is what the game is about, lots of enemies, good music, nice maps and lots of maps.
  Lots 
 of stuff like weapons and vehicles.
  Vehicles are a bit too strong sometimes.
  There are a few major bugs in this game though:
  -Invisible walls, NO invisible walls because 
 it makes the game more like a console game and not pc game.
  -Where did the old netrisca go, enemy info and the other stuff.
  -Enemies just explode, even 
 if you shoot with the weakest gun.
  
  Online gameplay:
  The online gameplay is good but not good enough, it lags too much.
  
  This was my review for 
 serious sam 2, cya all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupaTrupa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Don't be put-off by the early reviews when this came out in 2005. SSII is a very good, worthwhile 
 game in the mold of it's predecessors, but this time in more colorful, more destructible, and somewhat 
 cartoony environments. You also get to use some vehicles (small hover craft mainly) .
  
  The story is fine for this type of game - recover all the pieces of the magic amulet or whatever, 
 from each themed planet. The humor is lame but quick and not asking for big laughs.
  
  Familiar enemies are here with the Kleers and Exploding Pumpkinhead men etc..., as well as a slew 
 of new ones.
  
  The bosses are ridiculously gigantic and the engine is still impressive now in 2008. Today's hardware 
 runs this game maxed out very well and it's still impressive.
  
  If you like 3D action arcade shooters and the previous SS games, this would make for a solid bargain 
 bin purchase if you can find it for under $20.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: onenumcat
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 15, 2005 11:00 am PT
Review:  Graphics are great, however looked as if made for children! Seemed to be a system resourse hog. 
 I'm running AMD 64 3500+, 256 mb AGP 8x vid card, 2 gigs of RAM. Didn't seem to run very smoothly 
 for me. Didn't play much before I shelved it! The sound seemed to be very nice. Possibly the gameplay 
 would be nice also on a very high-end machine ( I thought mine was high-end, guess not!!) . So, 
 If you've got a high-end machine, give it a try. I don't think this one is a good as the first 
 or second in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cav27
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 8, 2005 5:59 am PT
Review:  Just finished Serious Sam II, and although the reviews were not great, I really enjoyed myself 
 playing it. 
  
  I cut my FPS teeth with doom and its nice occasionally to play a game with no plot, just kill everything 
 that moves and hope your ammo dosent run out before the waves upon waves of targets. i reckon there 
 were more bots on sam's smallest level then there was in the entire doom 3.
  
  Graphics were a joy to behold, very keeping with the style of game, dito sound. All in all a whole 
 lot of fun, but not a classic. I wont be playing this next year but I still feel I got my money's 
 worth 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: royboy2100
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2005 5:31 am PT
Review:  The last 2 Serious Sam game was pretty fun for a while then it became almost like cleaning up chore. 
 And now with Serious Sam 2 out, the game had a more clearer cheesy storyline, funny cutscenes and 
 more voice acting in the game. The funny voices for the little people sounded almost like little 
 Indians from India, I don't know if the developers did this intentionally or just put there for 
 some laughs. 
  
  The gameplay unfortunately, fails to follow up the last 2 game where each one bought the gameplay 
 to a new level of just blasting everything. Here, its all the same with maybe some vehicles to 
 add to the killing. The one thing I really had to complain about was the overused in certain game 
 enemies like those skeleton-like bull creatures or the helicopter. Too much overuse of it made 
 the game really flat as if the developers themselves just place there here and there to waste our 
 ammo. During the game, sometimes you'll get a blue or purple color girl talking to you in your 
 head. Sounds familiar? 
  
  Graphic wise, the game engine was overall smooth. If you can run Half Life 2, you can run Serious 
 Sam 2 with no problems. Some of the engines looked like it was bought over from the first serious 
 sam engine, but don't let that fool you, these are real Serious Sam 2 engine. 
  
  Other then that, Serious Sam 2 could have been better just a tad, but for a price tag, this game 
 is pretty much what you pay is what you get. An overall fun game that I probably would say worth 
 19.95 or less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockthegod
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 7, 2005 11:29 am PT
Review:  I am a hardcore fan of Serious Sam series of games and the only thing that I have to mention about 
 Serious Sam 2 is that it failed to meet the quality of its predecessors. The game is quite good 
 and its graphics (Serious Engine 2) is awesum but the continuous cartoon feel to it is not quite 
 likeable. The maps are not quite large as they used to be in the former ones of this genre. The 
 most irritating part is the weapon size and the **** music, which sometimes makes the gameplay 
 go numb and makes the game quite boring. 
  
  Hope that the SS2 developers make a better use of this so beautiful Serious Engine 2. And An earnest 
 request to the developers, plzz plzz plzzzzz make the music of the game more compelling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gordon_Freenan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2005 9:29 am PT
Review:  I've been a member of, and visiting Gamespot for a long time and this is the first time that I 
 felt compelled to write a review.
  
  Gamespot, you guys got it totally wrong this time. This game is fantastic!! The visuals, sound, 
 the lighthearted humour, interesting and huge environments are all in the mix that make this game 
 worthy of at the very least, 9/10. If I had to compare this game to DOOM3, Quake 4 and all of the 
 other hyped up titels that dissapointed so many fans, then I have to pick SS2 above them all any 
 day. Only HL2, Farcry and FEAR is better. Period.
  
  To anyone that read the Gamespot review, do ignore. They have it wrong. Go buy this game. You will 
 thank me that you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilblackgirl
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 7, 2005 6:16 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam is more of the same from the original, but not always in a good way. For straight up, 
 mindless shooting and mowing down wave after wave of enemies, Sam 2 is perfect. The problem is, 
 it doesn't seem to carry as much weight as the original. And when i say weight, i mean literal 
 weight. The weapons don't seem to have the punch that most shooters have. You can really feel the 
 power of the guns when you fire them. In Sam 2, they don't have that feel to them and that takes 
 away from the game a bit. The graphics are prettier and more colorful and the enemies are improved 
 in visual quality. I haven't decided if that's a benefit or a hinderance. There are way to many 
 flying enemies that begin to take away from the enjoyment of the game, but the bosses are pretty 
 cool. My only preference for playing this game is cooperatively online with a bunch of others (which 
 is not always an easy thing with the built in game browser) . Overall, if you really enjoyed the 
 original, this will fill up some mindless time, but don't expect to have any intelligent discussions 
 over this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisdragon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are stunning but not breaktthrough stunning, sound goes well with the game, gameplay is 
 good, especially when you play co-op with others, it just gets funner, especially when you have 
 3-5 other players along with you.
  
  I really don't know what to say more, but it's nice to see old and new weapons and enemies in the 
 lineup, some which can get annoying.
  
  I havn't tried the DM/TDM but just the coop, I played for a couple hours straight. Single player 
 is just as good. I miss the data Netrista uploads to you when you kill a new monster in single 
 player that SS SE had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSlater85
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2005 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam 2 seems to me that it is the same thing as Serious Sam in the "previous encounters". 
 If you want to play the same game again (well sort of) hordes of enemies in waves. Then this is 
 the game for you. Honestly I have spent more time at it then I should have as I like that style 
 of game play. I also liked the physics. It seems much like the physics in HL2. I admit HL2 was 
 not my style of game so to see the physics in a game I like was a lot of fun for me. 
  The storyline fit very nicely with the previous games. I also liked some of the characters. (spoiler 
 alert) it gives some new meaning to the "Sirus" civilization. I liked the little bits of humour 
 here and there. The new Netrisica was okay and helpful at times, kept me from looking around the 
 wrong way but I would not say it makes or breaks the game. It's just what you would expect from 
 a higher budget game.
  Bottom line, If you liked the previous games and want more the same with a few tweaks... Get this 
 game. If you did not like the previous ones or don't want to play the same thing again do not get 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guncizxxl
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 5, 2005 11:06 am PT
Review:  Loved the game. This game is really FPS, but not FPSwDM (First Person Shooter with Drama Materials) 
 :) . But there were some disappoitments. First of all, I thought tat 8000 (!!!) monsters will make 
 me sweat, but when I realized that they are scattered in all 40+ levels with 200-300 in each level 
 (1200 in the last level which is almost the same number as in Second Encounter) , I was quite disappointed. 
 But the graphics were cool, the sound was funny (like this non-serious fighting sound in the Giant 
 Junkyard level) , and the cutscenes... the past flying gnaar made me smile every time. The gameplay 
 was a bit monotonous though. I guess this game is more for those players, who played the first 
 two games.
  I just wonder, how will Croteam finish this storyline, because in the last cutscene Mental tried 
 to say that he is Sam's father (at least I think so) . Can't wait for the next game :)
  Just don't play on the 3rd person. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Looking at Gamespot's rating for Sam 2, I was immediately disapointed. I had high hopes for this 
 game and I thought this game had lost its touch since the First Encounter. Knowing it was 29.99, 
 it was still a great bargain.
  
  This is the first Gamespot rating I hated. It had been harshly underrated (SHAME ON YOU KASAVIN) . 
 How did the 8.9 and 9.1 ratings of the FE and SE suddenly shrink to a 6.9 in the sequel? I found 
 the graphics to be amazing colorful and bright in contrast to Half-Life 2, and Doom 3. Even the 
 sound was great, except from that little annoying Extra Life voice that nobody seems to like either.
 
  
  The gameplay is simply FUN. Not many games can even remotely match the amount of creatures on screen 
 as can be done in the Serious Sam series. The weapons although wierd looking, are all unique in 
 their own way. And what other game has a CLAWDOVIC suicide parrot bomber? Honestly?
  
  The games humour is great too, although some of it is inside humour and can only be understood 
 by a select few. Serious Sam has always been a series that would appeal only to some people, either 
 it being ridiculous or awesome. What a lot of gamers don't understand is this game is meant to 
 be simplistic, with little or no plot, and the destruction of hundreds and hundreds of monsters 
 every mission. It's more of a stress reducer, then a serious shooter, and what's wrong with that? 
 It's cheaper than almost all the new released games.
  
  Overall Sam 2 is a refeshing and superb game that deserved more respect and a higher rating. It 
 is a great game of unbeatable value, and is my new personal favorite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokojambo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 3, 2005 3:14 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest things in Serious Sam II is an extreemely fun multiplayer which is suitable 
 up to 16 people over the lan and internet! I tried it myself with my seven friends ant that was 
 unforgettible! More Sams, more waves of enemies :)
  
  The new graphics engine if perfect! It seems that even the place you don't notice, is very, very 
 detailed. Textures are colorful as a rainbow ant levels are huuuuuge ant bright!
  
  As in the previous Serious Sam games, sounds are one of the most memoriable feature. Every enemy 
 has it's own sounds. Not just a simple sounds, but quite interesting! How about the martial zombie, 
 who always shouts Spanish oneliners or sceaming kamikaze (this time with head ;) ) Aaaaaaaaaaghh!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: r2d2d3d4d5
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 3, 2005 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Lots of fun to play this game. A lot of people seem to be comparing it unfavourably to the originals 
 but I can't see why. This is more of the same but with better graphics, more intelligent enemies, 
 more things to play around with and about the same amount of fun (I actually found single player 
 has more depth but your mileage may vary) .
  
  The menu is system is not as polished as it should be (probably some thing to do with games console 
 twin) but pretty soon you get used to its quirks and they are no longer an issue.
  
  As always the co-op is the best part and what gives this game value. If you enjoy co-op then you 
 won't be disappointed.
  
  This game is the very much child of cutesy platform games (e. g. Mario) and old school FPSs (think 
 Wolfenstein/Doom/DN) and makes a nice change from all the more storyline based, slow paced/stealth 
 FPSs that we get so much of these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boo2k5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 3, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  One of the good ego shooters this year. Not so great like fear, but Serious Sam doesnt even think 
 of be the best game. Its realistic. This game is kind of unique and made years ago a small revolution. 
 Uncountable monsters are attacking you at one and you smash them down with a giant weapon of your 
 choice. this basic simple gameplay is the same in the new adventure of sam. With one difference. 
 He gets a story. But dont worry how this cant fit together. The story is so bizzare and ironic 
 that it fits perfectly in sams universe. Graphics are spectacular. Bosses are just GIANT and difficult-mode 
 is fair, tough all the hordes of enemys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afsaad
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 4:11 am PT
Review:  It's too nice to chose the view to be played as 3rd Person type or 1st person type.
  It's very good idea to be played as 1st person type or 3rd person type, Thats why previous versions 
 ( Serious Sam & Serious Sam second encounter ) had this popularity because they came for every 
 one, Now in this new magnificent game they are giving you to chose the type of playing 1st or 3rd 
 person with the H key, the graphics in this version ( Serious Sam II ) is so nice & much better 
 so no need to talk about them because they are wonderfull, I found that the sound within the game 
 is unbelievable.
  The game sometimes not easy to be played, which giving a real chalanging.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 30, 2005 1:14 am PT
Review:  So, I was playing the Halo campaign the other day for the umpteenth time, and it got me thinking 
  what is it that makes a first-person shooter enjoyable? After all, the premise is almost laughably 
 simple  point a gun, shoot, dodge your enemies fire  you wouldnt think wed keep buying and 
 playing these games AGAIN and AGAIN and AGAIN. And yet I keep getting on the Warthog and kicking 
 butt. Despite this simplicity, shooters come in all kinds. You can go the way of Half-Life 2 where 
 the combat is linear and your enemies come in five varieties or so  but the sheer realism and 
 fidelity of the graphics and physics still make it a gripping experience. Or you can go with Doom 
 3, which relies on atmosphere and Boo tactics to immerse the player in the game world. Then theres 
 Halo, which combines the fast pace and relentless enemies of an arcade game with the tactical thinking 
 required in a realistic war simulator. Or, dig into Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher 
 Bay, which spices things up with some stealth and adventure game elements.
  
  And then theres Serious Sam II, a game thats content just to give you an absurdly huge futuristic 
 gun, place you in an absurdly nonsensical magic forest location that looks like something from 
 a long-cherished LSD experience, and send against you an army of 50 or so green-skinned, red-horned, 
 pig-faced FOOTBALL PLAYERS carrying EXPLODING FOOTBALLS. And when I say fifty, I mean fifty  at 
 the same time.
  
  If thats what youve been waiting for all these years, then I guess this game is for you.
  
 
  For those not familiar with the Serious Sam games  and you dont have to be to enjoy this game 
 as much as anyone  theyve always gone against the overall trend in first-person shooters. As 
 the post-Half-Life years have gone by, developers have generally aimed to raise the bar in realism 
 in these games, starting with weapon and bullet mechanics, going on to graphics and physics, and 
 really concentrating on enemy and friendly squad AI. By contrast, Croatian developer Croteam, decided 
 that not everyone wants that. Instead, they gave us games that feature ridiculous guns, enemies 
 that are stupid yet relentless and come in hundreds, gigantic bosses, colorful and silly locales, 
 not to mention a main character that is like a parody of all macho action heroes in any game, ever. 
 Those games worked brilliantly well, because the more is better principle worked for them. They 
 also worked because of the void left by the lack of a decent Duke Nukem 3D game after the first 
 one, which is based on the same basic principles as Serious Sam (though much, much more vulgar) . 
 It also didnt hurt that the games featured awesome graphics and usually sold at less than $20 
 on release.
  
  After releasing Serious Sam: the Second Encounter, Croteam went back to work to make an all-new 
 graphics engine and a whole lot more levels (meanwhile, Duke Nukem Forever is languishing in development 
 somewhere, a fact Serious Sam II seems to take serious pleasure in at several points in the game) . 
 Only three years later, we have the result. So, how is it?
  
  The game has Sam Serious Stone, supposedly a hero of a war of some kind, being sent alone to 
 five different planets to assemble the pieces of some artifact in order to defeat Mental, who is 
 some kind of bad guy. Thats basically about it for the story (this is not a criticism, just a 
 fact of life which the game obviously delights in) . On each planet, Sam gets to bond with the peaceful 
 inhabitants, whom he protects from Mentals hordes and henchmen. The things Sam can do are limited 
 to shooting the living hell out of everyone (and most things, too) , picking up objects like basketballs 
 and boxes, eating power-ups, and operating turrets and some interesting vehicles. This may seem 
 limited, but if you think about it, Halo is basically the same.
  
  And yet, Sam II never really feels as fun to play as the Halo games. Its hard to really pin down 
 any tactics against these enemies, other than the obvious: The rocket launcher-wielding Cyberdemon 
 parody guys should obviously be attacked from a distance with explosive weapons; the venomous dogs 
 need to be shot before they get to Sam; the suicide-bomb dudes should be shot when theyre near 
 other enemies; and so on, and so forth. There are aerial enemies, too, and theyre no different 
 from most helicopters youve fought in other games. Dont get me wrong, this game features scores 
 of various enemy types, but theres nothing particularly interesting about them  theres really 
 no AI of which to speak. (Well, nothing particularly interesting unless you realize this is an 
 M-rated sci-fi shooter where one of the less weird enemy types is a broom-riding witch with a crazy 
 cackle.)
  
  To make up for this simplicity, the game does three basic things. One, it surrounds Sam with a 
 TRUCKLOAD of enemies. Two, it surrounds Sam with a TRUCKLOAD of power-ups, like money, health, 
 ammo, and the ol Damage Multiplier and Score Multiplier type items. And three, it flaunts its 
 lack of connection to reality as much as it can, blatantly spawning enemies every which way right 
 within Sams eyeshot. As a result, the game is silly, but not easy; its hectic, but not hard; 
 its visceral, but never mean-spirited or brutal. Most of the minor skirmishes, which take about 
 60% of the game, are rather fun in a basic way, reminding me of the more wide-open fights in the 
 original Doom. The game does a good job adding a bit of a different texture into the fight by throwing 
 in some weapon-wielding friendlies to help Sam out, from time to time.
  
  There are also drivable vehicles, which are competently handled just like the normal combat. Control 
 is simple and smooth, for both ground and aerial vehicles. However, Serious Sam II never treats 
 vehicles as something to be used in any kind of flexible way a-la Halo  the area for use with 
 a given vehicle is always clearly delineated with some artificial barrier, like a narrow door or 
 a sheer cliff, and youll seldom spend a long time in any one vehicle. There are also turret shooting 
 sequences, which are  again  simple but enjoyable. Come to think of it, the normal combat is 
 also quite linear despite the sheer number of enemies. Since a given battle will play out pretty 
 much exactly the same no matter how many times you replay the game  a problem also prevalent in 
 Half-Life 2 and Doom 3  and all the battles are far too similar to each other, theres not really 
 much incentive to play through the entire game even once. However, if you do decide to play the 
 whole thing, the game is quite long, featuring many, many levels, good for probably 20-25 hours, 
 if not more.
  
  As for multiplayer, the only option available is cooperative play through the campaign. I tried 
 this for a couple of hours, and it was at least much as much fun as the single-player component, 
 with no technical issues. Its not the most extensive multiplayer component, but it certainly extends 
 the replay value of the game to a decent 7.
  
  While all this basic gameplay is nothing to get all that excited about, it is still really fun, 
 worth maybe an 8. Unfortunately, Serious Sam II has one big problem which brings the gameplay down 
 into less-than-remarkable territory. About 30% of the battles in the game follow this pattern: 
 (1) Sam enters room through door. (2) Door closes. (3) Hundreds of basic enemies of increasing 
 power and numbers start chaotically spawning all around. (4) Sometimes a power-up like Serious 
 Damage spawns to help Sam out. (5) Sam kills everyone, door opens, and Sam proceeds.
  
  Now, this may sound like fun, and it would be if not for one problem: This engine can NOT handle 
 that many enemies on screen. The game was reviewed on an Athlon 64 3400+ with 1GB RAM and a more 
 than reasonable 6800GT. On the games auto-detected settings, which include all details pumped 
 up and high resolution and AA, the game ran at a flawless framerate with a lot (say, ten or fifteen) 
 of enemies on screen. But when a lot becomes a really insane amount, which is often, the game 
 starts abruptly jerking every which way, making battles much more annoying than they should be. 
 I even tried setting all the details and resolution to the absolute lowest levels, and it didnt 
 help one iota. This soured me on this whole game so much I have to drop the gameplay to a 7. This 
 is especially frustrating given how admirably the game normally performs. This framerate issue 
 basically turns Serious Sam II from being a care-free and fun gaming experience into one thats 
 usually enjoyable but frequently frustrating. 
  
  That major gripe  which affects both graphics and gameplay  aside, Sam II is a joy to behold. 
 Constantly flaunting a huge draw distance, extensive foliage, many impressive lighting effects 
 such as refraction and even HDR, plus more than solid FPS, the Serious Engine 2 looks like a real 
 beast. It may not start out all that stunning in the games first locale, which is a grassy area 
 with a city vaguely inspired by some African locations, but just wait until you see some of the 
 later levels. During the futuristic city segment of the game, my jaw was consistently dropped 
 to the floor, due in no small part to the impressive amounts of imagination infused into the art 
 design. The game also features lots of destructible objects, which spices up the visuals during 
 intense firefights. I was consistently surprised when various bits of architecture and local flora 
 collapsed in smoky heaps in the middle of the various firefights.
  
  Thats not to say this game is on a level of realism with todays cutting-edge engines such as 
 the D3 engine or Source or F. E. A. R. s Monolith engine. I couldnt detect any normal mapping or 
 dynamic shadowing effects, and water looked decent at best. The non-player characters such as the 
 friendly Simbas from the first level looked more like amateurishly made dolls than living things, 
 which made it a lot harder to empathize with their cause. Similarly, the enemies  while wildly 
 inventive in design  also looked like toys (albeit toys up to a hundred times Sams size) . Still, 
 the game consistently wows one with its visuals, and would have been an easy 9 if not for the 
 FPS problem. 
  
  For sound, Serious Sam II sticks with the basics. The good but forgettable music alternates between 
 the action tune (when theres fighting) and the peaceful tune (when everyone but the good guys 
 is dead) . Theres a lot of music  whats playing depends on the level  but it was neither impressive 
 nor distracting. There are also a lot of enemy sounds; every battle is dominated by the baddies 
 relentlessly repeating battle cries, which lie somewhere between hectic and annoying.
  
  The voice work is laughably bad (down to male actors impersonating female characters, at times) , 
 but its obvious thats intentional, and it works surprisingly well. Whats said is often really 
 funny, although in a totally moronic way. Weve got some PG-13-rated humor, here. Take one situation, 
 for example: Sam enters a boss fight where the boss is a huge ape. Netricsa, Sams ever-helpful 
 helper excitedly implores, Sam! Spank the monkey!. With pleasure! Sam reassuringly offers.
 
  
  Really, the game is at its best when making fun of shooter conventions: At one point, Sam comes 
 to the end of the episode, and, seeing no end boss, orders a Random Level End Boss from Bosses 
 R Us. Put it on my credit card, he says into the phone. This kind of hilarity, as well as the 
 games goofy art style, is the thing that makes one really want to like Serious Sam II. Unfortunately, 
 while the game has heart, it just doesnt have the goods. Sure, the game can be fun in an old-school 
 way, and it retails for only $30. But it also brings back things Id rather keep in the past, such 
 as finite lives (huh?) and invisible walls in the middle of apparently wide-open spaces. To top 
 it off, the introduction of the graphics-over-gameplay principle into the Serious Sam series 
 is not something we should welcome with open arms. This game is a good average shooter, but its 
 only average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 29, 2005 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Any fan of the previous Serious Sam games should love this game. Once again you are the lone hero 
 from Earth battling through nearly endless hordes of enemies from Mentals armies. This time, with 
 the help of three wizards from the Sirian great council, you search to find the pieces of a medallion 
 that will make Mental vunerable so you can kill him once and for all. Sounds easy, right! Get SERIOUS! 
 You'll have to battle through five different and amazing worlds to get the pieces of the medallion 
 before you can make the attempt to get to Mental's home planet, then make your way to Mental to 
 finally kill him. Easier said than done. This game packs more content than most games, and comes 
 at nearly half the price.
  Graphically, Serious Sam has had quite a makeover. The same visual style is used by the people 
 at Croteam (big colorful, and over the top) but the engine has been redone, and the visuals are 
 sharper and more interesting than ever. Rather than the same general levels over and over, this 
 game packs widely different areas that you will have to play through, each with their own style 
 and enemies. Many new enemies have been created for Sam to blast through, each of which are elaborately 
 detailed and extremely dangerous, from the giant mechanoid spiders, to the club wielding neanderthals. 
 The scenery does help out the endless (sometimes mindless) ammount of shooting you'll have to do 
 to get though the game, as well as some good boss fights. 
  It just wouldn't be Serious Sam without a good dose of humor. Yes, some of the humor fell a little 
 flat, but all in all I found myself laughing most of the time, even at the stupid jokes and silly 
 secrets. It's just nice to see a game that can stop being so serious ( haha!) . There are many more 
 cutscene movies in this game than any of the previous ones which adds to the fun. 
  I had some problems getting all the sounds to work on my computer, and it took a little tweaking 
 to get it straight, but the sounds are as good as ever, from every grunt, screech, and howl from 
 Mentals minions. The music soundtrack was really good too as far as I was concerned and I found 
 myself humming along from time to time. That leads to the next point though, this version of Sam 
 uses much more computing power than the last ones did, and you'll need a pretty good machine to 
 get the works out of it, but I would say it's worth it.
  If you want a good old fashion shooter where quantity reigns over quality and fun is the name of 
 the game than make sure you play the latest installment of Serious Sam. This game keeps up the 
 old-school shooter style game that the previous Serious Sam games started. There are plento of 
 secrets that could be worth going through again to find, as well as plenty of difficulty settings. 
 You won't get more bang for your buck out of any other game going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 28, 2005 2:00 am PT
Review:  There are three major aspects to be discussed about SSII. First thing that you will notice in the 
 game is its rare graphic. The texture quality is absolutely tremendous. The design of sceneries 
 for each level is unique and you have many places to explore and enjoy. I myself played SSII on 
 a 6600 GT chip and really enjoyed the graphics.
  Second is the all new Serious Engine 2. This new engine can support a wider variety of enemies 
 who will soon explode into pieces and will be replaced by new ones. I say it is the most powerful 
 game engine ever made.
  Third but not the last is the ACTION. I dont know what guided Gamespot to such conclusion about 
 the action of the game. I agree that in the first few levels the action is not as high quality 
 as SSs last versions but after a while it will get you to a new level of action that you will 
 enjoy it with all you have to enjoy. Take Greendale level for example, it is really marvelous. 
 Enemies that come from every direction, plains that throw bombs on the ground and etc. Its like 
 a battlefield (!!) . There is one more thing to say about the action and that is the Unique Action 
 of SS series. Many game developers have tried (such as Ubisoft with Will Rock) to imitate the great 
 action that you cant find in SS series but never succeeded. 
  There are other minor aspects also to be discussed. Dialogs for example are pretty designed to 
 make you laugh all the way. One thing that HAS gotten worse is the bosses. They are not as dangerous 
 as before. There is no boss that you may fail to kill after a hard try. At the end I came to this 
 conclusion that SSII is seriously worthy of playing and I say it really was worthy to wait for.
 
  
  Feel free to mail me at
  105sm1109200se@gmail. com
  
  By 105 S. M.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 27, 2005 11:16 am PT
Review:  Its a good game, if you liked the first one that is. I would recommend it to those who played Serious 
 Sam and had a good time with it. Besides that I enjoyed what they did to it and the levels. The 
 humor used in it remains the same, which kept it in the same style. It is easy to learn, and has 
 a good gameplay. The graphics are good, and I liked the "cartoonish" style rather than the real 
 life style which is where all games seem to head now. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Braxen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:10 am PT
Review:  After having played through Serious Sam 2nd encounter for the second time of sheer boredom waiting 
 for Serious Sam 2 to arrive, I finally got hold of a copy at a local gamestore. Here is my verdict 
 so far. (Havent played the whole game through yet)
  
  Graphics: Great. Not F. E. A. R or Doom3 quality, but lush enviroments, nice textures and and overall 
 very good presentation graphics wise. Serious Engine 2 also provides the game with some physics 
 stuff, like being able to pick up crates & things to reach secret areas and so on.
  
  Sounds: Some hilarious soundfx, laughed out loud when I first heard the "extra life" notification. 
 Weapons sounding as they should. Music is in the same spirit & quality as the previous games in 
 the series.
  
  Gameplay: Same as earlier games. Run & gun. This time there are some vehicles (and animals) to 
 use, which is pretty neat! Controls are good. Nice level designs, although nothing extremely spectacular.
 
  
  Overall: Great game to just pick up and play 30 minutes after work to release some frustration. 
 The singleplayer game seem to contain quite a lot of levels, which is very good. Multiplayer is 
 ok. Why of why do the enemies disappear after like...2 seconds when they are killed? Please release 
 a patch that at least lets me take a look at them before they vanish.
  Some of the humor in the game is awesome, and some of it isnt that awesome. :)
  
  Overall 
 a great game in the spirit of previous games in the series. The high value rating is because its 
 a mid price game that gives you full price entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjbliverpool
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:49 am PT
Review:  Its this reviewers opinion that Serious Sam 2 has been seriously underrated (excuse the pun!) . 
 As with its predecessor, Serious Sam 2 consists of colourful graphics, massive wide open spaces 
 and waves of over the top bad guys.
  
  There is very little story involved in this game but that doesn't matter, its not trying to be 
 Half life 2 or FEAR. SS2 only has one goal and thats to provide old school arcade style blasting 
 of hundreds of mindless enemies. And it works. The locations are interesting and varied, as are 
 the enemies, you won't be able to play this game for long stints at a time but as a quick 30 minute 
 blast to wind down at the end of a long day, its simply perfect.
  
  Technically, the game is extremely impressive, with some of the best graphics I have seen on the 
 PC and all running perfectly smoothly at maximum settings (minus HDR) on my old 9800pro and a resolution 
 of 1024x768.
  
  The sound is good too. Voice acting is terrible of course but that fits well with the cheesy nature 
 of the game. However sound effects are solid and the music is fun and helps create a nice light 
 hearted atmosphere for the game.
  
  There are a couple of bad points though, firstly the FMV cut scenes are appallingly low quality. 
 It really comes to something when your looking at a scene in real time and then it switches to 
 a FMV of the same view and you think "eew". Yes SS2 could have benefited greatly from some real 
 time cutscenes. The only other problem I found was with the third person animations. In vehicles 
 the're fine but anything walking looks very purely animated including Sam himself. This isn't a 
 problem with your enemies though so its not a major issue.
  
  All in all, this is a great fun game which I would recommend to anyone who just likes to forget 
 all the complex story lines and plots now and then and simply go and blast a few bad guys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabrien421
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 8:10 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam 2 is a decent game, no doubt. I had a few problems with the game though. One of my 
 problems with the game would be the fact that the humor wasn't all it was cracked up to be. While 
 in earlier versions of Serious Sam, you would encounter numorous situations which were very comical, 
 like the time Sam gets on the phone calling for his friend and a moody guy on the other line says 
 "No! It's Joe... he wirr carr you when he is done borring" (he will call you when he is done bowling) , 
 the accent alone makes you want to laugh, that and all the smack talking he did throughout the 
 game made you really get into the plot.
  
  Serious Sam 2 seems to lack a plot entirely. While Croteam went to the effort of throwing in some 
 old baddies along with some new ones, they seemed to fall short in story and tried to make up for 
 it with eye candy and the nostalgic feel of the previous versions. Also, the previous versions 
 had multiplayer support for head to head combat. Serious Sam 2 only supports co-op gameplay and 
 that was a major dissapointment. My friends and I purchased the game thinking it would be the same 
 old style, but it went carebear on us. This would explain the $20 price reduction.
  
  The did throw in some vehicles in the game, which gave a sense of something new, but that was the 
 only things that seemed new in the game. It did stick with the idea of pushing an onslaught of 
 enemies at the player like in earlier versions, but in this version it seemed a tad different from 
 the other games.
  
  If you are looking for just a run of the mill shooter which supports co-op play and with some added 
 features, then look no further. However, if you are looking for a blockbuster shooter which will 
 immerse you in the game's plot and gameplay, then I suggest purchasing F. E. A. R., or at least downloading 
 the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkpete
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:26 pm PT
Review:  If you want a tactical shooter that requires you to think trough your actions, this isnt the game 
 for you! but pure brainless shooting makes this game worth playing. Non-stop action against hilarious 
 enemies and crazy vehicles make this game pure fun! Graphics and physics are superb :D
  The game has lots and lots of enemies and levels. Amusing cut scenes interrupt the action to frequently 
 i think, but then, again they are so hilarious you dont even want to skip trough them. I think 
 lots of gamers will think this game is great, but ofcourse it wont appeal to some who will think 
 it is to simple and unrealistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilfrager
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 19, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  This is the one to sharpen mouse skills and enjoy some mindless carnage. It can get boring, but 
 that is why there is a quit button. 
  There is some serious searching in order to find all the secrets (without getting blown up first) . 
 The only thing that I don't like is the level will automatically go to the next one before I can 
 go back to search for them.
  The rides are really cool, (I didn't know that dino-breath could be so devastating) . 
  The colors 
 are amazing (I wonder what Croteam smokes for lunch) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ar_zia
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 18, 2005 4:09 am PT
Review:  This game is same as Serious Sam 1, leaving the graphics which look a cartoonish & childish shooting 
 hordes of nasties with no aim, with no story or mystery at all. Game is not immersive just has 
 a few laughs to make up for the mistakes... all the while was shoooting & running ... the cars made 
 a little difference....
  
  
  
  Todays gamer need technical stuff for rattlling the brain.... but still a few gamer's are alive 
 who like this kind of stuff..... only for those who liked the first one .... shooting aimlessly... others 
 try .. HL2 .. Far Cry & sutff.... download the demo to know what i mean...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wytas
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2005 9:39 am PT
Review:  The gameplay in Serious Sam II became more "console like" than in the first two games. But this 
 feature has really more fun!! Enemies are crazier and funier. Huge bosses, who take all the screen 
 view, interesting NPC's.
  
  
  
  One of the greatest things in Serious Sam II is an extreemely fun multiplayer which is suitable 
 up to 16 people over the lan and internet! I tried it myself with my seven friends ant that was 
 unforgettible! More Sams, more waves of enemies :)
  
  
  
  The new graphics engine if perfect! It seems that even the place you don't notice, is very, very 
 detailed. Textures are colorful as a rainbow ant levels are huuuuuge ant bright!
  
  
  
  As in the previous Serious Sam games, sounds are one of the most memoriable feature. Every enemy 
 has it's own sounds. Not just a simple sounds, but quite interesting! How about the martial zombie, 
 who always shouts Spanish oneliners or sceaming kamikaze (this time with head ;) ) Aaaaaaaaaaghh!!!
 
  
  If you forget everything about Serious Sam after many years, you WON'T forget it's sounds ;)
 
  
  
  
  This game is worth playing, worth buying and it's DVD/CD cover worth beeing placed in the most 
 noticable place in your house! This game is PERFECT. It has everything you ever wanted or dreamed 
 about. The variaty of levels is huge and the action takes place in very unique and different places 
 all over the universe!!
  
  
  
  This is SERIOUS  :/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtuck
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 17, 2005 5:25 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam 2 has it flaws and after reading Greg's review can sympathise with a lot of what he 
 says. At first I found the graphics too bright and 'childish', those blue things reminded me of 
 the Tellytubbies which annoyed me, and to add to that, the woman's voice sounded like a Children's 
 BBC presenter with her patronising tones.
  
  Oh and I thought the humour was stupid.
  
  However as I played on I found the game addictive thanks to it's fun style of gameplay. The enemies 
 were varied enough to keep me interested and I found it satisying killing them all.
  
  The storyline was poor, I didn't really care too much for that, but the meat and veg of the game 
 is the shooting and that I thought was great fun. 
  
  Graphically I'd say the game is good, the jungle maybe too bright but the rest was all good. I 
 had no performance problems running the game whatsoever.
  
  Once I've got F. E. A. R I still expect most of my time to go to that, but I see SS2 as the perfect 
 antidote to FEAR's darkness.
  
  Good fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sword_stalker
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 16, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  there is only one word to define this game:
  
  FUN!!!!
  
  you cant define it any other way....
  
  the thing is... take other fps games such as call of 
 duty. all that game is trying to demonstrate is how realistic can a game be and how cool world 
 war 2 is. (war is never fun) ...
  
  but here in serious sam... the world doesn't exist... and sam is just a bad ass hero who must destroy 
 everything in his path... its true that the blue little friend monsters are a bit... how can i 
 say this... kiddish... but thats what makes it fun. I love it 
  
  with all respect 
  
  Sword Stalker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2005 12:57 am PT
Review:  If you hated the other Serious Sam games, this is not the game for you. However, if you want to 
 tape the left mouse button down, buy this game today!
  Gameplay - Exactly like the older games but there are some levels where you must defend a certain 
 area or drive some ships:) . This game is extremely fun but you might become slightly numb to all 
 the colors and enemies thrown at you. The last level of this game makes it worth playing. If you 
 thought "Grand Cathedral" from the 2nd Encounter was ridiculous, well.... check out the last level 
 in this one. The humor fits the game perfectly, its so stupid that you have to laugh. If you have 
 ADD, then this is the game for you.
  Graphics - Serious Sam is not about the graphics, but about how many enemies can be thrown at you. 
 It runs really well and I never experienced any skipping on the highest settings. Some of the levels 
 do look fairly decent.
  Sound - Probably the weakest part of the game, but it is extremley hard to pay attention to the 
 sound when all you hear is explosions and screaming. The acting is horrible and hilarious, which 
 isn't much of a surprise which this is Serious Sam.
  Value - $30? It will probably go down to 20 in a few months too. This game is pretty long and extremely 
 cheap, it's worth every penny. You can play the last level all day with 15 other people and not 
 get bored of it.
  Tilt - You really have to had enjoyed the previous games to play this one. However, if you want 
 something much less serious than Painkiller, this should be your choice. The loading times are 
 short, it has a good sense of humor, and every single level is just a joke. I enjoyed this game 
 until the last hilarious cutscene. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RatRazor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 9:50 pm PT
Review:  A cult favorite among a twisted sector of the gaming community, Serious Sam brought a completely 
 insane and frantically paced game to the PC. Serious Sam II improves upon its predecessor massively, 
 kicking off what is likely to be one of the best season of PC releases in recent memory.
  
  Gameplay: 8 of 10
  It's simple and focuses directly on the point - fast paced killing. It does 
 it very well, and is use to keep hardcore gamers and casual gamers glued to the screen hanging 
 on the edge of convulsive seisures. The default controls work well, although I tweaked it to my 
 own personal use. There are 40-some levels and vehicular-based combat added as well. It could be 
 a bit less... frantic at times, as the screen can become inundated with enemies.
  
  Graphics: 9 of 10
  The graphics in Sam II are extremely immersive. It feels like a cross between 
 Far Cry and a heroin-induced daydream. Many characters are distorted in odd ways -- and well, a 
 lot of them feel out of place with the setting. But making sense is not what this game is all about, 
 obviously. The engine runs fairly smooth on the recommended hardware setup -- although it can get 
 a little bit laggy with a large number of enemies on the screen.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  The in-game audio and music didn't do much for me. I'm more attuned to the devastatingly creepy 
 chords featured in games like Half-Life 2 and Doom 3, so this wasn't my cup of tea. The weapon 
 sounds were pretty good, though.
  
  Value: 10/10
  It's a romp, period. It's got very little depth, but that's what I was expecting with this game. 
 It brings quite a bit of humor to the table, and it's just plain FUN when playing online.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  There will be mixed reviews for this game, as it's not an epic FPS. It is, rather, 
 just a fun and mindless game to enjoy with friends or by yourself. Don't be a hater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfx69
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This game follows the same path as Serious Sam 1, which means shooting hordes of nasties, but with 
 no story or mystery at all. The game is not immersive at all, as the colours and graphics are not 
 very realistic are at best represent cartoon quality. 
  
  It's the kind of game that sells to those who wish to simply shoot... but there are few gamers who 
 find this type of game interesting. If you are considering buying this game, try the demo first 
 to see if it's your bag. It probably won't be, but if it, more power to ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxic_shock
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2005 2:08 pm PT
Review:  PURE FUN.
  That is the best game I have played for months.
  Recently I was playing "The second encounter" and I was wondering if it can get better and guess 
 what - SSII does everything that SSI didn't do.
  The diversity in SSII is amazing. There are so many levels, so many enemies, so many weapons, so 
 many "vehicles", so much fun.
  This is one of the most antiboring games ever. The cooperative mode in the multiplayer makes it 
 soooo much perfect and it is definitely worth every cent.
  Shame on GS for their bad review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhlkoho
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 14, 2005 11:10 am PT
Review:  this game is very fun and entertaining. its not too easy but also not an impossible game to beat. 
 the enemies are funny as hell too. at times it can get kind of repetitive though. At $30 you can't 
 beat the price either. $30 bucks for a game that will keep you entertained for longer than 4 hours. 
 Half-life 2 and Doom 3 were great games but for $50 its not worth it if it only takes about 4 hours 
 to beat the entire game. Serious Sam will take you well over 4 hours to beat no matter how good 
 you are at FPS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion_great
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 13, 2005 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what Gamespot was thinking when they wrote the review, but I can tell they know nothing.
 
  
  We all waited for the game, and I must say that I wasnt disappointed.
  
  I always enjoyed the SS series, and I think you will all enjoy this game even more.
  Everything 
 got better in this game, enemies, weapons, graphics, and of course the secrets.
  Now the storyline isnt something new, but that does not matter since theres a different point 
 in this game...... to kick ass!
  
  I loved everything about the game.
  Fun levels, great weapons, and the vehicles.
  The characters in this game are amazing and creative.
 
  The gameplay is tons of fun, and the multiplayer is even better.
  I must say that the game is hilarious, and the game is very well done.
  And its all worth it 
 for $30.
  
  Anyways my point is that the game is very fun, and that you will have lots of fun playing this 
 game.
  So go get it, you wont be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrMatta
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Maybe Greg Kasavin had a bad day or something, but you can't give SS2 a 6.9 come on.. How many bad 
 reviews had GS made allready? How can you give Serious Sam: First Encounters a 9, the Second Encounter 
 9.2 and SS2 a 6.9?
  Something doesn't make sense here. Serious Sam 2 has gorgeous visuals; the landscapes are huge and 
 you can move however you want, (instead of your regular FPS which only puts you in buildings and 
 narrow passages most of the time) The sets are bright and colorfull, (instead of your regular FPS 
 with futuristic labs etc.) The enemies are very variating, (40+ enemies, instead of your regular 
 FPS with only 15) The action is non-stop (no boring one hour tutorial levels, unskippable cut-scenes, 
 yaddayadda) And how can you go wrong with a FPS which has 40+ levels, very variated locations, lots 
 of humor and a suicide bomber parrot as weapon.. for only 30 bucks!?
  ... What i'm trying to say is; this game is EXTREMELY underappreciated.
  Even Greg Kasavin should 
 know better than this. Shame on you Greg, go back to your corner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: singingfishy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2005 10:54 am PT
Review:  C'mon. We don't need a suberb story, the best sound and best graphics to have fun. We have seen 
 games who do all of the "Criteria for a good game" and fail (i. e. Doom III) . This game is FUN! 
 That is all that matters. Shooting Zombie Stockbrokers, Clowns, and Witches is FUN! The action 
 is fast , the story is fast and the whole game feels like a wirlwind of a good time! I have agreed 
 with every rating Gamespot has done... until this!! Give mindless, brainless fun a chance. Who knows 
 you might like it!!!
  
  My Computer:
  2.8 Pentium 4
  256 ATI Radeon X850 PI OC
  1 Gig Corsair Ram
  5.1 Digital Surround 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2005 4:13 am PT
Review:  Looking at Gamespot's rating for Sam 2, I was immediately disapointed. I had high hopes for this 
 game and I thought this game had lost its touch since the First Encounter. My own background being 
 the same as the creators, I also wanted it to do well, Croatian pride. Knowing it was 29.99, it 
 was still a great bargain.
  After a period of time of playing it, I noticed it had been harshly underrated. I found the graphics 
 to be amazing colorful in contrast to Half-Life 2, and Doom 3. Even the sound was great, except 
 from that little "Extra Life" voice that nobody seems to like either
  The gameplay is simply FUN. Not many games can even remotely match the amount of creatures on screen 
 as can be done in the Serious Sam series.
  The games humour is great too, although some of it is inside humour and can only be understood 
 by a select few. Serious Sam has always been a series that would appeal only to some people, either 
 it being ridiculous or awesome. Overall Sam 2 is a superb game that deserved more respect and a 
 higher rating. It is trully, a great accomplishment. Rewied in LITHUANIA!!!!!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: christian111
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 12, 2005 1:34 pm PT
Review:  i found the game to be well desighned, a good relief from the old dark coridors of doom3 or the 
 constant gloomyness of half-life 2 its a def buy. even if gamespot puts the game at a mear fair 
 quality its much better than they say athough i just happen to be a fan of the series. not everyone 
 is, but if you likede the original you like this one very good game play the humor is extreamly 
 good the graphics though they dont match that of doom3 are still amazing. the sound is pretty good 
 not as great as it could have been though. the value is great because its a cheap game by todays 
 standard, considering doom3 was what 60 bucks when it first came out. all in all a very good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespot_Kiesa
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2005 6:07 am PT
Review:  The gameplay in Serious Sam II became more "console like" than in the first two games. But this 
 feature has really more fun!! Enemies are crazier and funier. Huge bosses, who take all the screen 
 view, interesting NPC's.
  
  One of the greatest things in Serious Sam II is an extreemely fun multiplayer which is suitable 
 up to 16 people over the lan and internet! I tried it myself with my seven friends ant that was 
 unforgettible! More Sams, more waves of enemies :)
  
  The new graphics engine if perfect! It seems that even the place you don't notice, is very, very 
 detailed. Textures are colorful as a rainbow ant levels are huuuuuge ant bright!
  
  As in the previous Serious Sam games, sounds are one of the most memoriable feature. Every enemy 
 has it's own sounds. Not just a simple sounds, but quite interesting! How about the martial zombie, 
 who always shouts Spanish oneliners or sceaming kamikaze (this time with head ;) ) Aaaaaaaaaaghh!!!
 
  If you forget everything about Serious Sam after many years, you WON'T forget it's sounds ;)
 
  
  This game is worth playing, worth buying and it's DVD/CD cover worth beeing placed in the most 
 noticable place in your house! This game is PERFECT. It has everything you ever wanted or dreamed 
 about. The variaty of levels is huge and the action takes place in very unique and different places 
 all over the universe!!
  
  This is SERIOUS  :/ 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
