-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Serious Sam: The First Encounter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/serioussamthefirstencounter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 26, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.3, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,479 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Croteam
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Mar 21, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a great looking, fun-filled game that has plenty of visceral thrills and absolutely, positively 
 the biggest battles in any shooter to date. 

 You'd be hard-pressed to come up with a game that's anywhere near as intense as Serious Sam, from 
 Croatian developer Croteam. It's an extremely fast-paced first-person shooter, featuring a great 
 variety of weapons and monsters. It's got a good sense of humor and a distinct style, and it also 
 boasts a very impressive 3D engine that's especially noteworthy for its ability to display a huge 
 number of 3D characters onscreen simultaneously. Actually, the sheer numbers of foes you'll face 
 is probably the single most remarkable thing about Serious Sam. Then again, the game has a lot 
 of other great qualities, such as its excellent multiplayer mode, its good sound effects, and even 
 its low retail price. It's undoubtedly a simple game at heart -- but Serious Sam does an excellent 
 job with all the core gameplay elements that are essential to any action game.           Enemies 
 swarm from all directions...    

 One look at the box -- it features Sam wielding a gigantic chaingun against a horde of monsters -- and 
 you'll get a pretty good idea of what the game's all about. There's some context to why the game 
 is set around the ancient pyramids in Egypt, why Sam's facing an alien menace all by himself, and 
 why his enemies can teleport into the vicinity without any notice. But all this is only to loosely 
 justify the nerve-wracking action sequences in the game, as well as the consistency in the level 
 design. The levels in Serious Sam are progressively more challenging, but most of them are very 
 similar in their basic style. In this way, the game is reminiscent of countless classic arcade 
 games -- Asteroids, Centipede, Galaxian, and so forth -- where the reward for successfully completing 
 a stage was the opportunity to fight your way through something even more difficult. Indeed, much 
 like in these older games, Serious Sam even tallies a score for you based on your kills. It's a 
 rather risky approach -- ever since Valve's revolutionary Half-Life in 1998, most shooters have focused 
 on trying to justify everything about themselves, in an attempt to give you some sort of reason 
 for all the shooting that's happening. But Serious Sam is much more straightforward, like the '80s 
 arcade classics but also like the classic '90s first-person shooters Doom and Duke Nukem 3D. It 
 completely succeeds in its simplicity, because the game looks great, the controls are very responsive, 
 and the monsters are a real challenge to fight.   

  Serious Sam plays much like any other recent shooter, but faster. Most players will find that the 
 default keyboard controls for movement and mouse controls for shooting and aiming are ideal. Even 
 the weakest enemies in the game shoot fast, so you'll immediately find that quick reflexes are 
 necessary to survive in Serious Sam. Fortunately, all of Sam's weapons are very direct -- each new 
 one you find seems bigger and stronger than the last -- and you need never worry about manually reloading 
 them, using alternate modes of fire, or anything of the sort. There's no time for these things, 
 since you're almost always busy fending off hordes of quick, deadly monsters. Some of these will 
 fire at you from a distance, while many will simply rush towards you. All are utterly relentless. 
 The comical monsters in Serious Sam stand in stark contrast to the beautiful if sparse Egyptian 
 settings in the game. Still, many of the different monsters in Serious Sam are a pleasure to battle 
 again and again. They lunge at you so ferociously that, every time you manage to dodge them, it's 
 a near miss.           ... and the opponents come in a wide variety of shapes and sizes    

 Serious Sam would be nothing without its proprietary 3D engine. It renders large, wide-open spaces 
 and indoor environments equally well, and always very smoothly on a mid-range or high-end system. 
 Although the level architecture in Serious Sam is fairly basic -- you'll quickly lose track of all 
 the wide-open arenas you fight through -- such settings are perfect for the game's large-scale confrontations. 
 In between skirmishes, when you do get a chance to admire your surroundings, you'll notice some 
 of the impressive details in the 3D engine. All the environments in the game are drawn using very 
 clear, colorful texture maps that look great even when you get right up close to them. Realistic 
 lighting effects, which are used in the game to depict different times of day among other things, 
 make the levels more true to life. The engine also has a few unique effects, such as pools of water 
 that reflect shimmering light onto the walls nearby. You'll be especially impressed with the sheer 
 size of the levels. Your character runs very quickly, but you'll still feel like you're moving 
 quite a distance to get from one end of a level to the other. And what with hundreds of bad guys 
 standing between you and the exit, once you finally get to the end of the level, you'll feel a 
 real sense of accomplishment.   

  The great number of enemies is also possible only because of the engine used to make the game. 
 The monsters in Serious Sam aren't the most detailed in any shooter to date, but they do look fairly 
 good and are animated smoothly. It practically goes without saying that they bleed like crazy when 
 you shoot them. It's incredible that the game can throw dozens upon dozens of them at you at a 
 time, with hardly any compromise in the smooth frame rate. Since many of these monsters are fast, 
 accurate, and powerful, having to take on so many of them at once is an experience that you won't 
 soon forget.    

 Serious Sam doesn't just look good. Its use of sound is effective, though the sounds themselves 
 are fairly terse. Most all of your weapons, from your basic six-shooters on up through double-barreled 
 shotguns, chainguns, and rocket launchers, sound about as mean as they look. You'll almost immediately 
 learn to identify each of your enemies by the distinctive sound it makes. Oftentimes -- as with the 
 screaming kamikaze troopers who blow themselves up when they get close enough to you -- you'll need 
 to listen carefully to gauge not just how close your enemies are, but where they're coming from. 
 The music in Serious Sam is chock-full of bass riffs that play steadily in the background, and 
 the soundtrack picks up when you're in combat and lets off when you aren't fighting. There are 
 a good number of different music tracks, and though you probably won't pay them too much notice 
 in the middle of all the carnage, they're actually quite catchy and help maintain the fast pacing 
 of the game. Sam's also got a few choice one-liners he'll say during the course of the game, which 
 give him character and otherwise help make the levels more interesting.           Even Sam's relatively 
 weak weapons pack a lot of punch    

 The levels in Serious Sam are essentially there to let you engage in its countless battles against 
 ridiculous odds. Their design is never confusing. For the most part, you'll always know exactly 
 where to go next, while retreating and other such tactical considerations generally aren't possible, 
 since you usually must kill all your enemies in the area before the next part of the level even 
 opens up. The levels are usually balanced such that, once you finish off a horde of bad guys, you'll 
 come across an area where you can pick up ammo and health power-ups to replenish your dwindling 
 reserves of either one. The game also uses a certain gimmick over and over in its level design: 
 Pretty much whenever you see a bunch of health and ammo lying around, you're going to need it, 
 because grabbing power-ups usually triggers an onslaught of monsters to head your way. Though this 
 can become very predictable in itself -- you may find yourself saving the game whenever you happen 
 across a tempting item of some kind -- there's actually enough variety in the encounters that it 
 never really gets old, mostly because the fighting is just so much fun. Since the basic action 
 in Serious Sam is so well done, and rewards skill and timing, don't be surprised to find yourself 
 replaying its levels over and over. It's even better on the higher difficulty settings, which somehow 
 manage to make the odds even less favorable and will test the mettle of even the most experienced 
 players.   

  If all this weren't enough, Serious Sam also features a robust multiplayer mode. For one thing, 
 you can have up to four players play cooperatively or against each other on a single computer, 
 using a split-screen mode. This won't be practical for most players, but it is still suggestive 
 of the power of the game's engine, which readily handles the multiple simultaneous views. Otherwise 
 the game has a built-in player-matching feature, and with it you can already find plenty of Serious 
 Sam servers running on the Internet. Serious Sam is fast and stable over the Internet, and while 
 the deathmatch modes can be fun, going through the single-player levels cooperatively with other 
 live players is especially enjoyable. The game offers a very amusing selection of character models 
 to choose from for multiplayer, all of which are like Serious Sam rejects: guys like Pirate Pete, 
 Hilarious Harry, and so on.           You'll need to learn which guns work best in which situations 
    

 It's also worth pointing out that Serious Sam even comes packaged with proprietary level editing 
 and 3D modeling tools for those players who're interested in building on the game's great foundation. 
 Given how enjoyable the game is, and given that it retails for less than $20, there's no question 
 that it'll spawn countless player-made maps, character models, and modes of play, extending the 
 game's already impressive replay value indefinitely.   

  Serious Sam is essentially perfect for what it is. It's a great looking, fun-filled game that has 
 plenty of visceral thrills and absolutely, positively the biggest battles in any shooter to date. 
 Its single-player mode has a lot of depth thanks to the numerous secrets hidden in each level and 
 the different difficulty options available. And the game's multiplayer mode, especially the cooperative 
 option, rivals that of the most popular shooters available. Serious Sam may not suit those players 
 who prefer more deliberate, more story-driven, or otherwise more serious first-person games such 
 as Thief: The Dark Project or Deus Ex; but even these players owe it to themselves to give the 
 game a try. Ultimately, Serious Sam is a clear lesson in what elements are necessary to make a 
 game enjoyable. It's an unquestionably fun game from an unquestionably talented development team. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (41 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: master_mischief
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 2:57 am PT
Review:  Seious Sam Is one of these games whose value is not recognised amongst people. First of all it's 
 crazy fun. Enemies creep from everywhere and fill up your screen. Not in any other game you get 
 so many enemies. Every time a spray of enemies comes your adrenalin is pumped up as you are trying 
 to kill all the different species of monsters coming. There are monsters like bombing, headless 
 kamikazis and dog shaped skeletons. Most of the game is crazy and that's what the fun is all about. 
 Meaningless, merciless, mindless killing if crazy creatures whith crazy weapons like a potaple 
 medieval cannon.
  
  The multiplayer mode is awesome, but that doesn't mean the singleplayer is not bad (that's great 
 as well) . In the multiplayer there is a cooperative mode and a fragmatch (deathmatch) . The cooperative 
 lets you play the singleplayer campaign with other players and take on the monsters in groups. 
 That is greater fun than it sounds. The fragmatch is more like the basic deathmatch you can find 
 in other games. About the singleplayer now, it's in many ways as good as the multiplayer with enemies 
 spraying around and keeping you busy. There are 5 difficulty settings. Turist, Easy, Normal, Hard, 
 Serious. These are more th an the basic and that means anyone can play this game. A new gamer, 
 a gamer new to FPS, a hardcore FPS player etc.
  
  The graphics of SS are very good indeed. The designers have done a great job with them and have 
 added many small details to it. The monsters look great, the same with the weapons and the surrounding 
 enviroment. The game is set in ancient egypt and I don't have a clue why. The sounds are even better. 
 If you hear carefully you can tell where the monters are coming from and what kind of monsters 
 they are to prepare the ideal weapon to deal with them. When you go into action you can hear a 
 fast paced music and when you aren't there is a rythmic slow paced one.
  
  All in all SS is crazy fun and an addictive game nobody should miss (that's why I spent 801 hours 
 playing it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  If you're from those days when DOOM, Quake and Duke Nukem 3D were the best FPS games (and still 
 are for many players) , then Serious Sam: The First Encounter (TFE) will bring you a good nostalgia.
 
  
  Croteam developed Serious Sam back in 2001, with a very well-worked engine that allows you to run 
 the game on almost every existing hardware. Everything is Serious Sam is good: graphics, sounds, 
 gameplay, multiplayer and controls. But what makes it shine over most FPS games is that the Serious 
 Engine can handle dozens of enemies on screen at once, without lagging.
  
  Sure you're already tired (or not) to kill some aliens, demons or undeads that were waiting for 
 you in a abandoned building, filled with corridors, locked doors and elevators. Although been old-school, 
 Serious Sam isn't about that. You're going to fight literally hundreds of enemies in usually large, 
 open areas. These places are set in the Egypt, and you can expect an outstanding artistic job by 
 Croteam, although it gets repetitive over the time (but I doubt that you'll have time to look the 
 ornamented wall while dozens of undeads are chasing you) .
  
  To kill all those enemies, which range from galloping skeletons to p***ed bulls, you have at your 
 disposal a good arsenal. The first weapon is a knife, very effective against melee opponents; the 
 second is a magical pistol, which fires limitless bullets with an incredible precision (early on 
 you find another pistol and can fire with both at the same time) ; the third one is the classic 
 shotgun, which offers a good rate of fire and it's particularly effective in mid-range combats. 
 There're more weapons, like the machine gun and the rocket launcher, and they're all useful depending 
 on the situation. 
  
  The Artificial Intelligence isn't very smart, but that's obviously intentional. Your real challenge 
 when facing the hordes in Serious Sam is to study each enemy and explore its weakness. For example, 
 the galloping skeleton jumps when attacking, and your best response is simply to dodge by sidestepping. 
 If you do it right, the skeleton will stop for a brief moment and you just need to attack it from 
 behind. It's easy to figure out how to deal with those bad guys, especially because you have the 
 NETRICSA, an important tool that describes almost everything you face in Serious Sam. When you 
 acquire a new weapon, arrive in a new place, kill a different enemy, the NETRICSA will warn the 
 player that there is new information to read. From there, you'll learn what you need to know.
 
  
  As the poor AI wasn't enough, some events are really predictable. And, again, I say that's intentional. 
 Maybe the conventional player will find this annoying, but it's exactly what made this game a success. 
 When you arrive in a room, and there are a lot of weapons, armor, ammo and health, and a big arena 
 just ahead, you can be sure that you'll soon be surrounded by dozens (if not hundreds) of enemies 
 at once. It always works in that way, never fails. I prefer to say that isn't a predictable surprise, 
 it's just a warning.
  
  But what makes Serious Sam even more unique is the multiplayer. The Deathmatches are cool, but 
 the real fun is to play in 'Cooperative' mode. Along with friends, you can play all the levels 
 in Serious Sam and finish the hordes of monsters even faster. There is also a 'Save and Load' system, 
 which is useful to continue the game later, especially in LAN servers. But I prefer to choose a 
 random map and all the players start without weapons.
  
  So, Serious Sam: TFE isn't Rainbow Six, Counter-Strike or Medal of Honor, and also, although more 
 similar with the following, isn't Quake, Duke Nukem 3D or DOOM. It should receive an own genre, 
 such as Arcade First-Person Shooter or something. You even score points and let a highscore in 
 this game! I recommend it if you're after an old-school game, but with updated graphics, gameplay 
 and amazing multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egess2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Wth the game's atmophere, the player can think that he is in Hell. At the end of game, when 
 the player looks his stats, he can see that he killed more than 1000 enemies...!..!.!
  And why the most seen enemy is the kleer an enemy that is not fun to kill...
  So generally: The 
 series's gameplay involves large amounts of enemies, large, open areas, and various hidden rooms. 
 The levels in the games are massive, depicting vast plains, deep valleys and the exterior and interior 
 of the monuments of different human civilizations. Monster fighting makes up most of the games, 
 with Sam's only help being NETRICSA (NEuro-TRonically Implanted Combat Situation Analyser) , an 
 advanced computer AI surgically inserted in the hero's head. NETRICSA serves as an in-game strategy 
 guide, cataloguing encountered enemies and powerups, and at the same time providing bits about 
 the background story and hints on how to cross the levels.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: 8 - Goofy but easy to follow story. The main character adds a lot to the game with his 
 whitty remarks.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 8 - Good to decent graphics for its time. Nothing out of the ordinary. Love how 
 huge the minigun is.
  
  Sound: 9 - Great sound, hilarious comments by the main character. The headless screaming suiciders 
 get mega props from me, unforgetable.
  
  Environment/Maps: 8.5 - Maps work very well with the story line and the feel of the game. Maps 
 are very creative and work well with a spray and pray game.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 8.5 - No bugs that I could ever find in the game, no random laging either. 
 Sometimes too much 15 minute endless massacre killing can become boring.
  
  Interface: 9 - Very simplistic interface. Easy to use.
  
  Menu: 9 - Menu is pretty awsome. 
 Love the "pda" like info on the maps, creatures, and weapons you recieve or kill..... or find.
 
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 9 - Unforgettable Classic! All around fun game. Full of endless killing and secrets within 
 every map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it, most first person shooters can never be anything close to realistic. They all suffer 
 from the same thing; They try to be realistic, epic movie-like AND one-guy-owns-all at the same 
 time. That just doesn't work. So here comes Serious Sam, a game that dares to admit that it is 
 just an unrealistic arcade shooter. That is why I give some respect to the game and the developers. 
 Unlike most other shooter games, SS doesn't even try to mislead you with epic stories so that you'd 
 forget that the game you are playing is just a cheap copy of Wolfenstein 3D with pretty graphics. 
 It's just pure, old skool arcade action, and it admits that.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  - Well, just mindlessly killing random enemies does get repetitive after a while, but... the game 
 just makes you feel so powerful on the lower difficulties, and so "leet" on the higher difficulties, 
 since the game is REALLY hard when compared to other shooters. If you'd try to count the amount 
 of enemies that Sam shoots during the game... it's probably over tens of thousands. Especially 
 in multiplayer. Oh, and the game really shines on the multiplayer co-op mode, and it's really fun 
 playing this in LAN. I don't usually play multiplayer games, but along with BF1942 and Quake1, 
 Serious Sam is an exception, just because it's so goddamn fun to play this.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 7/10
  - If you think that the game is immersive, you are completely wrong. 
 The game doesn't even try to feel realistic. Even though I absolutely love realistic games, it's 
 a good thing that Croteam decided to make this game as unrealistic as possible. The old saying 
 "do not sacrifice gameplay over realism" fits this game so well. The game is also filled with tongue-in-cheek 
 humor and easter eggs. "You have found a secret trap!" is just priceless.
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  - The graphics are very good for the year 2001, though they are certainly not 
 as good as Max Payne for example. But as with any game, you shouldn't care how the graphics look, 
 it's the gameplay that matters. It is cool how you can change just about anything in the game's 
 advanced settings menu, I think that all games should have as much options as Serious Sam has. 
 Every single thing that lets you customize your gaming experience to the way you like it, is a 
 positive thing.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  - They are... ok. Music is quite good, especially the intro/credits music. Sound effects are decent. 
 Sam has a cool voice, though you don't get to hear it that often.
  
  Physics: 5/10
  - Mostly run-of-the-mill stuff. Games didn't have ragdoll yet so Serious Sam uses death animations. 
 They are good death animations though. There aren't any objects you can interact with that would 
 use physics, but I don't really care.
  
  Replay value: 3.5/10
  - Well, there are different difficulty levels, and that's always a good thing. The hardest difficulties 
 are just crazy unless you are really an expert. But the level design is repetitive, it's just Egypt 
 all the way. There isn't really that much replay value, but what would you expect from a shooter 
 game?
  
  Value for money: 9/10
  - This can probably be found really cheap these days, if you can find it. But the bottom line is 
 that it's a really good game and if you are a FPS fan you have to play this game, since this represents 
 everything that is good about shooter games.
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 10/10
  - This game performs really well on even older machines. If you have a PC that is less than 6-7 
 years old, you can run this game no problem. Modern PC's can easily run this with all maxed out. 
 I have never experienced any crashes or bugs whatsoever.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?:
  - I really hope 
 so. Serious Sam is truly an awesome game, a real classic to the genre.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?:
  - Any FPS fan or anyone who likes fast paced action. 
 If you only like games with "deep storylines" or "breathtaking graphics", go away... Idiot.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Pickle
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I waned an insane, fast paced, action filled shooter and that is exactly what I got. The graphics 
 are insane for their time, and the game runs perfectly even when you have 50+ monsters attcking 
 you. The weapons are awesome, fun to use, and very diverse, giving you many choices to slaughter 
 your enemies with. My favorites have to be the chaingun and the hand-held cannon. You also have 
 a "Serious Bomb" to wipe out every enemy at once in case you are about to die. There is also a 
 huge amont of enemies, from kamikaze soldiers, to exploding toads, and even giant biomechanical 
 fish like things with dual rocket launchers. The multiplayer and co-op modes are also very fun, 
 and in co-op the amount of enemies increase to make it harder. The multiplayer has a Unreal like 
 feel to it, because everyone moves and dies very fast.
  
  Honestly, I have nothing to criticise it about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam is a game that you shouldn't take too serious. That is, most of the game is made up 
 of some of the most bizarre monsters I have seen in a long time. Fighting things such as kamikaze 
 headless corpses, creatures that look like they were rejected from a mature Loony Toons movie, 
 and green slime chucking demons are just the start of the madness. SS does one thing and it does 
 it quite well, entertain you.
  
  The game play is fast and requires your attention at all times. It is amazing at times how many 
 monsters the game throws at you and can overwhelm the unprepared. Think of it as an updated Quake 
 on speed and acid all at the same time. Along the way you are going to get your hands on some great 
 weapons including the typical shotgun and chain gun. Things really start to get interesting when 
 you find an oversized cannon that looks as if it came right off of a pirate ship. 
  
  Multiplayer is what you come to expect from any FPS game. They do have a co-op mode that allows 
 you to team up against the enemy. There are plenty of options to setup before starting a game to 
 make sure things fit to your liking. Connection is smooth as long as you are using broadband, I 
 didn't notice any lag when playing. Overall, SS is a fun game that shouldn't be taken too serious 
 while still entertaining.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  For years, game journalists have been climbing to their pulpits to trumpet the importance of storytelling, 
 intrigue, and plausibility in action games. We have waited patiently, ever optimistic, for an interactive, 
 pixilated Citizen Kane that will endow our industry with artistic merit and elevate the popular 
 definition of gaming from the antisocial pastime of nerds to the laboratory of geniuses.
  
  This is not that game.
  
  In fact, Croteam spits in the face of all that we uphold as the next 
 step in the evolution of first-person shooters, and instead employs the ancient notion that games 
 need only constant, unwavering, frantic action; plausibility, apparently, is for wussies. The experience 
 of playing Serious Sam, while anything but novel, is a refreshing and lighthearted trip back to 
 the roughest thesis on game design.
  
  Around every sphinx and monument lie hordes of enemies ready to ambush Sam as soon as he picks 
 up the weapon in the center of every courtyard. Unfortunately, unlike the original Serious blueprint, 
 Sam never leaves the Egyptian environment. He storms through 13 enormous and sandy frag venues, 
 each resembling the last, laying waste to 19 breeds of monster.
  
  One of the more interesting baddies is the Werebull, who charges toward you at mach speed to send 
 you hurling a hundred feet through the air. Another bound for the history books is the Beheaded 
 Kamikaze, who charges at you, explosives in hand, screaming (albeit headless) a loud death cry. 
 Adrenaline levels do rise.
  
  The sole appeal of Serious Sam is this: there are more enemies on the screen at once than any 3D 
 game has previously attempted. There are moments that are so over-the-top, charged by hundreds 
 of galloping, hopping, blaster-wielding death mongers, that its downright funny. Sam supplies 
 regular humor, dropping inane one-liners as fast as Sir Nukem. Now thats a lot of bull, he decrees 
 after a Werebull invasion.
  
  Complementing the action is a dynamic musical soundtrack that changes tempo based on the presence 
 of evildoers. Its a nice touch that adds cadence to pandemonium. Sometimes, its the only cue 
 that something threatening has just spawned on the far side of the area.
  
  The 10 weapons come at a pace to keep you continually rewarded. The most powerful is a cannonball 
 launcher that basically bowls over anything in its path. Beside that, the firearms are standard 
 fare: rocket launcher, grenades, heavy laser gun, machine guns, shotguns, useless knife, etc.
 
  
  The graphics have their moments, but the ambience is generally mediocre. The engines strength, 
 besides managing huge throngs of bullies, is wide-open areas. Impressively, enemies will charge 
 at you from a distance where they are just a few pixels high. When traversing the maps, you really 
 get the feeling youre covering land, since you can often see your destination near the horizon.
 
  
  In embracing the old-school feel, Croteam implemented a long-missed and welcome cooperative play 
 mode. With it, you can play through the full game with up to 16 others connected via LAN or Internet, 
 using the in-game server browser. Standard deathmatch is also available, but theres only one included 
 map. Theres even a split-screen mode for local area action with no network.
  
  Theres another interesting fact about Serious Sam that bears mention: it retails for $19.99. Its 
 hard not to take price into consideration when weighing a games value, and in this case you get 
 a lot of classic FPS goodness for your ducats.
  
  For a game that emerged wholesale from the hills of Croatia, we must say were duly impressed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  The common feature of any shooter is a dark creepy environment full of surprise monsters. The creepier 
 the environment is, the better it is. Well for once, Serious Sam broke this cliche -- though there 
 is not much of a plot in it.
  Sam comes with a package of huge levels -- which seem like expanding by miles --- mostly under shiny 
 bright sky along with hordes of strange monsters and half-robots. Some of them are quite funny -- 
 some of them are pure beasts. Weapons are also designed with many wacky ideas -- the biggest being 
 a hand mount cannon that you will use against larger enemies like a fast attacking bull or the 
 final boss.
  The main premise of the game is invasion of aliens from another dimension. No need to understand 
 the plot more -- just kill them all and finish all the levels.
  The game was clearly designed with an arcade style approach. Fast paced with increasing difficulties, 
 plus you get various temporary special effects like that in Doom or Unreal Tournament. While all 
 the levels are bright and sunny, some indoor levels can be darker -- but not to the level of doom. 
 That means creepy monsters will not quite feel creepy. Then again the rate and number of enemies 
 are so overwhelming, you will get little time to ponder whether the environment is creepy or not.
 
  Overall this game is pure fun and it is very addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  Everything is getting so serious these days. Games are coming with instructions manuals that are 
 100 pages or more (or lets face it, an Adobe PDF file) and some are getting complex to the point 
 of distraction. Whilst there is a market for such games and the particularly good ones will grab 
 anybodys attention, straightforward action-packed blasters have become few and far between. 
 The original Quake was one, the mighty Painkiller was another and perhaps the game / series to 
 complete this quality triumvirate is Serious Sam. Oh, it was a serious game. Seriously fast with 
 a serious amount of enemies coming at you from all angles. What it was, however, was a supremely 
 entertaining shooter that whilst had a narrow focus it delivered with presentation, gameplay and 
 even replayability with a dash of humour to boot. It looked great, it played great and for its 
 time it was great.
  
  Developed by then newcomers Croteam, you play Serious Sam Stone, a decorated combat hero from 
 latter 21st century. Apparently, many an imposing foe have fallen at the feet of this one man wreaking 
 machine. And again he is called on at the eve of Earths doom. A discovery is made that unlocks 
 scientific secrets and technology from a time long forgotten, but it also unlocks an army of woe, 
 lead by a man named Mental. Sam is sent back in time using this newly found technology to clear 
 the world of this impending woe and to defeat Mentals army. This leads to over a dozen of action 
 packed combat levels, at times against a nigh impossible amount of enemies, all set against a very 
 appealing Mesopotamian backdrop.
  
  The graphics, powered by Croteams home made Serious engine are certainly engaging and suit the 
 gameplay. Firstly the environments, even today, are very detailed and quite appealing. Whilst most 
 shooters pit in you dark doom-ridden halls and corridors, a lot of Serious Sams gameplay is done 
 in huge, wide open, bright outdoor environments. It certainly looks great, with the Mesopotamian 
 theme adding to the attraction. The actual characters are not that well detailed, but they present 
 well enough, by the fact that there at times literally dozens of them on the screen at one time. 
 The engines strength is being able to cater for this, as it was a rare moment if there was a glitch 
 or slowdown in the frame rate. You wont be taking time to assess to artistic or technical quality 
 of the baddies, youll be more pre-occupied with getting them off your case. There is a huge arsenal 
 of weapons and they are all well detailed, from the simple pistol to the monstrous cannon with 
 expels one mighty bowling ball. The user interface (known as NETRISCA) is colourful and a welcome 
 addition to the game.
  
  The sound is quite strong as well. The combat music is driving yet understated and the rest of 
 the soundtrack suitably atmospheric. The in-game combat sounds are quite superb and it really sounds 
 like chaos when you are warding off the masses. There are other sound effects when you pick up 
 health and weapons and the wise-cracking Sam has some decent voice-acting throughout the game.
 
  
  Serious Sams gameplay is simple, but very, very effective. It is standard old-school first person 
 shooter fare  shoot anything that moves. Also, as you breeze through the first few levels one 
 could be excused for thinking that it will all be over in a few hours. Not so. In time honoured 
 tradition, each level gets progressively harder to the point where the final level on the default 
 level or higher is immensely difficult. The difficulty increases through the sheer number of enemies 
 that come wave by wave. But its supremely enjoyable in its simplicity.
  
  With the increase in difficulty also comes increase in firepower and arsenal. There is an extensive 
 range of weapons to be collected through the game and all have their own strengths. However, the 
 cannon ball is an absolute hoot to use. There is a decent array of enemies to take on, from raging 
 bulls, to headless kamikazes, to phlegm spitting ogres to machine toting scorpion like creatures. 
 It is the volume of these enemies, rather than the variety that increases the challenge and enjoyment.
 
  
  It is not difficult to follow the path of the game, it is usually a case of move forward, defeat 
 are wave (or multiple waves) of enemies, restock health and ammunition and then move forward to 
 the next wave. Each level has a number of waves to contend with and there are also secret areas 
 to explore. You even get a score (and I love scores) as Sam shoots and wisecracks his way through 
 the game. Sams one-liners will have you chuckling at times  the humour does increase the gameplay 
 value.
  
  But as simple as it all sounds, its a lot of fun. Serious Sam does everything right and the feel 
 is just about perfect. Some of the skirmishes and chaotically intense, as you dodge, weave and 
 fire upon the enemies for what seems like an eternity and it doesnt let up until Sam expels a 
 breath, both to his and your relief. And by the time you defeat the final boss (and he took some 
 beating) and you are left with the last gag in the final cut scene, the first thing you probably 
 will be thinking is to get a copy of The Second Encounter quick smart.
  
  Serious Sam takes about a dozen or so hours at the default level. Easy levels are a breeze; however, 
 there is a fair bit of replayability with hard levels (I wouldnt dare try the highest level which 
 is unlockable) as well as a fairly entertaining deathmatch option. Serious Sam was seriously cheap, 
 a meager $AUD7.95. That is exceptional value for money in my book. Its a game for any collection, 
 no matter what your preferred genre of gaming. The Second Encounter can also be found at a similar 
 price and even Serious Sam 2 can be found at an affordable price only twelve months after release.
 
  
  Serious Sam is a delicious serving of the old school shooter. It drops the complex narrative and 
 additional gameplay elements to provide a fast and furious first person shooter that is a lot of 
 fun to play. Its simple and it works. It helps that it also looks and sounds just fine and that 
 there is plenty of replayability. Give it a nudge  youll be seriously glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xJBones79x
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 15, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This is one of a crazy game with fast game-play, huge levels and monsters who just don't wanna 
 give up getting on your nerves spamming over and over again all over the place. If you think you 
 got them all, better think again. With the variety of guns you're given to play with, you can unleash 
 hell on them. It's the best game if you had a rough day in school or work and lets you forget about 
 everything surrounding you. The graphic is beautiful even if there are some glitches here and there, 
 but that's not the point. The fact is that this game isn't about struggling with big AI enemies, 
 but to get rid off them in the hard, old school one against each other way. You get to play as 
 Sam whose anything but serious considering his Duke Nuke-em 3D humour lines which just don't stop 
 coming from his mouth. The music and sound effects matches the game-play making it easy to get 
 into the action which is seriously advanced in here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit91
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:04 am PT
Review:  This is a fun if not slightly repetitive fps &amp; it's now probably got a low price tag so be 
 my guest &amp; buy this brilliant game!! Graphics (7) They are nice for an older game but that almost 
 comes as standard with PC
  Gameplay (6) The gameplay is good &amp; there are some strange weapons like cannons but after a while 
 the hordes of aliens &amp; robots or alienrobots just gets sooooooooo boring, but there are some 
 twists which I wont spoil plus the final boss is quite fun to face. Sound (5) There are some funny 
 puns &amp; sound effects but I can play an FPS like this without sound just having some tunes playing 
 on my Boombox
  Replay Value (4) This game is fun &amp; has lots of enemies to kill &amp; weapons to use plus a few 
 difficulty settings, so I suppose you could play this a couple of times, but only a couple.
  Tilt (6) Overall this a fun well designed fps but like all fps they are just the same thing over 
 &amp; over again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deshields538
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 3, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  I got this game as a birthday present a while back and to be frank I thought it would be rubbish. 
 How wrong I was. The first time I played through this I was laughing my head off nearly all the 
 time with all the wisecracks. I dont even like FPS on the PC but this is an exception.
  
  At the first level this seems like your average FPS with the same amount of enemies. But the action 
 heats up quickly and by level 3 youre fighting off monstrous hordes of suicidal toads and undead 
 skeletons. The shooting is accurate and there is no lag whatsoever even when there is over 30 bad 
 guys on the screen. It manages to do this with very detailed graphics in the background and huge 
 amounts of blood spurting from your enemies. And the graphics arent wasted on nothing. You can 
 see whole pyramids in the distance, giant spaceships and even detailed Egyptian Hieroglyphs on 
 the walls. This game has all the makings of a great shooter but what sets it apart from others 
 is the atmosphere and setting. You get goose bumps nearly all the time as any sound you hear could 
 be monster waiting round the corner to ambush you. The music is great. It has catchy tune that 
 is better than most of todays bands produce and helps keep the pace of the game going. The game 
 has 14 lengthy levels but should not take more than 2 days. There is not much of a storyline at 
 the start but thats the beauty of it. It has you (Serious Sam) sent back in time to ancient Egypt 
 to make contact with the Sirians. An alien and technologically advanced race that for some reason 
 never came back to Earth. Your job is to unravel the mystery. Multiplayer is there and is ok but 
 the thing that will bring you back again and again is the addictive and fun fighting. It is really 
 that good.
  
  To sum it up this a game that any hardcore FPS needs to play. It provides fighting on a giant scale 
 and will give you a great laugh as well. This is a game no PC owner should be without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rokin1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  There are not probably many video games made in Croatia. And those that are made in Croatia are 
 not very well known. Well, it looks like that is about to change. A small developer team from Croatia 
 named Croteam (wonder why) decided to make a mindless, fast-paced, old-fashioned first person shooter. 
 Now, some gamers would say that we already had enough of that back in the days of Quake or Duke 
 Nukem. But they are just some gamers. Croteam dared to try the old FPS receipt. They've done it 
 and they've done it good.
  
  So, I guess I'll try to start the same way that the game starts. with the introduction of the story.
 
  In near future, after discovering an ancient civilisation, humans advanced developing, technologically. 
 New discoveries helped the Human race to reach further in space. It seemed that nothing could stop 
 humans from conquering planet after planet, system after system, becoming the most advanced race 
 known in the universe. But then something happened. Monsters started spawning from nowhere. An 
 unknown alien force started attacking humans, and taking over every planet and system. Humans could 
 do nothing, cause the alien force was far too superior, both technologicaly and in numbers. One 
 by one, human systems were defeated and the war was taken to the last human outpost, their Solar 
 System. Humans now must turn to their last hope, the ancient artifact called "Time Lock", capable 
 of sending one person back in time. Sam "Serious" Stone, countless times wounded, but never defeated, 
 became a legend in the war against aliens. And he is the person chosen to go back in time to try 
 saving the Human race.
  
  If you haven't figured it out already, you will be playing as Sam. A brave soldier chosen to save 
 the Human race. "Serious" Sam is a buffed fella with quite sense of humor (reminds us of Duke Nukem, 
 doesn't it?) . He jumps pretty well and can hold breath for quite a while. Tough as he can be, he 
 is not one of most brightest people. The more clever side of him makes NETRISCA (NEuroTronically 
 Implanted Combat Situation Analyzer) . It (she?) is actually some kind of a chip that is installed 
 in Sam's brain. NETRISCA is quite useful. It will give you detail analyzes of enemies, weapons, 
 levels, tactical situations etc.. Also, all story will develop trough it. NETRISCA is designed 
 as a simple menu, and while you're in it, the game is paused.
  
  The whole game is very simple. Objectives are not very complicated. You usually go from place A 
 to place B pushing buttons and collecting items. The levels are also quite linear, although large 
 and open-spaced. And beautiful, very beautiful. Serious Sam TFE is a kind of a combination of reality 
 and unreality. For instance, the game is placed in ancient Egypt with quite a lot mechanised structures, 
 but also involving a lot of magic and magical elements.
  
  Weapons variate from a Revolver, Double-Barrel Coach Gun and Tommygun to Rocket Launcher, Lasergun 
 and handheld Cannon. They are designed very well and the feeling while firing them is just right. 
 Like in the most shooters of this kind, you will get more advanced weapons as you progress trough 
 levels, but it is also possible to get them sooner trough secrets. So, for instance, you will be 
 able to get the Rocket Launcher in the very first level. But more about secrets later. The weapons 
 are colorful and each 10 of them serves it's purpose. And a minibar in the lower right corner of 
 the screen will constantly show you the amount of each type of ammo you have.
  
  Enemies are another example of real-unreal combination. Although there are headless monsters, giant 
 arachnids and bunch of skeletons of an unknown species, they are designed so realistically. Models, 
 textures, movement... It all looks like it didn't just came from a video game. Enemies do look 
 tough. And they can be. You will experience a numerous hard scenes, because the enemies will get 
 you in a trap and/or attack you sometimes literally with hundreds of monsters, causing you to quicksave 
 as often as you can. Fortunately, the quicksave system is very well made. It allows you to have 
 about 10 quickloads at the same time, so you won't have to worry if you quicksaved a second before 
 you're killed. Now, sometimes some enemies can hurt each other, so with over 100 enemies on screen 
 you may not be able to kill them all. And NETRISCA counts that.
  Hm, the AI... Well, it looks that the only thing that any monster does is just rush at you with 
 everything it has. They will not try to defend, they won't make any strategic decisions and they 
 won't try to work as a team. As soon as they spawn, they are set to search and destroy.
  Well, I guess from all the enemies, I should really point out one. Ugh-Zan III, the final and only 
 boss. Now, I promise you, you have not seen anything like this before. I won't put out any spoilers, 
 but I will say just this: the final level in Serious Sam The First Encounter may be the funnest 
 and most tense level in any FPS you played... ever.
  
  Secrets are another thing that make this game even more fun. Most of the levels have a certain 
 number of secrets. They are mostly formed as hidden areas or out-of-reach places. Rewards for finding 
 them are most often pickups. Secrets are fun, Croteam made sure of that. Also, there are 2 whole 
 secret levels, if you manage to find them.
  Overall, the gameplay is great. And the game is hard, but there are 5 different difficulties (+1 
 unlockable) for you to choose from.
  Multiplayer? Well, the game supports it, of course. You can play co-op or deathmatch over LAN, 
 Internet or split-screen. Yes, the split-screen, a rare feature in today's games. Co-op is made 
 brilliantly, but deathmatch is too fast for weapons you have (low rate of fire) .
  
  Visuals are also great. Like I said, the levels are huge and beautiful. If your PC can't handle 
 that, don't worry. There are tons of options for graphical performance.
  And for the end - sound. Well, nothing bothered me there. Both sounds of weapons and enemies are 
 well made. In fact, you will mostly have to rely on enemies-'s sounds, so you know where they are 
 coming from and how far are they.
  Music is another thing. It's not great, it's fantastic. Each level has it's own tunes, and they 
 blend in the background perfectly. Still, you can hear it well and enjoy it.
  
  So, the whole game is actually amazing. Both sound and graphics are very good for a FPS. Because 
 of secrets and 6 difficulties, SP has a great replay value. And co-op will keep you playing the 
 game even after you get bored with the SP (if you do at all) . And all that comes very cheap. Croteam 
 succeeded at their plan. Serious Sam The First Encounter will definitely leave a trace among FPSs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarbedBuffalo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the entire series... 
  
  Best series ever. Lots Of BIG guns, graphics were ahead of its time!... at the time... thats when 
 PS1 was popular still, right? in 2001? well it is still good i don't care what anybody says. So 
 many enemys theres no way you could keep count. luckly there is a menu that tells you your kills, 
 score, what the new monsters types are and even some helpful tips to get around obsticles.
  
  i give it a 10. the soundtrack is great, the gamplay is out of this world! 
  
  I thank 
 Croteam and The Gathering for unleashing this beast of a game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightwarrior179
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam: The First Encounter is innovative in many ways but also at the same time can get really 
 sour. The idea of a skeleton chasing you on its claws like a Texas Havana mixture looks funny. 
 The idea of beheaded people chasing you with bombs stuck at their hands shouting in chorus looks 
 funny. The idea of facing a 100 feet tall leviathan looks tough. The idea of facing a Lava golem 
 looks tough.
  
  But the main idea of serious Sam to properly mix the humour and action into one makes the game 
 turn into a real bad joke. Stuttering music, and strange puzzles aren't fun they are REAL DUMB!. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 28, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  No, Serious Sam does not have the most advanced, realistic, and high tech graphics around. No, 
 Serious sam does not have a Hollywood script with lots of voice acting and a complicated storyline. 
 What Serious Sam does have is plenty of color, plenty of humor, and lots (and lots) of things to 
 shoot. This game is a blast fest of guns and monsters, the way first person shooters used to be.
 
  
  This is not to say that Serious Sam does not look good, it looks very good, lots of vibrant colors 
 and plenty of varied scenes and areas to play in. The focus of the game, though, is on shooting 
 things (hence the name "Shooter") , and it does so very well. Nothing feels better to see a hoard 
 of headless zombie soldiers, or werebulls charging at you and you just open up with everything 
 you have, who cares about ammo conservation! The weapons are over the top with plasma cannons and 
 giant cannonballs you can roll through anything and everything.
  
  Serious Sam has plenty of humor too, Croteam took a very un-serious approach at creating their 
 game, with funny sayings from Sam, to puns and humorous secret areas in the game. What other game 
 lets you shoot its creators!
  
  Overall Serious Sam leaves you satisfied that you played an extremely fun and worthwhile first 
 person shooter, but also leaves you wanting more......
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreagnore
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 10, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  With Great Graphics, Huge Scenarios, the Best Arsenal you Could Ever Hope for, Tons and Tons of 
 Senseless Action And a Great Sense of Humour .
  This and a Lot More Makes It One of the Best FPS in my Book.
  
  Now I'm Gonna Tell You Why 
 I Think That:
  * Like I Said Before Great , Smooth Graphics Especially the Light Effects (Really Good ,for the 
 Time that Came on) Highly Detailed Weapons, Scenarios and Enemies.
  * About the Scenarios: Despite that Almost all Scenarios Take Place in Humongous Egypt Temples, 
 You Don't get Tired of Them, Because Unlike You Could Think Right Now THEY ARE NOT ALL CATACOMBS 
 AND CLOSED SPACES, all the Opposite 70 % of the Game is in Wide Open Spaces Where you Can Move 
 Freely and Enough of Covering Spaces to Resist the Countless & Deadly Attacks of Your Enemies 
 
  *Explosive Combination: With an Arsenal so Deadly sooo Useful (With this I Mean that Believe it 
 or Not Even the Flamethrower is Useful) That Could Make any Action Hero Run Like Hell ( Wetting 
 his Pants and All ) An Endless Amount of Enemies to Kill (Very Deadly ,Very Original & Very Funny 
 too)
  There is no Way You Can Get Bored
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyubi-Naruto
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam: The First Encounter is a FPS game that came out in 2001. But why is there still many 
 gamers that are dedicated to This game? It is because that Serious Sam: The First Encounter not 
 only provides fun and enjoyment but also requires skill in multiplayer modes. 
  Serious Sam has a Co-Op in multiplayer, something not often seen in modern First Person Shooters. 
 Co-Op mode and single player mode both have a lot replay value in them. With secret rooms and weapons 
 to be found, there is also glitches to be discovered. 
  When playing Serious Sam you will find that not all battles are in a cramped hallway or such, sometimes 
 they can be in a large field, so you can get the feel of the game. The weapons have a unique selection 
 such as rockets, grenades, and cannons, and which many of these weapons will be in multiplayer 
 mode with unlimited ammo, which is rare for multiplayer. The monters that you have to fight are 
 also an important part of what makes this game so special. Sometimes the monsters travel in groups 
 or herds from 2 to 50! The monsters also vary in size from being smaller than the player to 100 
 times as large as the player!
  What makes this game so memorable is the certain feel it gives. Serious Sam will give you the same 
 feeling you get on a rainy day. A 'home' feeling. The gameplay has an extraordinary amount of replay 
 value. And the graphics are smooth. The music gives a exciting feel. The game is really worth the 
 money, which is actually really cheap, 6 or 7 dollars, is worth more than many other popular FPS 
 games.
  From massive enemies to the exceptional replay value, this game is definitely worth your money, 
 even if it is years old. If you want something to play almost everyday, then Serious Sam: The First 
 Encounter is the game. Like the first of the Doom series, Serious Sam was revolutionary, inspiring 
 many sequels and other First Person Shooters, and many more to come. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vittoriobaky
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Really a few people expected this game to become an instant classic. And still, it became. Who 
 could have imagined that 8 years after Doom, people still doesn't want more then run'n'shoot?
 
  
  So, this game is just run and shoot at practically everything that is moving. Same as Doom, yeah. 
 Then how come this game is so amazing? How can such an unoriginal game system become this acclaimed?
 
  
  It's easy: this is probably THE non-thinking game. You'll pass 95% of the game running and shooting, 
 4% of the game staying still and shooting, and 1% of the game going to get next dozens of monsters. 
 It could sound lame but it isn't. Now one by one I explain the reasons of this.
  
  First of all, while gameplay is absolutely non-sense, and simple, it's well done. A dozen of characterized 
 weapons, hundreds of different and easy-to-remember monsters, well done level designs, and linear 
 but not boring fights are the heart of the game, and even if you'll need to resolve some "problem", 
 they won't keep you busy more then 30 seconds. The places are a bit too similar though: it's all 
 in Egypt!
  
  The graphics, well, are amazing. They were, and they still are. When they came out amazed for it's 
 awesomeness. Today it still amazes cause of the cleaniness of it. It's wonderful, with high quality 
 textures, shadows, light effects, and a well-coloured and stylish world.
  
  The sounds are cool too. Easy-to-recognize sounds of the monsters and of the weapons, with good 
 ingame musics, and lots of funny jokes of Serious Sam. Right, because the game is full of these 
 crazy jokes of Sam! I won't spoil the (really simple) game story, but one thing is sure: it's hilarious!
 
  
  As for value, well, it's hard to tell. I played this game till the end different times, so the 
 replay value is high. The multiplayer is pretty strong, with a decent deathmatch mode, and an amazing 
 cooperative mode, that practically doubles the already sky-high fun of the game. And at the budget 
 price it is sold at, it's absolutely a must have, no matter if you like FPSs or not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  This has to be the best first person shooter since doom. The first ever time I played this game 
 was through a demo. Shortly afterward I was hooked. I played the karnak demo the best part of 18 
 times by myself and 100 times with my mates, so as you may understand, I had to have this game.
 
  
  This was no let down. Every motion of the game is made beautifuly. From the first moment you enter 
 the game till the last, you are immersed around shear beauty and challenge. The move on Egypt was 
 a great idea as you run around like a headless chicken killing stuff for no apparant reason.
  
  The only way this game could improve is with more 2 player maps. Aside from that I love everything 
 about it. I love the split screen multi, I love the 1 player and 2 player madness. But most of 
 all I love the story. Sam I ain't but dam I wish I were. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fistfull_of_me
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam has you pitted against million of monster, all of which have one desire. To kill you. 
 You have been sent back in time to stop mankinds complete and utter destruction.
  
  The graphics are suprisingly good. This game has hundreds of monsters coming at you and there aren't 
 too many framerate problems. The levels look fantastic and you can even create your own to tear 
 through.
  
  Serious Sam doens't have that great of a story, just kill as many monsters as you can. This, amazingly, 
 makes it fun. You can really let of some steam with this game.
  
  There are plenty of levels in the game, around 13, all of which have plenty of ammo and monsters 
 to waste it on. There are some cool weapons for you to use. I especially like the double-up revolvers, 
 the may not be powerfull, but damn, they sure as hell are fun to use. You can play a multiplayer 
 game, which keeps the game from getting boring. Fighting an enemy which actually has a brain is 
 a nice change.
  
  Theres pretty good replay value here, you can fight against your friends over a LAN or the Interent. 
 You can create your own levels to keep you satisfied and you go back and complete the game again 
 if you've got the guts.
  
  Over all, Serious Sam is definately a serious shooter that deserves some serious attention. Buy 
 it now or go to hell! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_orb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam: The First Encounter is a first person shooter that is totally based on the player 
 taking on hordes of monsters at once and somehow coming out on top. The game is quite short in 
 length but an extremely fun most of the way through.
  You play as Serious Sam who has been sent back in time to ancient Egypt to save the human race 
 who are under attack by an entity known as Notorious Mental. The story isnt that important in 
 the end and is never really there to begin with, suffice it to say its less compelling then the 
 story for the original Doom.
  The gameplay is the big feature here as you are pitted against literally thousands of monsters 
 over the course of the game. This is the games main feature and its what separates Serious Sam 
 from most shooters, it takes the battles to an almost epic level with you blasting wave after wave 
 after wave of monsters. 
  The game features 10 weapons in total, one of these (the knife) youll never use. Another (the 
 revolver (s) youll abandon in the second level and likely never touch again. The remaining eight 
 weapons are both different tool of mass destruction that youll find yourself using almost constantly. 
 While youll likely end up favouring one weapon over the rest, you will have to draw the rest at 
 various points of almost any given level. Also youll find yourself pointing these weapons in the 
 faces of several different enemies. From skeletal horses, to walking missile turret like monsters, 
 to screaming headless kamikaze men that explode when they get close enough. With all of these enemies 
 there is pretty much no AI what to speak of since all the enemies just kind of run or walk towards 
 you. Almost all of them have a ranged attack which they will stop and use if they are at a distance, 
 but thats about it. The idea here is not necessarily to outsmart your foes, its to survive wave 
 after wave of them.
  The level design is pretty uniform, enter, go into a big room, you will discover that you need 
 a few objects to open a door at end of said room. These objects will be in nearby rooms, and youll 
 have to chew through piles of enemies and ammo to get them. In fact after a while the gameplay 
 in Serious Sam becomes highly predictable. If you pick almost anything up it spawns monster numbering 
 from a couple to a couple dozen. But for some strange reason it doesnt matter and the game is 
 fun none the less. Likely as the action flows so fast and is too intense for you to care. Serious 
 Sam features thirteen levels, two of which are secrets. Getting into these secret levels however 
 is not too hard and one shouldnt even need a players guide to find the entrances. Even if you 
 play through all thirteen levels it shouldnt take you more then ten hours or so. I clocked in 
 at around six and a half hours but if you count all the time I spent dieing and reloading it was 
 more like eight and a half hours total.
  Serious Sams levels all are based in Egypt and as such all the levels have a hot arid temple look 
 to them. Each of the levels consist mostly of large arena like areas where youll take on the hordes 
 of monsters that the game has to offer. As said above the levels all focus on you getting from 
 start to finish with you making a detour or two to pick up some keys to open one or more doors 
 in your way.
  The visuals in Sam are not too hard on your eyes, with the graphics looking slightly better then 
 those found in the original Half Life. Making the game look good, but not mind blowing. Dont expect 
 advanced HDR lighting, particle effects, or bump mapping. The game still looks good though, and 
 the thing that impressed me the most was the enormous draw distance the game features. You can 
 see a few trees in the distance as nothing more then a speck on the horizon and you can walk all 
 the way up to them to find some health or armour.
  The sound in Sam is also good. Sound effects features heavily in the gameplay as you can hear most 
 of the monsters before you see them, with each monster having their own noises youll learn to 
 recognize whats nearby (and draw appropriate weapon) just by listening. This is also useful to 
 let you know if youve cleared out an area if your wondering if you can let your guard down to 
 think about where to go or if there are any switches around. The music for each level is comprised 
 of a quiet track for when you arent blasting things and a more aggressive track for when you are. 
 The music never gets in the way, and serves to be what its intended to be which is background 
 music.
  Strangely the game keeps a score for every level you play, keeping track of things like kills, 
 secrets found, and time spent. This serves to let you know if you havent found all the secrets 
 in a level, or if there are still a few monsters that you missed. This could be your incentive 
 to replay the game a few times, but it wasnt enough for me to go back for more. Serious Sam is 
 a game you play once and enjoy immensely and recommend to friends.
  The only real reason to play the single player after youve beaten it is that you have to option 
 of playing it over with a friend (or four) cooperatively which is something you dont see in many 
 PC games. Doing this breathes new life into the game and is amazingly fun if youve got the buddies 
 to do so.
  So overall Serious Sam is a great escape thats great to replay with friends that is easily recommendable 
 to just about any FPS fan that isnt too bothered about slightly dated graphics. Its complete mindless 
 fun, but on an extreme level which separates it from most shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  Serious sam gives you memorable thoughts.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is best of all, lots of weapons (which really kicks ass) ,
  big levels with lots of monsters, 
 netrisca system is good (better then in SS2) .
  
  Graphics:
  I just love the graphics, because the engine runs so smooth, both online and single, they look 
 very good.
  
  Sounds:
  Sounds are original and sound very good, music rockZ.
  
  Variety of gameplay:
  Good variety of enemies and weapons.
  
  Value:
  Very good value, 
 both online and single.
  Deathmatch is good and the coop online is best of all.
  
  Well thats my review about Serious Sam: First encounter.
  Its just a stunning game with lost of 
 features for a low price!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I have nevered played a great game like this since doom. I mean the constant massacre in the game 
 is unbelieveable. Countless of monsters coming at you and you mowing them down. It's so much fun. 
 Although the game can get repeative but still fun as heck. The thing is your just a human being 
 that taking one a whole army. Sam can have some humor. The game make you giggle at some parts.
 
  
  The graphics were pretty good I mean the water effects and lighting were awesome. The sounds were 
 great. I mean the chaingun sounds amazing. It's my favourite weapon. O ya the massive arsenal of 
 weapons in the game are great. That's what got me playing the game so much I just wanted to see 
 how extreme the weapons can get. Not to mention the so many differernt monsters.
  
  The story.... well actually it doesn't really have a story to me that is. This game is fun but mowing 
 down monsters and more monsters will get boring and you won't want play it a second try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanthelion
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 10:21 am PT
Review:  The final boss battle in Serious Sam is worth the price of the game alone. I guarantee you that 
 you have never seen anything like it before in any video game you have ever played. The sheer size 
 of the boss is mindboggling. He stands at least 30 stories high, has 2 huge cannons and looks like 
 a cross between something from hell and space. The battle is split into 2 phases where you have 
 to draw him to a pyramid in order to use some secret weapon to kill him. The problem is, in between 
 you and the pyramid are hundreds of the beloved enemies that you have been fighting through the 
 game.
  
  Picture this:
  
  hundreds of charging bulls, rocket launcing robots, headless kamakizis, horse skeletons that can 
 kill you in 2 hits all charging you while a 30 story behemoth is chasing you. If you get far enough 
 away from him it is fun to launch your rocket at him to see the tiny explosion it makes when it 
 hits his body.
  
  I know this isn't a full game review, but I thought I would give you an idea of a battle that could 
 almost be a game of its own. I saved it right before the last guy just so I could show my friends. 
 Definetely a game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psycho_FreakX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The Good  Dozens of Levels, Enemies & Weapons for your enjoyment. Fast Paced FPS action with dozens 
 of enemies on screen at once
  
  The Bad  very little Story & Single Player is Quite Short (Around 6 hours to complete SP Quest)
 
  
  Serious Sam: The First Encounter is a FPS Fast Paced with lots of weapons and enemies to go around. 
 Usually very little story is involved its simply about shooting loads of enemies rinse and repeat. 
 You Play as Serious Sam Stone a Duke Nukem looking Character who must stop the Evil Mental and 
 his Minions from destroying everything. You Travel threw a dozen of levels destroying his Minions 
 and solving puzzles to advance. The Enemies range from Small to Big from Headless guys to Skeleton 
 Horses & Flying Angels that shoot at you. The Weapons range from Revolvers, shotguns, Rocket Launchers, 
 Flame Throwers & Serious Bomb (Which is my Favorite) . There are a dozen of levels in SS: 1st Encounter 
 they range from Deserts to inside Ancient Structures & under water areas. Each Level in the Game 
 is basically go kill swarm of enemies pick up ammo or health kill more enemies press switch or 
 do puzzle to move on to the next area. Some may say that get old fast not really Serious Sam: 1st 
 Encounter keeps you interested threw its short single player experience. Also there are secrets 
 that are found in the various levels they range from a secret room to weapons to health. Theres 
 also some Great Multiplayer to be had here from Deathmatch to co op theres a lot of good here. 
 
  
  Serious Sam: The First Encounter was released close to 5 Years ago. The game still holds up good 
 not the best graphics but what do you except from a budget title. The Environments, characters 
 & guns looks detailed but at times you can tell its not the best looking game around. I love the 
 Music in Serious Sam: 1st Encounter its a mix of techno rock also love the voice work for Sam 
 he has some hilarious lines that you should pick up the game for his voice work alone. The guns 
 & Enemies in the game sound good no Complaints in the Sound Department. 
  
  This game happens to be a great budget title and has some great multiplayer but the length of the 
 Single Player Experience is a little disappointing but for under $20 dollars its a great buy. 
 I really dont have any complaints worth mentioning about this game. I recommend this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 4:04 am PT
Review:  Serious sam first encounter is a first person shooter that is light on realism and heavy on fantasy 
 enemies coming at all directions to try and kill you. The game works really well and the graphics 
 are fantastic. The number of foes put on one screen is amazing. I'm talking dozens upon dozens 
 of enemies at one time.
  
  The biggest thing about this game that is so much fun is well, the shooting. All the enemies you 
 can blow up, shoot up, and destroy is very satisfying and your foes come in all shapes in sizes. 
 
  
  The weaponry in this game is superb. You have practically every weapon you want. From magnums to 
 shotguns to rocket launchers to even grenade launchers you have a wide arsenal of weapons and there 
 all fun to use, although some way better than others. 
  
  The game rarely presents much of a challenge. Health can be found all over the place and no enemy 
 is that tough to kill. Ammo is equally plentiful, so don't feel to scared to run around like a 
 maniac. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good. Enemies and character models are great looking and have this cartoony 
 look to them. The animations actually isn't all that great, surprisingly all of your foes kind 
 of move in blocky ways but what really makes the graphics great is the number of enemies you can 
 have at one time. Dozens upon dozens of enemies and it works out great since it's easily the high 
 point of the game.
  
  The game isn't insanely long, but it is tons of fun. The story basically falls like this. You, 
 Serious sam gets sent to Ancient Egypt to stop the disastrous future. The premise and story isn't 
 that great and it has a lot of loose ends but that's not the reason you'll play at all. Anyway, 
 you get taken around famous places in Egypt and not so famous places while being lead around by 
 this machine like thing in your brain. Basically, it's all just a big excuse to run around and 
 shoot stuff up, but that's ok, because it does it really well.
  
  The sound and music is pretty good. Serious sam sounds really gruff but is funny nonetheless. The 
 weapon sounds are great and all the enemies sound great too. The music always kicks in at the right 
 time.
  
  The whole game isn't very long but the reason why I gave it a 10 in the value is because it is 
 only retailing for $20 max. That's one hell of a deal considering that the single player campaign 
 is worth that for sure. 
  
  Serious sam first encounter is a great game for shooter fans. It's simple and lots of fun while 
 not taking itself seriously in any way. There's not a whole lot to say about this game but I highly 
 recommend it because of it's price. It's fun and surprisingly good so if your in for a surprising 
 treat, you can't go wrong with Serious sam first encounter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:30 am PT
Review:  At first glance I was a little hesitant on spending much time on this game. It looked to much like 
 a cartoon, and seemed to not have much fun in it. But like Ive been taught, never judge a book 
 by its cover. Serious Sam is surprisingly good. Its full of action and fast passed, you got action 
 at each corner basically. Its a look and shoot, and dont bother asking questions game. The graphics 
 where a let down, but I have to admit that the drawing style fit well to it. I specially enjoyed 
 the humor and comments made thru the game. Id recommend this game for a try out. It will be worth 
 your while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodWerewolf
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:45 am PT
Review:  If games such as Postal 2, Doom, Quake, Painkiller, and other First Person Shooters top your playing 
 list, Serious Sam is a game you should invest in. 
  Before going very far, I will tell you that Serious Sam does have a story, just not a very complex 
 one. You run through a dozen levels in ancient Egypt, plus two secret ones, blasting up hordes 
 of enemies with everything from twin Colt .45s to a cannon with uranium balls as big as your character. 
 Along the way, you must find four element crystals that will guide you to The Great Pyramid, where 
 you end the game with a boss battle that makes Painkiller look wimpy.
  The core of this game is shooting, so no whining when Beheaded Kamikazes come screaming, literally, 
 at you from 360 degrees. However, there is a strong sense of humor with this game as Sam makes 
 comments about monsters quite a bit and none of it is crude. How sweet is that? And be prepared 
 to run over very long distances in many levels.
  To review, for twenty dollars, you get huge battles that let you kill over 100 enemies at a time, 
 fourteen levels that almost require exploration to find some very powerful hardware, some good 
 humor from a gruff bodybuilder, and an amazing graphics and rendering engine. What more could you 
 ask for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeshwent
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 13, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam: The First Encounter is a good game in many ways but is even more worse in many more 
 ways. Firstly the good ones, Serious Sam is an action game that really provides some good fun-filled 
 moments of humor. The other good point is that it also offers The Split Screen Multiplayer feature, 
 which enables two players to play on the same system. This Split Screen feature is seen quite rare 
 in the Action games.
  
  But the bad part is that all the humor spoils the actual game play. The game might be rated as 
 Mature but it is certainly not at all for the Mature people as they will find it boring. As a result 
 Serious Sams mixture of humor and action turns the taste of the game really very bad.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2005 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam from Croteam. This game was awarded the PC game of the year by GameSpot for 2001. If 
 you like FPS at a killing rate easily above 750  1000 demonic critter per half hour this is your 
 game series. Serous Sam has a voice much like Arnold Schwarzenegger (very commanding) . The first 
 Serious Sam the author found in a bargain bin for $4.99, making it definitely a good game for the 
 money. Everywhere you go and every time you turn around you are surrounded by charging bull-like 
 creatures to skeletons. The enemy is relentless.
  
  The range of horrific demons varies much and few are found in any other series. Weapons from the 
 duel pistols to a cannon than shots what looks likes bowling balls that explode. The graphics and 
 scenery are incomparable. Beautiful sunsets on ancient society ruins fill the screen. Power-ups 
 abound everywhere. Cruising through this game was one of the most significant gaming adventures 
 in the authors FPS career. Since purchased the author has played the game five times. After a 
 while it does not take long to traverse the game, since one knows what to expect. 
  
  Overall, the author gives it high marks for graphics, excitement, and just plain fun at shooting 
 oncoming enemy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AustinOnline
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 10, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam was a game I had seen in stores many times before, and I saw tons of fan sites about 
 the game. But you wanna know my story of me getting this game? I walked into 'Big Lots' and they 
 had the first and second encounter for only $5.99. So I bought it.
  
  This game was auesome. I am still playing it! I went to hunt for new stuff to play and for the 
 first encounter there were like....90 new maps. And for the second encounter there was like...100!!!! 
 So it's like never ending fun. These maps can be used online too so you can play Co-Op online now! 
 I havent played online yet so I'll have to update this review once I try it. I'm playing this game 
 in normal mode right now, it is fairly easy. I'm on level 3. Level 1 was like.... nothing. I will 
 update this review, but give me time to play it and I'll have a full review ready. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 30, 2005 11:50 pm PT
Review:  So why is Serious Sam so great?
  
  Fun. That would be the best word to describe Serious Sam's twitch shooting style.
  
  Serious 
 Sam sees you, Sam, travel back in time to Ancient Egypt because of an Alien Invasion, which has 
 mostly wiped out human existence. You must travel back in time to kill the alien leader, Mental.
 
  
  Serious Sam has some great shooting action, with some jaw-dropping enemies and bosses. However, 
 what really stands out in Serious Sam is the amount of foes you will fight on screen at once. Most 
 of the time you will be battling 30 or so enemies at once, on levels that contain several hundred 
 foes. It's insane! And the bosses are another crazy highlight, as they are huge! The last boss 
 is over 300m tall!
  
  The graphics are also very good in Serious Sam, and most computers should run it without any problems. 
 The water is especially beautiful, and is the game's greatest graphical achievement. Also, good 
 sound and excellent music accompany these graphics. 
  
  In conclusion, Serious Sam can be played and enjoyed by all. It's only noticeable shortcoming is 
 the fact that the game gets repetitive towards the end. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikromouse
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 12, 2005 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Really, what is more fun than that? Serious Sam proves that you don't necessarily have to be realistic 
 to make a good FPS.
  
  Set in an Egyptian landscape, Serious Sam proved that you don't need excellent hardware to get 
 a good looking game out the door. In some cases the engine that was developed by Croteam (a beginner 
 company at the time) was almost greater than the game itself.
  
  The levels are rich with hieroglyphics, appropriate foliage, and of course... baddies. Monsters 
 seems to be set off with a trigger point, most often by picking up ammo or health. After a few 
 levels of this you start to get a bit freaked about that last little armor shard to be picked up. 
 Should I?
  
  Sam can swim, jump, run, and sidestep as well as handle some immense firepower. From the chaingun, 
 the dual revolvers, and the laughable giant cannon shot Sam decimates all that lays in his path.
 
  
  Some of the game is finding keys, and solving a few puzzles. Most are easy if you think about them 
 and then you can get right back on to the killin.
  
  Serious Sam is definitely worth a pickup if you spot it in your bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2005 10:07 pm PT
Review:  No, Serious Sam does not have the most advanced, realistic, and high tech graphics around. No, 
 Serious sam does not have a Hollywood script with lots of voice acting and a complicated storyline. 
 What Serious Sam does have is plenty of color, plenty of humor, and lots (and lots) of things to 
 shoot. This game is a blast fest of guns and monsters, the way first person shooters used to be.
 
  
  This is not to say that Serious Sam does not look good, it looks very good, lots of vibrant colors 
 and plenty of varied scenes and areas to play in. The focus of the game, though, is on shooting 
 things (hence the name "Shooter") , and it does so very well. Nothing feels better to see a hoard 
 of headless zombie soldiers, or werebulls charging at you and you just open up with everything 
 you have, who cares about ammo conservation! The weapons are over the top with plasma cannons and 
 giant cannonballs you can roll through anything and everything.
  
  Serious Sam has plenty of humor too, Croteam took a very un-serious approach at creating their 
 game, with funny sayings from Sam, to puns and humorous secret areas in the game. What other game 
 lets you shoot its creators!
  
  Overall Serious Sam leaves you satisfied that you played an extremely fun and worthwhile first 
 person shooter, but also leaves you wanting more......
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roleplayer2004
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 5, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam is just simply one of the funnest games you'll ever play. When I first got this game 
 which came with my Mum's new computer she bought back in 2002. I just thought this was an el cheppo 
 old shoot em up game. But how wrong was I. This game you could say is the next Doom. Not because 
 it's a horror game or its ment to give you nightmares and freak the hell out of you. It's because 
 of the overwhealming odds and the feeling you get when you go ohhh.... nooo. When there's fifty 
 different creatures screaming and yelling coming at you when there just about to come running up 
 the hill.
  
  Serious Sam is just pure class and it's one of the most underrated games on the PC. I still have 
 it in my top five favourite PC games of all time. Because it's so much fun and the odds are so 
 overwhealming. The gameplay is just so much fun that almost anybody who picks up the game and starts 
 playing it would say pretty much the same thing.
  
  The Graphics are so smooth and very nice to look at. Everything looks well balanced and the feel 
 that the environment brings to the game is just amazing.
  
  The sound is very high quality and surprisingly very well done. The sound effects turned out to 
 be really effective and at times freak you out a bit. (from the yelling and screaming) .
  
  Seroius Sam also has a multiplayer co-op mode. Which lets you and a friend go on a shooting frenzy 
 through the single player mode which is just a whole lot of fun.
  
  Serious Sam overall is a polished game which is quite a nice refreshing change from all the new 
 bloody & gory FPS on the market, and it brings another dimension to the the FPS genre. It's one 
 of the best FPS titles you can get and for a very low price you can own a game which is well and 
 truly an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nealok
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 7, 2005 12:34 pm PT
Review:  In the years since 1998, most companies have gone out of their way to make the next Half-Life. 
 This isn't such a bad thing since Half-Life was a stellar game by any standard. But most developers 
 seemed to look down on the old-school Doom paradigm, where if it moved, it was to provide you with 
 a moving target, and if you had to read something, it was so you could have a breather from the 
 shooting. 
  
  Enter Sam. 
  
  Serious Sam is a vibrant game about shooting things that move. The multitude of enemies are practically 
 crawling off the CD-ROM, all presented in a beautiful engine that loves to spray blood. The weapons 
 array is standard fare, although like everything else in this game, it has been brought to life 
 so passionately that you can't help but like this rocket launcher more than any other rocket launcher 
 ever. The same goes for this chaingun, this plasma rifle, etc. 
  
  Ammo is plentiful, even in the later difficulty levels. The AI is stupid, but when they number 
 this strongly, it would be odd for the enemies not to use blind mob tactics. If you want Halo's 
 intelligent elites and haunting pack hunters, play Halo. If you want to be attacked from every 
 angle by lightning bolts, missile launchers, lase rifles, giant balls of fire/acid, or headless 
 people with bombs in either hand charging straight for you, then step into the shoes of Serious 
 Sam. There's even a running scoreboard! How long has it been since you played a computer game that 
 gave you meaningless points? 
  
  It all culiminates in a boss battle to end all boss battles. This boss is so huge that it is unthinkable 
 that even with unlimited ammo you might be able to topple him. Firing a rocket at this monstosity 
 is the rough equivalent of someone implementing a killing blow against a human with a particularly 
 small bead of sweat. But you will topple him, and you will know that you have conquered one of 
 the most enjoyable games to be released in a long time. 
  
  That's what this game really does well. Fun. There is not much to it, but there is a lot to be 
 said for basking in carnage with impugnity. The multiplayer is equally fun, and it comes complete 
 with an ardent community who have already supplied scads of additional maps and mods for the game. 
 There is a cooperative mode, but it loses much of the game's tension since respawning is either 
 without consequences or confined to the console-like repression of finite lives. Neither is acceptable. 
 There needs to be a mod where, like Halo, the dead player needs to sit out until the other one 
 is safe. Or something. Cooperative play is too cool to screw the entire experience the way the 
 initial release did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragoonlover
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2004 6:44 am PT
Review:  When you ask people what they think is the best first person shooter ever, most will probably answer 
 "Halo". That's their game. Serious Sam was mine. Now granted, Halo offers immersive gameplay and 
 compelling storytelling. Serious Sam stars a Duke Nukem clone, has one of the most ridiculous throw 
 away plots ever, and is pure mindless fun. Just check your brain at the door. All you'll be needing 
 are your reflexes and a heavy trigger finger.
  
  Instead of inventing weird alien weapons with unpronouncable names, Serious Sam has standard fair. 
 You've got revolvers, shotguns, miniguns, rocket launchers, laser cannons and such. What it DOES 
 offer beyond this are elements that few other few person shooters give. It has intriguing monster 
 designs (I personally think the aliens of Halo look ridiculous) . But it also offers fast, hectic 
 combat in which the game literally throws everything at you but the kitchen sink. Deeper into the 
 game, you're strafing and dodging and throwing hot lead in the air as you fight off hundreds of 
 enemies, all aiming at YOU. Some are tough and can take more than one missle blast. Others have 
 bombs attached to their hands and run at you like a kamakaze. I have never seen this many enemies 
 in any other first person shooter. Ever. And at the end of the game is the single biggest badass 
 in existence.
  
  The graphics are nothing to write home about when compared to Halo, but the level design is much 
 more clever. And in between the shooting and the blasting are some witty one-liners offered by 
 the game's lead to keep things from getting dull. But even without the humor, Serious Sam offers 
 what a first person shooter really should be about. Frantic action and pure adrenaline. And with 
 each game being offered at less than $20, you really can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 2, 2004 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam is pretty far from serious, but it's a blast to play. The best thing about Serious 
 Sam is it's simplicity. It compliments itself so well. For instance, no serious plot exists to 
 incur all kinds of stringent scripted events from happening. You can literally find ammo and weapons 
 laying about in open places for the sake of fun factor as opposed to the popular trend of today's 
 more realistic FPS's.
  
  Simplicity also helps it concentrate more on what it does well. KILLIN. Everyone likes to blast 
 monsters, so they make sure they put lots of monsters out there to kill. Instead of having to weave 
 through tight tunnels and deep dungeons stalking around against a few troublesome AI, serious sam 
 will put you up against literally HUNDREDS of opponents at once. It's so breathtaking sometimes 
 you literally do not know where the hell you are going to start shooting.
  
  Serious Sam is a fairly long game, which adds to the playtime you'll get out of it, but one of 
 the best additions is the dimension of co-operative play. You can hook up with up to 3 other buddies 
 for some 4 player co-op. No wacky servers to authenticate to, no complex plot designs to wait through, 
 no buggy fragmented levels, just load up and start killing. Dying happens so frequently in co-op 
 that you literally just respawn near the main body of action with all the guns you've gotten so 
 far and plenty of ammo.
  
  This strategy in adding co-op some people may frown upon. Some may say without having to worry 
 about supplies and # of lives, what's the point? The point is you are with your homies blasting 
 through impossible odds, and you don't have to stop to worry about anything, just go. It works 
 extremely well and I applaud Croteam for their efforts of adding this to the game. Co-op owns!!! 
 More companies should take lessons in game design from Croteam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 91sonicsKILLERS
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2004 9:04 pm PT
Review:  It`s jus bad luck that I got the short version of serious sam not the long version (damn it this 
 happens to me all the time!) . But no big deal the game is preaty damn fun and it`s humor is a crack 
 up, well not a crack up crack up you know, funny:) . Then I got serious sam: the sec ecounter, but 
 were not talking about that folks, were talking about the first ecounter!
  
  serious sam plays very fast paced (DUH!) and when ever you go threw hordes of Mental`s minions: 
 you take a deep breath which makes you "and me" feel great on what you went throw...... BUT! you 
 should STILL save your breath cause you will need to do it ALLLLLLLLLL over again! Sigh :0.
  
  I have a very low end system and my computer stinks! I have 356MB, radeon 9000 pro (really 
 sux) , 85hz, and my sound card is direct sound! My monitor carries 1280x1024 which is preaty big 
 and some how the frame rate doesnt slow down on this, that`s not all I also have a pentium 3 (my 
 god im really feeling bad on how bad my computer is!) and the game still goes smooth on 1024x768.
 
  
  I love the first level music it toches my heart! (MAN thats corney!) I like it because it makes 
 you look around and look at the beutiful eviroments. Sam`s voice sounds cranky and tough which 
 is the right match for him. He is really friendly and funny on what kind of jokes he does against 
 enemies our when he get`s a wepon like ROCKET ROOL! when he gets a rocket launcher. It is preaty 
 cool.
  
  Since I HAD the short version, it was short like 5 hours long what was preaty stupid. 
  
  This 
 game is fun and all of you will love it I JUST KNOW IT!!!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
