-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Serious Sam: The Second Encounter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/serioussamtheseconde/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  5, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.5, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 1,748 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gathering
Developer: Croteam
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Feb 4, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You'll find virtually everything there is to like about action gaming in the stunning sequel to 
 Serious Sam. 

 Serious Sam: The First Encounter was last year's most surprising first-person shooter. Featuring 
 a never-before-seen 3D engine that could render literally hundreds of weird, dangerous creatures 
 simultaneously within huge environments, Serious Sam offered no shortage of pure arcade action. 
 For good measure, the game included an extremely enjoyable cooperative multiplayer mode and a lot 
 of good-natured humor, and the whole thing retailed for less than $20. The game was a steal, as 
 well as a promising breakthrough for the previously unheard of Croatian developer, Croteam. Now, 
 nearly a year after the release of the original, Croteam is back with the predictably named sequel. 
 And while it uses the same engine, stars the same tough-as-nails wisecracking hero, and once again 
 requires you to fight through thousands of monsters before you reach the final climactic battle, 
 Serious Sam: The Second Encounter is not necessarily what you'd otherwise expect. It's not just 
 more of the same -- this creative, fun, extremely intense shooter is even better than the original. 
           The new chainsaw won't help you much out in the open.    

  The Second Encounter picks up moments after the first game left off. Having traveled back in time 
 to ancient Egypt and defeated countless minions of the nefarious Mental, Sam "Serious" Stone has 
 managed to hop aboard an alien spaceship that will take him straight to the heart of his archrival's 
 domain. Unfortunately, it unceremoniously crash-lands right back on Earth, this time in South America. 
 Like the first game, Serious Sam: The Second Encounter isn't heavy on plot. The context is really 
 just there as an excuse to set the game within a number of colorful, exotic levels and to fill 
 these with monsters, traps, weapons, and power-ups.   

  While all the levels in the first game were set in Egypt, which made them start to look pretty 
 redundant after a while, The Second Encounter features three distinctive environments -- Mesoamerica, 
 ancient Babylon, and medieval Eastern Europe. All three are just gorgeous. Serious Sam's 3D engine 
 creates what are certainly the most gigantic levels found in any shooter, and within each level 
 in The Second Encounter, there's a lot of variety as you travel through both indoor and outdoor 
 areas, both above and beneath the surface of the earth.   

  The game plays like the original, though the improved level design makes the action more enjoyable 
 than before. As Sam, you can run much faster and jump higher than just about any other shooter 
 protagonist. You can carry more than a dozen high-powered weapons and plenty of ammo for each of 
 them. You can take a tremendous amount of punishment, and you'll find power-ups to replenish both 
 your health and your ammo reserves throughout each level. Sam's so strong that any other first-person 
 shooter would be a total cinch for him. But in this one, he'll be up against an impressive variety -- and 
 a truly staggering number -- of fast, vicious, deadly oddball monsters. The Second Encounter provides 
 a daunting challenge at its default difficulty setting, though it offers easier settings suitable 
 for the faint of heart as well as tougher settings suitable for masochists.   

  The most obvious additions in The Second Encounter are three new weapons you can use, more than 
 half a dozen new monsters to fight (as well as three exciting, new boss battles spread out over 
 the game) , and four new power-ups. The most precious of these power-ups works like a smart bomb 
 from classic arcade games -- when things get really bad, you can use one to frag every monster in 
 your vicinity, no questions asked. Meanwhile, the new monsters in The Second Encounter round out 
 the roster quite nicely. The best of them is a chainsaw-wielding maniac sporting nothing but overalls 
 and a jack-o'-lantern instead of a head.           Each of the game's three environments is breathtaking. 
    

  Make no mistake: All your favorite, and least favorite, monsters from the first game can be found 
 in force throughout The Second Encounter, and some have a few new tricks. Old and new foes alike 
 will attack you with reckless abandon, and as you frantically fight back, you'll feel elation mixed 
 with anxiety -- a real adrenaline rush. By mixing in the old with the new creatures and presenting 
 all of them in a wide variety of new situations, the game succeeds in feeling substantially different 
 from the original. That is, even if you felt exhausted by the conclusion of The First Encounter 
 (and how could you not?) , you'll be anything but bored while fighting your way through the new 
 game.   

  The first game had a ton of weapons in it, but these new additions are great -- there's the chainsaw, 
 which usually isn't practical but is still fun to use (especially in multiplayer deathmatch) and 
 a great throwback to the weapon from id Software's classic, Doom. The other two new weapons you 
 simply cannot live without -- your high-tech flamethrower becomes the single best crowd-control tool 
 for close-quarters battles. It's visually stunning as it instantly causes everything -- monsters 
 and scenery -- to ignite in flames and then to blacken to a crisp. Not to be outdone, the new high-powered 
 sniper rifle is equally useful -- its 8X magnifying scope lets you draw a bead on enemies from miles 
 away and deliver an instant-hit, often fatal, high-caliber round. Since some monsters will bombard 
 you from long range, the sniper rifle becomes essential for taking them out.    

 Though the original Serious Sam has a reputation for being a mindless action game, The Second Encounter 
 has some real depth that lurks just beneath the game's lighthearted, frenetic surface. Serious 
 Sam: The Second Encounter expects you to be constantly prepared to face off against dozens of different 
 types of monsters, many of which demand different types of tactics. Fortunately, each weapon in 
 your arsenal is well balanced and useful, whether against certain types of foes or in certain situations. 
 You'll use a majority of your weapons during each level. Some battles seem to stretch on indefinitely, 
 never letting up, only escalating and never giving you the opportunity to conveniently reach over 
 to quick-save. Even if you do know what's in store around the next corner, defeating wave after 
 wave of monsters is never an easy task, as your reflexes, your precision, and your endurance will 
 constantly be put to the test. You'll also need to keep your ears open as each enemy makes distinctive 
 noises, and you'll often hear your foes before you see them. Time seems to stand still during some 
 of the more hectic battles in The Second Encounter -- it'll seem like you're fighting an endless 
 onslaught of foes, burning up all your ammo for all your weapons in the process. Suddenly it's 
 over, and you'll hear yourself exhale as though you were holding your breath for all those minutes. 
 The action in Serious Sam: The Second Encounter is some of the best you'll find in any shooter 
 to date. Calling it mindless is selling it way too short.           New foes like this one are 
 tough and fun to fight.    

  If the action itself weren't incentive enough, Serious Sam: The Second Encounter is loaded with 
 unique secrets -- there are tons of them in every level, and discovering them yields absurd, funny, 
 and always rewarding results. This is a genuinely funny game with a truly inspired sense of humor, 
 and you'll know it not just because of the secrets, but also because of some of Sam's amusingly 
 self-conscious one-liners. "I hate running backwards," he exclaims on more than one occasion as 
 you're desperately trying to fend off a tidal wave of monsters, fleeing for dear life.   

  The Second Encounter has a lot of really great, unusual sequences in it. In an early scene, a bridge 
 crumbles beneath your feet and you start bouncing uncontrollably on an elastic floor. Sure enough, 
 the room fills with monsters, including those ubiquitous beheaded kamikazes. As you're spraying 
 the whole room with your flamethrower, bouncing around on a giant trampoline along with countless 
 monsters, hearing the cacophony of the kamikazes' screams pitching higher and lower due to the 
 Doppler effect, you'll be downright stupefied. The whole game goes on like this -- it's pure sensory 
 overload and incredible fun, and while some parts are especially good, every level is rife with 
 them. As you play, you'll be struck by the sense that the designers must have really had a lot 
 of fun making the game.   

  The production values in The Second Encounter are even better than those in the original game. 
 Each enormous level is colorful and boasts plenty of beautifully detailed high-resolution textures 
 everywhere. Ambient lighting is used to excellent effect, and in general, the game's special effects 
 are top-notch. The three boss monsters you'll face all look great too, and as in the first game, 
 even when you're fighting hundreds of enemies at once, the frame rate remains smooth. The Second 
 Encounter also sounds great -- the game features an excellent, effective musical score. Each level 
 has its own music that fits perfectly with the pacing and the theme, grows more intense when you're 
 fighting, and cools down when the coast is clear. The sound effects themselves, many of which are 
 recycled from the first game, are as good as ever. Like the original, The Second Encounter uses 
 audio as a vitally important part of the gameplay.           The Second Encounter is even better 
 than the first.    

  The single-player mode of Serious Sam: The Second Encounter is easily worth the low price of admission 
 all by itself. But just like the original, the game comes packaged with a complete multiplayer 
 mode, plus mod-making tools for anyone inclined to use them. Once again, the cooperative mode steals 
 the show. You can easily find multiplayer servers running co-op Serious Sam and jump right in with 
 friends or strangers to fight even more enemies than usual. It's tremendously entertaining, and 
 The Second Encounter's bigger, better levels make it even better than the co-op mode in the first 
 game. The Second Encounter sports an excellent deathmatch mode too. Croteam provides eight different 
 deathmatch maps (obviously much smaller than the game's standard levels) , but The Second Encounter 
 also comes packaged with Seriously Warped Deathmatch, a mod featuring more than 20 deathmatch levels, 
 variable gameplay modes including capture the flag, new weapons, and more. There are already plenty 
 of Internet servers running all these different multiplayer variations.   

  Serious Sam: The Second Encounter is one of a very small percentage of games that can be wholeheartedly 
 recommended to everyone, especially because it retails for less than $20, just like its predecessor. 
 While there were many outstanding shooters in the last year, most of them had to be recommended 
 with a caveat or two: "This is a much better game in multiplayer," "This game isn't as realistic 
 as you might expect," and so on. In contrast, there are only pleasant surprises to be found in 
 Serious Sam: The Second Encounter. Regardless of what sort of action you prefer -- whether you like 
 it lighthearted or visceral, whether you want to play solo or with others, or whether you want 
 a quick fix or a game with real lasting value -- you'll find virtually everything there is to like 
 about action gaming in the stunning sequel to Serious Sam.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (43 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: globenstein
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  I am no great fan of 1st person shooters. In fact, I'm not a great fan of shooters generally since 
 I've only played titles like Hitman, GTA or Resident Evil, none of which are really about shooting. 
 But I decided to give FPS a chance and tried something that sounded easy enough, Serious Sam.
 
  
  In Second Encounter, you travel through 3 different eras in time, collecting relics that will allow 
 you, hopefully, to reach this alien overlord who is sending his minions to Earth. The story doesn't 
 offer a great depth, and it is never really explained exactly how finding the Holy Grail takes 
 you to space. Regardless, the game still succeeds. Why?
  
  Because Serious Sam isn't about the story. It's about the GODDAMN INSANE shooting of a CRAPLOAD 
 of aliens with an equal (or greater) MASSIVE amount OF BULLETS, LASERS, MISSILES, etc, etc, etc.
 
  
  Serious Sam definitely succeeds in capturing your full attention as you deal with different enemies 
 in various environments. While there are not that many different minions, there are enough to confuse 
 you with which weapon to use against who (You don't wanna waste a missile on a petty skeleton, 
 or attack a robot t-rex with a handgun) . You will be quickly immersed in the outdated, yet sufficient, 
 graphics because of the sheer intensity of the gameplay. The game is not particularly long, but 
 the length is apparently just short enough to avoid repetitions.
  
  A game worth experiencing at least once. Even for a non-FPS player like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Croteam, the 'Serious Engine' developer, is known by the Serious Sam franchise, where Sam "Serious" 
 Stone is the hero from Earth to save the universe from the evil entity called Mental. The series 
 became popular since its first release, 'The First Encounter' (2001) , where Sam Stone was alone 
 killing thousands of bizarre monsters in the ancient Egypt.
  
  If you're familiar with Serious Sam games, then you know that the player will engage in spectacular 
 combat sequences (often in a big, open environments) , using powerful weapons to defeat hundreds 
 of enemies that spawn from nowhere, and all of them almost at the same time. Sam Stone is usually 
 surrounded by a lot of monsters, such as skeletons, bulls, beheaded kamikazes, headless soldiers... 
 and all of them mindlessly attack the hero. So, basically, all you have to do is to dodge and shoot. 
 But that won't grant you victory, as you need to use some strategy: for all the enemies you have 
 a best response, both when attacking them or defending yourself. Not to mention that the levels 
 are filled with obstacles, which you can use for your advantage. 
  
  Serious Sam: The Second Encounter isn't just more of the same, it's really one of the best sequels 
 ever developed in the gaming history. Everything that was great in 'The First Encounter' is now 
 superb in this one. The levels are more balanced, considering all the possible aspects: Weapons, 
 ammo amount, number of enemies (and where/when they appear) , size of the level and secrets. And, 
 although the engine still the same, the graphics look better than the first Serious Sam, because 
 of the new textures that allows much more varied environments. As you may already know, the events 
 in 'The First Encounter' occurs only in the ancient Egypt (becomes a little boring over the time) , 
 while in 'The Second Encounter' you'll have medieval towns, Mayan buildings, Aztec monuments, snow 
 fields etc.
  
  There're also some new weapons: The chainsaw, the flamethrower and the sniper rifle. The first 
 one you find pretty quickly, it's great to deal with melee monsters. The flamethrower is especially 
 effective when used in small rooms or against large masses of weak enemies. But it's the sniper 
 rifle that takes the scene, because it's effective at long distances and can also kill most enemies 
 with just one shot (personally, I found this the most important thing) .
  
  Another great feature in Serious Sam: The Second Encounter is the sound. Although all games must 
 have good sound effects, you'll find that, in this particular game, it's crucial. You can recognize 
 your enemies without really looking at them. This is important, especially when predicting dangerous 
 monsters like the bull or the kamikaze, as well knowing their relative position. The music is amazing, 
 and just increases the adrenaline when facing the hordes of monsters. When you're not fighting, 
 you'll hear the standard level sound track.
  
  You can choose the difficult setting before starting a game, and it's probably one of the most 
 important choices that you'll make in the entire game. If you choose an easy one, you'll find Serious 
 Sam a little boring; now, if you choose a hard one, you can even stop playing because it's too 
 punishing. So, Serious Sam: The Second Encounter is very well-balanced, and if you don't want any 
 problems, set the difficult to 'Normal' (if you're familiar with FPS gaming) . No matter the choice 
 you made, ammunition isn't really a problem (although health can be) in any of the difficulties. 
 This is good because it allows you to try any weapon you want, and study the most suitable one 
 for a given situation. 
  
  Talking about strategy, Sam Stone has as his disposal a useful tool called NETRICSA. It shows information 
 about monsters you have beaten, weapons acquired, important places and general information about 
 the actual level. It not only gives story, but also valuable tips that definitely change your experience 
 while playing. If a certain weapon is good against a type of monster, you'll know by just reading 
 the info in the NETRICSA. Of course, isn't always an explicit hint, you'll have to figure out what's 
 the best weapon considering the stated weakness. For example, if a weak monster is known by attacking 
 in groups, then you'll probably want to use an area effect weapon (Rocket Launcher, for example) 
 when they're all together, or a weapon with a good rate of fire (Minigun) if they're too distant.
 
  
  Now, imagine everything that I already said about Serious Sam, but playing with another players. 
 Sure the old Deathmatch is great, but it's the Cooperative mode that really shines here, in my 
 opinion. Killing the Mental hordes with some friends (or with unknown people from the internet) 
 is incredibly amazing. If you're a standard player, you can even consider setting a higher difficult 
 level for more fun. Not to mention that the epic battles against the giant-like bosses will become 
 even more epic in Multiplayer games.
  
  There're just a little more than a dozen of levels in Serious Sam: The Second Encounter, but they're 
 all big and each one is unique. You'll spend good hours while beating those ones, especially if 
 you decide to search for all secrets (some are important, while others are just for fun) . I like 
 to say that 'The Second Encounter' offers a dozen of limitless hours of gameplay, considering how 
 excellent this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Im a huge FPS fan and Serious Sam The Second Encounter is up there with my fave's. It may not look 
 like much but this fairly old game has basically everything I could ever want in an FPS. It's also 
 a huge improvement over the already amazing Serious Sam First Encounter.
  
  Looking for a serious shooter? Then dont even think about Serious Sam (why it's actually called 
 'serious' I dont know) because this game is so hilariously ridiculous I just love it. First I want 
 to talk about the enemies. Most shooters will see you fighting enemies such as Nazis, terrorists, 
 mercenaries etc but Serious Sam is different. Ever wanted to fight headless kamikazees that scream 
 at you, big green slime-throwing beasts, big guys with chainsaws and pumpkins for heads??? Well 
 you'll love Serious Sam, wackiest game ever! Your first thoughts may be 'that is so stupid' but 
 I love these crazy ideas... they've never been used in a game before and I think all the enemies 
 are really creative. You can imagine the developers saying 'how about a giant scorpion with a chaingun?' 
 or 'what about a dog-like skeleton that throws chains at you?'. Awesome, I love it.
  
  Be prepared for fighting hundreds of these wacky enemies at once: Serious Sam must be the game 
 with the biggest battles EVER. You'll be fighting literally, hundreds of monsters at once making 
 Serious Sam a non-stop action game. The First Encounter had huge battles too but I think the battles 
 in the Second Encounter are even bigger. So be prepared for buckets of blood too: what with all 
 the enemies you'll be slaughtering.
  
  What will you be taking down the foe with? Well, there's all the great weapons from the First Encounter: 
 knife, revolvers, shotguns, tommy gun, minigun, lasergun, rocket launcher, grenade launcher and 
 the cannon. Plus there's 3 new weapons: the chainsaw which is THE weapon of choice up close, the 
 flamethrower which is great for burning up groups of enemies and the sniper which is pretty essential 
 to the gameplay and the weapon that the First Encounter really needed. The weapons all work well 
 for different situations and they are really well designed and made.
  
  In The First Encounter you were fighting through Egypt throughout the whole game. Now, you'll be 
 fighting in 3 different areas. There's the jungle levels which are full of massive aztec-style 
 pyramids and temples and of course, trees, lakes etc. There's Babylon which consists of huge, gigantic 
 ancient buildings and big open areas and there's a medieval style land which is made of castles, 
 cathedrals etc. The levels are absolutely HUGE, there's only 12 but on average you'll be spending 
 around 50 minutes and more for each so the game is definitely long enough. 
  
  The graphics are really good for a 2002 game: the textures have been improved but it's the draw 
 distances that really impress. You can see things like buildings, trees and of course, enemies 
 for absolutely miles. Even a lot of draw distances in todays games still dont compare with this. 
 The graphics are also really colourful and different unlike all these dark shooters about. The 
 sound is all top-notch. The music is more quiet and calm when there arent any enemies around (which 
 is rare) and it changes to more fast-paced tunes when you are fighting.
  
  There's also a fantastic multiplayer mode with a great fast-paced deathmatch mode which easily 
 compares to deathmatch greats like Unreal Tournament. There's also co-op mode which means you'll 
 be fighting EVEN more enemies than in the single-player mode. With a friend, co-op is really good 
 fun. Along with the great multiplayer modes you get a map editor and a modeler. The replay value 
 is basically endless.
  
  My complaints with the game are really small. They are: Running for miles occasionly to get somewhere, 
 maybe just a few more levels, and I sometimes have troubles with multiplayer mode. But thats it.
 
  
  Overall I give this game a 9.8/10: it is superb. I recommend it to any FPS fan, it has an amazing 
 replay value and is just so much fun. Definitely the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hl20302
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam: The Second Encounter is the first expansion to the arcade-inspired first person shooter 
 action game, Serious Sam, made by Croteam. This is also one of the first and one of my favorite 
 games i own.
  
  Storyline: ********* 9/10
  Gameplay: ********* 9/10
  Graphics: ********* 9/10
  Sound: ********** 10/10
  Lasting Appeal: ********* 9/10
  
  THE 
 GOOD:
  The epic storyline of Serious Sam is back and now more serious, Split-Screen mode is back and better 
 than ever, New, nice, and fantastic looking levels thanks to Croteam's Serious Engine, New weapons 
 like the Sniper Rifle, Chainsaw, Flame Thrower, and the Serious Bomb are now in Sam's collection, 
 Fun and great multiplayer increases the replay value of this game, New enemies are now in Sam's 
 "Enemies List" (If you know what i mean) .
  
  THE BAD:
  The "Serious" Difficulty mode is almost impossible to finish, Final boss feels a little weak compared 
 to the final boss from Serious Sam: The First Encounter.
  
  STORYLINE:
  After Sam's victory of defeating the almighty Ugh-Zan III, Sam teleports into the Sirian Spaceship 
 and goes to Mental's Home Planet, Sirius. A few minutes later, something hit the Sirian Spaceship. 
 The Spaceship fell down through South America and landed on the South American Mountains. NETRICSA 
 tells Sam that the only way to get Mental is to find the "Holy Grail". Sam's new quest is to find 
 the "Holy Grail" which is the only way to get Mental and save the world and the universe.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  If you have played the First Encounter before this, than it's pretty much the 
 same gameplay. The gameplay is basically shooting thousands and thousands of waves of monsters 
 that stand in your way and you have about 13 weapons like the Double Shotgun, the Minigun, the 
 Grenade Launcher, and a Hand-Held Cannon. There is also some puzzles (Not like Half-Life puzzles 
 or puzzles that are so confusing and tough that want to make you say "Okay, seriously no more f*cking 
 puzzles) . The Single-Player mode is fantastic and pretty unique even though it's basically shooting 
 thousands of monsters with your 13 weapons that are shiny, but deadly. Oh and once you beat "Serious" 
 mode, like in First Encounter, you can unlock "Mental Mode" which the enemies disappears for half 
 a second. The Multi-Player mode has improved quite a bit here. In First Encounter, you only had 
 one deathmatch map which is called "Desert Temple". Now, you have about seven multi-player maps 
 like "Little Trouble", "Red Station" and more. Also, you now have more toys for your collection 
 which are the chainsaw, the sniper rifle, the flamethrower, and the seriousbomb (Which you can 
 only three of them) .
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Well, the graphics haven't improved THAT much. But i gotta say that even in 2008, it still looks 
 pretty nice and it's fun to explore the levels. Even though theres not really physics in the game. 
 The new models and textures like Mayan buildings, Babylonian Temples, and Medieval Castles look 
 great, even on a 2001 engine. What i say is, the graphics look great and much better than First 
 Encounter's Egypt levels.
  
  SOUND:
  Great... that's all i can say. The fantastic background music in levels are so epic and basically 
 fit for the type of scenario for the level. The weapons sound as good (and pretty realistic) as 
 always. Even the new weapons have a great sound that sound realistic. 
  
  IS THIS GAME WORTH RENTING OR BUYING:
  Well, after this review. I would obviously say this game 
 is worth buying for anyone who loves First Person Shooters or loved Serious Sam: The First Encounter. 
 
  
  SCORE FOR THIS GAME:
  My score for this game is:
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egess2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  So.... The graphics are good for a game of 2002. But how a guy can carry a canonball, minigun, rocket 
 launcher and the other weapons so easily!!!
  The story is uncompleated.
  
  Other than the more varied locations, The Second Encounter features some additional weapons - a 
 chainsaw, a flamethrower, a sniper rifle, and the powerful Serious Bomb - and a number of new monsters 
 that Sam has to face. This game has also seen the release of an expansion titled Serious Sam: Dark 
 Island, featuring some new levels for single and multiplayer mode.
  
  And the splitscreen mod has been not updeted.
  There is full of enemies.... over 2000!!! So, this 
 game is little bit out of the real world.
  One more thing, the graphics didn't change, it's like the first encounter!
  f you finished 
 this game, don't buy Serious Sam 2 ... you will be dissapointing! (you can be sure about it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Pickle
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I wanted an insane, fast paced, action filled shooter and that is exactly what I got. The graphics 
 are insane for their time, and the game runs perfectly even when you have 50+ monsters attcking 
 you. The weapons are awesome, fun to use, and very diverse, giving you many choices to slaughter 
 your enemies with. My favorites have to be the chaingun and the hand-held cannon. You also have 
 a "Serious Bomb" to wipe out every enemy at once in case you are about to die. There is also a 
 huge amont of enemies, from kamikaze soldiers, to exploding toads, and even giant biomechanical 
 fish like things with dual rocket launchers. The multiplayer and co-op modes are also very fun, 
 and in co-op the amount of enemies increase to make it harder. The multiplayer has a Unreal like 
 feel to it, because everyone moves and dies very fast.
  
  Honestly, I have nothing to criticise it about. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmpunmu3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Not a lot to say about this simple yet addictive game. No decent story to be concerned about, just 
 shoot-them-up and make them suffer style of play.
  Loads of guns to use, some of them have original touch to it, like cannon.
  This game is fast 
 paced and needs reflexes, stamina for crowded encounters, because fights sometimes last longer, 
 than it can be predicted.
  Monsters are very original and very angry, many of them loaded themselves to teeth with dangerous 
 guns.
  Map design is simply.. great, egyptian-styled world with thousands of traps, just like we imagine 
 pyramids :) , outdoors aren't less magnificent. 
  Multiplayer experience is a must, it adds strong spice to the hell of a crazy game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I'd never heard of any of the serious series until I'd search for Dukem equivalent games some time 
 ago, and to my delight this game appeared. Have played the death out of dukem, I needed something 
 to tingle my senses, so the Serious game playing began...
  
  Of course this game's 5 years old but its still one of the best and certainly set the standard 
 for future 1st person shooters. Clearly aimed at the shooters among us, you instantly thrown in 
 the environment after a short movie about beating the previous Serious Sam game, first encounter.
 
  After dropping into a pool of water, you can head out into the field of nasties, or possibly look 
 around for something to aid your adventure. The levels are big, you spend a time running around 
 looking for addon, weapons, powerups and the occassional super nastie which unless you've got a 
 portable nuclear bomb launcher, is going to take a few hits to get rid of. Scattered around is 
 hidden entrances, or other type bonuses (you'll have to figure that out yourselves) which add to 
 your score. The nasties range from a strange looking monster that'll just bite you to the mega 
 nasties I mentioned before so stock up on ammo. All levels lead you in open air, caves, under water, 
 pyramids, mazes, so much variety to play thru. The music and sound effects aid your quest as the 
 music pumps up giving you some insight that something's coming, the in game talk from Sam is also 
 quite amusing. The graphics were second to none at the time and still look quite good to play. 
 You can play on-line with 8 other plays or play against someone on the other side of the world.
 
  
  Its a pity that game companies just stick to basics such as this game and give the player a game 
 to complete one mission, survive!!
  
  Totally thumbs up and recommend to all 1st person shooter gamers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Olzme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Think of Hordes and Hordes of Enemies, then, 1 minutes break. Then, another wave appears. This 
 game Has you on the edge of your seat at all times! Weapons include knife, minigun, rocket lancher, 
 shotgun, even chainsaw and canons! Not only is there a excellent single player mode, you can play 
 this game on co-op mode or deathmatch online! You can even play with up to 4 players right on the 
 same computer!
  
  Although this is a brilliant game, it's not recommended for FPS who enjoy strategy and slow pace 
 (Which by I mean stealth. But for those who like madness none stop, this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Croteam is on drugs. The Second Encounter, while a great sequel, is also a nightmarish trip inside 
 the minds of some Croatian crack fiends [you mean alleged crack fiends, right?  Ed.] .
  
  The game picks up the moment we left Sam  rocketing toward the alien world of Sirius to defeat 
 Mental. But a convertible space-buggy housing 24 little guys dressed like Sam, with gargantuan 
 heads, careens into the flying saucer, hurling it down to South America.
  Think thats absurd? Just wait. If there was any doubt that the kooky Croatians are on foul, illicit 
 substances, authorities now have proof.
  
  Take this bit of evidence. Red phone booths are hidden about the levels, from which you call yourself 
 in other time periods, except one booth from which you call Blondie in Las Vegas. A Canadian accented 
 Jones picks up, and tells you, Blondie will show up when hes done, boy. Five long levels later, 
 youre walking up a medieval spiral staircase, and you hear: Psst! Hey! Hey! Theres a one-inch-tall 
 red demon hidden on the windowsill, whispering at you. Shoot him, and a booming voice says: Oh 
 my God! You killed Blondie! And youre awarded some secret health.
  
  What does this mean? It means if you like non-sequitur humor, this game will have you in stitches, 
 because theres some totally messed-up stuff going down.
  
  Thankfully, the purple haze lifted from the Croteam offices long enough for them to add some gameplay, 
 including a new sniper rifle that drops werebulls a mile out, and a flamethrower thats especially 
 handy in situations of beehive-like overcrowdedness.
  
  Youll deploy these weapons against 27 unique enemies, including a memorable chainsaw-revving, 
 pumpkin-headed abomination named Cucurbito the Pumpkin. Enemy AI is still quintessentially Serious 
 Sam (run toward player; kill player) , but now youll find a wider variety of evil galloping toward 
 you at any given time.
  
  Croteam, amid auditory hallucinations, heard fans pleas for more varied environments. While the 
 South American maps feel like Egypt covered with lush vegetation, you also lay waste in underground 
 lava maps, a snowy village, an ice castle, and some trippy anti-gravity rooms inside stone castles.
 
  
  Oh, did I mention youre after the Holy Grail this time? Not that the plots important.
  
  Youll also face three entertaining end-bosses, the most original being an ancient wind god 
 whos constantly releasing tornados that send you and the galloping minions of Mental hurling miles 
 into the sky and back again. He can also deflect rockets, sending them whirling out of control. 
 Its a cool sight.
  
  Further solidifying an allegiance to Doom-style gameplay, Croteam hid a ton of secrets (126, in 
 fact) for explorers to uncover. A word of warning, though: not all surprises are happy ones. Half 
 the time, picking up a hidden health disc will turn a nearby shrubbery into a chaingun-toting shrubbery. 
 And keep an eye out for the Secret K. O. Boxing Glove, Secret Snowman Avenger, and Secret Santa 
 Jam!
  
  Multiplayer options are intact, offering 16-player co-op play and eight new DM maps.
  
  At 
 its core, this encounter has enough Serious, balls-out, guns-a-blazin goodness that you can easily 
 justify paying the measly $20 price. Theres at least as much gunplay as in the first episode, 
 and the new variety makes this sequel a more stimulating ride. Lord knows, the designers were stimulated. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkPhoenix142
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  When I played the PS2 version of Serious Sam, I thought Wow! its like a **** shooting gallery! 
 I love it! Now that I have played SS on PC I would have to say that it is much better than the 
 PS2 version. This one has an actual story and an amazing variation of Enemies and Weapons. I've 
 found about 20 weapons in the game, each one is more fun to use and more damaging than the last. 
 I also liked the fact that they make you feel like a Supe Bad-Ass! You can get shot with a barrage 
 of rockets and only take like 25% damage. Now thats awesome. The online mode of the game is great. 
 Lots of different multiplayer modes and the weapons are just as potent. Though, I would of loved 
 to see a 2 player story co-op mode on the PC version.
  
  Pros: Lots of weapons, Lots of enemies, Gives you that bad ass feel, Online is great.
  
  Cons: 
 Can be a little hard at times, Lacks 2 player online Co-Op.
  
  I love this game and I hope to frag you soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakesommersHP
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Because i have a very bad computer, i was looking for an old FPS that could work on my PC. I downloaded 
 a demo for this game, thinking that it was going to be a run-of-the-mill shooter. Well, i was wrong. 
 In the first level you have thousands of enemies coming right into your face, and it was one of 
 the best demos i have played. While towards the middle of the game it got a bit repetitive, it 
 was (and still is) one of the best computer experiences i have had.
  There are cool weapons, like flamethrowers, shotguns and laser cannons, though nothing that has 
 been done before. It is also a very easy game, and also quite short, but if you overlook these 
 facts, you have an addictive game that is good for anybody who likes an FPS or not! I wish there 
 was a third encounter, but there will probably never be one, but you can still hope! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyboy131
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 16, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  This game's not very deep. Actually, there isn't any depth to it at all. The whole point to it 
 is to run and gun. Then run and gun some more, only this time like you really mean it !! The keys 
 to the greatness of this simple game isn't the running and gunning; any game can do that. Rather, 
 it's the way you're able to do it all. Firstly, there are often many enemies coming at you at once, 
 yet this doesn't bog down the system. Croteam built this engine for allowing massive amounts of 
 on-screen activity while also allowing for smooth operation. No matter how much shooting and exploding 
 is going on, or how many enemies are being obliterated at a time, the game never seems to bog down. 
 That's impressive!
  
  Secondly, there are of course an array of typical shooter weapons, like a shotgun, dual handguns, 
 sniper rifle, and grenade and rocket launchers, and a few others. But what I noticed as I went 
 along, merrily blasting my way through each level, is that each weapon is distinctly different 
 from the others. In some situations, I found myself using the very powerful sniper rifle to take 
 down those winged uglies from a distance, or some other particularly big baddie, before I jump 
 into the main fray. Then, once in it neck deep, I'd be switching from shotgun to eliminate close-up 
 baddies; then to the grenade launcher while running backwards, dropping grenades onto my path as 
 I retreat. Then I'd quickly switch over to the mini-gun, and proceed to sweep a broader area, mowing 
 down anything in the bullet stream. Even the circular saw comes in handy if some of those guys 
 manage to get up close and personal. For me it's the unique usefulness of each weapon that really 
 put this game on a level above many other shooters. Oddly, as a sniper weapon, the basic dual six-shooters 
 are great, especially since they have an unlimited ammo supply.
  
  This game is intense, too! Sometimes too intense. Because it's all about running and gunning and 
 blowing things up, the game often becomes overwhelming. You pretty much end up running for life, 
 often backwards, trying to blast away at the hordes chasing you, while at the same time sweeping 
 side to side and looking the other way, just trying to find a path out of it all, or at least a 
 moment's rest to regroup, reload, and let your hand relax from its death-grip on the mouse. After 
 playing for a while, I sometimes had to shut off the game and let the adrenaline drop back down 
 to normal levels. If you like intense shooters, this one's surely a must-play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeGamespot
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  This game is a awesome game, truly amazing if you're a FPS fan!
  The value is great and it's playability is just insane, you'll have much fun playing it for hours 
 and hours to end.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Great gameplay, looks just like counterstrike but you are able to kill thousands and thousands of 
 enemies which by the way is really hard when there's many of them right in front of you. It's scaring 
 sometimes when a enemy appears surprising you, but it's really fun and improves your reflexes, which 
 by the way is a very good thing. The AI is good and smart, you won't see enemies doing the same thing 
 all the time, most of them have different reactions to different situations.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Great graphics for its time, shadows and everything have been really well done and even the 
 reflexes of this game are great, you can see much blood in it but you won't see much gore, sometimes 
 you'll of course.
  Enemies have their own characteristics and that makes easier to recognize them.
  
  Sounds:
 
  
  Really good sounds, you can hear your footsteps, enemies shouting and everything exploding. You won't 
 be disappointed, the musics that are played on each level are really good too, perfect for the theme.
 
  
  Value:
  
  One of the cheapest games, a great value... it's really worth for a FPS fan!
  
  Concluding:
 
  
  Great game and replayability, which means you can play and finish it as many times as you want and 
 don't get bored, and there's a great multiplayer which features the Co-Op option to play the entire 
 game with two players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yen888
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  This is the best serious sam ever! I've played quite a few and found this in the bargain bucket 
 for &pound;3! It was well worth it and would of been even at &pound;25. The graphics are breathtaking 
 and the sound makes you feel like you're really there. The game play is everything you'd expect 
 from serious sam; fast, brutal and fun. The game lasts ages, but does not go on for too long. To 
 sum it up, you'd of been better buying the game than reading it's review, you could of experienced 
 the amazing world of serious sam 2. You can never go wrong with serious sam! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  This is the best serious sam gets. It is even better than serious sam 2 (2005) . I've played it and 
 believe me it ain't all that great except for humorous situations. Serious sam second encounter 
 is one game that offers unbelievable graphics, huge levels and a plethora of enemies without hampering 
 the frame rate at all. It has some vary enjoyable moment to be encountered .This is something which 
 serious sam 2 fails to offer except for requiring huge system specs. This is a must play for any 
 serious sam lover and any gamer. It 'll never dissappoint. Even the music is great to get ur adrenaline 
 pumping. A bit different from first encounter but muuuuuuuch better. It's definitely worth ur money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarbedBuffalo
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game turned out great for a sequal. Loved every minute of it. Just non stop shooting sawing 
 knifing burning blasting exploding all out killing sprees. I was alot happier the way this sequal 
 ended than in Halo 2 which had a real sucky ending.... Serious Sam SE however turned out better 
 than i had hoped. The graphics were great for its time , i still think the graphics are pretty 
 good considering most of those aging games look like butt because they are pixilized beond belief. 
 This is definately the best in the series. Don't get me wrong i love the first encounter but... 
 the surroundings looked the same on every lvl... mostly desert.. it got old after a while. But 
 the levels on SE however surroundings are breathtaking in comparison.
  
  I noticed somebody wrote that the final boss is about the same size as the players??? how can that 
 be, if in the notes after you beat the lvl, they said the summoner was 80 ft tall? and about how 
 tall is serious sam? 6-8ft?
  
  they probably add up the space inbetween the ground to the top of his head though.
  
  Online 
 co-op take a step back and examine other players near the boss, he looks drasticly larger. it could 
 just be the few your playing it in. 
  
  not saying the guy is wrong though he does seem short . :\
  
  but it shouldn't completely ruin 
 the gameplay. the final lvl takes long enough to beat anyway. the fastest i ever beat it was in 
 47 minutes.
  
  definately pick up a copy of this game, 10x as fun if ur pissed at someone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightymarvin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  Yes people Sam is back with more hours of game-play, better weapons (the infamous serious bomb 
 included) , smarter enemies (not smart enough though) .
  Croteam is back with a great sequel to Serious Sam. The Second Encounter adds a lot of features 
 to the Serious Sam franchise. The trademark features of the Serious Sam series are still there 
 such as huge maps, astounding number of enemies on screen at once and funny (for the moment) one 
 liners. The added features include power-ups, more weapons (viz. the chainsaw, grenade launcher, 
 etc.) , more enemies including boss enemies as well. The Single Player/Co-op mode is better than 
 the death-match mode. The maps in both modes are well built. 
  The death-match needs more attention the next time Serious Sam gets a sequel. As I said the maps 
 in death-match mode are well built and they are wasted because of the bad death-match mode. If 
 there are any map makers reading this review I suggest you redesign the death-match maps found 
 in The Second Encounter for other game series like Quake, UT, etc.
  There are different reasons the death-match mode is bad for instance you can easily be fragged 
 by an inexperienced player. That can even turn into a plus point when you are playing with new 
 gamers.
  Well the game is worth it just for the Single Player/Co-op mode cause it is AWESOME. Play with 
 increased difficulty with a number of gamers and you will see a completely different aspect of 
 the game. 
  Get the game, play it, after you are done download some of the community submitted maps & mods 
 and keep playing. (you will find them on www. seriouszone. com) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyubi-Naruto
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam: The Second Encounter does not live up to the Serious Sam name. There has been few 
 changes from Serious Sam: The First Encounter. Of those changes, they actually make the game less 
 exciting and fun.
  
  Since 2001, when Serious Sam: The First Encounter quietly came out, people have been amazed at 
 The First Encounter, hoping for an even better sequel, The Second Encounter. However, Serious Sam: 
 The Second Encounter is really disapointing.
  
  The gameplay is the worst factor of what makes this game so mediocre. In the gameplay, unlike FE, 
 tends to be more in small fields, and rooms, etc... In FE most of the battles are on large battlefields. 
 In SE, more enemies have been added, and the ememies from FE have become fewer, although not extinct. 
 The new enemies are sort of what you'll expect in a Sci-Fi First Person Shooter Game. The new enemies 
 are weak, non-frightening, and looks like something thought of in an instant, whithout careful 
 thinking. The final boss is the worst of the gameplay, almost as large as the player. The final 
 boss, Mortekai the Summoner, summons enemies, without fighting you itself. Mordekai the Summoner 
 is really weak, which a couple of grenades and rockets can finish off in just like a minute or 
 so. The final boss looks like a witch in gray rags, so it doesn't really make you thrilled. In 
 FE, the final boss, is almost 100x as large as the player and has giant weapons attached to its 
 arms, and cannot be destroyed simply by firing at it. The multiplayer has nothing in common with 
 the term fun. In multiplayer, there is still the co-op, and deathmatch. In deathmatch, Croteam 
 has added more levels or arenas. These levels has been targeted only for fun, instead of requiring 
 skill, all you have to do, is learn to control the cannon. In the single player and multiplayer 
 co-op is what really offbeat. There are eleven levels, most of them tend to be on small battlefields, 
 as mentioned above. And Croteam has added a bit of weather-like substances to make the levels seem 
 more creative. But the weather, such as snow on the ground, makes it less fun. One level actually 
 has a haunted tower which you have to climb. The arsenals, weapons, have only increased by three 
 from FE. These three are the chainsaw, sniper rifle, and flamethrower. The old set of weapons are 
 still available.
  
  The graphics have improved, only because of the green backgrounds. The setting of the game is the 
 prairies/grasslands and temples of South America, which isn't really appropriate for a FPS game, 
 unlike in FE, the setting is ancient Egypt. 
  
  More sounds have been added to SE, wherein FE has a few notable sounds/music. One of the best factors 
 of SE is the background music, which is actually better than FE. But please be reminded that the 
 music is not exceptional, only increases in variety.
  
  The value of this game is the same as FE, where they both cost less than 6 USD today, a really 
 cheap price. But if you have the money and time to play this game, I recommend you play FE instead. 
 SE will give you a few hours of gameplay, and replay value, which is a fair deal for $6.
  
  Alas, the tilt. I don't really like SE because I knew it could have been a better sequel. Also 
 maybe because Fe was made too good. And SE is not a really bad game, except that FE was too addicting. 
 I still strongly recommend you get FE first.
  
  In conclusion, Serious Sam: The Second Encounter is a fair game, with nothing to talk about. SE 
 does not really live up to the original FE. With multiplayer co-op and many deathmatch levels, 
 it is not all that bad, although keeping in mind that Serious Sam: The First Encounter is more 
 unique and fun than The Second Encounter is a good idea.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabe_Laurence
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  I only played the demo, but I can tell you I don't REALLY want the game. The shooting just feels 
 long-winded, I was wishing it would just end. But, in true serious sam fashion, it won't. The best 
 part about the graphics was the frame rate, which stays almost insanely steady. Stuff is blowing 
 up, multiple enemies are coming at you in droves and you'll be saying; all right, the frame rate 
 is gonna hitch up now. But it won't. Even if you system is mildly cruddy. But the detail is boring 
 and the interface is bland.
  
  One thing that isn't said enough about this game is the blood and gore. It is mind-bogglingly, 
 insanely gory. You'll shoot a dude and he will EXPLODE. Blood will gush everywhere, splatter on 
 walls and the floor, and make you want to vomit. Maybe. Hippie blood is funny, but with all the 
 blood on, this game makes other game's violence look mild. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxgregoryxx
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is a must have for either xbox or PC. this game has much to offer with a run and shoot 
 type of thing where you may soon have to solve a puzzle, find an object or just plain old destroy. 
 it has amazing things to offer like the graphics, sounds, game play controls, and most importantly 
 old school guns. you may think from the title that it doesn't sound like a good game that you would 
 like to play but as soon as you start going, you wont stop. this game has everything a action shooter 
 needs, big bosses, crazy enemies to destroy, huge levels, a wide variety of huge ass guns and for 
 the cherry on top a wise crackin guy named Sam. overall simply an amazing game and the action it 
 this is what sets this bad boy a flame 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limonadi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 5, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam the Second Encounter, while not a true sequel, still kicks alot of ass. You get an 
 entire new adventure that is really long. You get new weapons like the chainsaw, flamethrower, 
 and sniper rifle, which are lots of fun. There's new enemies to kill, and even more extreme amounts 
 of bad guys to take on.
  
  Once again, the co-op feature makes it's debut making this game a scream at LAN parties or over 
 broadband to your buddies house. You can even sign onto Gamespy or other easy means of connecting 
 to hook up. Now that I've described the game, here's a pointer.
  
  Any time you see those little green froggies jumping at you, bust out the chainsaw and just lay 
 down the fire button! You'll mow them all up before they even touch you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vittoriobaky
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 28, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  So, what could I say here? Not much - I told enough on The First Encounter review already. What 
 did the game change then? New environments, weapons, monsters, levels, and a lot of added fun. 
 They managed to improve a little every single part of the game (the cooperative mode here is one 
 of the best multiplayer parts I've ever seen in a game) , without ruining anything. The game became 
 more varied as for places, and better for everything else - like it wasn't good already... and 
 at the usual 20$ price, it can't be missed, especially if you somehow missed The First Encounter: 
 you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moarjosh
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is a have to have for PC gamers. It is filled with action and is completely perfect in 
 every way. The weapons are great and you don't run out of ammo very much. The enemies are really 
 cool as well. There is a huge variety of enemies big or small. It also takes some skill at some 
 parts, but the rest is basically just run shoot and kill. That is why this game is so fun. The 
 game does not cost very much now so I think you should look for a copy and buy it. Even though 
 the story is not really thought out and hard core it still suits the game. Which is a fun to play 
 First Person Shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  This I have to say was a bit of a diffrent Sam. The original was based around ancient Egypt. But 
 this was a sight confusing. Basicaly the plot kicks off where the last one ended. But this time, 
 we find oursleves in Peru (I think) in an aztec temple. After much point, shoot, kill I find myself 
 at a big tornado. A bit more point, shoot killing later and I'm in India. How the hell did that 
 happen. Oh well, at least I have my guns. What? No guns? Which is my hating point for this game.
 
  
  Essentialy it's three mini Sams in one game. But this is quite ambitious as touring Peru like in 
 Sam 1 would of been a bit dull. This game is a bit more big fight in the middle and big fight at 
 the end. But still it should of let me keep ma guns. I am a bit annoyed about that. However, the 
 fun factor remains and a good game it is. Like people say, you can't keep a good dog down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: franklinzhang
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, its got nice graphics, sound, scenery, gameplay, everything! I got this game 
 at compusa about 3 years ago. I haven't really played it recently. When I first got it, I tried 
 it on my old Compaq computer, it was extremely laggy and the control was horrible. I read the readme 
 and found out that the motherboard and graphics card wasn't right for the game. The downside of 
 Serious Sam 2 is that it requires too good hardware. The game is awesome, I like how the netricsa 
 mechanism reacts when you kill a new monster. The graphics are also superb, you can even see the 
 fragments of stuff when you try to destroy it. The funniest thing about the game besides how the 
 monsters are when they die is how you can have hippie blood and gore. It shows blood in flowers, 
 candy, and lollipops. Overall, I would recommend this game to anyone who likes fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 1, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This was worth the $5. I mean everything is awesome, more monsters, 3 new weapons and 3 different 
 terrains. Even if the graphics and sound are pretty much the same. It is awesome because the levels 
 you play in are phenomenal. They did the level design bigger and better and that's what makes you 
 play a lot. Not to mention a little more sense of humour in the game. Not to mention the boss fights 
 are great. When you come against a boss... they are huge and the game comes with a catchy music 
 when your fighting a boss. When I looked at this game I thought it is going to be the same thing 
 as the first one. Then I saw it on shelves at "the source" for $5 and I thought what the heck I 
 will buy it for that price... And man this game was totally worth it. No wonder this game got pc 
 shooter award. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  Serious sam first encounter was a surprisingly good game mainly because it was a run and gun shooter 
 that didn't have much depth or personality. It had some crude humor and a rather long camapaign 
 that had lots of replay value in it's fun multiplayer modes, plus the game was only retailing for 
 a wopping $20. It was an absolute must play because of this. Serious sam second encounter is the 
 sequel to that game and improves on pretty much every aspect that made Serious sam first encounter 
 so much fun. For starters, the game is even now funnier with lots of humor and an even longer single 
 player campaign with some really weird moments. Simply put, Serious sam second encounter is an 
 incredible shooter in every way.
  
  Just like in the first game, you play Sam "Serious" Stone and he's still on his quest to find Mentor, 
 the evil genius who sent hordes and hordes of monsters your way in the first game. Just like in 
 the first game, you'll face even more monsters with more weaponry and more fun, memorable moments. 
 Although Serious sam second encounter isn't very story driven, the story itself is well put together, 
 despite the rather odd cliff-hanger at the end. 
  
  Serious sam second encounter has some very cool looking monsters. You'll face everything, from 
 robots to monsters with two heads. It's really not your normal shooter and is great if your tired 
 of those boring puzzle shooters that make you think, beause this game does not. Serious sam second 
 encounter also features some larger than life boss fights, especially the end fight against mentor 
 again, which is just as great as the first. 
  
  Serious sam second encounter's level design is very well done. You'll visit everything from the 
 ancient Aztec temples to the ruins of the Myans. Although not remarkable, it is a bit distinct 
 and nice to visit three different ancient empires instead of just ancient Egypt like in the first 
 Serious sam. 
  
  Serious sam second encounter has some bright and colorful graphics. Everything is very well detailed 
 and you just have to love the level of detail on each monster, even if their animations are quite 
 stiff. The graphics engine has been totally re-done and it looks flat out fantastic, especially 
 in how hordes and hordes of enemies surround you at all times. It's a breathtaking adventure from 
 the time you start to the time you finish. 
  
  Some new weaponry has also been addded to the mix. You now have thirteen different weapons, which 
 is a nice step up for a sequel. The weapons are all very useful, including your ten from Serious 
 sam first encounter. The three weapons that have been added are the: chainsaw, sniper rifle, and 
 the flamethrower. All of them are useful as I said, but some are way more satisfying than others. 
 The double barrel shotgun for instance, is great because of the physics engine that send enemies 
 flying, but the flamethrower is also satisfying if you have hordes of enemies coming at you. 
 
  
  The formula of Serious sam second encounter works something like this. You run into a huge arena 
 that is so big you can't even go from one end to the other, hordes of enemies come at you, after 
 you kill them all you then get ammo/health/armor that drops, then you either repeart or move on. 
 Although this sounds very repetitive and not much fun on paper, It's actually some of the most 
 intense moments I've ever had with a video game, espeically with all the difficulty settings, this 
 game can be accessible to just about everyone. You can also turn off blood if that makes you a 
 bit un-easy, so there's really no reason not to play this killer shooter.
  
  The biggest and coolest thing about Serious sam the second encounter is that it's only retailing 
 for a wopping $20. That's an absolute steal, I mean the single player campaign is well worth that 
 price for admission, but then throw in some fun mulitplayer/LAN co-op and you have one fun shooter.
 
  
  Serious sam second encounter's audio is pretty impressive. Music starts up whenever monsters surround 
 you, which is almost always and the music is pretty well done. The voice acting is a bit cheesy, 
 especially Sam's voice, but it's meant that way for a reason, since this game, despite it's name, 
 does not take itself seriously be any means. The weapons sounds are all unique, although the machine 
 gun noises are a bit muffled. Still the audtio department is solid, but the graphics and fast paced 
 shooting is what will draw you into this thrill ride.
  
  Serious sam second encounter has a lot of fun moments in it. If you like shooters or games like 
 Painkiller, Doom, or Quake, you simply must play this game. If you missed out on Serious sam first 
 encounter, then don't miss out on this little gem again, at $20 price tag and a wealth of difficulty 
 options and even the ability to turn off blood, there is no reason and no excuse not to play this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viciousadvent
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam: The Second Encounter is packed with just as much blood and guts as the first one, 
 with plenty of new weapons, new enemies, and new corny sayings that made Serious Sam: The First 
 Encounter the game that it was. There is nothing particularly new in the gameplay department, but 
 thats definitely not a bad thing! However, the sequel is just as good as the first, including everything 
 the original had and more. 
  
  At the start of the game, you will be placed in a Mayan/Egyptian environment with towering temples, 
 dark caves, and beautiful waterfalls. The world (s) of Serious Sam: The Next Encounter are enormous. 
 The levels within the levels of Next Encounter range from creepy thunder storming graveyards to 
 small villages covered in snow to sunny mayan jungles. 
  
  The storyline isn't exactly the strong point of this game. Basically, you're trying to gather up 
 all these different items so you can defeat the evil Mental. The puzzles aren't a great part either, 
 but the action more than makes up for both of these weak points.
  
  Good Points:
  - amazing world and levels
  - the enemies never stop coming
  - lives up to the original and 
 adds more
  
  Bad Points:
  
  - the enemies are never ending, leaving no room for story telling or puzzle solving
  
  Overall, 
 Serious Sam: The Second Encounter is great game that shouldn't be missed by any fan of the genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psycho_FreakX
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2005 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The good  Fast paced FPS action dozens of enemies on screen at once + over dozen different types 
 of enemies & Weapons. 
  
  The Bad  Very little Story & Single Player Experience is short (around 6+ hours to complete Single 
 Player)
  
  Serious Sam: The Second Encounter is an Expansion to the Serious Sam: The First Encounter. Serious 
 Sam is a fast paced FPS that throw you with lots of ammo and Enemies. At first glance everyone 
 would say its a duke nukem rip off hes more then duke could have ever been at a budget price. 
 The Story to SS:2nd counter is Serious Sam Stone Must Travel threw time to stop evil Mental Evil 
 Minions. Serious Sam will Travel threw a Dozen of Levels to battle hundreds of enemies. Each level 
 is basically kill swarm of enemies collect ammo more enemies spawns kill them press switch go to 
 next area rinse and repeat. Some may think that will simply get old real fast well actually it 
 doesnt its fun theres a variety of enemies and weapons to keep you interested. I love the voice 
 work for Sam. The Levels Ranches from Deserts to Jungles inside structures. There are some interesting 
 Enemies in the game. Enemies ranch from Small to Big there are Skeleton like Horses in the game 
 and guys with no heads running with bombs also lava creatures. Serious Sam really has interesting 
 enemies the weapons are more interesting. Theres a dozen of weapons in ss:2nd encounter from combat 
 knife to revolvers, shotgun, rocket launcher, flamethrower, grenade launcher & Serious Bomb (Which 
 is SERIOUSLY AWESOME) . In these levels there are several secrets finding them all is an challenge 
 they range from weapons & power ups and some weird stuff I am not going to mention. These levels 
 also feature power ups such as health, speed, shield and other various enhancements. There is also 
 some great Multiplayer from co op to Deathmatches + more modes & characters. 
  
  The Game is four Years Old back then it would have great graphics but today the graphics are still 
 pretty good. This game isnt about the eye candy its about shooting and blowing things up. The 
 Game Enemies and Environments looks ok for a budget title the environments dont look too good 
 but its about the FPS not scenery. 
  
  The Voice Work for Sam is Golden the lines he has just fits the game very well. He says some memorable 
 remarks AHHHH cmon you headless freak, didnt I kill you two rooms back, Its Time to Get Serious. 
 The Enemies and Weapons sound pretty good the Weapons dont sound to realistic but enough it doesnt 
 bother you. The Enemies Screams and grunts are Entertaining while your pumping them full of lead. 
 
  
  Serious Sam: The Second Encounter is a Great Budget FPS its almost perfect from the fact the single 
 player is short the game is darn good for a budget FPS. + The Multiplayer should keep you Busy 
 after you complete the single player in several hours. The Multiplayer will draw you in the game 
 and wont let go. Only Complaints I Have is the few times you have to Jump or Swim in the Game 
 to complete a puzzle element. Other then that this is a Perfect edition to any FPS collection I 
 HIGHLY Recommend it. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 9:44 am PT
Review:  Serious sam second encounter is a great game, its just like doom but more beautiful and there are 
 far more enemies.
  Serious sam the first encounter was good, but this one is better because there are different levels 
 (not only egyptian style) , more sorts of enemies and new weapons such as the chainsaw or sniper 
 rifle.
  Online gameplay is also amazing, it doesnt lag and there are more modes then in the first encounter....
 
  So Serious sam 2/2 is better then Serious am 1/2.
  Great game and action!!!!!!! Worth to buy and very very very worth playing.
  Also you can record 
 your game and use the editor of serious sam, so you can build your own maps or levelpacks.
  Cya all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:44 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam: The Second Encounter hit the spot. Its made itself worthy of Serious Sam. The graphics 
 have improved, and the gameplay remains the same. The humor was kept and the enemies are still 
 popping up out of no where. I enjoyed this one more than the 1st one. The split screen option on 
 it allows me to enjoy this game with friends on one computer. The only let down I found is that 
 none of us can use the mouse, because it moves both guys.. but besides that, its great for multiplaying 
 co-op. If you see it for sale, get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohan_bhanot200
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 10, 2005 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam: The First Encounter was a big surprise for all, considering its developer, Croteam, 
 which was virtually unknown. And, it was great fun.
  Now, its sequel is here with a lot of expectations. And surely it does fulfill the majority of 
 them.
  
  Picking up from where the first encounter left, the second encounter continues. After jacking Ugh-Zan 
 III's spaceship, Sam heads down to Sirus, where unfortunetly he doesn't reach. Actually, his spaceship 
 is shot down by a barge (heh heh) . Now, he lands (crashes) in South America where he is surrounded 
 by an ever strong force of mental's (the baddy behind the game) minons. Thankfully, NETRICSA (a computer 
 chip planted in Sam's mind) has uploaded data from the space ship Sam was travelling in. The data 
 states that the Sirians (the civilization sam is against) left a portal for every great civilization 
 of the world. Through these portals, Sam travells through Mesoamerica, Babylon and finally medieval 
 Europe. Anyways, the storyline has never been of much significance, as the Gorefest is the main 
 thing.
  
  The game now introduces easy puzzles, secrets (a lot of them) and deadly traps, which were not quite 
 abundant in the first game. The AI has also been improved and now many Gnaars (monsters) perform 
 circle strafes to attack you. on top of all the golden oldie monsters are new ones as well. The 
 most interesting thing is the introduction of the three new weapons- the P-LAH chainsaw, the flamethrower 
 and the sniper rifle. The new level design makes the game more enjoyable. To make the game more 
 exiting, four new powerups, the serious damage, serious speed, Invurnebility and Invisibilty have 
 been added. The newly improved engine also carefully recreates each object in the environment.
 
  
  Croteam kept in mind the balance between all weapons and monsters, as all require different tactics, 
 different weapons and defences. Also, in closer areas, enemies make sounds which signify their 
 appproach from anywhere:; which can be known from the voice.
  
  There is also a complete modding kit available to all who would like to use it, and also the serious 
 engine. The second encounter also comes with Seriously Warped Deathmatch, a mod featuring a new 
 method of gameplay.
  
  In short, it could be said this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 21, 2005 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Serious Same: The Second Encounter. This is the sequel to the GameSpot 2001 PC game of the year. 
 The first game was so good that there had to be a second. It just stands to reason. The fold at 
 Croteam new they had a fast pasted, very intensive FPS following from the start. Game two has a 
 special power-up that looks like a round, black, bomb with a fuse. That a big-time power-up and 
 should be saved until the situation becomes very drastic. Other new weapons include the Raptor 
 16 mm sniper gun, XOP Flamethrower (continuous napalm) , and Bonecracker P-LAH Chainsaw.
  
  The demonic critters are basically the same as the first game and they still come in droves. About 
 the time one thinks to rest, BAM, the critters are coming from everywhere again. The game is serious 
 carnage, serious mayhem, and serious destructive forces on the gamers part. As in the first game 
 the graphics far out do those of more popular and more expensive games of the time. The white tee 
 shirt, blue jeans, and red tennis shoes of the main character take a hero figure to a new level.
 
  
  Overall, if you like VERY fast pasted killing at the FPS level, this is your game series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Final-Fatality
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam TSE is finally here! The first Serious Sam kicked up a storm with beautiful graphics 
 but old school gameplay. And now, Serious Sam 1.5 is here. 
  
  Graphics: Almost the same as the first game, only a little more polished. You have to look carefully 
 to see the marginal improvements though. It's still beautiful, colorful with hundreds of creatures 
 onscreen.
  
  Sound: The voice acting is horrible. Youu can't even hear what Sam is saying because his voice 
 is so hoarse and gravelly. However the other ambient sounds are alright - Not incredibly, but passable.
 
  
  Gameplay: Old School. Just fire without thinking. The hordes of enemies may make it repeitive though.
 
  
  However, 1 part of the game I disliked was that sometimes getting the items required for opening 
 the doors was too easy. It's very unlike the first game, where getting the items usually took you 
 10 minutes for each one. For TSE, it'll take you about 2 minutes for each one. I was usually left 
 gaping at the ease I got the items. Either the developers decided to let us have a easier time 
 or they got lazy half-way. I would have liked it if the process took longer, although not as long 
 as TFE.
  
  Value: Definately at 20 bucks!
  
  Conclusion: A must get since its so cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudeeemadudbomb
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 30, 2005 2:23 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I beat half-life 2, .... ok. But that doesn't mean I don't have any good games. 
 I semi-beat painkiller {Got to last boss, died. Decided 'good enough'} , I got pretty far in XIII 
 and Second Sight, not done with SS yet though. And I like screwing around with Aliens vs Predator 
 1 and 2, turning into other characters, level jumping, all guns. That stuff.
  
  This game is quite old. I saw it in one of those 'discontinued' boxes. Those huge ass ones. It 
 was only 3.99. You know what I was thinking? What an awesome deal! But I already had it. I got 
 it for 10 dollars with the first one and state of emergency. What an even better deal!
  
  If you have atleast a semi recent PC {Like me: AMD XP-3000+, 512 RAM Geforce FX 5700 but I'm savin' 
 up for a x800\6800GT} you can run it max everything. The graphics are quite good, with lens flares, 
 foliage and just like every Serious Sam game 50+ enemies on the screen at once in huge-ass levels. 
 
  
  What's the first thing you think about when some one mentions enemies from Serious Sam? 
  They 
 bleed alot when you shoot them? Yes, but the enemies are just as diverse as ever, ranging from 
 your favorite beheaded screaming guy, to pumpkin headed guys with chainsaws. They even have different 
 classes of certain enemies.
  
  The controls are just like any other FPS on PC. Customizable, and good.
  
  I mentioned huge 
 ass levels. The enviroments are really different. When you get to a new area you'll know, because 
 they are all so different. There are Icy places Fire places, standard Serious Sam Egypt places 
 and Castles. 
  
  I might have said "Check your bargan bin.", but in this case it's a good thing! Seriously! Check 
 your bargan bin!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2005 12:44 pm PT
Review:  If you want to know about Serious Sam please read my review of Serious Sam: The First Encounter. 
 I'll tell you quickly about the second one. It's everything that the first game was only better. 
 The levels are bigger, the mosters are badder, and they throw everthing but the kitchen sink at 
 you in this intense shooter. Even the environment becomes a challenge with bouncing rooms, wind 
 rooms, and levels where the ceiling is the floor and the floor is the ceiling. This game will put 
 even the most experienced first person shooter to the test. 
  
  The graphics are not the same as some of the more current first person shooters, aiming toward 
 scary realism, instead Sam is colorful and fantastic, and often times quite funny. Often times 
 you will find yourself just staring at the scenery wondering where they came up with this stuff. 
 
  
  The sound is good, the voice overs are hilarious as Sam has quite a sense of humor as he blasts 
 hordes of baddies away. Don't go looking for anything amazing, this game puts it's effort into 
 the gameplay, not fancy sound effects.
  
  Serious Sam: The Second Encounter is a throwback to the classic days of first person shooters where 
 all you have to do is keep the enemy in your sights, your finger on the fire button and hope you 
 don't run out of ammo. Croteam took a winning game with the first Sam and made it even better so 
 now you have more fun than you can shake a stick at for about half the money you would usually 
 spend on a good game, you can't loose! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyuSlash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2004 1:54 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game a while back because Id remembered Serious Sam to be mindlessly fun 
 to play.
  Whilst playing, though, I discovered that this mindlessness could become tedious after a while 
 as well. As I walked through the levels and fought off hundreds of monsters I constantly played 
 for a couple of minutes and then stopped again for an hour or so this not being because it was 
 too hard, but because (as said before) it got tedious and annoying. (Couldnt have been too hard, 
 I was playing on Tourist)
  It also didnt help that the letter L on my keyboard got stuck continually, because, me being 
 a lefty, Id switched around the controls and L was set as strafe-right. Now after a while I 
 changed this, so at least the running around felt better (which helped a lot) .
  
  Now after having played the first part in this start-stop way it got more interesting. This time 
 you were kinda more running around through small corridors and caves and stuff, also meaning that 
 not as many enemies showed up. Still there were many, but at least not enough to be really annoying.
 
  Also it was fun that after you went through a portal to the next part of the game youd lose all 
 your weapons and had to re-collect them.
  
  Then one day a friend of mine came over, and around this time I was just fighting off the second 
 boss (some huge insect-larva hanging from the ceiling) and decided to show him how cool this game 
 was (already fully enjoying it by this time) and I killed the boss and I ended up playing it for 
 3 more hours before finishing it and my friend ended up laughing his guts out for 3 hours.
  
  Things we laughed about:
  * The insane amount of enemies that are sent after you near the 
 end (this time fun and not tedious)
  * Finding a secret Embryo Museum and just totally not getting what it was there for
  * Finding 
 secrets like mutated plant and stuff
  * Killing our enemies by setting them on fire and stuff
  * Hearing the stupidity of Sams comments
 
  * Jokes that were put in here and there by the creators
  * The fact that a rocket only took off 5 health and most other things 2
  
  So basically, in 
 the beginning it can be tedious and annoying, but as you get nearer to the end youll start enjoying 
 it more and more.
  The graphics might not be as modern as some other games, but the weapons still look cool and so 
 do your enemies.
  
  Its a shame though, they shouldve added more new enemies and weapons and stuff, but all the secrets 
 are definitely a really cool plus.
  
  I enjoyed it after biting through the first few levels, and so will you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoLamb
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2004 1:46 am PT
Review:  With absolutely no plot (what plot there is, isn't even a plot at all really) , no outstanding features, 
 the game really is just a frag-fest. You go through the game fighting hundreds of monsters at a 
 time, with over-the-top crazy weapons. And that's pretty much it. If it moves, you shoot it and 
 then you get to the end of the level. There's no strategy, no stealth, nothing. Just hold down 
 your fire button, and you should be fine. Not a revolutionary game by any means, the game can still 
 prove fun, and with the price you may want to buy it if your on a tight budget. This game isn't 
 a Half Life or Deus Ex. It's not a No One Lives Forever, or a Call Of Duty. It's a throwback to 
 the classic shooters where you just shoot things, and that's as far as it goes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam and Serious Sam 2 brought back the early days of gaming  the days of Doom-alikes. 
 But it also replaced the brown and dark colors dominating in modern first person shooters with 
 bright colors and VAST areas, overtly stupid monsters, a serious badass hero and HUGE shootouts, 
 in numbers. Yes, there would be occasional dark rooms, but they would not be there to hide the 
 shortcomings of the engine like in some other games... :) The sometimes close to a thousand baddies 
 per level created some really breathtaking moments of pure combat bliss. And the co-operative multiplayer 
 option that isn't included too often was extremely fun SS features some of the finest selection 
 of enemy creatures and weaponry first-person shooters have ever seen. (text by Vahur)
  
  15/20 - Based on : 2 HOURS
  3/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - A low budget game - does that mean less production 
 values?
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - Run'n'gun.
  4/4 PACING - Four of course, if you like shooting at baddies.
  2/4 INNOVATION - Doom gameplay 
 revamped on contemporary Czech 3D engine. Doesn't mean it's not fun or relaxing though.
  2/4 IMMERSION - When you're playing, yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f00
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 5, 2004 4:38 am PT
Review:  Serious Sam is an interesting find at the stores. It's got a low price tag, no one really talks 
 about it much, but the gameplay is a distilled fun. 
  
  The graphics are starting to get dated, especially if you have been playing Far Cry or Doom 3. 
 But, once the game gets going, it is very easy toi look past that and see the game for its true 
 value.
  
  The game is pure first person shooter. The story is a joke and the game takes it as such. You will 
 never have to follow any sort of plot line other than "Mental" is the bad guy, Sam is the good 
 guy, and you've got to beat up many minions to get to the end. 
  
  But the style of shooting is where its at. For those who played old school video games such as 
 Galaga, Asteroids and the like, you'll know what I'm talking about. Many, many enemies come at 
 you, but never in a mindless way. Different weapons are better suited for different enemies. The 
 trick comes in when the designers mix up two or three different types at the same time guiding 
 you through a thought process of "which weapon should I chose? should I try two and go back and 
 forth? How should I run to avoid such-and-such?" etc. And the combinations and nuances of gameplay 
 continue to evolve throughout the game.
  
  There are lots of secrets built in throughout the game. I'm not sure how anyone could find all 
 of them without a lot of time on their hands. But when you find one, it's almost always entertaining.
 
  
  I had finished the first Serious Sam some time around when it was released. I started this one, 
 but left it on the shelf. I did not return to it to finish it until a few moments ago. The reason 
 why I did this, I decided, was because I had it on a difficulty setting that was simply too high 
 the first time around. The designers obviously worked hard at maintaining an optimal level of work 
 necessary to enjoy playing. If things become near impossible, then frustration sets in and the 
 play ends. Once I had things on a level appropriate to my play, I noticed that the difficulty was 
 pretty steady in its curve throughout the game. 
  
  I definitely recommend this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2004 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Serious Sam the Second Encounter, while not a true sequel, still kicks alot of ass. You get an 
 entire new adventure that is really long. You get new weapons like the chainsaw, flamethrower, 
 and sniper rifle, which are lots of fun. There's new enemies to kill, and even more extreme amounts 
 of bad guys to take on.
  
  Once again, the co-op feature makes it's debut making this game a scream at LAN parties or over 
 broadband to your buddies house. You can even sign onto Gamespy or other easy means of connecting 
 to hook up. Now that I've described the game, here's a pointer.
  
  Any time you see those little green froggies jumping at you, bust out the chainsaw and just lay 
 down the fire button! You'll mow them all up before they even touch you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstarTS
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 20, 2005 2:04 pm PT
Review:  OKread this review and Ill tell you whats so great about this game.
  
  Most people dont give this game a second thought when they see it on the game shelves or in the 
 on-sale bin. Why should they? Few people have ever heard of it and the cover of the game makes 
 it look like it is totally lame. The truth is that it is not lame at all. In fact, this game was 
 ahead of its time when it first came out in late 2002. It obviously looks a little dated since 
 its a few years old now but youll notice some very nice touches to this game. Along with that 
 you can find the game for only $5 at game stores. How can you beat that?!!! So what nice touches 
 does this game have you askwell let me break it down for you.
  
  First thing youll notice when you play this game is that the levels are very large, vast, and 
 cleverly designed. The buildings have some of the strangest and coolest rooms Ive ever scene in 
 any game. The developers love to play with gravity in this game. For example there is one room 
 that has no walls or ceiling but the floor wraps all the way around like the inside of a humungous 
 barrel or cylinder. Gravity in the room always pulls 90 degrees from the floor so you can literally 
 run up and all the way around the wall. 
  
  Another thing youll notice when playing this game is that it gives you some powerful weapons and 
 then throws hundreds of enemies at you. When I say hundreds of enemies I mean hundreds of enemies! 
 Giant, small, powerful, weakall types. This really makes the game intense and is one of my favorite 
 things about it. 
  
  Like I said before the game does look a bit dated but one very nice graphical thing about this 
 game is that is has very nice close-up textures. With a lot of games when youre really close to 
 an object or wall the textures look blotchy. With SS you can still see fine textures when youre 
 right up against something. Its hard to describe but youll known what Im talking about when 
 you see it.
  
  Lastly the best thing I love about this game is its coop feature. You can play with a ton of friends 
 over a LAN or on the same PC because it supports split screen. Most people wouldnt care about 
 split screen because this is a PC game but I love it because I just plug in some controllers to 
 my laptop (using it like a console) and then plug it into the TV and then I can play with my brothers 
 or friends. I wish more PC shooters did that.
  
  I feel its such a shame this game didnt get more hype. The main reason that few people have heard 
 of the game is because the developers are from Croatia (yes the country) . Basically you cant go 
 wrong with this game because of its extremely low price tag and all the goodies it comes with. 
 This is the best game no ones heard of.
  
  Oh did I mention that one of the weapons is a big, black ship cannon that shoots giant cannon balls? 
 No one can stop me when Ive got that thing. Oh yea!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
