-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Seven Kingdoms
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/sevenkingdoms/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 12, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.5, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 244 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Interactive Magic
Developer: Enlight Software
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Nov 30, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It is one of the best strategy games of the year and deserves more attention than it is liable to 
 get. 

 Seven Kingdoms is quite a surprising find amid the rubble of real-time strategy games. It almost 
 passed by unnoticed, thrown in the pile with a couple dozen similar games. Interactive Magic had 
 already earned our indifference with War Inc., but the "Designed by Trevor Chan" line on the box 
 made me curious. Chan is the programming wonk who brought us the dry - yet strangely compelling 
 - Capitalism. Was he a one-shot wonder or the next design whiz?  

 An hour with Seven Kingdoms answered the question. Designer Chan may be the next Sid Meier (Civilization, 
 Gettysburg!) or Will Wright (SimCity) , with ideas that make a nod to the past, yet have their own 
 quirky individuality. Seven Kingdoms delivers on the promises made by Age of Empires by creating 
 a real-time meld of Civilization-type empire building and WarCraft-style combat, with enough unique 
 twists to make it more than a mere hybrid. It is one of the best strategy games of the year and 
 deserves more attention than it is liable to get.   

 A glance at the box of Seven Kingdoms will show you why it's likely to be passed over in favor of 
 more glitzy fare. The graphics are decent, but we've seen better this season. The images of little 
 men running around fighting don't inspire us with the notion that there is something new and different 
 here. But, in fact, it is new and different. Seven Kingdoms is not a game that is won by fighting. 
 It can be, but not satisfactorily. It is won by planning, trade, deceit, intrigue, diplomacy, racial 
 harmony (yes, really) , solid leadership, exploration, prayer (yes, really) , bribery, industry, 
 and taxation. It is a complex world where the final goals (which are flexible) can be achieved 
 in multiple ways.  

 After the intricate tutorial introduces all the game concepts, there are several ways into Seven 
 Kingdoms. Scenarios offer specific challenges, usually with set goals and start-up units or even 
 with complete kingdoms already built. The way most people will probably play, however, is to generate 
 a new world. A plethora of settings can be tweaked to make each game different. Number of players, 
 random events, world size, wealth, race, victory conditions, and other factors contribute to SK's 
 strong replayability. Seven-player TCP/IP, LAN, serial, and modem play are supported, with spawning 
 for up to four players from a single CD.  

 Seven races - Mayan, Norman, Chinese, Japanese, Persian, Greek, and Viking - exist in each game. 
 As leader of one of these races, your goal is to build a strong and profitable empire. To expand 
 your empire, you need to build up your starting city and begin taking over unaligned cities, a 
 la Warlords. Aggressive expansion isn't always the key to doing this. You can beat everyone into 
 submission, but your reputation will suffer and your overall rating will decline. You can also 
 take over cities through grants (basically buying them) , the actions of spies, or by building a 
 fort nearby to house a strong army. If the general in command of that fort is of the same race 
 as most of the townspeople, they will be more likely to join your empire, as they will be if you 
 provide them with jobs and goods.  

 This complex modeling of races is at the heart of Seven Kingdoms. Each race has a different military 
 skill. A Persian leader with an army full of Persian archers will soon be defeated. But with a 
 mix of Persian archers and Viking axmen, he has a much better chance. Each race also has a magical 
 scroll secreted somewhere in the world that enables the king to build a Seat of Power. These scrolls 
 are usually hidden in the dwellings of Fryhtans: monstrous marauders who need to be destroyed. 
 Theoretically, one king can capture all the scrolls and build a Seat of Power for each race. Once 
 stocked with praying citizens, the Seats can produce Greater Beings who act as superunits, each 
 with a different power.  

 At the core of a balanced empire is a strong economy. Three raw materials can be mined - iron, copper, 
 and clay - and made into finished goods, which can then be sold in the marketplace. Each stage 
 of this process - mining, production, and sale - requires a building. Caravans can haul trade to 
 distant markets, and ships can haul it to distant ports. The economic model is fairly complex and 
 could use a bit of tweaking to make it easier to manage. With ten caravans running all over the 
 map, it's hard to keep track of who needs which goods. Some more minerals and finished products 
 would also be a good touch.  

 Research buildings spend all their time producing better weapons. Catapults, balistas, cannons, 
 spitfires, and porcupines can all be researched and then built in war factories. Eventually, you 
 will have to fight, if only the Fryhtans. A complex diplomacy model is also available, allowing 
 you to create trade treaties and alliances and even to buy another empire outright. Computer opponents 
 seem pretty good, though they could use some further refinement to make them more unpredictable. 
 Military units act intelligently and are aggressive when they need to be. Some of the latest real-time 
 unit management features - saved paths, unit orders - are not in Seven Kingdoms, but since the 
 combat element is not the focus of the game, they are not greatly missed.  

 There's much more to Seven Kingdoms, which is a deep, satisfying strategy game. There hasn't been 
 an empire-builder this good since Civilization II. A more detailed research tree and more complex 
 methods of keeping people happy would be welcome in any sequel, but this is more of a wish list 
 than criticism. Seven Kingdoms is an outstanding game in every way.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Hellknight13
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  Vikings, Mayans, Chinese, Japanese, Normans... What more can you ask for! This game is set in the 
 medieval times where you can either kill any race you hate and ally with those you favour. The 
 game becomes very difficult to learn when you first play because you always wondering what these 
 weird lumps are until you figure out that they're something that mines should be placed over. Things 
 that you have to look out for is messages from races that request things from you and stuff and 
 I always ignored them because I thought they didn't need approval. I was wrong, they attacked me 
 5 minutes after I started playing this game and *Blugh* im dead!
  
  Games that I have played in the past decade really do not die. It shows that a basic 2D old-school 
 game can be well better than games nowadays and they become very addictive as well. Although my 
 disc to play this game is broke so I can't play it anymore and now that Im writing this review, 
 I am going to look on Ebay like I have done before when I wanted to buy another old game like Lords 
 of Magic.
  
  Its great because you always have to expect the unexpected and every single soldier that becomes 
 on your side can't always be trusted because if you kill one, you suddenly realised that this was 
 a player's spy and you sigh with releif that that spy didn't capture your base or else you will 
 just panic.
  
  Heres a tip for you, when you get reinforcements, move them around and if they move by themselves 
 then kill them. Thats how you can identify spies and not kill a trusted soldier. Oh and also don't 
 steal from villages, it will just anger them and then your King might just been ripped in peices 
 and that will give you 99.9% of losing the game altogether. Best way to get money is build mines 
 and kill beasts. Simple as.
  
  My conclusion is that this game is truely awesome and Vikings are for the win. Now I shall listen 
 to some Amon Amarth (They're Viking metal) *Nods slowly* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cynxos
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Seven Kingdoms, is the RTS game which all the players crave, but none find.
  Its old date makes people think that it isn't able to compete with the games of today, that is 
 one of the mistakes about Seven Kingdoms.
  The old date doesn't mean its a bad game, actually, its better then about 50% of the ones that 
 came this 2 years!
  Its a game which gives every nation a balance but also diversity, each with their own god, army, 
 and own village.
  The fact that there are so few differences may make a player think that its not as good as others.
 
  But that fact actually makes it amazingly good! It makes the fact that you can take every nation 
 under your custody, make an amazing land to be ruled by you!
  The gods will wreck havoc, or will make your nation flow, the army's will march as the generals, 
 and their king leads the way, using the war machines they have discovered by their engineers, will 
 make your nation the most supreme.
  Conquering every minting deposit in the land, will make your nation the richest, and the one to 
 thrive and build the most.
  Killing the monsters fryhtans will make you the ultimate slayer in the land.
  Conquering the 
 independent villages will give you outposts, cities and new countries to rule.
  To make this thing short, Seven Kingdoms, is surprisingly the ultimate RTS game, among oh so many. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cvan424
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  This game is so amazing and addictive that you will keep you playing for hours... The one thing 
 that i don't like is that its so hard that even setting it to very easy difficulty wont help... and 
 theres always one nation that will become ultra large and strong and then it will erase all other 
 nations... and if you are alliance with them they will break it and kill you when they are done 
 with others. So the winning screen is hardly to see if you didn't spend few weeks or even months 
 of playing it. The gameplay is brilliant and and graphics are nice, sounds maybe get boring after 
 while (sometimes annoying) . The owners of the original game can find Ancient adversaries (which 
 is selling also as expansion which contains original game) patch that has only 15mb and it adds 
 3 new races and new terrains. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fixer38
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 7, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  I looked around my old games collection, I found Doom, Quake, SuperMario, Sonic and all that kind of 
 old stuff. I played most of them again but I suddenly remembered about this game. And here I am, humbly 
 writing my very first review of the game that rocks still, after all these years. So lets begin :
 
  
  Seven Kingdoms is a very hard game to master, indeed you will need allot of time in-order to master 
 this game but when you do it will be allot of fun. Seven Kingdoms will be one of those games that 
 really makes you want to say `wth` when you first play it. The graphics are quite old, the sound 
 is also quite old and the overall game-play is weird and twisted. Thats why its not for everyone, only 
 die-hard strategy fans or strategy fans overall will enjoy this game. Mostly this game requires 
 patience, skill and understanding what to do and at what time. Seven Kingdoms is basic at start 
 - you have a village, a fort and if set some units and the good old king. SK (as I will refer to 
 Seven Kingdoms from now on) is very complicated with many rules that apply to this game. You must 
 make forts fill them up with troops, a general and make sure you have a builder in to compensate 
 for repairs. Mostly you need to know only 5 things :
  
  1 - How forts work : For has 8 soldier slots and 1 general slot in it. The general will train the 
 soldiers in the current fort and make them better at fighting. You can see the progress by looking 
 at a soldiers hp. Green is a rookie, yellow means experienced and violet means elite. The better 
 your army is the more chance you have to survive. Some generals can be hired from the inn. Usually 
 the inn is like gambling and you need to keep a constant lookout for high-trained elites you want 
 to have on your army. The better the general is at what he does and faster the soldiers train. 
 Also if a general is picked from rookies that you train at your village he will slowly level up 
 as a general until he is elite at it.
  
  2 - Races : There are basically 7 races in the game, you have the :
  The Mayans - Big guys wielding 
 clubs with spikes on them, close-combat only, no special moves (My favorites) The Japanese - As expected 
 : Samurais, close-combat only, high lvls do at random super attacks which involve a samurais sword 
 heating up from the combat.
  The Chinese - Interesting and one of the best races in the game, armed with pikes for close combat, bows 
 for ranged combat, overall good race for any encounter, no super attack.
  The Normans - Another fine race for all around use, Swords for close encounters, crossbows for as 
 ranged attack, shields protect from Inc bows and ranged attacks, no super attacks and they are the 
 best race suited for anyone if not a fan of another race.
  The Vikings - well duh what can I say, fat, strong, really big war-hammer for close combat, no ranged 
 attack, super move is some-sort of beserk does allot of damage.
  The Greeks - another awsome race, close combat pros, armed with short dagger and shield, high lvls 
 really mow down anything at close combat, no super move.
  The Persians - umm nothing much bow and spear good all around race with no special move.
  
 
  3 - Villages : The thing you need to keep growing is villages. You will find neutral villages 
 up for claims around the map. Villages are usually many races mixed together. Its quite simple, if 
 you are for instance The Normans all villages with Normans in them will love you if you try to 
 take em over. Build a fort near the village and start claiming your rule in the village. The higher 
 the level of your general the faster the village gives up and joins you. You can also bribe the 
 people in the village to join your cause its faster but requires gold and thus expensive. If there 
 is a village with 10 Mayans and 30 Normans in it and you play as Normans, what do you do? Basically 
 you build a for near the village. Put a Norman general or your king in it with some troops just 
 in case. The Norman population will want to join you while the Mayans will resist. This is a interesting 
 part of the game were you can see a village killing some of its occupants in-order to join you. 
 So the Norman people will start killing the Mayans if they are convinced to join you, The Mayans 
 in the village will start killing Normans in-order to resist you and be free. So you see this mini-battle 
 go on. You can wait and see what happens as it is always random or join in and help the winners. 
 There is another way however, if you hire a high level Mayan General form the inn make a fort near 
 the village and put the general in. The Mayans and the Normans will like you and surrender to your 
 cause. It is somewhat a risky reaction that may go wrong later on. Its all complicated which makes 
 this game awsome.
  
  4 - Do not mix races! : Yes indeed stay true to the race you are. As there is a really big chance 
 that your so called `other race army` will revolt against you if there is a powerful enemy race 
 of there kind. For ex-sample, you are the vikings and you have one for full of Greeks. The enemy 
 is also Greeks and he is expanding all over the map. The Greek population knows that there is a 
 king of there kind out there. So the moral for those troops drops depending on how powerful the 
 enemy is. They may revolt or try to go away from you. But if you are the only one of your race you 
 need not to worry. Pay your troops well and they will not leave you. Again its really complicated 
 and fascinating.
  
  5 - Tax, Mining Resources and the gods - You need to keep in mind that if you claim a village you 
 need to collect taxes in-order to pay your troops and keep a economy. Trading is also available 
 but thats a really long story. Do not put the taxes to high or the villagers will revolt. Also 
 there are resources you can mine on the map. Its easy to find them as they are just rocks of different 
 shape but one size. To mine a resource build a mine on it, then like a fort fill it up with elite 
 miners to achieve the max effect. Also its wise to make villages with a fort, mine, fabric and a 
 market near it. Mines mine resources fabrics make products and the market sells it to the villages 
 and enables you to trade stuff. Overall its just so damn complicated that even hard-core strategy 
 fans will be confused at first.
  
  Overall SK is a GREAT strategy game with so much continent to cover that my arms hurt from typing 
 it all. If you love C&amp; C or AoE and do not mind the graphics or the sound you will love this 
 game I am sure of it. It is also one of the rare games I give a 10, why? Because this game is just 
 awsome but sadly, really unpopular.
  
  Note : New versions of SK are out but the original SK is allot better if you ask me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razit
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say is that this game, is clearly underestimated. This is one of the greatest and 
 most intelligently built RTS games of all time. It's not the best, because it has it's very obvious 
 flaws. The graphics are very underachieving even for it's time, the sounds were not the strong 
 side of the game although the music really grew on you, and game play is slow and very hard to 
 learn. But these last two are also the reason it is a really good game, since it makes for many 
 hours of balancing a kingdom, almost SimCity style, but in a much more fast paced warring strategy 
 game where your goal is total domination. The best part is the multiplayer mode. It is well enough 
 for two people to sit down with up to six computer played kingdoms and play; one scenario could 
 last for just 20 minutes, or several hours all depending on how you want to play. With a complex 
 system of spies, ships, soldiers and Greater Beings you could spend hour upon hour of balancing 
 your economy while defending yourself against monsters called Frythans, or your neighboring kingdoms.
 
  All in all, the only thing that actually held this game back was the lack of PR from the publisher 
 Interactive Magic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorQuadratic
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 31, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  Very good. fast and easy controls, and if you can't handle it anymore, you can always plan everything 
 in pause mode. But you probably won't use the option very much. Like i described above, it's a 
 VERY hard game and you need patience to get to know all options. It toke me very long to understand 
 everything. Once i knew nearly everything, it was still very hard to win a game. I only won a random 
 game with 6 opponents ONCE. I suggest you start with 1 opponent.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are ok, But not very good. for a game made in 1997... The thing that bothered me was 
 the fact that one guy was as big as a building. But it doesn't take the good gameplay away.
  
  Sound:
  Sound is ok. The effect sounds are not so good, but the music is nice.
  
  Value: 
 
  Worth to try. If it's still on the market, it will be about 5 dollars or less.
  
  I really suggest the strategy fans to buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyoma
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game I thought it was very bad and I didnt play it for about month. But 
 then I thought trying it out and guess what I liked the game very much. The graphics in the game 
 are almost the same as in Warcraft 2 but the game itself is way harder. First try to understand 
 the training in the game. First play with a easy computer then go to a harder level. The heroes 
 in this game are cool and the units too. You should realize that this is a game for experienced 
 gamers so if you have never played any games dont even try to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EarthLORD
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2005 11:16 am PT
Review:  Seven Kingdoms is a great Strategy game to play, the only problem is that its to old and not easy 
 to find it any more thats the only thing i see thats wrong, other then that its a great game the 
 people are cool the buildings and how they work are cool, taking over towns to make your empire 
 big, all that stuff rebellions, wars like i said all sorts of stuff. 
  
  Alliances are cool, getting your ally to declare war on an enemy witch is cool and the other empires 
 are so smart its not even funny i mean they attack you when u go out for war, attack with lots 
 of men, sneak attacks, and the way and how fast they colonize .
  
  Old games are just like old music, its so good and it never gets boring forever then they take 
 it out of stores and make us buy online. What if the person has a hacker in they computer then 
 what... ya u guessed it the parents never use there card ever again excluding 18 and up year olds 
 because once its taken care of they fix the other problems. so i think they should put full versions 
 on websites, just for the old games because they are hard to find like these: Command & Conquer, 
 Planet Blupi, Seven Kingdoms, 7th Legion, Midtown Madnes 2, Command & Conquer Red Alert,
  you know like those old tech games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rohan_bhanot200
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 31, 2005 9:42 am PT
Review:  There are not much RTS games in the market with a depth and personality of their own.
  But 7 Kingdoms is a one of a kind masterpiece. With excellent tutorials and challenging scenarios, 
 this game is worth every bit it comes for.
  
  The gameplay is very admirable- all factors of this revolutionary RTS are admirable. With humble 
 begging's from a small village ruled by a king, it is your duty to fulfill your ambition of ruling 
 the known world. There are 7 different civilizations which can be chosen, thus justifying the title 
 "Seven Kingdoms". Unlike most games, in 7K you are responsible for your own loss or victory. There 
 a number of factors which determine the core of this game. Reputation, Power and Economy seem to 
 be the most important. Reputation determines how popular you are. By doing uneven acts like declaring 
 war or by espionage that is, spying, you lose reputation. When your reputation reaches an absolute 
 0, people start to rebel against you in your villages. Power determines your army's strength which, 
 in turn acts as a resistance from war-like kingdoms or Fryhats, the strangest creatures with a 
 war-like attitude and immense treasures. Economy determines your money. This is done by raw material 
 utilization, trading and exporting technology. Technology in 7K literally means siege technology. 
 Once researched, weapons can be built at Siege Factories and harbors. Utilizing Raw Material is 
 also a major factor. By making mines over raw material deposits, and then factories to utilize 
 them finally make a product to sell or trade. The buildings are interlinked by lines (or whaterer 
 they are) and each building near a village must be interlinked to it to provide it with workers. 
 The only exception is an inn, which provides fresh recruits for all jobs. By military conquests, 
 you can expand your empire by gaining villages. But soon, for the supremacy over the world, you 
 need to overpower all kingdoms. But you have to figure out a way to overpower all kingdoms without 
 losing your reputation; which is quite of a challenge. Going to the Fryhats, they are creatures 
 of amazing shapes, war-like spirit and of course, immense treasure. Another fact is that you can 
 gain powers by defeating Fryhats. These can be used in a seat of power to invoke great beings, 
 or mythological creatures with immense powers depending on your race.
  
  There are immense options in your custom or new game. You can set your own victory conditions and 
 difficulty. But the main thing is expanding your kingdom. To gain power you must conquer villages. 
 There are two options for this-either fight over it to overcome its resistance or somewhat "bribe" 
 them to lower their resistance. As you gain more towns, and your population increases you can expand 
 your economy by utilizing more resources. Generally to overcome your enemies, you must wait for 
 your enemies to start the war if you dont want to lose reputation. Another sleath method is through 
 espionsage. When an enemy locates a resource, it makes one basic mistake- it makes the mine first 
 instead of a village to support the mine. So, to support the village from rebels or invasions the 
 enemy needs a fort. But the AI in 7K is not so advanced (not a big problem) . It sends a soldier 
 to build a fort. This is where your spy comes in. A well trained spy, that is. By sending the spy 
 to the fort, you can make it look like an odinary enemy soldier which, when with enough experience 
 can bribe the general and then take the fort for your kingdom, which will gradually surrender the 
 whole mining encampment to you. Then, watch your foolish enemy declare war on you, which will take 
 its reputation to the rock bottom.
  
  This game also has many other admirable things. Espionsage is included mostly in this. By training 
 a spy in your own kingdom for a specific job like, say a soldier. This will make him expereienced 
 in both spying and leadership. By sending the spy to another kingdom, the spy will be promonted 
 to the rank of a general of a fort, which can make you the master of it. The rest depends on you.
 
  
  The graphics are awesome- a RTS game with an ol Sims touch. The sounds are pretty well done, and 
 there is a theme for each race.
  
  Overall, this game is a great game for the RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madterps
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2005 2:14 am PT
Review:  Trevor Chan has build himself quite a franchise here with Seven Kingdoms. On the emerging news 
 of Seven Kingdoms Conquest, I'm reminded of the classic Seven Kingdoms. Seven Kingdoms is one of 
 the best RTS ever, right up there with Starcraft, Age Of Empires and Civilization.
  
  Seven Kingdoms, as it hints, has several races to choose from. Whether you choose Chinese, Japanese, 
 Norman, Mayan, Viking, Persian and Greek, it's upto you. There is no wrong way to choose, so try 
 each and every race. You'll discover the weaknesses and strengths of each race. 
  
  Seven Kingdoms has some of the best ideas in RTS. For one, 7K has renewable resources in the form 
 of either iron, copper or clay deposits that pops up all over the places. If you're fast, there 
 will never be a reason you can't have a steady supply of resources. As well the ability to espionage, 
 steal technology and other spy action can be very useful in war and peace time. Plus the ability 
 to hire soldiers and spies can be very useful in conquering the world. Finally, the ability to 
 summon and uses your greater beings, basically a strong deity, is a first in RTS.
  
  Seven Kingdoms has very good gameplay, it offers different aspect of the games in very easy to 
 use and to understand controls. Soldiers are created by clicking on the recruit button when you 
 have selected a village, create as many as soldiers as the villages allow. 
  Building is made easy as well and there are a few ways to build, either by recruiting a special 
 builder or use your king to build the structures you want, which is not recommended but can be 
 done. As well, the generals and soldiers can build forts, the generals and king can build seats 
 of powers. 
  
  Taxation is also very easy, you can either left click on the tax collection button, which can get 
 tedious. Or you can right click on the tax collection button and set level in according to where 
 you should collect taxes. Needs other ways to earn moneys, build a market and watch the money rolls 
 in, in this case you'll need caravans to carry goods into your market. Watch as the goods come 
 into your market, your money will increase dramatically as the goods got sold fast. However, watch 
 who declares war on you or vice versa, as soon as war is involved in trading nations, trading is 
 halted and you'd need to build up your trading again. 
  
  Need more people to buy your goods or train more soldiers? Get your king or a general that has 
 high leadership to a village of the same race and try to persuade them to join you. And try to 
 build factories and tower of sciences to make the villagers work so they're less resistant to you. 
 And don't forget to bring some of your soldiers to fill your fort cause your fort will get overrunned 
 by spies. They're also useful in persuading the villagers to come over to your side if your general 
 or king can't. As well, if you have the Japanese deity, you can summon it over a village and casts 
 its power and the resistance will go down by ten points.
  
  As you get more villagers and more villagers, you need a heavy military to maintain your kingdoms 
 peace and protect them. Just training more soldiers is not an option, as you need the villagers 
 to pay taxes and work in factories. So build towers of science and research weapons and start building 
 them in bulk. Don't forget to send them to forts that are empty to prevent espionage on your generals 
 or to just surprise your enemies when they attack. If you want to avoid war, create alliances with 
 other nations so you can create peace for a while.
  
  While the graphics in the game isn't superb, it's very decent as the game does look better than 
 some of its competitor like Starcraft. Each sprite is bright and features some good details, especially 
 on the bigger sprites like deities. The sound are authentically created in each language, whether 
 giving commands to soldiers, generals or even king. As well the music are very nice orchestra pieces 
 created in each races song.
  
  Seven Kingdoms offers different scenarios as well the ability to play online or via LAN. It adds 
 to the replay value to the already excellent single player experience. Its graphics while not the 
 best are still detailed enough to not be dated and beats other RTS game like Starcraft. As well, 
 the sounds and musics adds an authenticity to the struggles of the seven kingdoms. Seven Kingdoms 
 is truly an epic and one of the best RTS ever. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
