-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Seven Kingdoms II: The Fryhtan Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/sevenkingdoms2thefw/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  8, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.2, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 271 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Enlight Software
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jul 31, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's no question that Seven Kingdoms II is a richer, more fully realized game. 

 Seven Kingdoms was one of the most pleasant surprises of 1998: an unexpected, original, and deep 
 game of conquest, economics, and diplomacy. Created by Trevor Chan and Enlight Software, the developers 
 of Capitalism, Seven Kingdoms became a favorite with critics and built a loyal following based 
 on word of mouth. Chan then went right to work on the sequel to build on this success and improve 
 and expand upon the original. And despite some bumps in the road, Seven Kingdoms II is finally 
 done.  

 While fans of the original may find that some of the new conventions take a little getting used 
 to, there's no question that Seven Kingdoms II is a richer, more fully realized game. Every single 
 aspect of the original gameplay has been modified, streamlined, expanded, or improved in some way. 
 You can read our review of the original Seven Kingdoms to get the full details of the game and 
 its world, but the basics are simple enough to explain. Seven Kingdoms II is a pseudo-real-time 
 strategy and empire-building game that merges the feel of Civilization with the real-time combat 
 of games like Warcraft, all on one screen. The object of the game is conquest through financial, 
 military, or diplomatic means. However, performing this task is a remarkably elaborate yet completely 
 manageable process, and displays an astonishing balance and integration of elements.  

 The best way to understand what Seven Kingdoms II does - and does differently - is to take on its 
 changes one by one.   

 First, you can not only play as one of twelve human races, but also as one of the seven monstrous 
 races known as the Fryhtans. The human and Fryhtan civilizations are substantially different. Humans 
 are penalized for killing civilians, while Fryhtans are rewarded. Fryhtans must breed soldiers, 
 while humans can recruit them from neutral towns. The Fryhtan economy isn't driven by trade, but 
 by tribute from enslaved towns. In addition, each human and Fryhtan race has its own units, structures, 
 and attributes. To create a well-rounded force of skirmishers, cavalry, archers, and other soldiers, 
 humans must take over the neutral towns of another race or hire mercenaries. All this can lead 
 to some pretty interesting interactions; Fryhtans can take over the rule of human kingdoms and 
 even join forces with them.  

 Units are either civilian or military, and both are able to double as spies. New spying technologies 
 can be researched such that experienced spies can steal technology and information, start a war 
 between two countries, and even become invisible. Military heroes can be developed or hired, often 
 wielding powerful items to give them an edge in combat. In the original Seven Kingdoms, civilians 
 would train in a trade, build a structure, and then enter that structure to work. In Seven Kingdoms 
 II, civilian training is gone, and structures are built by recruited townspeople. This change may 
 not sit well with everyone, since workers can't begin with a skill boost and you can't just train 
 a bunch of workers, send them out to build structures simultaneously, and automatically staff those 
 structures. Instead, you recruit a band of roving carpenters to build all the buildings. Once the 
 building is complete, you can access a slider bar for that building to set the maximum amount of 
 workers that will be drawn from the idle pool in each adjoining town. This is a more streamlined 
 way to handle structures and workers, but it takes a little time to adapt to the new convention. 
 Another big change is the expanded role of research. There are now multiple areas of research, 
 and the path you follow is determined by your gameplay strategy. If you want to build a strong 
 economy and buy victory, you can focus on technologies to improve various aspects of trade and 
 production. If you'd prefer a more stealthy approach, espionage technology can provide spies with 
 advanced skills. War machines, from the catapult to the cannon and spitfire, can be developed for 
 those who enjoy a good siege, while various offensive, defensive, and ranged attack boosters can 
 be explored for combat. These alternatives all constitute a simple-to-use yet expansive tech tree 
 that can result in some interesting late game kingdom profiles.  

 Overall, the interface's feel has remained quite similar to that of the first game, while its function 
 is very different in many cases. Hotkeys have been assigned to almost every function and enable 
 you to cycle through important units and structures at will. The map filters can be used not just 
 for information, but to select a specific map feature to cycle, such as mines, Fryhtan lairs, or 
 independent towns. The caravan interface is also greatly improved. Point-and-click starting and 
 ending points for each caravan are matched to both custom and automatic cargo selection, so you 
 can tailor each one for maximum efficiency. An improved menu screen allows more precise tracking 
 of each caravan, its current status, and profit to date. Unit construction can be queued to the 
 limit of the structure making the units. Units can be given rally points for automatic deployment, 
 and waypointing and grouping options provide plenty of flexibility in unit control.   

 There are so many ways to play Seven Kingdoms II that it offers virtually limitless gameplay opportunities. 
 Every parameter of stand-alone scenarios can be thoroughly customized, from starting wealth and 
 race to Fryhtan aggressiveness and town resistance. These stand-alone missions take place on randomly 
 generated maps of various sizes and terrain types. Single missions are included with specific goals, 
 often involving an advanced kingdom with problems, certain limitations, and victory requirements. 
 Randomly generated, non-linear campaigns with the option to carry important units from mission 
 to mission keep the long game fresh as well. Enlight has set up a nifty little server with a clean 
 front end that works well too.  

 Finally, the biggest noticeable enhancement is Seven Kingdom II's graphics. They're markedly improved 
 over the original and can stand with any strategy game now on the market. Maps, units, and buildings 
 all simply look better; they're more detailed and shown at higher resolutions. The improved visuals 
 should definitely appeal to fans of Total Annihilation and Age of Empires, who might have been 
 put off by the outdated graphics of the original Seven Kingdoms.  

 Every single aspect of the first game has been modified in some way, and all of it for the better. 
 The only real problem is that maps could be a little larger to make longer games more interesting. 
 Trevor Chan has created a perfectly balanced conquest and combat game that deserves the widest 
 possible audience, and has all the depth that Age of Empires lacked. Seven Kingdoms II is without 
 question one of the finest strategy games on the market, largely because the world it creates has 
 realistic dynamics and complexity. That complexity never overwhelms, but adds a richness found 
 far too rarely in strategy games.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: -SilverGhost-
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Well I've been playing this game for over 4 years now, and i still love it.. At first when i started 
 playing, i hated this game. I didnt know why my friends loved it so much. it made no sense to me. 
 i didnt know how to trade. or mine or anything. i get killed in mere minutes because i absolutely 
 didnt know what i was doing lol.. But then i played seven kingdoms the first one and played the 
 tutorials and learned everything which took me quite some time to learn.. i almost gave up and 
 chucked the game out.. but once i learned how to do the basics and set up my trades and build my 
 army, i started to fall inlove with 7k1.. i still didnt like 7k2 for some reason, i hated how dark 
 it looked and gloomy and how powerful the fryhtans were.. but over time i grew to love 7k2 even 
 more.. i love the espionage (spying) and the heros in 7k2. it can really change the tide of the 
 wars and battles.. 
  
  The thing i love most about both 7k's is how you have to train your soldiers from combat 20 to 
 combat 100.. and u need a good general to train the soldiers to even get to combat 100... and if 
 you want your soldiers to go beyond combat 100 you need to take them into battle to learn more 
 combat and grow very strong... i think the max combat level for an ordinary soldier is 200.. and 
 heros can go beyond 400 combat... i never seen any heros beyond 500 but they have come close.. 
 
  
  Anyways I love this game so much, if you want to play against human players i know of two others 
 who are willing to play 7k2 with me so youre welcome to join us, add my msn to_thewire@hotmail. com.. 
 idk if we're allowed to post our email i never read the agreement but add me folks.. cya
  
  oh here is a site that someone made for 7k players to come together lol http://frythanwars. wordpress. com/about/ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jal92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 12:16 am PT
Review:  This is the first RTS-game I've got and it happened back in -99.
  Since -99 I've been hooked at RTS genre games, but have yet to find an game as good as Seven Kingdoms 
 II: The Fryhtan Wars.
  
  This game is well balanced, as humans have many options to choose from in building up army, all 
 thought they mostly lack the power of fryhtans. Fryhtans do not have so many options, yet they 
 don't need them, because they are meant for just ramming everything on they'r way. (Depending on 
 the race you have chosen.)
  
  All thought it might not seem so at start, but planning for an battle is important. Especially 
 when playing against human player. You might want to leave an cavalry group to flank the enemy 
 and take out its ballistics and then hit 'em hard from behind.
  (Shields aren't just for show, attacking an shielded enemy group from behind is way more effective 
 than just storming at them from front)
  
  That is just one of many strategical choices you can make.
  
  So the game was made back in 
 -99 so you shouldn't be expecting modern day graphics. But hey that's not the point in games, graphics 
 I mean!
  
  So if you are interested in RTS-genre I greatly recommend this game to you. And even if you are 
 not particular fan of the genre, you might just want to try it out. Who knows if you are going 
 to be hooked too! (In a good way)
  
  So, this game is well balanced, with good playability and easy-to-learn basics.
  
  Try it out!
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedram793
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 7.5/10
  It's a pretty good graphically wise game. Everything looks pretty good for a game that is almost 
 10 years old.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  It's a really fun game. You can build a huge army and attack other empires. You can instead maybe 
 make treaties with the other empires and trade with them, whatever you want. I personally go for 
 the army. Anyways, it's a good game that didn't get the publicity it deserved.
  
  Lasting Appeal: 8/10
  The campaign is pretty fun, not that long though but it is kind of long. 
 Multiplayer doesn't work anymore so you can't play the multiplayer, but the campaign is pretty 
 fun and the ability to create a game with your settings is pretty fun to. 
  
  Overall: 9.1/10
  It's a really fun game that I would recommend. Definitely worth playing. Only 
 bad thing is that the multiplayer doesn't work anymore, but it's not that big of a deal. Still 
 a great strategy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudpavan
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 14, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Coming to the game, i played amny types of RPG's, RSG, and many tycoons but, never hurted this 
 way.
  I saw some members giving 9 and 10's for this game, may be they want to take revenge on my PC so 
 they gave this ratings for this game, I personally thank GOD because he made me be patient as a 
 result i did not break my PC after playing this game.
  I hate this GAME as much as i hate this one only, because, generally i give a ok rating for any 
 game but this one is the worst.
  No strategy, no need of thinking so much, just take the Fryhtan's and win the match.
  The balance 
 of power is not their, Fryhtan's are ultimate and u need not have any skill to win, just keep playing 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Av0011
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  well enlight software let us down oon this game of seven kingdoms.
  one main problem with this game was that they had not introduced any sea, and therefore no sea 
 to land fights. the game may have invited some new kingdoms but to be honest i would rather play 
 on ancient advasaries. the game is more or less the same as ancient advasaries but it is just not 
 worth the price (they should be giving the game away for free) , as my reviw shows and my retings, 
 i did not spend too much time playing on the game because it was that boring and that easy to learn 
 and play. and now i doubt i will be able to sell the damn thing becausei dont think anyone would 
 even take it for free ( its that bad) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruno-K
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Seven Kingdoms 2 is just one of the best games i've played. If I had a choice of what 2d strategy 
 game i would take with me when i die this would be the choice. I can say, IMO, that it's better 
 than Age of Empires II or Starcraft... yeah.... in fact this is third place position RTS that i've 
 played so far... only behind Age of Mythology and Warcraft 3 (i don't like the **** total war series) 
 this is addicting. The only thing bad I can say about this game is its lack of units, but it's 
 easily countered with superb gameplay and management, with promotions, battle development by each 
 unit and spies system and frythan battling is totally awesome
  
  If you have the opportunity, buy it... if you like true strategy games, of course... if you like 
 superb graphics and this kind of thing and don't mind of the game true gameplay... don't mess with 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valodimer_Viet
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  this is my first PC game, and i loved playing it so much , more than any other game, i lost my 
 first copy for a longtime but now. i bought one on ebay and am getting back the feelings of gud 
 old days. this game is the best game have ever been made. for anyone who did play this game, get 
 bak online and gimme a PM :D. for who didnt play it, give it a try, it's old but it's graphic can 
 still stunt u with ease ^^. Waitting for seven kingdoms III but .. i have bad feeling toward that 
 game ... troops. modern weapons... ugly momsters ... errrr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thundermare-pt
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 16, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  I would really love to write a long review about this great game, but i'm sort of uninspired tonight. 
 So I'll just go right ahead and tell you my favorite things about this game:
  
  1- Lots of races to play with, divided in two factions: Humans and Fryhtans (aka monsters) , each 
 with it's highs and lows.
  
  2- While you have no unit limit, you will have to work very hard to get a decent army, for population 
 (for humans) and life points (for fryhtans) will be hard to get.
  
  3- Did I say you have no unit limit? God I love being able to train all the units I wish :-D
 
  
  4- For humans, your major goal is to build an economy based on mining and manufacturing of 4 resources, 
 trade with other factions, and get has many people as you can on your side.
  
  5- For Fryhtans, your goal is to enslave the human towns and make a profit out of it! Sounds simpler? 
 It's not! While you probably won't have many economic problems, you'll have a difficult time getting 
 the life points you need to breed more units.
  
  6- Training is a process common to all the races and factions. Build a fort, or a lair, fill it 
 with soldiers and one leader. Soon the soldiers will start improving their skills, some more than 
 others. The leader will also improve it's leadership skill, which is essential in many ways.
  
  7- Training will get your units up 100 combat levels. But you couldn't stop there, right? Take 
 them to the battlefield and they'll improve their combat skill with only one limitation: death.
 
  
  8- Heroes are a very important part of the game, as well. Besides having very high combat and/or 
 leadership skills, they will allow you to gather towns from other human races, adding more human 
 resources to your side.
  
  Okay, so:
  Graphics: They're great, proves 3D is not a requirement for any RTS.
  
  Sound: The low side 
 of the game. They fit the theme and do the job.
  
  Gameplay: Easy enough, once you get used to it. It's a little different than most RTS, but once 
 you get the hang of it... you'll start counting the days that pass by, and not the hours! :-D
 
  
  Replay value: Extremely good!
  
  My opinion: If you see it, buy it! Don't waste the chance :-D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoldoAsesino
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  This game was a really pleasant surprise. At first sight, it seems to be just another strategy 
 game based upon the standards set by Civilization and Age of Empires. As a matter of fact, the 
 aim of the game resembles very much those other games: in Seven Kingdoms II you must build your 
 town, gather resources, expand, research new technologies, train troops, and eventually conquer 
 other races. If this doesnt sound very much like AoE, wait until you see the Seven Kingdoms II 
 interface, which is almost equal to that one. When I launched the first tutorial mission, I was 
 afraid of being wasting my time in a (perhaps) boring game that (maybe) turned out to be just more 
 of the same. But later, when I was able to learn the actual mechanics of Seven Kingdoms II, I realized 
 that I was very wrong about my prejudices against it. 
  Its so complex that the tutorial has 8 full-scale missions, which are as hard as a standard advanced 
 level campaign. Its so complex that its impossible for me to cover every feature of the game 
 in this review, so I will throw in a little example, which I think its representative of the whole. 
 
  In the standard civilization strategy game, if youre in need of a peasant because you want to 
 build some building, you just click on your town hall structure and train all the peasants you 
 fancy. It doesnt matter if your peasants get killed, or transformed by an evil warlock into a 
 letterbox: since you have an unlimited supply of them, they are expendable; go and train another 
 ones. This is completely wrong in Seven Kingdoms II. Its so wrong that you dont even have a town 
 hall facility at all.
  In every scenario, you will notice some white squares all along the map. Those are towns that are 
 neutral to the political and military forces that are colliding in the scenario. Every one of these 
 towns has a preset amount of people living in them. You can convert those neutral towns to your 
 cause.
  Youll always have a special unit that is called the king, who has all its statistics already at 
 maximum. If you order your king to stay a while in a fort, the surrounding towns will accept to 
 be subjugated by you because of the presence of the king. But, since the king cant be in two places 
 at the same time, the loyalty of the people where hes absent will be reduced and they shall suddenly 
 rebel, so you could contemplate the option of accelerating the process of converting new population 
 by granting money to them. Once youve accomplished the conversion, your flag will float over the 
 town and you can use its population for everything you need; but here comes another interesting 
 feature of the game.
  As I said earlier, you dont have an unlimited supply of peasants. You only got a preset amount 
 of people for every town, which could be sixty people or ten. If somehow you need more people, 
 youll have to adjoin another town, or wait until your peasant population has babies (and when 
 I say wait, I said it literally) . Your population is classified into peasants and workers. Every 
 building you construct needs an amount of workers in order to run properly: the ore mines, the 
 factories, the research facilities, the religious facilities, and even your soldiers count as workers. 
 Workers have a constant loyalty of 100%, no matter what happens, so you dont need to worry about 
 it anymore; but they dont buy the goods you manufacture on your markets (which is your only way 
 of getting any income) , and especially they dont breed. If nobody buys things at the markets, 
 you wont have any money; if people dont breed, you wont have nobody to further working or researching 
 or fighting or replacing dead units. On the other hand, peasants do buy goods and do breed themselves, 
 but their loyalty is erratic and they rebel a lot when they dont like the state of the things 
 or the king is long absent. The problem, as you can see, is that you desperately need workers; 
 but you also need desperately peasants: you cant turn every single peasant into a worker and you 
 cant avoid employing people. Sure, you can always add more towns to your domain in order to avoid 
 these conflicts, but the people will only work in nearby buildings: people from Frisco wont work 
 in Philly. And that without including the nationality problem: every town in the map is from a 
 different race, and you cant mix them. You cant send people from an Egyptian settlement to reinforce 
 the population of a Chinese town in crises. Every time you start a scenario, you will face these 
 stresses, and a main key to victory is precisely to know how to manage wisely your preset and scarce 
 human resources.
  While in other games you just click on the train button and only worry about how many food units 
 are left (if youre not playing Dune or Command and Conquer, because they dont have any farm facility 
 at all) , in Seven Kingdoms II you must think carefully if you can really afford one single footman 
 or a new facility. If you noticed, I just talked about the most simple and overlooked feature of 
 the mechanics of every strategy game: the provision of working force for your settlement. The rest 
 of the game features also have a lot of innovations, and all of them point to complex and enrich 
 the standard. Every kingdom has its unique building stylings, its unique special units and its 
 unique characteristics. Your units have a tiny character sheet with skills that could be improved 
 through experience, and you can promote them from private to general to effectively manage and 
 decentralize the political affairs of the game. Your religious facility gives you special bonuses 
 that are unique to every race, and can summon a god creature thats also unique to every race (the 
 Normans summon an archangel, the Chinese summon the unicorn dragon Chi Lin) . Every campaign is 
 completely different, but I havent figured out if you have one preset campaign for every race 
 or if its randomized every time you begin. In every scenario, to wipe your foes out is not enough 
 to win: sometimes you must also accomplish some demographic objectives as a certain population 
 or commerce size. Likewise, if you are subjugating a town from the same nationality of your counterpart, 
 it could happen to you that its population and soldier units may treason you and became enemy troops 
 in the middle of the heat of war.
  And, if that werent much already, you can also play as Fryhtans, the beasties nation, who have 
 a completely different set of rules than humans: humans cant breed people and must rely on the 
 computer calculations and the reactions of peasants; fryhtans can breed units, although with a 
 limit. Humans are penalized if they kill any civilian; fryhtans are given awards for that.
  To sum up, its unquestionable that Seven Kingdoms II borrows a lot of things from previous games. 
 It has the feel and the basics of Age of Empires. It has a couple of rules and the political system 
 of the Romance of the Three Kingdoms series. It has the demographic objectives from Impressions 
 games (Caesar, Pharaoh, Zeus) . In between levels, a kingdom map comes that shows you the global 
 progress of the war in a way very similar to Westwood strategy games. But Seven Kingdoms II is 
 the jewel it is because it is a fine piece of craftsmanship. Trevor Chan has put together a series 
 of very good ideas that were previously sparse and not fully developed, and he managed to create 
 a superb, unique, and very challenging game. The only drawback I can think of it its that its 
 complexity can get very overwhelming for some players; especially when youre playing the tutorial 
 missions, whose difficulty are far from being tutorial. But, in spite of that, Seven Kingdoms II 
 is really a must-have; and you certainly have to consider buying it if youre desperately looking 
 for a different game. In an era where companies keep infinitely cloning one single plain standard, 
 its very good to see from time to time a game that gives one (or two) steps forward, like this 
 one. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
