-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shadow Ops: Red Mercury
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/shadowopsredmercury/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 23, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 5.9, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 246 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Zombie
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Sep 21, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The campaign missions can be pretty intense at times, but the underlying action itself lacks the 
 sort of visceral punch that shooters ought to have. 

  Unlike most modern-day military-themed first-person shooters, Shadows Ops: Red Mercury is more 
 about pure run-and-gun action than about relatively realistic squad tactics. It seems like a fully 
 featured game on paper, boasting a single-player campaign of more than two dozen missions, as well 
 as several multiplayer modes that are playable online by up to 32 players. As well, Shadow Ops 
 features some impressive audio, and its campaign offers a ton of targets to shoot at and a high 
 level of challenge even on the default difficulty setting (which is an easier setting, and there 
 are two even tougher settings available, as well) . The campaign missions can indeed be pretty intense 
 at times, but the underlying action itself lacks the sort of visceral punch that shooters ought 
 to have. This isn't as big of an issue in the heavily scripted single-player levels, but Shadow 
 Ops' clunky multiplayer gameplay significantly suffers for it. The result is a first-person shooter 
 that does little to distinguish itself from many other, similar games.  

          Sometimes you'll have friendlies at your side, but Shadow Ops is mostly a one-man-army 
 affair.     

  Shadow Ops was originally released on the Xbox several months ago, and the new PC version isn't 
 much different. It's playable at higher resolutions, though the shortcomings of the graphics just 
 stand out more readily that way. And while the mouse and keyboard controls should theoretically 
 be more precise than the console version's gamepad controls, in reality, the opposite is true. 
 The ugly onscreen targeting reticule here points toward nothing in particular, turning precision 
 shooting into mere guesswork. Unsurprisingly, the PC version lacks the Xbox version's split-screen 
 mode, though it theoretically makes up for this with an expanded multiplayer mode (the Xbox version 
 only supports eight players online) . However, online play is still bland and problematic, and barely 
 anyone's playing online anyway. On the plus side, the game ships on DVD-ROM, so at least the installation 
 process is painless.  

  The game is clearly derivative of successful military-themed arcade-style shooters such as the 
 Medal of Honor series and Call of Duty, though this one isn't based on real events. Captain Frank 
 Hayden is the hero of Shadow Ops' campaign, and he's your typical gruff gun-toting action hero. 
 Apparently he's good at getting important jobs done, since he's part of a Special Forces team charged 
 with recovering something called red mercury -- a substance that's capable of bringing nuclear destruction 
 upon the free world -- which has fallen into the wrong hands. Hayden's efforts to recover the red 
 mercury will send him to locations like war-torn Middle Eastern towns, the jungles of the Congo, 
 snowy Kazakhstan, and the subways of Paris. The story takes a couple of twists as it unfolds in 
 prerendered cutscenes between many of the missions, and while these cutscenes are grainy and unimpressive 
 for the most part, they're presented with the sort of shaky camera angles and fast editing that 
 has become Hollywood's favorite way to depict military action.  

  Regardless of what the stakes are and where the missions supposedly take place, they pretty much 
 all play out the same way. They're completely linear, which means there's never any alternative 
 but to keep pressing forward past droves of enemy grunts, who will often come at you in waves, 
 lie in ambush around corners, or snipe at you from windows or rooftops. Though most of the enemy 
 behavior seems to be scripted, foes exhibit some noticeable signs of intelligence, such as when 
 they rush from cover to cover and otherwise stick their necks out only when shooting at you. Foes 
 will also sometimes chuck grenades at you or, better yet, toss back one of your own. These occasionally 
 inspired bad guys are relatively few, though. You'll mostly just be gunning down tons of enemy 
 clones that pop up like targets in a shooting gallery. And even when the situation seems hopeless 
 as foes keep pouring in, you'll learn to see through the ruse -- the flow of bad guys stops as quickly 
 as it starts, inviting you to casually scour the area for health and ammo and then move on to the 
 next firefight.  

  You'll usually have several weapons -- a pistol, a sniper rifle, and an assault rifle -- in addition 
 to a few grenades. Occasionally you get a shotgun, a heavy machine gun, and a bazooka. Different 
 missions include different weapons, but while one rifle might appear significantly different from 
 another, all weapons of a particular class are functionally identical (except for differences in 
 how many rounds of ammo their clips can hold) . The assault rifles end up being the weapon of choice 
 of Shadow Ops, since they're perfectly suited for close- and medium-range combat, which covers 
 99 percent of the combat in the game.  

  One of the only reasons to switch from the assault rifle is that Shadow Ops is very stingy with 
 ammunition. Despite facing hordes of foes, you'll only be able to carry a few clips of ammo at 
 a time and will need to scavenge more from your victims -- who sometimes will drop more ammo for 
 you to use, but often won't. Ammo is especially scarce at the harder difficulty settings, in which 
 you'll feel like you were sent into the mission woefully ill-equipped to handle the odds -- which, 
 actually, is kind of cool.  

          You'll run and gun through more than two dozen levels in Shadow Ops' single-player campaign, 
 which is the highlight of the game, if any.     

  Unfortunately, the interaction between your guns' bullets and your enemies just isn't very satisfying 
 in Shadow Ops -- which is to say that the feel of the game just isn't great. In multiplayer, there's 
 no indication whatsoever that you're hitting as opposed to missing your target. In single-player, 
 at least, you'll see a foe recoil a little bit; but there's no blood (which shouldn't be a surprise 
 given that the game is rated T) , and there's little in the way of other evidence to suggest that 
 someone just got shot. The result is that the action feels flat, especially since you don't see 
 a weapon model or a muzzle flash onscreen when firing down a rifle's sights; you'll just line up 
 the crosshairs with the bad guys and watch them fall. Of further note, Halo proved that melee combat 
 could be both satisfying and effective in a first-person shooter, and Shadow Ops likewise gives 
 you the option to clobber foes with whichever weapon you have at the ready. However, you'll pretty 
 much never come into melee range in the game, so there's not much point in swinging your gun around, 
 except maybe to help pass the time as you slowly run from point to point. That's another issue -- your 
 running speed, while arguably realistic, seems too slow for a run-and-gun action game such as this. 
     

  The campaign itself is somewhat longer than average, partly because the missions are pretty tough 
 right from the get-go and force you to restart from the beginning if you die (and sit through a 
 pretty long loading time before restarting, to add a little insult to injury) . Generally, you can 
 take a ton of damage before getting killed -- but you'll always have tons of enemies gunning for 
 you, so death can still come swiftly and suddenly. Taking lots of damage is basically unavoidable, 
 since many of your foes will fire from concealed positions and have fast reflexes and good aim -- so 
 you'll end up spotting many of your enemies only because of the onscreen indicator that shows the 
 direction from which you're taking fire. Then it's just a matter of killing them before they kill 
 you, and that can take a good several tries. However, since the opposition pops up from the exact 
 same points in the level each time you play, you can get through even the toughest scenario with 
 patience and a trial-and-error approach.  

          Shadow Ops' multiplayer modes are much better in theory than in practice.     

  The 
 missions soon become a desperate struggle for health packs, which can be found tucked in the corners 
 of the environments and will sometimes (mercifully) be dropped by killed foes. It's not exactly 
 a perfect formula for fun, but Shadow Ops' tough, enemy-infested missions are loaded with screams 
 and explosions and can certainly be tense as you inch your way to the next finish line. Some campaign 
 missions let you fight alongside several other squad members, but they're mostly just for show. 
 Sometimes the squad members will get in your way, and sometimes they'll actually take out a target, 
 but you'll mostly end up doing all the work, same as always. There's also a little bit of obligatory 
 sneaking to be found at one point in the campaign, and on several other occasions, you'll have 
 to blow stuff up by planting explosives, which happens automatically when you press and hold the 
 "use" button. So the campaign is pretty monotonous, but it's also the best part of Shadow Ops. 

  The game's multiplayer features feel pretty tacked on. You've got your standard deathmatch, team 
 deathmatch, and capture-the-flag modes here, as well as a VIP escort mode, in which one team has 
 a poorly equipped player that must be defended as he or she travels from one end of the level to 
 the other. There are a decent number of multiplayer maps to play on, though many of these are ugly 
 and predictably laid out. Besides, the variety of maps doesn't address some of the fundamental 
 problems here. Since the core shooting action itself is so underwhelming, Shadow Ops' online mode 
 is a disappointing counterpart to the scripted single-player portion. As such, it's only good in 
 theory that the game supports as many multiplayer options as it does. That the game's readme file 
 is rife with "known issues" pertaining to the multiplayer modes and that we found barely anyone 
 to play with online during a number of attempts during the days subsequent to the game's release, 
 also doesn't help paint a pretty picture.  

  Shadow Ops often looks better than it plays, and sometimes plays better than it looks. But that's 
 only because sometimes it just doesn't look good. The weapon models are probably the best aspect 
 of the presentation, along with some of the effects and animations. Enemies actually look fairly 
 convincing as they rush to and fro, and rag-doll physics are used sparingly to pretty good effect 
 as some foes get sent flying from explosions or go toppling off of rooftops or balconies. The environments 
 look believable if you don't inspect them too closely. The levels themselves are quite small, and 
 the character models are quite blocky and unremarkable. One strange effect is how enemy bodies 
 vanish as soon as you look away; usually by the time you look back, it's as though nothing ever 
 happened. Also, much like how the game does a poor job of convincing you that your bullets are 
 hitting live targets, it does a poor job of convincing you that your bullets are hitting inanimate 
 objects, such as walls. Just a few small pockmarks tend to indicate the aftermath of a firefight, 
 even if you've been unloading a fully automatic machine gun for the past 30 seconds.  

          Shadow Ops has all the back-of-the-box bullet points of a good shooter, but the underlying 
 action is weak.     

  The audio is the highlight of Shadow Ops, which is a game that, at its best, convincingly sounds 
 like a Hollywood war zone. Gunfire and explosions are always happening all around you. Yet, some 
 subtle effects, such as empty shell casings ejecting onto the ground, manage to pass through the 
 cacophony. There's decent voice acting throughout the game, which is notable especially in that 
 your enemies will shout at you in their native languages. Even if you don't know the languages, 
 though, you'll still notice how a lot of the enemies repeat the same lines. Meanwhile, there's 
 a surprisingly diverse and intense soundtrack that plays during the campaign missions. Many of 
 these rousing, militaristic compositions are very impressive, though the game's action doesn't 
 quite hold up its end of the bargain, resulting in music that often sounds overblown. Outside of 
 the single-player campaign, in the absence of that dynamic soundtrack, the game still sounds good 
 but not remarkably so.  

  If only everything about Shadow Ops was as good as its audio. The game initially seems to offer 
 everything you'd want out of an action-packed military-themed shooter. However, online multiplayer 
 features are of little value when the action itself isn't good. Luckily, Shadow Ops' campaign isn't 
 a total wash if you're not easily frustrated and aren't expecting anything out of the ordinary. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This ain't a very balanced FPS and it's ridiculously difficult at times, but it still packs a punch 
 based on its intense gunfights and tremendous THX certified sound. Play it through your home system 
 speakers and feel the power of real-world reverberant sound effects... Man, that feels good.
  
  I quite like the level designs as they cover from urban warfare, jungle, moving trains and 
 even the Tower of Paris. The weapons are quite diverse as well, featuring some 10 over modern guns 
 that look sleek and cool, and especially the sound effects go well with their appearance too. Music 
 soundtracks are recorded with high quality orchestrations, including choir arrangements.
  
  As much as it's engaging, it's over before you know it, and sadly, quite forgettable as well, and 
 the audio aspect is the only reason I may want to replay it. Oh, the package contains quite an 
 amount of nicely done making-of footages that raises its value just a bit.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  I ended up enjoying Shadow Ops: Red Mercury a whole lot more than I anticipated. The game was exactly 
 what I expected when I bought it off of the bargain rack: an extremely basic run-and-gun shooter 
 that aspires to a more realistic tactical experience but is held back by an all-too-common ebb 
 in the developers time, funding, or inspiration to really amount to much. I was impressed by the 
 intensity of SO: RMs cutscenes, with their pseudo-Steadicam shakiness, whooshing pans, and long-range 
 zooms. The quality of the games voice work is very much above-the-norm among titles that hit the 
 marketplace at $20 a pop, and its packaging on a single jewel-box-encased DVD was a very welcome 
 sight during a year lousy with stacks of CDs sheathed in sloppy paper envelopes. I kept wondering, 
 as the introductory movie played out in its noisy, busy Michael Bay-esque glory and I held my own 
 through the first rather exciting firefight, what qualified SO: RM as a budget title.
  
  My answer came in the very next moment, as my hand crept toward the F6 button for that wonder of 
 all gaming conventions, the QuickSave. You see, the folks at Zombie were somehow afflicted with 
 the notion that I would be thrilled to play an entire level over from the very beginning if I was 
 cut down just as the exit came into view  which actually happened on one of the jungle levels, 
 as I recall; which one is gone from my memory, but the frustration and subsequent shut-down it 
 prompted is still quite clear. If you want to challenge me, Zombie, the limited ammo refills and 
 relatively feckless combat model for firing from cover certainly fit the bill. Both impediments 
 to Captain Haydens success were somewhat punishing: the former in a good way, but the latter  
 comprised mainly of a lean function that only works while the player is sighting down the barrel 
 of his gun  prompted me to simply walk out into the open and hope for the best more often than 
 not.
  
  SO: RMs sound is its most commendable aspect; I actually jumped in my seat, fumbling to reposition 
 my hand on the keyboard, following a few sudden nearby explosions. The graphics, too, look fantastic, 
 particularly for an Xbox port; as Ive said before, it may appear as though Im easily entertained 
 almost to the point of retardation, but the sight of dappled sunlight beaming photo-realistically 
 through a lush jungle canopy, while the surrounding acreage stretches far off into the hazy distance, 
 really does make up for a lot of redundant clashes and inelegant tactics. The view from the Eiffel 
 Tower was also spectacular despite the fact that I was well-and-truly tired, by that point in the 
 game, of worrying over my supply of health packs in lieu of starting the entire doggone level over 
 following another preternaturally accurate barrage of enemy fire.
  
  Generally speaking, there are two types of budget games. The first are amateurish projects made 
 with bare-bones financing that, while often novel in concept, never really had a chance at greatness. 
 Red Mercury seems to me like it falls into the other column of the no-frills gaming category: it 
 starts off with a lot of promise, and then just runs out of steam. No, I dont think that the ability 
 to QuickSave will make or break a game, but that feature is solidly within the Venn circle of my 
 own opinion of what makes a title worthy of my time. Despite having the proper amount of you-are-there 
 sound quality and frenetic action for a major release, SO: RMs relegation to the ranks of less 
 prestigious creations is, after all, not that surprising. If you really like shooters and are either 
 amazingly good, supernaturally tolerant, or have no reservations about activating God mode once 
 your health rating takes its inevitable dip, Red Mercury is worth a quick weekend junket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btiddy
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 14, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  Shadow Ops: Red Mercury has an interesting enough storyline. Basically your run-of-the-mill, Stop 
 the bad guy from detonating a massive nuclear bomb... Except there are probably traitors among your 
 friends... The graphics are pretty good, again not great. The game ran great on my ATI Radeon 9250 
 card, which was pretty cheap at Wal-Mart. The only thing I wish it had was blood. It's really too 
 bad this game is rated T because it would be a flipping awesome M game. If the designers had added 
 blood to the mix of great graphics, I might have been more impressed with this game. Another thing 
 is I bought the game and beat it in the same day... Granted I played it on the second to easiest 
 setting, but still. Even easy on HALO 1 Is harder than this.
  
  In short, this is a good game. Well worth the $10 I spent on it. But there are some things I wish 
 I could change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chalker
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  Shadow ops is a modern first person shooter where you play as a special or shadow operative named 
 Frank Hayden and you are in search of Red Mercury, a nuclear weapon to stop and retrieve it.
  And when I say you are in search of it I mean "in SEARCH" of it by chasing it all across the globe 
 from the jungles of Congo to the Syrian streets to Paris. So this game has a lot of environment 
 variety, but they are still linear and they might as well be because the game is just run and gunning, no 
 strategy, and your mission objectives are the usuall and straight forward ones telling you to move 
 from place to place shooting any bad guy that pop out everywhere you turn like a shooting gallery. They 
 are pretty smart though they do hide behind cover (sometimes) and once in a while will throw a grenade 
 at you and even sometimes will chuck the ones that you throw back, which actually sometimes gets 
 annoying. But your squadmates that you will be with on some missions on the other hand aren't too 
 bright, they stay out in the open and can never for the life of them hit and kill an enemy themselves, but 
 I guess they keep you company when you get lonely. The guns are pretty cool, on usuall missions you 
 will get an assault rifle a sniper rifle and a pistol or sometimes a machine gun, so sometimes it 
 feels like your really not getting any thin different. The single player missions can get pretty 
 intense usually and there are over 2 dozen of them (not bad for a shooter) but the gameplay seems 
 to be missing the feel that most FPS games have. The bullet impacts and enemy reactions to the bullets 
 erent really there and the shooting doesnt feel like anything special either. But the grenade throwing 
 is good, in some games the grenade throwing is real limp and doesnt go far at all and in others 
 it goes way too far, but in this game it's just right.
  But I think this game is known for it's cinematic element and the developers trying to make a lot 
 like a movie. And It does have quite a blockbuster feel when watching the cutscenes, which are in 
 between most levels and have good length to them. They are a bit fuzzy and dont have the best graphics, but 
 it has that shaky camera and good movement animations so that it does have that hollywood look 
 to it. And the voice acting is not too bad either but the scripting need a llitle more and better 
 work.
  And after you finish the single player campaign (which will take a while because of the good length 
 and challenging difficulty) ther is a good multiplayer aspect to go after. There is the co-op split 
 screen with different missions than the single player ones to play with a firend and then there's 
 the pretty good Xbox live feature which has 5 game modes.
  So you may find some enterntainment in this shooter especially if you like movies and cinematics 
 for a while but dont expect to be fully satisfied with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olleost
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a real Medal Of Honor wannabe. But a succesful try it is. 
  The sound is good. The echos and reprocutions from gun fire are adjusted to sound like they should 
 when moving from an interior to an exterior or out to a large out door area with no solid obstructing 
 surfaces. Such as the jungle levels. The fact that you cant save, is very good. You get more involved 
 in that way, and you play more realistic. First of all the graphics looked pretty good and detailed 
 but the cutsecenes weren't really good but the final cutscene was great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2005 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Shadow Ops: Red Mercury is a nice surprise I found in the bargain bin for a measly $15, which makes 
 it a great buy in my books. The reason is an intense single-player campaign that runs and guns 
 like a Hollywood movie. Unfortunately, like many Hollywood action flicks, Shadow Ops is shallow 
 and doesn't make much sense (why is a Sergeant giving orders to a Captain?) , but the non-stop action 
 lets you turn off your brain and simply enjoy the ride.
  
  Of course, it could have been better. There's no gore in this violent military shooter. In fact, 
 bodies magically fade away mere seconds after you shoot each enemy. This technique made sense back 
 when computers and video cards didn't have the processing power to handle all those accumulating 
 dead body polygons, but Shadow Ops doesn't strain your system even at high resolution, so why not 
 let the bodies stay? This would lend more atmosphere to the proceedings.
  
  The voice acting and editing of the cut scenes were well done, but the production values were horrible. 
 The developers said each scene was rendered in-engine, but for some reason the final version was 
 cut down to 256 colors and low resolution. This made each movie look cheap and bland.
  
  I tried to get into multiplayer, but almost nobody was online. At the very least, I wanted to explore 
 the CTF and VIP escort maps, but couldn't because you're not allowed to enter these levels alone. 
 Dumb move.
  
  Back to single-player: A nice variety of levels (some small, some large) , awesome sound and music, 
 cool weapons, and hair-trigger battles really make Shadow Ops a winner. I didn't even mind the 
 fact there's no saving your progress because health packs are placed logically and liberally. Don't 
 pay full-price for Shadow Ops, but if you spot it on sale, don't hesitate to snap it up.
  
  By Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Payasoplas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I hate playing in PCs even when my computer meets the requirements I prefer playing 
 the console version, but if the PC version is less than half the price of the console version it's 
 obvious that you should go for it.
  
  Zombie is well known for making military themed shooters, but most of their games are bad, so I 
 have to admit that this was a game I wasn't waiting for, then I readed some reviews in magazines 
 and websites and some of them said that this was one of the worst FPS games ever, they compared 
 it even with Robocop or Terminator 3, but then a friend buyed it for the Xbox and told that was 
 a great game, I played the first mission and then I realized that this game was really a good game.
 
  
  The good part of the game:
  
  The gameplay isn't very deep, but the missions are really hard ant that's what makes this game 
 worth, there is no quick save feature and it could be frustrating but the good part is that you 
 will spend a lot of time trying to beat this challenging game, the enemies are very numerous you 
 can kill them with a few shots but the number of enemies is colossal.
  
  Shadows Ops: Red Mercury is rated teen because there no gore in it but the firefights are so intense 
 so the game becomes ultra violent.
  
  Sound and music is definitively the best part, sound effects are great and the music makes you 
 feel like you are inside the game, specially in the first missions.
  
  The bad part:
  
  Graphics are just good, but the Minimum System Requirements are ALMOST the same as Far Cry or Doom 
 3, and this game looks much older, perhaps if the System Requirements were lower this could be 
 one of the best looking games, the textures look fine but lighting effects and physics are simplistic.
 
  
  The gameplay turns repetitive and sometimes is too frustrating but it's not too bad after all, 
 today most games are very easy to beat, but enemy's IA is very dissapointing, in the first mission 
 you will not notice that because you will face a lot of fanatic Syrian terrorists (suicide soldiers 
 who await a great honor in the afterlife for their sacrifice) in other missions enemies are more 
 cautious but nothing extraordinary.
  
  The multipalyer part is mediocre if you are looking for multiplyer go for the Xbox version it's 
 a lot more complete just because it has the Xbox live support and split screen modes including 
 Co Op mode.
  
  In the end Shadows Ops: Red Mercury is a highly entertaining game, I buyed it for $200 mexican 
 pesos (less than $20 usd) so is going to be a well spent money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddie9027361
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2004 11:17 am PT
Review:  ITs an alright game. Gameplay is pretty repetitive and very linear, grahics are alright, sound 
 is pretty good. but, as you probably guessed...
  
  THIS GAME NEEDS QUCKSAVE!!!
  it doesnt have autosave so everytime you die you have to restart the mission. This seems to shadow 
 the whole game. You die seconds away from finishing the mission and then you have to start the 
 whole thing over again. Its such a small thing but could make such an improvement on the game. 
 The mulitiplayer is alright, nothing special...
  
  ... i wouldn't recommend this game to anyone, unless they really like modern shooters and have to 
 have everyone that is released...
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
