-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shadow of Destiny
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/shadowofdestiny/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 23, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.2, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 167 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Jul 22, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It may seem ironic that Shadow of Destiny, one of the best PC adventure games to come around in 
 some time, was originally a console game. 

 Shadow of Destiny was originally released for the PlayStation 2 in Japan last year, and it was later 
 localized for US PlayStation 2 owners with full English speech. Still, it seems much better suited 
 to the PC adventure game genre. It has all the necessary components: a hapless protagonist investigating 
 a mystery, inventory-based puzzles, a moderately complex story that unfolds over the course of 
 the game, and no standard way for your character to permanently die (though there are a few ways 
 to lose the game outright) . Shadow of Destiny tells the story of Eike (pronounced "Ike") , a student 
 who is murdered without warning while wandering the streets of his hometown one day and is then 
 brought back to life by an enigmatic spirit who gives him the ability to travel through time. Eike 
 must use this ability to visit four different time periods in a quest to prevent his own murder 
 and uncover the motives of his mysterious assailant.           Shadow of Destiny has highly detailed 
 character models.    

  Unfortunately, Shadow of Destiny's roots as a Japanese PlayStation 2 game are rather obvious. On 
 one hand, the game uses the same sort of detailed, high-polygon character models that have become 
 so fashionable in character-driven Japanese console role-playing games. They've been optimized 
 to work at higher resolutions, and though they'll sometimes have some pretty obvious jagged edges 
 in the game's cinematic close-ups, all the characters look quite good and have detailed facial 
 animations. On the other hand, the game's environments look quite bad. Eike spends most of the 
 game in different time periods in the same town, but no matter when he visits, the town, its buildings, 
 and its scenery always look blocky and plain -- even crude at times.   

  Shadow of Destiny also sounds like a PlayStation 2 port of a Japanese game. If you've been playing 
 games for a while, you know by now that when Japanese games get dubbed in English, the English 
 versions often have terrible voice acting. This isn't entirely true for Shadow of Destiny -- it does 
 have the same sort of occasionally clumsy translation and the same kind of awkward voice acting 
 you may have come to expect from dubbed Japanese video games or movies, but much of it is actually 
 decent, and it's delivered enthusiastically. The same can't be said for the game's generally subdued 
 soundtrack, which features a few decent symphonic tunes during the game's in-engine cutscenes but 
 is generally quiet and difficult to even notice while you're actually playing the game.   

  As for the actual game, Shadow of Destiny is so much like a conventional graphical adventure like 
 Grim Fandango or The Longest Journey that it may surprise you. Though the game's generally easy-to-use 
 interface was clearly designed for the PlayStation 2 controller, it also works quite well with 
 the arrow keys and the mouse. About the only time you'll encounter camera problems is when Eike 
 enters buildings and can't freely look around -- you'll sometimes have trouble getting to the right 
 door or finding your way around because part of a wall or ceiling will be blocking your view. Beyond 
 that, playing Shadow of Destiny is all about talking to the right people and using the right inventory 
 items at the right time. Though the game does have some obtuse puzzles -- like rescuing a helpless 
 person in exchange for a bauble, which you then trade for a frying pan that you place down the 
 back of your jacket to prevent getting stabbed -- many of Shadow of Destiny's puzzles actually make 
 sense.           As with any good adventure game, you'll need to solve puzzles and interact with 
 characters.    

  More importantly, the game's interesting story does a good job of giving these puzzles real context 
 and giving you real motivation to solve them -- if you don't, Eike will never be free of the never-ending 
 cycle of getting killed and then returning to the past just before the time of his death. The issue 
 of time travel is handled extremely well in the game, as the actions you take in the past will 
 have real effects in the future. For instance, in one scene, Eike is murdered by an assailant hiding 
 in a huge tree. Armed with that knowledge, on his next try, he can travel back in time and make 
 sure the tree was never planted. Shadow of Destiny actually has four different endings that will 
 change depending on how much of the mystery you manage to unravel and your actions while traveling 
 through time, and these additional endings add replay value to the game.   

  It's unfortunate, but graphical adventure games, which used to be the most popular kind of computer 
 game around, have been in decline for some years. As such, it may seem ironic that Shadow of Destiny, 
 one of the best PC adventure games to come around in some time, was originally a console game. 
 Then again, most fans of adventure games will likely ignore the irony at this point and just be 
 glad to get their hands on a decent one for their PCs.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 10:30 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - Engaging story with plenty of different endings
  - Great cast of characters
  - Interesting game setting
  - Largely good voice acting and great character models
  
  Negative
 
  - Story is short (around 4 to 5 hours)
  - Can frustrate some people
  - Tons of glitches
  
  Shadow of Destiny for the PC is what you can call; simply, fun and engaging. Despite the short 
 story, its multiple endings, great setting and other things make this one of the best adventure 
 titles available on the PC to date.
  
  An engaging and memorable storyline helps which can seem an obtuse and strange one. The protagonist 
 is Eike Kusch which throughout the game you'll see him die many time. After his first death, after 
 being stabbed from behind he is 'saved' by a being called Homunculus. The story starts there. What 
 Eike has to do is prevent his death by traveling time. 
  
  To do that he has the digipad. By getting energy units you can travel. There are around 4 eras 
 you can visit, middle-ages, 1902, 1980 and some others which you visit for a short period of time. 
 This is a game divided in chapters, which you have to complete each one in a certain amount of 
 time. If you don't it's Game Over. Also if you made an impact on the past and another you is still 
 there and you go there, the two which is you disappear and you get a nice Game Over screen, which 
 one has to be careful what to do. If you are in another time when the appointed hour when Eike 
 dies, it's also game over. If you don't
  Finish the chapter in time you will have to play the chapter again. The first time you play the 
 chapter you can't skip the cutscenes, but if you failed and do it again, the cutscenes are skippable. 
 
  
  You don't get to save anywhere you won't. The game always promotes to save after each chapter (there 
 are 8 of them) . Though you can save by pressing the digipad and end the game, but you will exit 
 the game, but luckily you won't have to restart to chapter. 
  
  The length of the game is awfully short. It toke me around 4 hrs and 34 mins to complete it. And 
 it was my first time so it took so detours here and there. But to make it more worth there are 
 multiple endings to it, 5 to be exactly. You can seal 2 endings in chapter 5, but the other 3 are 
 decided at the end. The story offers a lot in the way of surprises. Keep you guessing who the murderer 
 is, and staff like that. And the great cast of other characters in other time makes the story tie 
 up better. If you don't know what to do you are most likely to get bored with this one quickly 
 since not all hints are obvious. Fortunately there aren't any puzzles or pixel hunts to be found. 
 
  
  The graphics are largely great, though there are tons of little glitches almost everywhere. To 
 add up the houses look a bit blocky but the character models are simply outstanding. The voice 
 acting is great as well. If you talk to regular people, their lines are voiced. Even though the 
 background music fits, it isn't the best one around. 
  
  There are no puzzles as I mentioned before, but there is a lot of thinking in it. Sometimes it 
 is important to go in the past and change some things to avoid Eike's death. By not making the 
 right choice you might have to repeat the whole chapter. 
  
  Shadow of Destiny is not for everyone, though every single adventure fan should try this out. Most 
 people know the adventure genre has some a lot of momentum, still this is an interesting, a rather 
 short game. The fact that there are multiple endings, a great cast of characters and interesting 
 gameplay makes it stand out even with its problems. Not to mention the presentation, but in the 
 end Shadow of Destiny is a great game to play for a short period of time, but don't expect to be 
 spending more than a weekend on this one, if you rush. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics = 8.4
  There are many glitches and the backgrounds could have definitely been better but the character 
 models are so sharp that they make up for those shortcomings.
  
  Sound = 8.5
  Superb voice acting and fitting music everywhere else, but not everywhere is equally great. 
 
  
  Presentation = 8.8
  Amazing cutscenes and the menu will be liked by most people. Production values are great but a 
 bit weak in the oldest era since most colors don't shine, everywhere else no problem. 
  
  Gameplay = 7.9
  No actual puzzles or pixel-hunts, mostly running around town talking to people, 
 pickup items, travel through time and avoid your death, but is that a bad thing?
  
  Camera = 7.7
  Can't say it's bad, it is rather slow. 
  
  Story = 9.0
  It's a weird and 
 at times a confusing one, but after some time one might realize that Shadow of Destiny has one 
 of the best story released recently. A great cast of characters helps more. 
  
  Difficulty = Between Easy and Medium.
  Most of the things are easy to realize but others might 
 frustrate you and harder the game.
  
  
  OVERALL = 8.4 / 10
  SOD is an ambitious game. Originally released of the PS2, this translation for the PC hasn't come 
 completely in tact, but everything which was great originally is still great here, which make Shadow 
 of Destiny one of the best adventure games on the PC up till today as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  This was amazing in concept, but horrible in execution. I suspect it was probably better on console.
 
  
  The story was compelling. The double edged sword is how crazy it is. I really like the time traveling 
 brain pretzel it tries to weave. However, it causes moments that are just plain bizarre, and leaves 
 you saying huh . I like movies that challenge me. There is a good kind of huh . But this one feels 
 almost buggy. At one point, I'm standing by this tree with this girl, and then I get killed. So, 
 it replays it again, but different. Then I try to move, and it does it again... and then I think 
 it did it again... maybe more than once.... It's not that I don't remember, it's just that I have 
 no flipping clue what happened. It was just like this strange flashing of events that were all 
 kind of at the same time. It felt more like I make some mistake and it loosed a bug on me, than 
 a really intentional brain gimping moment.
  
  Add into this very confusing conditions for death and a lousy save system, and it leaves you very 
 confused. You can die, but... not... die.... but then, all of a sudden there is this weird glow 
 for no reason, and you die, but it's a game over. And when you sort-of die, you sometimes come 
 back in weird places. Do I have to replay it? Do I still have my items? Answer: sometimes. It's 
 inconsistent. Then the little green thingy glows and I don't know if I'm gonna die, or if it's 
 just gonna move on.
  
  The story is pretty linear too. You have choices, but each part feels so short and coraled in. 
 So, there is this really crazy open ended multi-ending story, told in a really linear boxed in 
 fashion, with really confusing win conditions.
  
  The graphics were nice, but not great. The voice acting, was great with some people, but the lead 
 character made me want to cut off my ears with a my-first-princess-party knife.
  
  Overall, this added up to a very frustrating experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Shadow of Destiny presents us with the story of Eike, a young man that rely on a time travelling 
 device to solve the mysteries around his own murder.
  
  Weird as it may seem, Eike is murdered at the very start of the game but thanks to the help of 
 a strange creature, a homunculus, he does not fade away or go to heaven, instead, he's presented 
 with an opportunity to travel back in time using a strange pocket device called digipad and somehow 
 prevent his own demise.
  
  As one would expect, each time Eike travels in time and interacts with people and places, his future 
 changes, for better and worse. There are some key moments in this timeline that will define the 
 outcome of his journey but there's also plenty of things to accomplish if you're willing to let 
 Eike save people's lives or just bring happiness to a lonely child.
  
  The game takes place on a small German town and the game does manage to create decent graphics 
 for it. The character models are well designed but a bit overused as ancestors from a given character 
 use the same model with a few touches. It does make easier for the player to identify the a given 
 character's father but it feels silly if you're to meet four of his clones.
  
  The game is divided into chapters, each chapter involves being able to find out a way to escape 
 a given murder attempt, which obviously involves some knowledge about how you're going to get murdered. 
 Sometimes you have to die in order to fully understand how the killer will act. Don't worry, homunculus 
 will prevent you from fading away.
  
  Travelling is time is very well designed since you can only travel to certain key points in the 
 past, which are somehow attached to your destiny. This makes game play much smoother as it limits 
 the places where the puzzle solution could be found. As the game progresses, the number of places 
 to which you can travel to increase.
  
  As said, death does not represent a problem in Shadow of Destiny but that does not mean you can't 
 fail. There's a limit to the time you can stay in another time line, if you fail to return to your 
 time before this limit expires, it's game over. There's also a few tricky situations concerning 
 the overlapping of time lines but I won't spoil anyone's fun.
  
  After you beat the game for the first time, you're invited to try again. This time, everything 
 that you change is still there and you're affected by the changes you made in the first go. I found 
 it very rewarding as it makes game play faster (you don't have to solve all the puzzles) and gives 
 the player a strong sense of achievement.
  
  There are six different endings (I've managed to get four so far) and each reveal a bit of the 
 plot like why are you connected to the homunculus in the first place or who's the girl that you 
 feel so strongly related to.
  
  I'd say Shadow if Destiny is a very good adventure game with a huge replay value and smooth game 
 play. Definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DantesGirl05
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 1, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Even though it is a little bit older now the characters still look very nice. The voice acting 
 is actually pretty decent, something I wasn't expecting. The story played out well. It kept me 
 interested until the end and had me very involved. Unfortunately the end came very quickly. I beat 
 it in about 5 hours and that was with breaks and all.
  The bad points would be that there aren't many special features to unlock. You can unlock the different 
 endings and some videos but that's about all. The music was iffy but the biggest problem I found 
 was that you don't really go anywhere. Yes, you travel back and forth through time but the town 
 stays pretty much the same. The people, too. This must be a veeeery close-knit community.
  The puzzles were pretty good and actually were involved with the actual story, rather than just 
 solve a puzzle to get from point A to point B.
  All in all it's an interesting game and definitely worth playing once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devildweller98
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:29 pm PT
Review:  shadow of memoris a very smart adventure game by konami. very good graphics. not much of a gameplay. 
 no guns. no bosses to kill. Eike's the main character in the story and someone wants him dead. 
 you must help Eike stop the killer form killing him. shadow of memories, begins with the death 
 of the hero, Eike. as his life slips away a mysterious voice whispers that destiny can be changed. 
 one given this chance to cheat his fate, you must help Eike travel back in time, collect clues 
 and solve the mystery of his destiny. emotionally deep and shooking story line. with lots of twists. 
 6 very different endings witch you must help out Eike find the real future of his destiny. but 
 is there such a thing. spooky and very smart, darn right brilliant.
  love this game. konami is amazing. But better on the PS2. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
