-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shadow Man
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/shadowman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 24, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 7.6, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 214 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Acclaim
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Jul 31, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It seems silly to malign a game about the undead by calling it lifeless, but that's exactly Shadow 
 Man's problem. 

 Mike LeRoi, the main character of Acclaim's third-person action-adventure Shadow Man, has a rich 
 history. He's a former failed English literature student, a former taxi driver, and a former hit 
 man for the Chicago mob. And through an unlucky series of events, he is currently a zombie slave 
 of a voodoo priestess and the shirtless superhero of the afterlife - a place called Deadside. Five 
 demonic serial killers have elected to marshal the forces of the undead and loose them upon the 
 world of the living, or Liveside in voodoo talk. And only one man can save the world from this 
 hellish fate - one shadow man. And what form does his quest take? Surprisingly, one just like that 
 presented in less serious but much better games, such as Super Mario 64 and Banjo-Kazooie.  

 Shadow Man copies the essentially nonlinear play style perfected by these two landmark 3D console 
 games but replaces their ingenuity and sense of wonder with tedious, overwrought grimness. It's 
 as if the designers' goal was to make an adult-oriented Mario, but all they could think of was 
 to cover every available surface with bloodstains. Playing from an over-the-shoulder perspective, 
 you guide Shadow Man as he runs, jumps, and climbs through 16 large levels while collecting Dark 
 Souls and Cadeux, which are the equivalent of Banjo-Kazooie's Jiggies and Notes. Initially, only 
 a few levels are available, but as you accrue Dark Souls, more areas become unlocked. By using 
 a tattered teddy bear, you can return to any level to further explore it, rooting out objects you 
 may have missed or that were unreachable the first, or second, or seventh time through.  

 Letting you reenter and further explore previously visited areas is a proven play mechanic of the 
 genre. Shadow Man adopts this system then manages to screw it up by populating each level with 
 a large number of enemies that are neither challenging nor fun to fight. The programmers who created 
 the AI for recent games such as Kingpin and Half-Life won't be losing any sleep over the intelligence 
 exhibited in Shadow Man. In fact, the programmers who created the AI for Pac-Man won't be losing 
 any sleep over the brainless inhabitants of Deadside. The best that can be said about the battles 
 is that they certainly are time consuming. Enemies lumber towards you or stand in place and shoot. 
 Worse yet, all the enemies respawn (in exactly the same place) every time you enter a level, a 
 huge discouragement to the sense of exploration the game should be working to promote.  

 Graphically Shadow Man is generally unexceptional. Your enemies consist of various Halloween fare: 
 skeletons, ghosts, chain saw-wielding zombies, and human-headed dogs, to name a few. Unfortunately, 
 the only scary thing about most of them is how poorly they're animated. Everything moves with a 
 jerky stiffness, with the worst offender being, unfortunately, the Shadow Man himself. The game 
 engine, which Acclaim has bothered to name 3D VISTA, seems designed to create very large but simple 
 areas. Occasionally, you'll come across an interesting scene. A few could even be described as 
 breathtaking, such as an otherworldly train station and a level called Engine Block, which contains 
 some effectively huge machinery. But for the most part the gameworld looks like nothing more than 
 simple geometric shapes with pasted-on bitmaps. Stairs are displayed as ramps with a picture of 
 stairs applied to them - a telling example of the game's lack of detail.  

 For a game that wears its horror theme on its skeletal-arm-containing sleeve, Shadow Man is utterly 
 devoid of any actual terror. Human entrails are strewn about, meat hooks are employed, and the 
 soundtrack contains lots of babies and women crying (repeated to some point beyond annoyance that 
 should not be confused with fear) , but it builds absolutely no suspense. At no point does it transcend 
 its nature and become more than a dull skills test. The game needs to foster some sense of dread 
 as to what may lie around each corner, yet it fails miserably to do this on any level.  

 It seems silly to malign a game about the undead by calling it lifeless, but that's exactly Shadow 
 Man's problem. Although not incompetent technically, it is poorly paced and ultimately not involving 
 in any significant way. The developers have promised seventy hours of gameplay, and while this 
 reviewer won't argue with that - Shadow Man is indeed a long, long game - that's no guarantee you'll 
 get seventy hours of enjoyment.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MizzGMC23
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2009 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game and will return to it to play again. I was attracted to it because of its dark 
 themes. I'd just played Residental Evil; Codename Veronica & Soul Reaver and was waiting to play 
 Alice so when I got the chance to try Shadowman out I was just in the right mood for it.
  OK, so there is a lot of wandering around but Doom did that too. The level of fights may not be 
 as noteworthy as Doom demons but I didn't play the game for the battles but for the immersion factor. 
 Wandering around has the benefit of being worth it when there's an interesting storyline and the 
 atmosphere of the game is so darn good. LOL. Sooooo creepy in places, and truly ghoulish in others.
 
  The game has really dark gameplay and the world it is played in mirrors that very well. If you've 
 brought up on PS2 games or newer then this may not visually please but it is quite an old game 
 now (technology advancement-wise anyway) in its day it was comparatively reasonable.
  I'm convinced that even new game players will find something to appreciate with this game, or I'd 
 have only given it a 7.5, for example newbies won't be scared off gaming by the fact that they're 
 constantly dying before getting very far into the game. 
  For long time players, like me, the game has me wanting to revisit it. I'm not sure there's that 
 many I've played that are worth re-visiting, and that includes some much newer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadKarma5g
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  This game is very non-linear but at the same time you know your direction. The graphics even now 
 in the xbox360 days are good , the story is creepy and pulled me right in with its morbidity, the 
 music is one of the best i have ever heard , the ambience sends chills up your spine. This is a 
 game where from the beginning it slowly builds up momentem and once it really starts rolling it 
 never stops, especially when you finally get to the asylumn. I think whoever gave this a 5.0 didn't 
 have the time to get into the game and gave it a s@#$ rating because they didn't play it far enough 
 to where the game starts to kick an pay off. Sux shadowman 2 was a dissapointment but if you still 
 have a dreamcast stashed away check ebay for this game. I still own a dreamcast soley for this 
 game. My opinion one of my top 5 fav games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Even if you're not real keen on the latest comics - or graphic novels, as the more sophisticated 
 ones bill themselves - it won't take you long to realize that the hero of Acclaim's newest 3D action 
 adventure is also the star of an Acclaim comic. You want some pulp fiction with a nice voodoo sauce? 
 Then check out the story of the game's hero, Mike LeRoi.
  
  After dropping out of college because of booze and gambling, the Louisiana native becomes a taxi 
 driver in Chicago. It looks like his luck has changed when he finds $20,000 left in his cab by 
 the victim of a gangland hit, so he heads back to New Orleans and pays for the surgery his kid 
 brother badly needs (what a nice guy!) . But when he hears the gang's looking for him, he's forced 
 to hire a voodoo priest, called a Bokor, for protection. That would have been okay if Mike were 
 cruising the streets of the Big Easy all by his lonesome, but his family happens to be with him 
 when the gang attacks. The voodoo saves him, but his uninsured kinfolk all die, including that 
 cute little kid brother with the teddy bear.
  
  So Mike winds up a zombie slave to the Bokor that protected him, until a voodoo priestess named 
 Mama Nettie slaps the Mask of Shadows into his chest and turns him into Shadow Man. On the upside, 
 being a Shadow Man lets him cross between our world (Liveside) and the world of the dead (you guessed 
 it - Deadside) . The downside is that he's Mama Nettie's slave, and as the game opens, we find out 
 she's sent him on a pretty important errand: track down five ruthless serial killers whose souls 
 have been possessed by the most evil spirits known to man. Fail in your task, and you might as 
 well put on your dancing shoes and dance to some Apocalypso music - these five guys are apparently 
 the linchpins of the End Time. Never simple, is it?
  
  Your quest begins in a Louisiana swamp, where you (as Mike LeRoi, your Liveside incarnation) get 
 the lowdown on the five degenerates; after a quick dip in a pool to grab some voodoo items, you 
 plunge into Deadside in search of dark souls - the only source of energy that'll give you enough 
 power to deal with the fiendish five. But harvesting those dark souls isn't simply a matter of 
 moseying through Deadside; there are a lot of lost souls down here, and all of them are after a 
 piece of you. You start out armed only with the Shadow Gun, which requires a lot of hits to destroy 
 an enemy but also leaves behind a soul you can take to replenish your lifeforce. As you move through 
 the various regions of Deadside, you'll pick up much cooler weapons, such as the flame-throwing 
 Asson and Baton, the torch-like Flambeau, the ground-shaking Marteau, and others.
  
  But though you'll experience combat on a frequent basis, the real challenge facing you is locating 
 govi, containers you must shoot to release those aforementioned dark souls. To do that, you must 
 navigate some of the most complex mazes ever created (these level designs would make Escher proud) , 
 perform prodigious jumps over fiery lava and gaping chasms, and dodge deadly devices such as rotating 
 blades and swinging boulders; think Montezuma's Return set in hell, and you've got a pretty good 
 idea of what to expect. By successfully completing certain challenges, you'll acquire special powers 
 like the ability to walk on fire or push aside blistering hot barricades, but unless you're a master 
 at this sort of thing you can expect to play for quite a while before you get any of the good stuff.
 
  
  The manual says that Shadow Man is an immensely complex and non-linear adventure, and while the 
 first part of that statement is true, the second brings us to one of the game's biggest flaws; 
 whenever you return to a level, all the enemies have respawned and are waiting for another go at 
 you. Hey, I don't have a problem with having to return to areas I've already visited in order to 
 find something new, but having to kill the same guys ad infinitum gets old very, very fast. Of 
 course, there are some places where you can just hoof it past the bad guys, but all too often you'll 
 have to stop and fight to make headway. Adding insult to injury is the fact that as you get more 
 powerful, the enemies respawn in greater and greater numbers and can take even more damage.
  
  What it all adds up to is a shift in emphasis from exploration to a protracted parade of combat 
 sequences. Battles usually degenerate into either a series of circle-strafing attacks or a finger-wearying 
 number of shots, and after a while you'll grow so bored that you don't care how well you fight 
 since death merely takes you back to the start of the level. That's actually the best part of combat: 
 you can take out a few enemies at a time, die, then come back and have that many less to destroy 
 - unless, of course, you leave the level and realize you have to come back again.
  
  Though not as annoying as repeated combat, character control is likely to be another sore spot 
 for a lot of gamers. Shadow Man uses a third-person perspective with an auto-aiming feature similar 
 to that in Tomb Raider - as long as you can see an enemy, the shot will likely hit home. But that's 
 not the case for enemies above you, so the game features a sniping mode where you can look up and 
 all around with a crosshair. That's a welcome touch - except that you're glued to where you're 
 standing as you aim! That's not what I'd call a useful control scheme.
  
  A big part of Shadow Man's appeal is that you can travel between the worlds of the living and the 
 dead, but the pacing sometimes detracts from this concept: you'll spend quite a few hours in Deadside 
 before you even get a chance to go up top . And when you finally do meet up with the first of your 
 intended victims, the chances are good that you have to turn right around and go back because you 
 haven't accumulated enough power to bring your Deadside abilities into the light of day.
  
  But making up for all these wrongs are the game's strong points: the tense platform action, some 
 mildly challenging mechanical puzzles to keep things interesting, the well-crafted cut scenes, 
 and some eerily beautiful scenery and character graphics (especially the enemies) . And you want 
 special visual effects? Shadow Man is chock full of them, from the brilliant blue light of expiring 
 souls to the nearly psychedelic cut scenes that play when you ingest a dark soul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikemarno
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  i picked up this game back in 2000 for the psx i really wanted the n64 version but couldnt afford 
 it (&pound;49.99!!!) so i got the psx version and i absolutely loved on my first play through i 
 spent about 60 hours on it , since then i got the pc version and that is the version i still play 
 to this day. it is and always will be my favourite game of all time i just love the atmosphere 
 the sounds the enemies the levels the controls are a bit clunky and unresponsive at times but still 
 good enough the fact that im still spending time on this game after 6 years should speak for itself 
 i really love this game. R. I. P Acclaim i miss you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otomayim
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Dark story and atmosphere, voodoo magic, creepy music and graphics, a cursed hero (Mike Leroi) 
 who can travel between the Liveside and the Deadside (as Shadowman) . A game overlooked by many 
 and bashed by others that i really enjoyed (although it's a bit too mature for my tastes) . .
  
  The graphics are good. Top notch draw distance, nice frame rate, good looking character models 
 (LeRoi looks very cool and there are some memorable enemies and bosses in the game) , some interesting 
 lighting effects and very eerie environments (Asylum and London Underground come in my mind) . However 
 even in its time there were PC games with much better graphics, that's why i think that Shadowman's 
 graphics are good but not great or jaw dropping. What is worth mentioning is the colour palette 
 that Acclaim used for this title. Yellow, black, brown, white, red it reminds a bit of RE4... for 
 '99 Shadowman looked very creepy and even disturbing at times. Some people may like this fact, 
 others may find it a bit sick. I am somewhere in the middle. .
  
  The sound is better. Great voice acting (there is a serpent gate keeper with a fantastic Irish 
 accent that is a nice change of pace in this dark title) and good music that sometimes gets repetitive 
 (in the opening cinema there is Beethoven's Moonlight Sonata that creates a fantastic atmosphere 
 -very emotional) . Where the game really shines is in the sound effects department (creepy, disturbing, 
 or even irritating) ... just play it with the lights turned off. .
  
  Shadowman is a 3d action/adventure title. The action elements are nice but a bit boring after a 
 while. Yes there is a nice variation of weapons (some very original -&gt; talking about the voodoo 
 related guns) and some of the enemies are really frightening BUT the enemy AI is just average. 
 Since you 'll be visiting the same areas again and again and the enemies re-spawn, this will become 
 really tedious after a while. There is a lock-on system ala Zelda's Z-targeting that works well 
 enough, although it isn't perfect. You can also have different weapons (f. e. shotgun and pistol 
 ) or a combination of weapon/item in both hands + you can use ropes with one hand and shoot with 
 the other. A very nice and helpful addition. The boss battles are more interesting although the 
 last boss is VERY disappointing. .
  
  The adventuring part is much better. It reminds me games like Zelda and Metroid... you can travel 
 between two worlds (Liveside -as LeRoi- and Deadside -as Shadowman-) , in each world you can use 
 different weapons and have different abilities. You 'll have to gather Dead Souls in the Deadside 
 in order to unlock new areas + you gain more abilities as you progress through the game that give 
 you access to previously unreachable areas... So this is where the game reminds me mostly the Metroid 
 series. You'll gain f. e. the ability to walk onto lava... so you 'll have to revisit the previous 
 areas -which were lava covered- in order to gain more Souls, abilities etc. The problem is that 
 sometimes the game becomes a bit disorienting (sth that is a problem with this type of gameplay) 
 + the respawned enemies make things a bit worse since shooting isn't as much fun and challenging 
 as it could be. There are also a few simple puzzles for you to solve + many trap-avoiding-sequences 
 ala Lara Croft (or ala OoT's Shadow Temple) ... you can also control the camera in Shadowman, unlike 
 in the previous mentioned games, sth that is a great benefit. .
  
  Shadowman is a lengthy title. It isn't the 70+ hours gameplay that Acclaim promises, however 50 
 hours is the average time of completion + there are 120 (you need less in order to finish the game) 
 souls or even life-increasing pick ups for you to find. One last thing ... there is also an interesting 
 in-game cheat activating system (you need to find secret areas or access specific places of the 
 game) . .
  
  Final thoughts - Good technical merits for a game of this kind creating a unique atmosphere (that 
 some people may dislike) , action sequences that become repetitive, nice scenario, presentation 
 and character development and a nice combination of Zelda's non-linear+ go - everywhere game play 
 with Lara's traps - avoiding + ledges - grabbing + strafe-shooting style. I bought this title 4 
 years ago for just 10$ and that was a bargain price for such a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOOMAGA
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  its kinda old school but it is got one of the best plots which you have to do
  absolutely everything, from going and finding and object to unlock a door that will lead to another 
 door that requires another object.
  its more of a 3rd person voodoo puzzle game. You are Michael LeRoi, a failed English literature 
 student turned lowly cab driver in New Orleans. the game goes by the plot off a man that has lost 
 all his family and all he has left is a voodoo priest that took him of the streets in a fight. 
 her name is netty. from there on you are transformed in to two people Live side - Michael LeRoi 
 and Deadside- the shadow man, Bearer of souls Lord of dead side 
  you can travel back and fourth using your dead little brothers teddy bear.........!@?&gt;!! yes 
 i know its odd but true. The aim of the game is to eliminate all of the Deadliest serial Killers 
 who most of are responsible for the killings of mikes family.
  You must use dead side weapons in life side which is not possible without the L'eclipse i will 
 leave the rest to you
  This is a rear game but is very worth getting. its on Ps1, PC and dream cast as well as N64. i 
 would not recommend shadow man the second coming. If you like to play the old school original games 
 then shadow man 1 is for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garey017
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 12, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  That's right, Shadowman is the creepiest video game i've played. It beats all the Resident Evil 
 games, and any other i've played in that catagory. This particularly stands out in the Children's 
 Ward area of deadside , where you can hear background sounds of children laughing/crying and toys 
 squeaking. Or in the prison where a very eerie 'Taps' is playing in the background, and there are 
 decapitated guards, and occasionally you can hear echos of the riot that happened there... the sounds 
 on this game are definitely the high point. If you get nightmares easily, this game might give 
 you a couple.
  
  Shadowman is a LOOOOONG and drawn out game. I suggest using a walkthrough to guide you, because 
 if not you will wander the dozen or so areas in this game aimlessly, just looking for one of the 
 hundreds of souls you have to gather. It can get frustrating. There are ways to upgrade your character, 
 named Michael LeRoi, and you need to do that in order to reach some of the souls. The only problem 
 is, it's not really clear what you need to do next, EVER. That's why a walkthrough is important. 
 It may take away some fun of the game, but it will also take a way a TON of frustration.
  
  Overall, if you're one of the few Dreamcast owners, and you can find this game relatively cheap, 
 it's a must try. What it lacks in gameplay at times, it makes up for in originality and eerieness. 
 It will occupy you for hours, although it will get you frustrated at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midway_nights
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  so you say doom 2 was great when it was realeased in 1993, but how come you forgot shadowmans great 
 atmospheric presentation which is absent in most recent games.
  it is true that it was the first 3D game i played with my brother sitting besides me because it 
 gave me a whole lotta scares back in 2000. although its graphics were terrific at that game and 
 sounds were excellent but still it managed to run on my pentuim 1 processor.
  
  then i got involved in gaming too much that now i have a collection of 100 games, day and night 
 i talk about games.
  
  in 2002 i heard that shadow man part 2 secondcomming is comming soon on ps2 and not on pc. so went 
 in the market and bought a ps2 just to play this its second part.
  
  wow, thanks to its devolopers that devoloped this game and i wish that in future a shadow man 3 
 comes in the market although both previous versions got very bad rating at gamespot.
  
  but in my opinion its still one of the best atmospheric presented game of all times....... well 
 after thief: deadly shadows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpaticoman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  Blah, blah, blah. With blahs we did not erect what videogaming means to the world nowadays. You 
 can try and explain a person what playing FF X is all about and you will never be able to describe 
 the full experience. You can tell a person what is being chased by a massive anime robot in MGS3 
 and you will never be able to describe why after send it to hell you felt so well.
  Shadowman was the first platform type game I ever played. I was one of those guys who use to say 
 "mammy, I will never be able to jump in my life, I am scared" Since then The 5th element, Lara 
 Croft and, of course, the Prince of Persia series. 
  I use to read Computer Gaming World (The spanish edition) and they placed a 4,5 out of 5. It was 
 the very first time I saw it (Those guys were really hard on most of games) I bought it for my 
 old PS1 and I have never ever, ever regret that decision. I found out a cathedral like game. Massive 
 in its conception. Terrific sounds (This is not arguable, some of the best I've ever heard, more 
 terrific even that SH sounds) , excellent level design (Some of the temples must be drafted by an 
 arquitech, I am pretty sure) and a good, absorbing story.
  The only problem I found on this was its non linearity. But it is only for the first time. I played 
 for 20 hours, got lost, got a guide, found myself again and finished the game in about 40 something 
 hours. Since then I have finished 3 more times (Last time in 13 hours) and I must say that sometimes 
 there are some levels that I visit in my PS2 just for the way they made me feel. I really like 
 and enjoyed this game and this is what videogaming is all about. But when a friend of mine told 
 me he was going to start playing it, I told him "Have you got 40 hours to spend?"
  If you are answer is not do not even bother. This game is to be seen in his all extension. Well 
 worth any money. Game developers, I am pretty sure too, had problems with their own families for 
 the effort has been spent here.
  I am not going to argue with anybody of this site who has the editor surname. But I do not believe 
 that such a wonderful videogaming site has a poor 5/10 on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fecalproduction
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 2, 2005 9:44 am PT
Review:  I don't know exactly what it is about this game, but i really enjoyed it. i could not stop playing 
 it until it was done. Mike Leroi is the main character and he can switch from his human self to 
 the dark side character: SHADOW MAN. The voodoo imagery and motifs throughout this game made it 
 very appealling to me. The graphics are decent and there are a variety of environments. Some are 
 wide open outdoor areas and some are confining maze like areas. I especially enjoyed the factory 
 like level with moving spots that let the player jump over lava and other obstacles. The music 
 for this game is probably some of the best spooky music that has ever been incorporated into a 
 video game. I especially enjoyed the details of this game in the pc version, but the PS1 version 
 also kept me engaged. I understand that the PS1 version couldn't have all of the details and aspects 
 that the pc version has because of the limitation of the console, but still the PS1 version is 
 very good. Some of the sounds of the bad guys as you kill them make shivers run up your spine. 
 Because of the music and sound effects, I am giving this title a perfect 10 for sounds. the pc 
 version is definitely better, but the bargain price that the PS1 version is going for makes me 
 give it a very high value ranking. You can pick it up for under five bucks for an entire adventure 
 game! i'm Suprised to see so many bad reviews for this title - i really enjoyed it. This game just 
 really hit a soft spot for me and i'm giving the reviewrs tilt a perfect 10 also. don't be scared 
 by all of the bad reviews - if you can find this game cheap i say pick it up. The pc version is 
 definitely superior but it is a little processor intensive for an older game and doesn't seem to 
 work on Windows XP or ME. Shadow man 2nd coming was disapointing though and did not live up to 
 the enjoyment that i felt from this first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandomonk
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 12, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game. Played well on N64, but the graphics look dated and there were some sound and 
 game play bugs for the PC. The game play is easy and the controls are responsive. The enviorments 
 are spooky and quite detailed. The story is engaging and fun. The trips between lightside and darkside 
 offer some interesting aspects to gaming. When the sound worked, it was one of the best original 
 scores I have ever heard on a game. I liked returning to this game on PC because I had so much 
 fun with it on the N64. I think it is one of those overlooked gems that never had a chance. I was 
 looking forward to the sequal, but one never came out on the PC, only the Playstation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liorde
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 23, 2003 6:45 am PT
Review:  I do not agree with Gamespot's review. It makes this game look like a chunk of software disaster. 
 It really is not. I found this game to be very good. Especially considering the time when it was 
 released. The game offers a unique game style and story which I find quite impressive. The game 
 is also long, this is not a game you finish in the "standard" 20 hours or so. Many locations to 
 explore, large maps and structures. This game will definitely keep you busy for quite some time, 
 believe me.
  The graphics in the game are quite good. Even though much has changed since the game's release, 
 the graphics are good, smooth and convincing. I would play it again if I had the time.
  Sound, is terrific. Very real, sinks you deeply into the game. Do notplay this game under "broad 
 daylight". Play in the dark, preferrably with headsets on. The sound will take you to other planes 
 of existence, much like in the game itself...:-)
  Gameplay, is very clear to the casual gamer. No mind teasing puzzles, no what in the world am I 
 suppose to do. Everything is quite clear. The only issue I found was, that when I bought the game 
 I had no map with it. I found it somewhere on the web. I found the map to be absolutely necessary 
 in later stages where I got literally lost. I could not remember where I had to go and where I 
 was before since the places are vast. Absolutely necessary to print this map before starting to 
 play. Certain places seem impossible to cross by jumping. Unless I had read it in the walkthrough, 
 I would have skipped that place and kept on looking for another entrance for who knows how long. 
 Only after reading the walkthrough, I tried it about 30 times, until I finally made it through. 
 The game is stable as a rock. Had no glitches, freezes, lock-ups, crashes whatsoever. Played on 
 Win98se with GeForce2 64MB video card.
  All in all, the game offers a great gameplay experience. Be advised that the game is large, so 
 get ready to invest a lot of time on it. The sotory unfolds really well and cutscenes are very 
 nice too.
  If you can still find it, it should be quite cheap by now. Give it a try. You will not regret it.
 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
