-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shadow Warrior
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/shadowwarrior/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  2, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 8.1, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 316 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: GT Interactive
Developer: 3D Realms
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Aug 31, 1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Shadow Warrior is pretty fun despite its dated qualities. 

 Shadow Warrior is 3D Realms' latest (and reportedly last) first-person shooter to utilize the patented 
 Build engine that made Duke Nukem a household name. In the game, you play Lo Wang (pronounced "wong" 
 in the real world and "wang" in the world of Shadow Warrior) , an Asian assassin whose exact cultural 
 background is obscured in a morass of toilet humor, exaggerated broken English, and bad Asian jokes. 
 Behind this embarrassing display of ignorance on the part of Wang's creators, however, there lurks 
 a late entry into the realm of sprite-based action games that's pretty fun despite its dated qualities. 

 Throughout the 22 single-player levels in the game, Mr. Wang picks up a variety of devastating weapons 
 to take care of unwanted company. Starting with a katana, a close-range sword that deals death 
 in a single blow, Wang moves on to grab more lethal arms when it's really time to clean house - 
 such as a pair of Uzis, or a grenade-launcher. There's even an enemy whose head can be retrieved 
 and used as a flamethrower. Overall, while the game's arsenal seems to mimic that of Duke Nukem 
 3D in most respects, the weapons are still inventive enough to keep things interesting.  

 Like Duke Nukem 3D, most of Shadow Warrior's levels are fairly expansive, containing plenty of typical 
 find-the-key puzzles that must be solved in order to advance. The levels are creative, leading 
 you through abandoned warehouses, to a submarine repository, and to a haunted forest village. There 
 you will have to dispense with killer apes, grenade-lobbing henchmen, TNT-toting suicide soldiers, 
 and the ghosts that arise from their fresh corpses. Along with the strong language that the game 
 unabashedly employs, the violence witnessed on your monitor will definitely qualify Shadow Warrior 
 for an R rating.  

 In addition to the single-player levels, Shadow Warrior includes four levels designed specifically 
 for deathmatch. In one of these, the players vie to control a tank in the middle of an arena-like 
 environment. In another, players are sped along a track and must fire at each other with split-second 
 accuracy. Each deathmatch level contains something a little different.  

 In the end however, Shadow Warrior's only merits are its gameplay. The game's sprite-based art is 
 well executed, but seems out of date in the contemporary milieu of polygonal Quake-killers. Players 
 who still appreciate the older style of sprites in 3D action and who can look past the bad Asian 
 jokes will probably thank their lucky throwing-stars for the arrival of Shadow Warrior.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: garey017
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2009 11:28 am PT
Review:  Shadow Warrior is a FPS game made in the late 90's using the same engine as Duke Nukem 3D and other 
 popular games of the time. The protagonist of the game is Lo Wang, a master ninja assassin, or 
 "Shadow Warrior". Although it was a first person shooter, much of the action, especially in the 
 early part of the game, was focused on the use of your katana. Shadow Warrior also differed from 
 other 3D Realms games in the fact that there were occasional puzzles you needed to solve before 
 progressing to the next level. Other than the katana, Lo Wang's weapons include ninja themed weapons 
 such as Shurikens. Guns were also available and were the primary weapons later in the game, they 
 include Uzis and a railgun. In addition, the head and heart of certain enemies can be used. Just 
 as in Duke Nukem 3D, Lo Wang had many taunts available to fling at defeated enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianKiss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Shadow Warrior (1997) , developed by 3D Realms and published by GT Interactive, is a game based 
 on the famous Build engine, used firstly in Duke Nukem 3D. There are many other games based on 
 the same technology, such as Blood, Witchaven, Redneck and PowerSlave, but Shadow Warrior is the 
 one that really improved the gameplay over the original.
  
  By now, you may already know that Shadow Warrior is a First-Person Shooter game. Here you control 
 a ninja who uses a variety of weapons, although only a few of them are really Japanese-themed, 
 like the Katana or the Shuriken. More than a half of your arsenal is filled with common weapons, 
 such as the shotgun, the Uzi (which allows dual welding) , the grenade launcher and so. The rest 
 of your weapons are the powerful stuff, like the amazing rail-gun and the Ripper Heart, which summons 
 a hologram that rapidly fires with the same Eraser-inspired gun. There is also the option to set 
 traps with the sticky bomb, but I didn't find it really useful. The rocket launcher, on the other 
 side, can fire either heat-seeker rockets or a powerful atomic explosive, which kills almost every 
 kind of enemy.
  
  Talking about enemies, you'll face monsters that can handle weapons, cast spells or even attack 
 with the bare hand. The Artificial Intelligence isn't very sophisticated, but you'll see some enemies 
 taking cover behind a box or some other object, or sidestepping while they aren't attacking. Some 
 monsters after killed can drop ammo or even powerful weapons if exploded. That's one of the ways 
 you can use to get the Ripper Heart from certain monsters, as well the Guardian Head, which allows 
 you to fire in three different modes. The boss battles are challenging, and you don't need to be 
 afraid of spending your arsenal against the tough guys, considering you'll find a lot of ammo and 
 health in their rooms.
  
  In Shadow Warrior there's a good selection of items: the medkit can (and must) be used when you're 
 running out of health during a combat; the smoke grenade emits a deadly gas that constantly damages 
 everyone that approaches it; the flash bomb obfuscates the vision of your enemies, making them 
 to run without direction; there are some others, but what's really new in this game is the repair 
 kit, which allows you to fix the mechanized weapons present in some levels. 
  
  This is where Shadow Warrior really shines, since most of the other games based on the Build engine 
 didn't featured player-controlled stuff. The ninja can operate guns fixed to the grounds, as well 
 vehicles that can move on certain areas of the map. I used to create maps for Shadow Warrior (using 
 the awesome Build editor, which comes with a great content to explain everything you need) , and 
 I must say that this game comes with one of the best vehicle support in the gaming history. I'm 
 not talking about sprite-based stuff like in Redneck, but fully customizable automobiles, which 
 have only two limitations: they can't fly (although it's possible with certain conditions) and 
 your creativity. Nevertheless, in the official maps you'll find tanks, boats and machine guns, 
 which is great to use despite the fact their movement is very restrict. You'll also find auto-turrets 
 shooting at you, and they can be only destroyed with explosive weapons.
  
  The sounds and graphics in Shadow Warrior don't have anything special, but if you're analytical 
 enough you'll see some improvements with the updated Build engine. To start, you'll notice "rooms 
 over rooms" in a way you cannot see in Duke Nukem 3D, and by using a similar technique it's possible 
 to design the translucent water, which looks great. Voxels (or 3D sprites, also featured in Blood) 
 are present too, but as an optional choice of configuration. Additionally, you can set the resolution 
 up to 800x600, and it certainly improves the graphics in this game.
  
  There're 22 maps in Shadow Warrior. The first episode features only four maps, while the second 
 has the remaining 18 levels. You can finish the game in 10 hours or less, even if the maps are 
 a bit large and complex (you'll need to find keys, keycards, levers and also remember the location 
 of a specific door) . I played on the higher difficult setting, and I still found some levels really 
 boring and even generic, but most of the Single Player is great fun and you'll pass through some 
 intriguingly remarkable levels.
  
  The Multiplayer is very simple, and comes only with four maps designed for competitive games (Deathmatch 
 and Capture the Flag) . Naturally, you can choose the Single Player levels if you prefer, or even 
 play cooperative games. However, to be honest, I played for most the competitive modes using particularly 
 the map Heavy Metal, a fairly large Deathmatch level with a powerful tank in the middle. But if 
 you want to diversify, you'll either need to create your own maps or download new ones from the 
 internet.
  
  The problem with Shadow Warrior is that some titles back in 1997 already featured fully 3D rendered 
 levels, while Shadow Warrior was obsolete with the aged 2.5D projection, therefore not allowing 
 the 3D Realm's game to hit the desired popularity. But it does have everything that makes a game 
 great, and I recommend Shadow Warrior if you enjoy some good action sequences, no matter if the 
 graphics are dated or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austin1012
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  i found this at a local flea market. well i had to bust out my old clunker just to play the game. well 
 the games graphics are terrible compared to quake. but the gamepay is pretty much the same as duke 
 nukem 3d. well the games coolest weapon is the sword because you can chop enemies in half. i noticed 
 that the difficulity even on easy is pretty hard which makes it uneventful for newbies. also the 
 games sound need one precise rare soundcard. i noticed wat the guy says is pretty descriminating 
 to many asians. the downlow they did was the ability to bee in third person which is really ugly. this 
 game would be cool if it had newer 3d graphics like quake. heck maybe it'll be like duke nukem and 
 be new age with modern graphics someday in the future but it won't happen. personally this guy shouldn't 
 have been made like this but is enjoyable besides the difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: In_Vino_Verita
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the Duke Nukem 3D series and one day while i was looking thru the 3D Realms 
 website i looked at the other games they worked on. I downloaded the shareware version of SW and 
 my expectations were fully fulfilled. A hack and slash reminescint of the Duke Nukem games, Shadow 
 Warrior combines a set of brutal weapons along with visually pleasing environments and a slew of 
 enemies. Not to mention half-naked anime chicks oh yeah. I would recommend SW to anyone who enjoys 
 the old-school fps genre, and to those who chunk ninja stars at giant snake alien's head's for 
 a hobby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  Ive said it before: I never met a Build-engine game that I didnt like, and those who loved Duke 
 3D with the burning passion of 1,000 suns were pretty much guaranteed to find a nearly identical 
 appeal in Shadow Warrior. While Dukes universe was built around a tongue-in-cheek salute to the 
 theramin-drenched flying saucer flicks of the drive-in era (as well as a major nod in the direction 
 of the Cobra Cobretti school of jive-talking action heroism) , Shadow Warrior takes on the haughty 
 mannerisms and outsized physical feats of 70s-style chopsocky films.
  
  One of my absolute favorite characteristics of Shadow Warrior is the amount of creativity that 
 3D Realms put into the heros arsenal. Duke had his wonderfully unique Shrinker and Freezer cannons, 
 and although the latter method of destruction appeared in a few other games (like the Ice Mace 
 in Hexen 2 or the awful Carbon Gun in Mysteries of the Sith) , hosing down Dukes reptilian nemeses 
 and then kicking them into a thousand glistening chunks was a task possessed of a certain unmatchable 
 charm. Likewise with Lo Wangs severed gargoyle head, baboon heart, and thermonuclear bomb: sure, 
 M6s and hand grenades will get the job done, but poking different sections of a demons parietal 
 lobe to produce one of three different neat-o flame attacks is much more likely to leave me cackling 
 maniacally and raring for the next bloody encounter.
  
  Once I played through the four-episode Atomic version of Duke 3D, as well as its D. C., Caribbean, 
 and Nuclear Winter expansions, I was overjoyed to find what amounted to a very well-made total 
 conversion in Shadow Warrior. Both games look, feel, and, in many ways, sound just like one another, 
 which is nothing but a positive trait for those who never tired of the brazen antics of the first 
 true brand-name FPS personality (I dont count Blazkowicz as a distinct character, since he was 
 little more than a twitchy headshot on Wolfensteins HUD) . Ill probably play through all of my 
 Build games once more as a warm-up to Duke Forever (if that title ever sees the serene glow of 
 a gold master, that is) before I retire them once and for all, but I certainly got my moneys worth 
 out of Shadow Warrior over the years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sturdyboard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Shadow Warrior is about a master shadow Warrior called Lo Wang. He makes tons of interesting comments 
 throughout the entire game, a lot like Duke Nukem. The game takes place in Japan, and Zilla is 
 trying to test out the power of his creations by having them kill Lo Wang. Lo Wang has to survive 
 and defeat all the ninjas, beasts, and other enemies that are thrown at him.
  
  Shadow Warrior runs on the Build engine that 3D Realms used on Duke 3D. An improvement to the engine 
 that was added for Shadow warrior is that the designers added in the ability to have rooms over 
 other rooms. Shadow Warrior has a lot of great features, like several cool driveable vehicles, 
 some of which even have guns on them! There is even a powerful tank that Lo Wang can drive around! 
 You can even control some small vehicles with remote controls!
  
  The game has lots of really cool and powerful weapons. Most of them have multiple firing modes. 
 One weapon is the uzi, and you can get two and dual wield them! There are also throwing stars, 
 which can be thrown onto walls and climbed on. The most powerful weapon is incredibly cool- the 
 rocket launcher. It has three firing modes. One mode fires a rocket at the enemy. If you get a 
 heat seeker card, then you can use the second firing mode, which launches heat seeking missiles! 
 The third mode is the most destructive weapon in the game, the nuke. If you get a nuke, you can 
 use mode 3, and launch a powerful nuke that will temporarily blind Lo Wang, and leave poisonous 
 gas behind. The game has a lot of interesting inventory items, too. One is a gas can that you can 
 throw at enemies, and another good item is the smoke bomb, which makes it difficult to see. The 
 game has great level design, and has 22 single player levels, counting the two secret levels that 
 you can find. The game is a thrilling, funny experience and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pfilosophy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Shadow Warrior.... Ahhh, how I remember playing this game years ago with such fondness. Whenever 
 I reminisce on this game, I play it again and it always feels the same. If only more games had 
 replayability this good! First off, this is Duke Nukem 3D with different skins and the Build engine; 
 3D Realms representin'. That said, it's really easy to play and get into. If you've ever played 
 an FPS pre-Halo, the controls aren't anything difficult that you'll have to get used to something 
 new. There are also many tricks you can pull off/easter eggs you can trigger using simple controls. 
 It's like this game was built on a very simple premise using a magically easy canvas, and it was. 
 The story's nothing to write home about and the graphics can be a bit fugly. There won't be a 184 
 minute Ron Howard movie about it, but it's there for anyone who wants it. Now to get to the gameplay, 
 shall we?
  
  You're Lo Wang, the guy who sang "The Lo Wang Rap." Wielding two uzis and hurling sticky bombs, 
 you fight ninjas and koi. Whenever you see a 2D anime-girl sprite, you say something sexist and/or 
 racist. You nuke enemies that look like Baraka from MKII while cheesy Tallarico synth plays over 
 everything. That's basically it, but it's way more fun than I make it sound - think about it. You 
 fight fish with shurikens, you make lowbrow jokes whenever you can ("Who wants some Wang?") , and 
 for a game that went under the radar, it was pretty revolutionary. You could swim, operate vehicles 
 and machinery, fight through very large and interactive maps filled with a variety of cool backgrounds 
 and even some puzzles, build your own levels in the Build editor, and there were MANY easter eggs 
 in Shadow Warrior. Some of them you could see if you used cheat codes - the game encouraged you 
 to do whatever you had to do in order to have some fun and that's something newer games lack: The 
 encouraging people to try new things. And if you wanted a challenge, play the game on a higher 
 difficulty without the codes like you would any other. The hardest difficulties definitely gave 
 you a challenge to say the least. The deathmatch arenas were also quite, quite fun, and there was 
 a level in which the floor was programmed to serve as a racetrack much like the speed level in 
 We Love Katamari. Just stand on the "track" and fire at people, jumping to shortcuts and opening 
 secret passages... And this was in 1997!
  
  Yes, '97 and I still play this game. And I know many who still do. The graphics are definitely 
 outdated but if you don't care about that sort of thing and it won't get in the way of your enjoying 
 really fast-paced and fun gameplay, find this game and install it immediately. Even if it's just 
 for the humor, it's definitely an obscure game to play and enjoy. Not the best PC FPS I can think 
 of, but definitely up there on my top 3. Simply put, you want something to pick up really quick 
 and just have fun, launching missiles at purple jumpsuit-wearing ninjas? You know where to go. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koroshiya_keefu
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2005 1:20 am PT
Review:  One of the last 2D first person shooters to hit the PC, Shadow Warrior did take the 2D shooting 
 genre out with a funny blast! 
  
  What we get here is basically the Chinese version of Duke Nukem, complete with the sexist remarks 
 and the crude humour. Who wants some Wang? Well, I did, at the time that I bought this game brand 
 new (and in a rather cool box) , and it delivers with inventive weapons and fast brutal carnage. 
 You get what you expect with Shadow Warrior, the level design is inventive and there are plenty 
 of secrets to discover. It is definatley worth the play through to experience all the little nuances 
 placed throughout the levels.
  
  My number one love of this game came through it's updated version of the Duke Nukem 3D level development 
 tool, which made it a simple task to create highly detailed levels yourself. I practically mastered 
 the program back in the day, creating many complex levels with rooms over rooms and divable pools. 
 Pity that the need for this is almost non-existant because nobody plays this game anymore. And 
 the fact that I have no idea where the levels I made are now!
  
  But, as a game, Shadow Warrior is more than servicable. Good graphics, smooth frame rate, good 
 music, great times! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
