-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shadowrun
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/shadowrun/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique ability system sets the game apart from other shooters.
 Lets Vista and 360 users play on the same servers.
 Good-looking effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bad and missing animation makes the game look unfinished.
 Not enough maps to stay interesting for long.
 Does absolutely nothing with the Shadowrun license.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 6.8, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 633 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: FASA Studio
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date:     May 29, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This multiplayer-only shooter does absolutely nothing with the Shadowrun name, and its unique strengths 
 are offset by a lack of variety. 

  You wouldn't automatically expect a multiplayer first-person shooter like Counter-Strike to serve 
 as the main inspiration for a game based on a 1989 pen-and-paper RPG, but that's exactly what you 
 get in Microsoft's Shadowrun, which takes all of the cyberpunk-plus-magic stuff from the RPG and 
 boils it down to magic spells and technological character upgrades. The action is kind of neat, 
 but a lack of variety and its multiplayer-only offering make for a pretty shallow experience that 
 feels about $30 too expensive.  

          Shadowrun offers some unique abilities that make it feel different from other shooters, 
 but what it really needs is about six more maps.     

  Aside from six brief-but-necessary training sequences and the ability to play against bots of questionable 
 intelligence, Shadowrun is played online. Up to 16 players can get into one eight-on-eight game, 
 pitting the rebellious Lineage forces against the new-world-order-like RNA Global, who are apparently 
 fighting each other in an attempt to control magic, which has recently returned to an already-high-tech 
 world. But that's about as much story as you're going to get here, as the rest of the game is all 
 about buying skills and controlling artifacts.  

  Shadowrun is a round-based multiplayer first-person shooter that works a lot like Counter-Strike. 
 At the front of each round, you're given a safe period where you can access a buy menu and purchase 
 weapons, tech upgrades, and magic spells. So in addition to buying a submachine gun, you might 
 pick up some aim enhancement in the form of the SmartLink tech upgrade, and the ability to teleport 
 through walls, floors, and ceilings. These skills set the game a bit apart from the average team-based 
 shooter as it lets you specialize. Spells like tree of life and resurrect let you heal and revive 
 other players. Or you might get smoke, which lets you transform into a smoke form that can't be 
 damaged by conventional weapons. Or perhaps you'll buy gust, which blows players around and, not 
 so coincidentally, makes for a powerful counter against players using smoke. There's a pretty good 
 collection of abilities to play around with, but the catch is that you can have only three of them 
 equipped at any given time.  

  You'll make another meaningful choice by choosing your race. Humans are better at using tech upgrades. 
 Elves move faster and can't take as much damage as the other races, but they regenerate health. 
 Trolls are big and tough, but they're also very slow and don't have as much essence, which is the 
 meter that drains when you cast spells. Dwarves are little and hardy, though they don't regenerate 
 essence very well on their own. But this is offset by the dwarves' ability to absorb essence from 
 nearby players or other magical items. For what it's worth, it seems like most players pick elves 
 most of the time, though the different races seem to balance out just fine.  

  Once you've spent a little money on some guns and spells, it's off to do battle. There are three 
 team-based gametypes, though there isn't a huge difference between them. Two of them focus on an 
 artifact, which is Shadowrun's version of a flag. In one mode, each team wants to capture the artifact 
 by grabbing it and delivering it to a team-specific capture point. Another gametype puts one team 
 on full-time defense, and they must prevent the attacking team from capturing the artifact. The 
 attrition gametype is the only one that doesn't center on the artifact, and instead you just need 
 to wipe out the other team, but since you can win that way in any of the other gametypes, it doesn't 
 feel especially different.  

  Every map can handle an attrition game, but only the larger maps can run raid or extraction games. 
 The three smaller, attrition-only maps are for eight-player games, and they're actually smaller 
 versions of some of the existing maps, which feels like a rip-off, considering there are only nine 
 original maps to choose from. Between the lack of maps and the similarity between the gametypes, 
 you'll feel like you've seen just about everything that Shadowrun has to offer within the first 
 few hours -- provided you can get into a game.  

  Shadowrun attempts to use a variation on Halo 2's party system, meaning you can get some people 
 on your friends list together and ship off to find other players to play against. But even when 
 you're alone, Shadowrun's automatic game finder seems to have trouble finding games quickly. It'll 
 also drop you into games that are just ending, which is annoying. PC members can also get into 
 PC-only dedicated server games using a more standard server browser, which is substantially faster, 
 though not as populated.  

  Shadowrun is the first game to allow Xbox 360 and PC users to play on the same servers. The game 
 seems to work just fine on both platforms, and there's almost no indication that a player is using 
 a PC or a 360 to play. Rather than limit auto-aim to just the 360 or to controller users, as the 
 Vista version of Halo 2 did, Shadowrun gives a little bit of it to everyone, which is, of course, 
 pumped up with the addition of the SmartLink ability. This might frustrate PC mouse-and-keyboard 
 users, as it feels like your aim is being taken out of your hands a bit; and if you've been playing 
 PC shooters with any regularity, you probably don't need the help. But regardless of how weird 
 it can feel, it does at least feel balanced.  

  Visually, Shadowrun looks great in some areas and painfully unfinished in others. The environments 
 and textures look good, and the spell effects and other particle-oriented elements look great. 
 But then there are dumb omissions, like the way that they didn't bother to include any kind of 
 climbing animation -- so when characters go up ladders, they do so locked in their standing position 
 with no movement whatsoever. Also, the different player models look pretty good, but there's absolutely 
 no variety. All Lineage elves look identical, all RNA humans look the same, and so on. Some sort 
 of differentiation would have been nice. These kinds of omissions make the game look sloppy in 
 spots, which is a real shame.  

          It's a bummer that there's no single-player campaign, because some of the abilities would 
 have allowed for some interesting stealth and attack tactics.     

  Aside from the voice chat, which works just as well on the PC as it does on the 360 provided you 
 have the proper hardware (like a 360 headset hooked up to your PC) , the rest of the game's audio 
 is good, but a bit sparse. Since it's all multiplayer, there's no in-game music. But there's an 
 announcer who lets you know when rounds end, or when either team grabs or drops the artifact. If 
 voice chat isn't your thing, you can push a button to give a quick, automated report about your 
 surroundings, which is good for letting your team know when an area is clear, when there are enemies 
 present, or when you need backup, since it'll put icons up on your teammates' screen, letting you 
 know where the call is coming from. Gunfire, explosions, and things like that all sound pretty 
 good, too.  

  Perhaps the most telling aspect of Shadowrun comes from WizKids, the maker of the other Shadowrun 
 stuff. When the game was first unveiled last year, it alerted Shadowrun fans that this might not 
 be for them by posting "fair warning, however: Microsoft rewrote the timeline and setting for this 
 game, so it is not in continuity with the tabletop RPG. It may be more accurately described as 
 a game loosely based on Shadowrun." If you're going in with no expectations on the lore and licensed 
 side of things, you'll find a decent and somewhat unique multiplayer shooter. But you'll also have 
 to pay full price for what feels like half a game, making it difficult to recommend.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Draith8681
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2009 7:22 am PT
Review:  I won't be satisfied until a video game that honors the incredible depth, storytelling and superb 
 design of the original Shadowrun is made. The Shadowrun universe deserves a video game equivalent 
 to World of Warcraft or Oblivion. blah blah balh blah lah blah blah balhb balbl bla blb lbbllblblbbl 
 blbla blblalb lblblabl blbla bla blbla bal blablabll blallab lbla ablb lblab lablalb lablabl bllab 
 lablblb labl bla bal bal bal bal bla bla balb bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bl bs
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2009 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I dont get why this got a 6.9 Its a rocken Game.
  
  Shadowrun- Think Counter Strike with Magic and you will be in the thick of it.
  
  Two sides 
 battle for the rights of magic. The RNA company fights to regulate and profit from magic while 
 the Linage fights for Unregulated use. In my opinion nethier side is specificaly the "Bad Guys". 
 as both sides have valid points.
  
  The Game-play is your basic Shooter with a Twist... MAGIC. You can now weald superanatural force 
 from resurrecting fallen comrades to created trees that radiate health. Sound wierd but the game 
 puts it together very well and it just adds to the compitition and fun. I love the fact that if 
 ressurected, the player to have ressurected you is directly tied to your health. He dies, you Bleed 
 out until you die. The game is a strickly multi player oriented game but does include bot practice 
 and tutorials of the games machanics. This however makes the game totaly lack a story of any kind 
 other than two sides fighting for magic.
  
  The graphics of the game arent flashy but are quiet adiquate and well done. If run on a top knotch 
 computer their actually quit good looking. Textures and Details could have used some polishing 
 but overall the look is quit nice. The games weapons are comprised of your everyday Sun-machine 
 gun, sniper rifle, rocket launcher, Assault rifle and even the Katana for Close Quaters Combat. 
 As well as in integrated "Money" system. The better you do in a match the more money you get. With 
 the money you can buy Weapons and Powerups for both your outfit and magic stash.
  
  So i leave this review with the words "Try it or Buy it, but at least Try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a game that seems to have a lot of potential. In the end, though, it isn't fully exploited. 
 The game mixes fantasy games and sci-fi shooters in a marriage that should be any nerds dream, 
 and it does so very well. When you go online the game is solid. The problem is that there are only 
 3 game modes. So, after completing the tutorials and playing a few matches online, you'll be wondering 
 where the rest of the game is. Sadly that is a question the will forever remain unanswered.
  
  There are a couple things to note about Shadowrun. First, it is Windows Vista only and does 
 require a decent system (2GBs RAM and Ge Force 7600+ graphics card) . It is enhanced for dual core 
 system so if you have one it, its a plus. Also, since this is a Games for Windows LIVE title, the 
 online requires a Windows LIVE account (hotmail account) to play online. You can play against other 
 PC players with a silver account, but to most games are from Xbox 360 players and you'll need a 
 Gold account which is $50 a year if you don't already have one (it does come with a month free) . 
 Of course the game can be played locally over LAN, if you're opposed to online for whatever reason.
 
  
  Shadowrun is set in a fictional future where, in addition to technological discoveries, magic is 
 uncovered for the first time in 5000 years. The discovery of magic lead opposing forces into war 
 and also created different races of meta-humans. As the player, you're fighting for the forces 
 of RNA or Lineage for control of magical artifacts simply called "artifacts" (creative, right?) . 
 Anyway, the story doesn't matter at all and serves only as an excuse for you to be shooting at 
 other players online.
  
  When you join a match you'll be placed on a team. At the beginning of each round you'll have a 
 chance to buy your choice of weapons or skills. For anyone who has played Counter Strike, that 
 should be pretty familiar. Then you'll set off to destroy the opposing team. Should you be killed 
 you will not respawn, but you can rejoin the fight if one of your team members revives you. Once 
 the game gets going there will be people flying and teleporting around, as well as shooting and 
 healing, killing and reviving. It is a lot to wrap your mind around and that is the real strength 
 of Shadowrun.
  
  In the game there are four races, human, elf, dwarf, and troll. Each race has its own advantages 
 and they are all balanced very well. In addition to the races there are Tech and Magic... oh and 
 of course guns too. Magic skills allow you to heal team mates, or teleport, or even summon minions 
 and more. Tech abilities allow you to use a glider, or have radar like vision, or improve your 
 speed, or aim better. As for weapons there is your standard fair of pistol, machine gun, rifle, 
 shotgun, sniper rifle, mini-gun, rockets, and (maybe not so standard) katana. When you start messing 
 around with Race/Skill/Weapon combos then you start to understand Shadowrun's complexity, and its 
 uniqueness. From my experience it is easy to make a combination you like, but difficult to master 
 all the different aspects of what your enemy may be doing at any given time. 
  
  So, the game is totally based around team play and, as I previously mentioned, there is an astounding 
 3 different modes to play and that might even be brought down to two. Each map is set up as either 
 a Extraction Map or a Raid Map, and Extraction Maps you can't play Raid on and vise-versa. Extraction 
 has both teams fighting to bring the artifact back to their base, while in Raid only Lineage tries 
 to capture the flag while RNA tries to protect it. In either of these game modes if one team eliminates 
 all players on the other team, they win the round regardless of the artifact. The third game type, 
 availible on all maps, is called Attrition, where the objective is to kill the other team. In Attrition 
 the artifact stays on the map, but only serves as a kind of power-up that either team can use. 
 While all of these game modes are fun they're not very diverse and I really feel the game could 
 use more modes to choose from.
  
  Graphically the game does pretty well, but there are a few issues. Each team has a different look 
 for the different races, but other that that there is no difference between characters. You can't 
 change your clothes or looks in the slightest way, there isn't even a choice to change gender (everyone 
 is male) . The developers also failed to put in a ladder climbing animation for some unknown reason. 
 Still, everything looks good even on the lowest settings. Everything holds up graphically even 
 with 16 players quickly moving around and using magic and skills.
  
  Sound is pretty simple in the game. I don't know that there is much to say on it. It isn't bad 
 or distracting, but its not something you'll be looking for the soundtrack for. One thing the game 
 does that I appreciate, is that it gives you auditory warnings as to where enemies are and where 
 your team mates are fighting. Some people might find that annoying, but it isn't overdone, so I'm 
 glad they included it. As far as sound effects go everything sounds like it should.
  
  In the end, Shadowrun is a fun, but limited game. Everything it does works well, but you might 
 get sick of what is really just two different types of matches. This PC version can actually be 
 picked up fairly cheap now. I got mine for $10 with a free month of Gold. If you're the kind of 
 person who enjoys playing games like Counter Strike endlessly and want to try something different 
 you need this game. For everyone else, you wont be hurting yourself if you decide to skip this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2504,0. html
  
  Shadowrun is supposed to be a flagship title for Microsoft's Windows Vista, with its Windows Live 
 integration and cross-platform multiplayer. It's supposed to be a game that captures the interest 
 of the industry. Unfortunately, it goes the opposite way and shows developers what NOT to do.
 
  
  The meat and potatoes of Shadowrun is its online multiplayer. Up to 16 players get into eight-on-eight 
 games, pitting the rebellious Lineage forces against RNA Global, who are fighting each other to 
 control magic. That's the entire premise behind the game and its combat.
  
  At its core, Shadowrun works much like Counter-Strike. At the beginning of a round, you can access 
 a buy menu and purchase weapons, upgrades, and magic spells. These skills set the game a bit apart 
 from the average team-based shooter, allowing you to specialize. There's a large amount of abilities 
 to use, but you can have only three of them equipped at one time. There's also the matter of choosing 
 your race. Humans are better with tech upgrades, elves move faster and regenerate health, trolls 
 have lots of endurance and health but don't have as much essence for spells, and dwarves are small 
 and can absoarb essence from others.
  
  The game features three team-based gametypes. Two of them are analogs of capture the flag modes. 
 In one mode, each team tries to capture the artifact by grabbing it and bringing it to a capture 
 point. Another gametype puts one team on full-time defense, and they must prevent the attacking 
 team from capturing the artifact. The attrition gametype is the only one that doesn't center on 
 the artifact, and instead you just need to wipe out the other team, but since you can win that 
 way in any of the other gametypes, it doesn't feel especially different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PiousHeresy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Singleplayer? Who needs singleplayer? Although multiplayer-only, Shadowrun is one of the best games 
 to come out in a long time.
  
  Before I get started, I must say that Shadowrun is a game you will either love or hate. I can see 
 how it just doesn't click with some people. But on the other hand, I love the game... it is fantastic.
 
  ________________________
  The true beauty of the game is this: Between the different races, weapons, magical skills, and 
 techs, the variety of characters/roles you can play is amazing...
  
  You can be a quick, sword carrying elf, teleporting around foes, blocking bullets, and assassinating 
 all your enemies... You can be a nearly indestructable troll, carrying a minigun and rocket launcher 
 and overpowering all in your path... You can be a human jack-of-all-trades, with a machine gun 
 and sniper rifle, flying around on a glider... You can be a dwarf, ressurecting the dead and sucking 
 the magic out of your foes...
  
  You can be these, and ANYTHING outside or in between... Shadowrun lets you buy skills and weapons 
 in a counter-strike like manner. Customize your character any way you want!
  _______________________
  Want to practice? Not up to par with the online community yet? No problem! 
 The bots in this game are surprisingly fun to play with!
  _______________________
  Shadowrun is an incredibly fun game that lasts for a long... long... time.
  Don't believe me? Try 
 it yourself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OneNeo1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  First off, I think this game is so far underrated that it fell off the radar. I only regret that 
 one must have Windows Live Gold to play. I say this because the Silver accounts seem to not do 
 any good with this game.
  I became very excited playing this game initially, I thought the team strategy mixed with the very 
 fresh magical twist was fantastic.
  And while not perfect, the graphics were upper shelf stuff, save a few seemingly unfinished animation 
 sequences and the like.
  For overall experience with the game, I was pleasantly surprised especially after receiving poor 
 reviews from so many.
  I only wish that there were some dedicated servers to play on, as without a GOLD account with Windows/xbox 
 LIVE, this is all you will have access to.
  I thought perhaps something was wrong with my game every time I tried to join a game it would say 
 "YOU NEED BE LOGGED IN WITH A MULTIPLAYER ENABLED ACCOUNT TO PLAY". After long research and MANY 
 unanswered attempts at requesting support from Games For Windows, I have come to the conclusion 
 that I will be playing this game alone, with bots.
  I can only hope that SMITH & TINKER will grow into their own and do something with this title, 
 perhaps even run a couple of dedicated servers themselves so that those of us who for one reason 
 or another are unable or unwilling to pay another $50 a year for access to other players can play.
 
  This game is definitely in need of more maps and developer support, and while I understand the 
 situation with FASA closing, GFW should have picked up the slack, since it was MS who dropped the 
 ax.
  
  But for anyone who was not into the original Shadowrun games RPG and the like, this will be a fun 
 game to play, as long as you are willing to pay for LIVE, unless you don't mind playing the bots.
 
  For anyone who was an original fan of the Shadowrun Universe, well I think you may be more offended 
 than not with this game.
  
  I will definitely raise my score to a 9.0 or better on this game if I ever get to play it online, 
 like I said, the mix of Tech and Magic are a refreshing way to blow away the enemies.
  
  EDIT (March 27th, 2008) :
  I have activated my "free month" to Gold, and am immensely enjoying 
 the multiplayer experience. I only regret that I may actually wish to continue this experience 
 if at least for a little more than a month.
  I still believe the game could use a little tweaking, but after more playing I am definitely raising 
 my score of this game from my initial 7 to a 9.
  
  This game is definitely worth a look, and if you already have live gold, you will get some good 
 multiplayer out of it, no question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mott555
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is the first cross-compatible game allowing PC players and XBox 360 players to play together 
 online or over LAN. It's a Games for Windows LIVE title which actually allows PC users to log into 
 XBox LIVE with their PC and get achievements. It combines modern weaponry and technology with ancient 
 magic and fantasy races.
  
  The storyline is extremely thin. In the near future magic has returned to the world and a percentage 
 of the world's population spontaneously morphs into elves, dwarves, and trolls. Megacorporation 
 RNA Corp has discovered a magical artifact in South America and intends to keep this magic and 
 make a profit from it. Some kind of resistance group known as the Lineage is trying to prevent 
 this by stealing the artifact and allowing everyone access to magic.
  
  Shadowrun is multiplayer-only; single-player mode consists of you playing against bots in the multiplayer 
 levels. It has three game types, though not all maps support all game types. Attrition is my favorite 
 and is the only one available on all maps. The objective is to kill the other team. In Raid, Lineage 
 is trying to steal the artifact and escape to the extraction point, RNA is trying to prevent this. 
 In Extraction, both teams are trying to capture the artifact and take it to their extraction points.
 
  
  The game uses tactical round combat. If you die, you're out of the round unless a friendly resurrects 
 you using magic. (Each player can only be resurrected once per round, though in certain cases it'll 
 allow two or three resurrects.) At the end of each round, each player receives money depending 
 on how well they played. This money can be used to purchase new weapons and ammo, technology, and 
 magic spells. The first team to win six rounds wins the match.
  
  Each player has a magical essence supply used to cast magic spells. When you use a spell, it uses 
 up some of your essence, but it recharges over time. If you equip a tech (such as the glider, which 
 allows limited flight; or Wired Reflexes, which makes you faster) it reduces your maximum essence. 
 Thus you have to carefully balance between magic and techs.
  
  Each player can pick among four races to play as. Humans are the jack-of-all-trades, with average 
 speed, magical essence, and damage resistance. They have no essence penalty for equipping technology. 
 They also start the game with $2500 instead of $2000. Elves are the fastest race, and they are 
 also the easiest to kill. They have a larger stock of essence than humans, and they can also regenerate 
 health when not being attacked. Dwarves are short and mean-looking, and have the largest essence 
 supply of any race, though it recharges extremely slowly. They can drain essence from other players 
 and also from magical items such as Strangle or the Tree of Life. They can also survive a headshot 
 with a sniper rifle. The final race, the Trolls, are large, slow, and very hard to kill. When they 
 get attacked they use essence to increase their damage resistance, meaning they can take an incredible 
 amount of punishment before they die.
  
  Shadowrun has a decent mixture of weapons, with grenades, SMG's, battle rifles, shotguns, pistols, 
 the sniper rifle, and the rocket launcher. Each weapon is relatively balanced with none obviously 
 overpowering the others. The only weapon not regularly used is the rocket launcher, since it is 
 extremely expensive ($1000 per shot) and you can only carry four rounds.
  
  Shadowrun has an assortment of interesting magic spells that allow you to heal, teleport, trap 
 enemies, or summion magical minions to defend you. It also has technology which allows you to see 
 through walls, increase your accuracy, or even fly.
  
  Graphically, Shadowrun is beautiful. At 1680 x 1050 for PC or 1080p on XBox on an HDTV, it is one 
 of the best-looking games out there. The designers did an awesome job with high-dynamic range lighting, 
 though you have to drop the brightness level from the default for it to look best. The ragdoll 
 physics can be a bit odd, sometimes bodies get stuck inside walls and ceilings, or twitch madly. 
 It is lacking with some model animations; no model has a ladder-climbing animation so that looks 
 quite odd.
  
  Bots are quite stupid at times. Often you'll see bots stand at the edge of the level and shot at 
 the walls. Teammates like to use smoke and avoid all enemies, which is annoying when you're dead 
 and spectating and the match won't end until they die.
  
  Overall, the game is worth getting. It does have flaws such as keyboard-and-mouse support feeling 
 very odd, I have to play with an XBox controller on my PC. LAN play is always free, but for PC 
 you have to have Gold membership to play online -- Halo 2 for PC allows you to play with just Silver. 
 It also only has three gametypes and nine maps, plus three more maps which are just smaller versions 
 of existing maps. With more maps, gametypes, better online gameplay, smarter bots, and a story-based 
 single-player mode, this game would have been excellent. Otherwise, it's just good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loshonti
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed when I picked up my copy of shadowrun, is that the system requirements 
 are way to high. 7900 and Dual core Minimum?? I have a AMD Athlon 3200 2.0 Ghz, and a 7600 GT. It 
 runs great with everything on high. The games for windows live program is a huge ripoff, but I 
 just use my accumulated free gold trials for the time being. It's definitly an awesome game for 
 LAN parties, with all the teamwork involved, and the gifting system is really fun for trading weapons 
 and buying weapons from your allies. The game modes are not the most creative but they're still 
 really fun. The magic is where this game really shines though. Teleporting around ancient rune 
 cites is way awesome, while using strangle to cut narrow passeges of is cool too. Then there's 
 resurrect. WAY COOL. it gives you a second chance when you have died, and it also gives your team 
 mate money. This is a really great game and I think it should win an award. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TemplaerDude
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 24, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a multiplayer - only video game for the 360 and Windows Vista (in my case, Vista) . 
 It is amazingly average. What is there is quite good, but what is there is so lacking that you'll 
 be left wondering, after a day or two of playing around, is that REALLY it? The game SCREAMS for 
 more content. Let me subdivide this baby up for you.
  
  Visuals:
  
  Graphically, Shadowrun is competent. It's not an amazingly good looking game but it's not terrible 
 either. It makes use of the fancy next generation wiggle wangles to make it shine and blow up reasonably 
 good. The art direction however, the style so to say, is lacking, another way of saying that it 
 simply looks quite generic. Aside from the different races and magic, the game doesn't FEEL or 
 LOOK like anything from the Shadowrun universe. It's attempt to capture the look of a world just 
 feeling the brutal return of magic and suffering recently from plagues and dragons and the reemergence 
 of trolls and elfs and dwarves just is not there and it's disappointing. It is a game you would 
 expect a unique style and look from but unfortunately it is not so.
  
  Sound:
  
  The music (is that music or faint muttering?) is quite bad, granted the only music you hear is 
 on the menu screens since it's an online only game. The sound effects are done well enough, guns 
 sound like you think they should and spells sound spell-y, other than that though there isn't anything 
 in here that stands out.
  
  Design / Presentation:
  
  The game is designed intuitively enough, you won't get lost in a plethora of menus with options 
 mainly because there aren't that many options, which is disappointing for a next generation game 
 to be so limited in the ways to can have fun. Your heads up display lets you know how much Essence 
 (the games form of mana) you have left to use, how much health you have left and what spells and 
 techniques you have mapped to your use, as well as letting you know what weapon you have in your 
 hand if you can't tell. The spell / tech assigning is also done well with a hold of a button and 
 a little dragging.
  
  There is an issue with stat tracking in that there doesn't appear to be any way to keep track of 
 how good or bad you are; games are played one off letting you know how you did in rounds and the 
 match in whole and that's it, no way memory or way to recall the information or how you've played 
 in every match you've ever been in. For a modern game, this is an unforgivable over sight.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is where the game does shine (for the most part) . Your round 
 begins with having to buy Weapons, Tech (support to say) and Magic, in a system much reminiscent 
 of Counterstrike. The amount of money you have depends on your performance, so if you nail 5 guys 
 down to the wall and capture the relic, you'll have plenty of moola to play with next round and 
 experiment with the different things available to you. You are also able to shift money to other 
 players on your team so they don't suffer too much.
  
  The races are also uniquely useful, Humans and your every day magic users and gun toter's, while 
 Dwarves are magical little fellows capable of sucking magic from anything and anyone, Elves are 
 fast and agile and can regenerate health, trolls are big mean suckers with tons of health and capable 
 of carrying the biggest guns like pistols as the game accurately tells you in it's tutorials.
 
  
  There aren't a plethora of magic spells available to you but what is there you realize quickly 
 is quite sufficient. Each spell adds a new facet to the first person shooter genre that was before 
 unrealized. All of a sudden being able to jump and teleport to the next level and avoid a gun fight 
 you know you would fall in is possible, and very, very awesome. Being able to launch Strangle ( 
 spikey traps) and block off a possible route to your defensive position is very useful, and of 
 course resurrect is a great thing to happen to you and to do to others.
  
  The tech available to you is also really cool, the glider is incredibly useful and enhanced vision 
 is useful as well. There isn't a lot of tech available either, and it only gives you a slight, 
 slight taste of the Shadowrun universe, but it's all useful in it's own way.
  
  You can only assign 3 spells / tech at a time (and the assigning of said techniques is handled 
 quite well) so it's fun to switch up your routine and try something new. The weapons are a little 
 disappointing, there isn't much variety and nothing really very interesting other than a katana, 
 which can get a moron killed very fast or be quite scary in the hands of a hopped up (quite literally) 
 pro.
  
  Once your choices are made it's running to battle with what you got and accomplishing the objective 
 at hand which is where this review gets difficult, since this falls under the gameplay section, 
 and I want to say yes, yes the gameplay is awesome! and it is except for the variety; there really 
 is none. The multiplayer modes are sparse: two variations of capture the relic and one team deathmatch. 
 That's it. No team based assault ala UT2004, nor King of the Hill ala Halo, none of the time honored 
 modes of combat that are practically a given in multiplayer games for the past 5 years, and you 
 can only scratch your head and wonder why? Why? When the gameplay aside from this is so fresh and 
 original, why do you limit your players with so few ways to enjoy all the action I listed above?
 
  
  Another issue is the PC VS. 360 users the game promotes through it's Live interface, it's kind 
 of cool to play console gamers but as you can imagine PC users would have an advantage with their 
 pixel accurate mouses and keyboard speed. Well, not in Shadowrun, the developers took the time 
 to make the game fair , however this comes at the expense of every FPS you may have played previously. 
 You turn on and play Shadowrun and you'll find it's very difficult to control with the mouse and 
 keyboard, and it actually seems to control better with the 360 gamepad, this making you play like 
 a console gamer, which really eliminates the whole point of bringing the two together and is quite 
 frustrating.
  
  So really, I want to say the gameplay is awesome, and it is, it's really great for the most part, 
 the combinations of magic and tech with your weapons is by far a unique experience, but the issue 
 comes with games you PLAY, which are so limited and sparse that it's a crime, and the new techniques 
 available to you can only hold your attention for so long. There is also the fact that the game 
 has no single player mode available, and it simply begs for one.
  
  Also, what the hells with the ladder animation? Talk about amateur.
  
  Another note is there 
 is a bot match available for you to train on, and bots can be used to fill matches, but unless 
 they're at the highest intelligence, they seems dumber than a stick.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Shadowrun can be summed up quite easily: What is there is good, the game is fun to play, the magic 
 spells and tech are handled very well and are fun to use, but the variety is so lacking that you'll 
 most likely quickly get bored of it. This is a game that needs an expansion pack for 5 bucks that 
 includes the things you'd think it would have come with: at least 5 more big maps, a couple multiplayer 
 modes and a stat system. It's a disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lanstar
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  This brand new Shadowrun for the Xbox 360 was highly anticipated by quite a few people including 
 myself. Being an original fan of the Shadowrun Games I was hoping for some awesome single player 
 and many people thought that this game was going to be an MMORPG.
  
  Obviously, we were damn wrong. Anyway, I know a lot of old skool players are holding a grudge against 
 FASA now, but I am going to review this game as if it was just another of the 1,000 other FPS's 
 that are currently in production.
  
  Graphics:
  
  This subject is least important in my eyes, but I like to talk about it anyway. Personally, I really 
 do like the graphics. They aren't Gears of War style, but are above Average in my book. Though, 
 a good game good graphics do not make.
  
  Storyline:
  
  There is a bit of a storyline behind this version (even though some people don't really know that) . 
 The storyline isn't really important though considering that this game is all about da onlinez. 
 Otherwise I would weigh this heavily against the game.
  
  Sound:
  
  Sound in this game does help a lot. I find that if I play with my sound off I can't seem to do 
 as well as I would with it on. The characters react to what's going on and the command system gives 
 silent people with no mic the ability to inform their team of what is going on.
  
  Also hearing the sounds of different abilities going on and the random trolls screaming Katana! 
 helps as well.
  
  Singleplayer:
  
  lol wut?
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Ah, the main focus of the game. In my opinion I do love how the multi-player works and I do have 
 fun while playing. The problem is actually being able to play the games. Currently the wait times 
 for the games are pretty long, and if the chosen server leaves the game then the game ends right 
 there on the spot.
  
  If you can find a good group of players out their then you are going to have a blast. Sometimes 
 you do get stuck with people that go all Rambo, buy a katana the first round, get owned, and say 
 over and over again rez plz until they finally get one. Though, **** does indeed happen.
  
  Overall:
  
  This game is good and if you are into multi-player then you should pick it up to 
 play with your friends. If you are used to the old skool Shadowrun then just rent it and see if 
 you like it. If not then just burn the disk, and kill the employee that gave it to you :D.
  
  `~Lanstar~` 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siiixon
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  ok although for some weird reason this game supposed to be vista only ITS NOT it runs just fine 
 XP and DX9c and the speed is acceptable as well (need 2 mini patched from MS to run on XP, trust 
 me i have xp and it runs!) ... so now to the game it self ... its with distance the worst nextgen 
 game i even saw, in fact its not nextgen but really really bad, it reminds me of CS and FEAR, but 
 its not an improvement clone, but a downgrade, i could say its a cheap CS/FEAR clone, the only 
 single thing i liked is the teleport feature, the rest is at best horrid... dont buy it you be 
 sorry : ) ..... its really not much i can say, its cool you can play online with XBOX users, just 
 to bad they would have to pay me to play this game for more then 30 minutes ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjplummer5858
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  First of all the reviewers probobly didn't have the right people to play as there team mates! Second 
 of all if you play as a individual and not a team your gonna bet OWNED! Thirdly The not havin single 
 play is the reason that the multi play is sooo sweet. I would rather pay 60$ for a killer multi 
 play'r game than 60$ for a lackluster multi and single player game. I have the pleasure of playing 
 Shadowrun with 7-10 of the unselfish, team orrientated players I have evr had the pleasure of gaming 
 with! I REALY can't beleive the score that was givin to the amazing game! If you look at the early 
 game shots of Shadowrun you can see they spent alot of time on the races looks and abilitys and 
 not just on the enviroment! i'll leave you with this one thought get the right gamers to play more 
 than 2-4 games before you put such a low and degrading score for such a top noch game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quietfall
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Not only vista playable... so give it a shot on XP and give us a another rating then Gamespot reviewers 
 :P
  
  MS intended the game to be run only under their new OS in an attempt to get people to buy it... seems 
 that didnt work out too well...
  
  On the game itself though it is just a new unreal tournament look-a-like with spells thrown in 
 to make it interesting but not original enough for my liking.
  Runs very smooth though and might appeal to fans of the genre.
  Rather leave tournament games 
 to the big boys MS.
  
  Still waiting for a decent game to release... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanefelix
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  To start off, I'd like to state one thing before you, the reader, starts reading my review. The 
 fact is that Shadowrun is a multiplayer game. There are some elements of single-player content 
 like Tutorials and Bot matches, but it isn't worth $50 at all. Second of all, if you do not have 
 a LIVE gold membership account, then you should stay away as well, as this game is solely based 
 on multiplayer and with the silver account, you cannot really do much.
  
  Gameplay: To start off, the gameplay is this game is really just here and there. The idea is very, 
 very complicated as there is magic involved in this game. Yes, I said magic, but wasnt this a FPS 
 like Counter Strike? Yes again. This game is somewhat like a blend of an idea like Counter Strike 
 + Magic. Now you may get the idea of the fact that it would not work, as the balancing issues would 
 be not right. That really depends. Despite the fact that it takes forever to join the game, it 
 is actually very fun depending on the people you play with. if you play with a group of players 
 who are really just there to get achievements or a game where everyones an elve and are using the 
 katanas, then its just no fun at all because that was not how the developers had the game in mind. 
 In all, it really depends for someones personal taste, but if you had a lot of fun in counter strike 
 or games alike, then you would maybe be appealed by Shadowrun and its unique idea.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are not really top notch or next-gen but then it is still acceptable and 
 distincts itself from other games due to its graphical style. The downside to the PC version is 
 that it has very high requirements. Asking for Duo Core PC's, 2GB of ram, and Nvidia 7800 or higher 
 is very demanding when you're reading from the back of the box. Just a note to readers is that 
 these requirements are the recommended requirements and are not the minimum requirements. In the 
 end, you will still need a decent machine for running this. Here is a layout of what I am currently 
 using : Asus G1 : Intel Core 2 Duo 2.0 Ghz , 2GB RAM, Nvidia Geforce Go 7700 and I am running the 
 game at 1280&times;760 with all the settings on low so that performance is best online. Sound: 
 The sound is very well done. Although I am no expert at this part, I am very satisfied with the 
 quality of the audio throughout the game. Like in every game review, it really depends on the speakers 
 you have. The games audio aren't outstanding but then I would not have a debate over the fact that 
 this games audio is poor, since I believe it is nothing near poor. Overall: In all, as i said, 
 this game is either you like it or you don't. The confusing concept and the fact that you need 
 a Xbox LIVE gold account to really enjoy the game is just really hard for any player to accept. 
 But if you fill these requirements, then you may be able to find a game that you might enjoy if 
 the concept actually works out in a game. Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twist3den3my
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  Let me Just run you through my day
  
  I play tones of games i love mutiplayers and fps and when i learn there was a fast paced fps with 
 spell powers in a great next gen look comeing out where i could live my life long dream of killing 
 console fanboys on my pc i was overjoyed the revers looked great and the screens were awesome to 
 look at though right from the start i lost interest strait away. i saw it was out when i was in 
 the game shop and saw it so i picked it up wasn't expensive AU$60.
  
  i get home and install install takes unusaly long so im thinking this game must have alot of content.
 
  
  after install i launch it and the windows live login comes up i try loging in with my xbox live 
 login for some reason it doesn't work so i dicide to crate another silver just so i can see how 
 it plays online. i still cant log inn after cheaking my firewall i try a single player bot match 
 and some of the tut levels to get to know how spells work.
  
  i boot up the crate game screen what do i see 6-8 maps that are tiny in scope 6 or so weapons and 
 maby 14-16 spells that are all crap and unimaginative with 2 modes of gameplay that are pretty 
 much the same thing cap the flag with one flag
  
  just so you know ive only played it once for an hour or two but the impression i got is that it 
 is fact made by the government to increase suicide thus solving the population crisis... nuff said 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silveressa
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 12, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of a Shadowrun game being made for the pc I was thrilled, having enjoyed the 
 pen and paper game for years. Then when i heard it was going to be an fps instead of a rpg I was 
 a little disappointed but figured it could still deliver a good shadowrun experience given the 
 multitude of other fps games with great storylines like F. E. A. R and S. T. A. L. K. E. R
  
  Then I had the chance to play it at a friends place and discovered it was a amazing disappointment.. 
 My first impression is the game was a low budget unreal tournament wanna be, only about 6 maps, 
 multiplayer only, and basically nothing to do with the shadowrun universe what so ever. (at least 
 the unreal series had bots with a single player storyline and a good 25+ maps) The play control 
 is alright, but with smart links the whole idea of actually aiming at your opponenet is laughable 
 since the game does it for you, and the matching system for gaming is horrendus. (3-5 minutes between 
 games +)
  
  Graphcially it's eye catching, but nothign you haven't seen in other games before, and does nothing 
 to distract you from the bare bones map choices or zero replayability. (at least battlefield 2142 
 let you build up your char through play, in Shadowrun it all fresh from the start each time)
  
  The sound is nice too, but once again nothing to make you want to max out the volume or buy 
 better speakers for.
  
  Over all it feels like a product rushed out the door and marketed to sell off the famous Shadowrun 
 name while providing a game that pretty near has nothing in common with the setting.
  
  Basically I'd compare it to a demo as far as quality and replayability. As I played it I kept thinking 
 to myself how much it feels like and secondary addon to a main game, much like F. E. A. R.'s multiplayer 
 was secondary to it's single player story. Almost as if they lost the main part of the game so 
 decided to release the small bit they still had as a game itself.
  
  End Result: Not worth the money, not even close. If you want good multiplayer fps action pick up 
 Battlefield 2142, or try S. T. A. L. K. E. R's multiplayer out, Shadowrun gives nothing in the way of 
 substance.
  
  If you want a rpg/fps style game set in the Shadowrun universe however, you're out of luck. With 
 any luck someday we'll see a Elder Scrolls Oblviion style rpg set in the Shadowrun Universe, but 
 hopefully from a quality developer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pneumoniaprone
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 12, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  I was scared it would be mediocre based on reviews but this game turned out to be seriously fun. 
 I am a PC Gamer who also has a 360 with a Gold account so it was simple to log in and cross platform 
 play with no price increase. The interface for finding a game needs some work due to the long connection 
 times but once in game this is highly addictive and has great strategic team play. The learning 
 curve is a little higher if you try to find the best build for your play style instead of just 
 being the 800th katana wielding elf. If you try different combos that fit the way you want to play 
 there are other fun options to keep you competitive. I really could not give 2 fecks about the 
 license as long as it is fun and I think it is. Another thing i thought was funny was all the griping 
 on the ladder animations. I played for 4 days and went back to read the reviews to see what they 
 didn't like. I never even noticed the animation problem in all my play time until i reread the 
 review. it is far from game breaking and I would go as far as to say barely noticeable. Anyway 
 each to their own but I am glad I gave it a shot for myself.
  
  BTW running a C2D 6700 Vista 4 gigs ram 8800GTX thought the graphics looked pretty nice. Have fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obscured12345
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jun 12, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  I will get the good points out of the way first, it looks great and runs great, and the game play 
 can be fun while it lasts., but on the other hand the lack of maps having to pay for Xbox live, 
 the pc servers are few and far, and when you do manage to connect to one they are often plagued 
 by lag. this fairs no better when you use the 360 servers. For a full price game I feel as I have 
 be hold up and that Microsoft were just out to make a quick buck. There are far better free multiplayer 
 games on the pc like wolfenstine and fear mp, war rock etc just to name a few. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anandram
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  I was really appalled with the GS review on this game. its really not a 6.9 IMHO. Yea its no Gears 
 of war, but its a refreshing and gracious attempt to mix things up a little. It brings RPG and 
 FPS to another level really, albeit not a great level of entertainment, but it deserves credit 
 for that at least. The gameplay is (as mentioned) a refreshing take on a new style to console gamers. 
 It may be all over as soon as you can say artifact , but in time i think this game may be appreciated 
 more so than it is now. It can be really entertaining if you have a decent lobby, with people knowing 
 what they are doing. But to be honest, it doesnt really feel as though the magic elements are used 
 at all. But as mentioned, with the right group of people, this can work i feel.
  
  The sound is there and nothing you'll remember, but fits in nicely.
  Graphics are nothing to 
 get excited about but again, not to shabby either.
  
  I think if you want a change, rent this game, and if you like it, then buy it. i admit that i will 
 always go back to GOW, but this is a different game altogether really, so if a change is what you 
 want, then go for it. Downsides are that it takes ages to find a game sometimes, i sat there for 
 5mins at a time!! Its fast paced and its a change.
  
  I think this is either a hate it or love it type game.
  
  Mind you, i dont love it or hate 
 it :? im kinda inbetween. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2maria
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 10, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game, the first few hours were great. Although it did take me a while 
 to figure out the controls, and effectively map spells and tech, once I had that down, the game 
 was a blast. I had a great time mowing down people with a minigun, or slashing them in the back 
 with a katana. However, after playing every map at least five or six times, it became old. Fast. 
 Fortunately, the game rekindled itself once I activated my gold account trial. The addition of 
 much more players (opposed to the three populated dedicated servers I had access to on my silver 
 account) , as well as multiplayer achievements, I once more had something to do. However, I still 
 think the game would rank much higher with the addition of more weapons, maps, abilities (not tech 
 or magic, i. e dual wielding) , and a map editor, of which a few have recently been promised by the 
 devs in an update. All in all, I don't recommend buying this game just yet, but waiting for a few 
 more maps to come out or a price change. If you really have the urge to buy it, you won't be disappointed, 
 as it is a very fun game. However, considering the price tag, and that its multiplayer only, it 
 may be worth the wait to look for a price change or downloadable content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spunkmeijer
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  1. The game is versitile and anyone should be able to find something they are good at doing to 
 help the team. I myself enjoy being a support player with the healing and rezzing.
  
  2. Besides the grenades that are way too powerful and have an insane blast radius, the game is 
 pretty balanced from what I've seen so far, none of the races or weapons seem to stand out too 
 much over any other.
  
  3. Graphics and sound is pretty good
  
  Cons:
  
  1. The live system for Vista is very limited right now, it's obviously a direct port from the xbox, 
 but the free month of play is cool. I'm sure it's going to get some regular updates as time passes.
 
  
  2. You need some insane hardware to run the game in high graphics on vista. recommended rating 
 is 5.0. I have a pentium D 2.8ghz, 4gigs of ram, and a ATI x1850 video card and my rating fell 
 shy at 4.7 but the game does run smooth with the settings that the game autodetects. One headache 
 I noticed though is that I play with a widescreen monitor at 1440x900 and the game never remembers 
 my resolution settings, so everytime I start the game I have to go into video to set the resolution.
 
  
  3. Auto-Aim for PC? this definately caught me off guard and I find myself fighting with it more 
 then it helps me. I looked for a way to turn it off but did not find it. If anyone figure this 
 one out, let me know plz. Also it feels like mouselook in general is kinda sluggish, but I guess 
 thats to keep on par with the speed that an xbox controller is set at.
  
  Overall, this is a very good game and a good look into the future of what Microsoft is trying to 
 do with the xbox and vista live program. I can see myself playing this game for a while. If the 
 gameplay doesn't keep me around, this achievement system will, xbox players always told me that 
 the system will extend the life of a game longer then you expect, I definitely see the appeal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowGryphon
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jun 6, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  Played this on a friends machine.............. um...... blah!
  The only good thing I have to say is that the graphics and some of the effects were pretty killer, 
 otherwise, I'm saving my pennies for Hellgate: londogame n.
  
  To be honest, this game really didn't do the Shadowrun background any justice, and it -should- 
 have been a single player game primarily, FFS, a multiplayer only game does NOTHING to push the 
 story......... looks like someone dropped the ball (and possibly the soap too) .
  
  to Kjolnir2, concerning SLI and vista....... Vista doesn't support SLI so you can forget running 
 this game with both cards.
  
  And for the record: Early adopter = sucker.
  Should have waited a while before going to vista. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DogOfDeath
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is Microsoft Game Studios (Specifically FASA Studios) first Games for Windows Live game 
 that features Cross-Platform game play between the PC and the Xbox 360. The game plays like CounterStrike 
 meets Tribes with Magic. You start out by choosing between four distinct races, from Human who 
 is the Jack of all Trades race, to an Elf thats quick but with less health and more essence (The 
 games version of Mana) , to Trolls (Large burly race that can harden when taking damage, but moves 
 slow and has the least essence) , and lastly Dwarves (Small race that has a slow essence regeneration 
 rate, but can sap essence from other races or magic) . You start a round by purchasing a variety 
 of weapons, magic spells, and technological upgrades. Guns arewell, guns. You shoot people to 
 kill them. Magic gives you the opportunity to create a Tree of Life on the ground, healing those 
 around you regardless of team. Resurrection allows you to bring teammates back to life long as 
 their body hasnt been destroyed, or even summon a large Minion to attack your enemies for you. 
 Technology gives you a boost to say, movement and reload speed with Wired Reflexes, aiming with 
 Smartlink, or Glide over the map with the Glider, and rain destruction to those below.
  
  I would like to make it clear that I'm reviewing the PC version of the game, not the 360. That 
 said, there is no definitive difference between the two platforms' games. Ive heard horror stories 
 from people before I got the game about the PCs controls being horrifically bad, the aim is terrible, 
 and the consoles destroy us. How? I found the bloom to be quite small and slow, especially when 
 burst firing with say, the SMG, rather than holding down the button. Setting skills is as easy 
 as pressing and holding a button, click, and press 1-3. Casting is just as easy except you click 
 a second time instead of the number. When you move around, obviously the reticule blooms slightly, 
 but with the PC, because of the extra speed in which a mouse can turn than a default analog joystick, 
 the bloom spreads that much faster when say, turning around quickly. Honestly, the controls on 
 the PC feel great and solid, especially in the hands of someone who has played PC FPSs for his 
 whole life.
  
  Game play wise, this game is just beyond great. Theres so much going on besides your average run 
 and gun style FPS. People teleporting from through the walls or the floor/ceiling, people flying 
 overhead to land on the ground with a Katana to cut you up, minions fighting minions in the middle 
 of the mapI could go on. The maps, while few, are very well designed, allowing for endless combinations 
 of Magic and Tech to give your team the advantage. The game could have used more, but until you 
 unlock the Around the World achievement, you cant complain. There are 3 Gametypes in Shadowrun, 
 all revolving around a central Artifact, the games version of a flag. Extraction is he standard 
 Single-flag CTF, where both teams are vying to capture the single artifact. Raid is an Attack/Defend 
 type, where one team tries to capture the artifact, and the other team attempts to defend it. Attrition, 
 while still spawning an Artifact on the map, has nothing to do with it. Its Shadowruns Deathmatch 
 gametype, and bodies cannot be destroyed. The same as the maps, I wish there were more gametypes 
 in the game, but it will do for now. Hopefully FASA releases a patch shortly with new types.
  
  Overall the game is worth the purchase, despite the steeper price tag of 50 bucks or the PC, 
 or 60 for the 360. Other games have done it without a Singleplayer Campaign (coughBattlefieldcough) . 
 There are several bugs that need to be worked out, especially with the Party and Matchmaking system 
 (Some people cant join others parties, and Matchmaking can take up to 5 minutes (Ive heard up 
 to 10 as well) ) . Other than that, and a lack of game types and maps, this game is a great way to 
 kick off the Games for Windows Live Initiative.
  
  Gameplay  9/10
  This game is just plain fun. Teleporting, minions, guns, rockets, grenades, resurrecting, Anti-Magic 
 generators, and a whole lot else. If you love FPSs, I highly recommend it.
  
  Graphics  6/10
  This is where the score gets a little hurt. While I believe many things were 
 intentional, the game seems a little outdated in terms of look. It has its own stylized feel to 
 it, but more could have been done to make it look sexier.
  
  Sound  9/10
  The guns sound bold and tough, the music is nothing Ive really heard before, and the effects of 
 the magic just fit.
  
  Value  9/10
  A great Multiplayer experience on both the 360 and PC. If you adore FPSs and are in need of something 
 new and refreshing, look no further than Shadowrun.
  
  Reviewers Tilt  8/10
  Better map variety and more gametypes should be on the horizon, but seeing them in the released 
 version would have been prime.
  
  Overall Score  8.3 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kjolnir2
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 3, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Title says it all. The biggest peeve I've got is the matchmaking system. It's worse than horrible. 
 The game, for whatever reason, cannot seem to find any dedicated servers in my area - and I live 
 in Dallas/Fort Worth. I therefore am required to resort to the quick start option, which is anything 
 but quick. It takes a good 4-5 minutes to even find a game, and the connection reliability is horrible. 
 Additionally, there does not seem to be any voice support for Vista users. The game consistently 
 crashes whenever I try to run by vid cards in SLi config, so big time negative points there.
  
  There are also some small bugs in the tutorials that nobody from FASA can seem to address in 
 their own forums.
  
  All around, stay away from this game. It's far too expensive for what you get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 16, 2008 2:51 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is using a new technology that MS call "Live Everywhere", many people are already familiar 
 with xbox live, but live everywhere is the vista version of it. This is a nice idea combining to 
 systems to play a fully online game. However there are some frustrating elements in Shadowrun.
 
  
  The graphics are think aren't stunning but look great, even though they reccomend a 5.0 rating 
 I find it looks just as good on a 4.4 rating. ^^
  
  The thing that shadowrun lacks is a core feature of many online games, customisable characters. 
 You run around in shadowrun and you can't help thinking that you are a drone of somekind. Whereas 
 if you had a customisable character you would feel as if that is "you" out there. Also there is 
 only 3 game modes and they are very, very, very similar.
  
  The unquiqe idea of combing modern and ancient tech with magic fits perfectly into the world of 
 Shadowrun. Casting spells and learning how use a gun can be the key to survival in Shadowrun. It's 
 a fun game but lacks some core features which I hope they fix in an update. ( (Also I reccomend 
 playing this game using a 360 controller you can buy a special modem which can use 360 tech on 
 the PC) )
  
  I give Shadorun: 8.2 for good graphics and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 2, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun, got the game over a import company to play it as fast as possibly because I love games 
 like these, what I played was what I expected, but it didn't work out the way I wanted.
  
  Shadowrun (has nothing to do with the pen-and-paper RPG from like a century ago) is a highly anticipated 
 shooter that feels like it was made in a rush, its multiplayer only component isn't fun, and I 
 would've loved to see a co-op single player, that'd be awesome, but we are out of luck in this 
 game.
  
  Gameplay:
  Fun, you are able to check out four different classes, each one with different abilities, and after 
 you enter a game, you'll see a CS like shop where you can purchase weapons and magic and enhancement 
 to make attacks better, if you play the game after a while, you'll find out some effective weapon 
 combinations.
  
  This game is you're typical Rock-paper-scissor FPS if you can look at it, but with some twists 
 to make it harder to geuss where to be on the look out for classes with certain skills.
  
  Graphics:
  Level designs are pretty good, some would fit great in Singleplayer if there was any, 
 the character designs are rather dissapointing tho, I was expecting more from a highly anticipated 
 game like this, the huge NPC's liike mighty fine tho.
  
  Sometimes, characters will freeze in a stand and float around like that, its frustating if it happens 
 and lets the game feel bugged and unfinished, I'm really hoping that FASA is putting up downloadable 
 patches to fix problems like these.
  
  Since this a multiplayer only game, it doesn't have much to talk about it, gameplay is satisfying, 
 but with ''Will-do'' graphics and unfinished look makes the game a dissapointment, I'm still playing 
 the game tho it wasn't what I hoped it to be, I'm really hoping FASA is doing alot of patches for 
 this game.
  
  Is it a good online FPS:
  Good, not the best, not stunning atleast, there are some innovatation here and there, but thats 
 all it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattyomo99
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  You go out and spend 45 bucks on a brand new game that looks really awesome, you start to play 
 it and you say to your self wow, this is really awesome. You think the magic shooting is a great 
 combo and Then 3-4 hours later you get bored of the lack of selection of maps that are available 
 to you. This game has a few positives, its innovative and its fun to use magic and guns at the 
 same time but gets old vary fast. Overall this game is not worth the money at all, with $45 you 
 can get some high quality and more entertaining pc games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Missnlink
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best fps game to hit this year. I personally do not agree with Gamespots rating 
 at all and the person who rated it should be fired. This game is amazing to say the least. I have 
 spent hours upon hours playing already and I love every minute of it. With the array of abilities 
 you can use to the way the maps are set up you couldn't ask for better fps game. I really want 
 to see what this game will do competitively, because I will definitely compete in it as soon as 
 ladders/leagues are up to do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gahaz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  The gamespot review feels alot like a mad shadowrun fanboy review by the way. The game is highly 
 pretty graphics wise, if you have the hardware. All the characters are very intresting and varied, 
 the whole race and skill selection makes each time u play a lil different and allows for you to 
 flesh out a style of play all your own. The lack of a ladder animation is kinda odd, but since 
 you can jus teleport to the top it does not bother much. This is a title i think that will shine 
 if the publisher gives us more maps and maybe some new character models to livein things up a bit. 
 I would recommend it to a shooter fan, exspecially if you are a squad based shooter fan. When this 
 game setles in and you get a group of friends together that play regularly and you have a working 
 team this game could really show what it has under those pretty lil legs... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ukgamecubefan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  This is the type of game that once people start picking it up in the stores it will start hitting 
 off I think its going to be a classic like Counter Strike, but with next gen graphics.
  
  The graphics are nice and smooth and the game feels natural to play and you still get Achievements 
 when you link your Xbox gamer profile to the game so its like your PC becomes your Xbox 360.
 
  
  Graphics wise I have seen better but If you have a high spec PC and Vista I think its well worth 
 picking up its graphically a better than average.
  
  One thing I did end up doing was using my Xbox 360 controller on the game instead of the keyboard 
 and mouse as the menu system is completely designed for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c0de_red999
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Every one is saying that this game is a let down... its not!!!!! this game is kinda like counter 
 strike and dark messiah and a little halo. just think all of the great games put into 1!!!!! im a 
 hardcore gamer and i get all the new fps games that are comming out..... like quake wars is on pre-order 
 and same with crysis and front lines fule of war and many more. All im saying is if u dont like 
 this game than there is so many more games that are comming out... this is the first game that i 
 got for windows vista and it rcoks!!! what other games let u transpot thru other people!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delirin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  There were many a rumor about dumbed down PC controls that really had me on the fence about getting 
 this game. Eventually I figured that I needed something to play for a month or two and picked it 
 up regardless. I'm glad I did, it seems to me those rumors were unfounded. The controls may have 
 been adjusted to make gameplay fair, but it feels completley natural with a mouse and keyboard 
 to me.
  
  If you enjoy DoD or CS I think it's safe to say you will have some fun with this. The added tech 
 and skills add an entirely different strategic element. Think counterstrike with different races 
 and magic/tech that effect EVERY element of the game.
  
  It's online only, which may be a problem for some, but this is no new thing for PC users. It has 
 a unique feel, nice look and some very interesting and original elements that really enhance the 
 FPS genre.
  
  I should mention my system specs:
  vista home premium
  intel core 2 duo e6600
  bfg 8800gtx oc ed
  4gb ddr2
  
  With these specs I ran at 1280x1024 
 max everything perfectly.
  
  The only real negative aspect to this game I've come across is that it takes about five minutes 
 to match you up with a game. This may or may not change as the ammount of players grow and the 
 game is patched.
  
  Update: After the free month of Live! the replay value will be slim to none. If you don't have 
 or plan on paying for windows live, this game is deffinatley a pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trmptbuddy
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 31, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun, a shooter VERY loosely based on the old SNES game of the same name, is the first cross-platform 
 (Windows / XBox) game to be released using the new compatibilities built in with Vista. It takes 
 a classic shooter recipe, makes it team-based, and attempts to mix in some on-the-fly strategy 
 elements, resulting in a fun and easily forgotten shooter to take up room on your shelf.
  
  First impressions mean a great deal with unfamiliar games, and this one certainly nails it on the 
 money. When you load into the first tutorial chapter, the camera pans around your character while 
 a voice over instructs you, and it shows off its very detailed and lush models. Graphically, this 
 game didn't cut any corners, and if your computer can handle it, you're really in for a treat. 
 The tutorial progresses very linearly, with a few moments so slow they're frustrating, but at the 
 end of each lesson, you get to practice your new skills in a bot match to break up the monotony. 
 Once you finish the tutorial you'll be able to either jump into multi-player or get some practice 
 in the single player campaign... Wait! There is no single player campaign! I was extremely disappointed 
 by the lack of any sort of single player game other than bot matches, but surely the multi-player 
 would be fantastic to make up for it. I tried to join a multi-player game only to find out that 
 I had to PAY for a membership to play the game online!
  
  Okay, let me reiterate this one more time. There are minimal single player options in this game, 
 and you have to PAY to play the multi-player aspect. As long as I've been playing PC games, I've 
 never paid a subscription to play a shooter online, but I figured that surely it would really be 
 extraordinary and revolutionary. I mean, paying to play PC shooters online definitely is. So I 
 create an XBox Live account to play online, only to find that it takes 15 minutes to find and connect 
 to a server full of players running around hitting each other with Katanas. Oh, and did I mention 
 that there is no ranking system or unlockable content (that I was able to find anyhow) to give 
 you something to work toward? Other than those pointless achievements that make you feel warm and 
 gushy inside, you get no sense of accomplishment or advancement. Battlefield 2 was one of the first 
 major shooter titles to have no meaningful single player, but it (and its predecessors) boasted 
 a very useful and motivating multi-player advancement process. And it was free to play. Shadowrun 
 takes your money and gives you nothing special in return.
  
  In short, the game looks great, and though it has some game play oddities here and there, it's 
 fairly well balanced. If there were a single player feature that was worth playing or a multi-player 
 aspect that didn't charge extra and gave motivation to play, I might be able to give the game a 
 higher score, but because of its poor value for what you buy accompanied by Enemy Territory being 
 released in about a week, I'm hard pressed to recommend this game to any shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shedding
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 9, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  I wanted this game to really use strategy on the fly. I do not think that the game really got this 
 across well. The game feels polished and it works. PC users will have a bit of a sour taste.. since 
 you cannot use the keyboard to type a simple message. In order to get the voice part working, you 
 have to go through major extra steps (a simple menu item under game settings would've been just 
 fine..) Paying 50 dollars to play this game through the live server might be way too much. Specially 
 since we have been getting this service (and more!) for free. If you pay for the game, it is not 
 good to ask the player pay for an extra service to enhance your experience . At this point I have 
 played the game enough to warrant a better review. These are the things that make the game good 
 and bad:
  
  GOOD - Lots of strategy. This is not your run of the mill game. Let me give you a few examples
 
  
  When you are smoked - You are basically invunerable. However, as an elf you cannot regenerate health 
 and you cannot attack. If someone casts the spell gust.. it will damage you. Think about this one.. 
 you are smoke, and a bit of wind can take you out. Make sense. With Gust, you can push enemies 
 away. There is an option to use a katana, which a lot of people tend to use. It is frustrating 
 and annoying to get gusted (pushed back) which trying to get close enough to the enemy with a katana.. 
 meanwhile the enemy is filling you with lead.
  
  Here is another instance where strategy comes in.. lets say you are being persued. You are about 
 to die.. there is a precipice right in front of you. JUMP!!! With any luck you would have smoke 
 and/or gust. With smoke you become invunerable right before you hit the ground and you can run 
 away. With Gust, you hit the ground just before you land.. and you also walk away (barely scathe) . 
 If the enemy tries to persue you and they don't have any of the spells.. they will die. This has 
 happened many times playing the game. The achievements they give you add to the fun of the game. 
 You do something special - You get an achievement (e. g. A vista player plays with xbox 360 - you 
 get the BFF or small world achievement)
  
  BAD:
  The game itself was well thought out.. the core of the game was well done. It is however, missing 
 a lot of content (Maps, play modes, good single player, text chat for vista users) and to top it 
 off the game crashes every once in a while. Everytime I would like to play a game (Without using 
 the dedicated servers) it takes a nice 4-5 minutes before I get into a game. To top it off, if 
 I want to play with xbox360 users... I have to pay 50 dollars per year. I cannot warrant another 
 50 dollars just for 1 game.
  
  The game is very fun.. It is just very expensive for what it is worth with not enough material. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkscorcher
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  The game is pretty fun, you get to use special powers and skills and unique characters with their 
 own abilitys. its MULTIPLAYER ONLY minus the training, but one thing i HATE. is that unless you 
 shoot a body up while its laying on the ground. it is not considered dead so their teammates can 
 revive them, BUT thats not what im mad at. even if all of the team members have been killed off, 
 and there is no one to revive any of them, a new round will not start untill you find all the bodys 
 and shoot them up and make them disappear.. its just annoying sitting there for 2 minutes while 
 you wait for the other team to find the last corpses to completely finish off, when there is no 
 chance of any of them getting revived. or maybe there is someone else alive and my console is just 
 messing up and not letting me see them.. what ever.
  
  other than that glitch that will hopefully be corrected with an update in the near future, the 
 game is very fun and will probably become the Counter -Strike of the xbox360.
  
  the graphics... are SO-so. the graphics could be better, but you have to remember that with the 
 processing restrictions of the console, there is no way to have Awesome graphics, and HUGE levels.
 
  
  the sound, doesn't stand out anymore than any other xbox game so i gave it a 7 for good.
  
 
  value is a 9, because you will get 100's if not 1000's of hours out of this game, def worth the 
 money. I can see myself playing this game years down the road.
  
  Just look at gears of war, the graphics are great but the area you are limited to is relatively 
 small. if you dont know what im talking about (just try to go back to back to an area in the beginning 
 of a level, and you will see, rocks mysteriously now block your path) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StermerCody
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 30, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun has finally arrived for the Xbox 360 and PC. Both versions are completely the same. The 
 difference about the games are the xbox will be using the xbox360 conroller and the PC players 
 be using mouse. Now shadowrun changed the way to play Shadowrun PC. You are going to want to play 
 with a gamepad. Or you can play with the Xbox 360 Controller since all games with the games for 
 windows certify have to support Xbox 360 controller. This is a solo but its not that great. The 
 makers was really looking for the Online Multiplyer. The online multiplayer supports 16 players. 
 Now this game is cross platform. Now Xbox 360 and Windows Vista players will be able to play each 
 other in a game. Both Versions for the Achievement are exactly the same. The PC version is really 
 a system hog. You are going a want a PC that is a year old at the most any older and you might 
 push it. I also found so problems with the game. One is droping out of the server at some times 
 but the developers are currently trying to patch that issues. The controls are really easy to play. 
 If you are a hard core shooter fan you might would like to pick this one up. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
