-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shadow Company: Left For Dead
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/shadowcompanyleftfordead/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  3, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 7.2, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 75 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Sinister Games
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Sep 30, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It is a very good game marred by some very bad design decisions. 

 The word "great" all too easily finds its way into game reviews. Great graphics, great gameplay, 
 great multiplayer support - let's face it, the word great is greatly overused. Shadow Company: 
 Left for Dead is one of those rare games that truly merits the word - but probably not in the way 
 its developers envisioned. In fact, this real-time tactical combat game from Ubi Soft and Sinister 
 Games falls into the dreaded category of games that aren't but should have been... you guessed 
 it - great. Unfortunately, Shadow Company's horrific controls and camera angles, its abbreviated 
 single-player campaign, and its bizarre gameplay glitches all hamper what could easily have been 
 one of the year's best games.  

 Much like the Jagged Alliance games from Sirtech, Shadow Company puts you in command of a small 
 squad of mercenaries. You begin the game with only a three-man force, left for dead (hence the 
 subtitle) after a botched operation in Angola. You must first complete your original assignment 
 with limited troops and equipment and then escape to a safe extraction point before the game's 
 main campaign begins in earnest.  

 The game offers a brief nine-mission single-player campaign, though each of the missions involves 
 a dizzying array of objectives. You are often called upon to complete five or six seemingly unrelated 
 tasks - rescue a prisoner and blow up a submarine, for example - against enormous odds. Often, 
 you'll find dozens of enemy soldiers guarding and patrolling your target area. Fortunately, you 
 have a very impressive arsenal at your disposal.  

 With the money you make from successful missions, you can hire new mercs and buy new equipment. 
 Weapons include handguns, submachine guns, assault weapons, and sniper rifles, as well as grenades, 
 knives, and bazookas. You can also stock up on body armor, night-vision goggles, medical kits, 
 and all that other stuff a good mercenary army needs in the field.  

 Unlike in the Jagged Alliance games, all the action in Shadow Company unfolds in real-time, which 
 is a mixed blessing. On the one hand, it gives the game a Rainbow Six-like feel, where you run 
 your troops through dazzling 3D environments without having to worry about movement points and 
 such. However, it can be tough keeping tabs on all your troops - and unlike in Rainbow Six, you 
 don't have any mission plans or AI group commanders to help you out in Shadow Company. Technically, 
 you can command up to eight mercenaries at a time, but controlling as many as four can be a daunting 
 task, so you'll want to make very sure you need the extra manpower before hiring additional soldiers. 

 Most of the trouble with Shadow Company can be tracked to a single, glaring flaw: the camera controls. 
 Your view of the action is similar to the camerawork in Bungie's Myth games. All the mission environments 
 are impressively rendered in 3D, and you have a bird's-eye view of everything. You can pan the 
 camera using the numeric keypad or the mouse, as well as rotate and change the elevation. All of 
 this is rather straightforward, but because the game does a terrible job of centering on your units, 
 you spend most of your time struggling with the camera to get a clear view of the terrain around 
 your troops. Even when you choose to center on a specific merc, once you begin rotating the camera, 
 your view seems to spiral farther and farther away from its focus, leaving you with a distant and 
 nearly useless viewing angle. When you click on the "track object" option, the camera moves in 
 a jerky, headache-inducing motion, which renders this option just as useless.  

 What's more, the game's 3D engine suffers from bizarre polygonal clipping and object-overlapping 
 issues that seriously affect gameplay. For starters, every object appears to block out everything 
 behind it, even when the foreground object is transparent. For example, even when you can see one 
 of your units through the branches of a tree, you cannot select the merc without first rotating 
 the camera to get a clear view of him. Often, you can't even target or select a unit behind a chain-link 
 fence. And when using the game's sniper mode, you typically cannot squeeze off a shot when aiming 
 through foliage - even when you have a bad guy lined up perfectly in your sights.  

 The first-person sniper mode also calls attention to another oddity. When aiming in this mode, your 
 crosshairs turn red when you have a clean shot. However, the crosshair movement is somewhat jerky, 
 as if you're moving through a series of grid points rather than a fluid 3D space. As a result, 
 the perfect shot is often lined up well off the target's body, which is extremely confusing. Accordingly, 
 when you line up what appears to be a perfect shot, with the crosshairs right on a bad guy's chest 
 or head, your shot will almost always miss. Even worse, your sniper will occasionally refuse to 
 squeeze the trigger, even when you have an obvious target. The same thing often happens with grenades, 
 in fact - your merc won't throw it when you tell him to.  

 Even one of the game's best features, the mercs' ability to drive vehicles, isn't as good as it 
 could have been. While it's undeniably cool to climb aboard a boat, a Hummer, or a snowmobile and 
 drive it around the 3D terrain, the steering controls are awkward and cumbersome, mostly on account 
 of the camera-angle problems. Why the game doesn't automatically place the camera above and directly 
 behind your vehicle is a total mystery. As it stands, you have to drive your vehicle with the arrow 
 keys while constantly updating the camera angle with the keypad.  

 Shadow Company isn't really a bad game. In fact, it is a very good game marred by some very bad 
 design decisions. As such, it has its highlights. Its 3D graphics are excellent, including wonderfully 
 detailed and realistic terrain, and its sound effects are similarly top-notch. Its music is also 
 good, though it sounds remarkably like the tunes from the original Jagged Alliance. Last but not 
 least, Shadow Company has a decent multiplayer component that allows up to eight players to take 
 on the game's nine missions over IPX or IP connections.  

 Shadow Company has plenty going for it and will likely find a warm place in the hearts of some strategy 
 gamers. But it is unlikely that the average real-time strategy player will have the patience to 
 deal with this game's significant shortcomings.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dkpine
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  The concept of this game is unlike anything i've played before or since. A real time stratergy 
 RPG. The closest thing i can thing of is commando's. but this is alot better in my view.
  
  If you can ignore the suspect programming and get involved in the characters of each of your chosen 
 mercs (total of 8 at a time, but about 30 to choose from if i remember correctly) then you truly 
 begin to enjoy this game. 
  
  each merc has their very own stats, specilities and bad areas. A sniper is obviously going to be 
 really good, accurate etc with a rifle or a sniper rifle, and able to take enemies out from as 
 far as the draw distance will take you, but put that rifle in the hands of a hand gun specilist, 
 than there was no point in spending all your hard earned dollar on the rifle, money that could 
 have gone towards med packs, or a merc with a longer throw for hand grenades.
  
  You can spend 2 minutes or 20 minutes plus choosing your mercs, arming them, reading through their 
 stats, thier history and life story, analysing the map, planning your attack. or you just choose 
 the cheapest mercs, cheapest weapons, ignore the map and go straight into the misson. you don't 
 HAVE to spend 20 minutes on the planning to be succesful, but it is nessicery if you want to come 
 back with all your mercs. if one of your men die in combat, next mission, you have to choose a 
 new merc to add to your roster, but as your mercs complete missions and new weapons, their stats 
 increase, so keeping them alive is vital.
  
  Startergy is the key during the missions, which is why, with a lack luster squad of mercs you can 
 complete most missions, towards the end of the game it gets very challenging tho!
  
  the bugs with the graphics make you go "awwww, thats crap" but take nothing away from the gameplay. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
