-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shadowbane
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/shadowbane/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 11, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.1, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 336 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Wolfpack Studios
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date:     Mar 25, 2003
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Shadowbane strips away the constant battle between players and the rules and simply lets you go 
 out, meet some people, fight a bunch of monsters, and gain some levels. 

  Shadowbane has two major features that set it apart from most massively multiplayer online role-playing 
 games. First, it doesn't use a first-person shooter control scheme like every other game of this 
 sort, but instead uses a mouse-driven interface that is reminiscent of Diablo's control scheme. 
 Secondly, it seems as if, above all else, the game's designers wanted you to have fun. The first 
 of these features may take some getting used to. The second doesn't. Despite the fact that Shadowbane 
 was originally billed as a complex game of large-scale siege warfare and political intrigue, once 
 you get past the game's interface and other issues, you'll find that Shadowbane strips away the 
 constant battle between players and the rules and simply lets you go out, meet some people, fight 
 a bunch of monsters, and gain some levels.  

          It's difficult to get used to Shadowbane's interface.     

  At first, you may not find 
 Shadowbane to be very accessible, especially since the game's interface can seem all but unintelligible 
 at first. Moving and attacking, which are performed with simple mouse clicks, are easy enough to 
 learn, but mastering the game's many interface windows is a nightmare, and after dozens of hours 
 of play you may find yourself still struggling to remember how to bring up the "group information" 
 window. Similarly, assigning hotkeys to powers and spells is neither straightforward nor intuitive, 
 which is a shame, considering that games like EverQuest helped set the standard for simple interfaces, 
 and most subsequent games in the genre have only improved upon this standard. Shadowbane can't 
 compare in this respect, and you'll find yourself constantly reaching for the game's manual.  

 
  Unfortunately, Shadowbane's interface problems are compounded by the game's tutorial, which is 
 at best useless and at worst a hindrance. There's no training ground to gradually acclimate yourself 
 to the world of Shadowbane. Instead, you get a bunch of pop-up windows that explain game mechanics 
 and interface issues that pertain to your current situation in unclear ways. These windows pop 
 up directly in the center of the screen, obscuring your view of whatever it is they're supposed 
 to tell you about. Basically, you'll need to learn the ins and outs of Shadowbane by trial and 
 error.  

  These initial stumbling blocks are unfortunate, because there's a lot to like about the game once 
 you learn how to play. From the first time you set out from your home city and begin fighting the 
 creatures of the world, you'll recognize that Shadowbane is substantially different from other 
 games in its genre. You'll undoubtedly fight on your own for bit, and gain a substantial amount 
 of experience. And then you'll join a group, and you'll gain an even more substantial amount of 
 experience. Shadowbane doesn't employ the typical experience penalty for being in a group. In fact, 
 you'll gain almost as much experience for killing monsters in a group as for killing monsters on 
 your own. This means that large groups are preferable, even though they can be chaotic messes in 
 the early levels, with everyone simply running around, killing things on their own. You could say 
 that Shadowbane does feature the so-called "leveling treadmill," in which you kill monsters, gain 
 experience and loot to buy better weapons and armor, and then use these items to kill even more 
 monsters. The difference in Shadowbane is that the developers seem to have set the treadmill on 
 "sprint."  

          Groups can help you gain experience quickly.     

  As you advance, it becomes more difficult to have these huge "group soloing" experiences. But that 
 doesn't affect the amount of experience you gain. Well-coordinated groups, though they can be rare, 
 can easily dispatch significantly higher-level monsters, granting you huge experiential and monetary 
 rewards. In fact, for a long while, you may be wondering just what you're going to do with all 
 the money you earn. Though training can become expensive as you advance, you'll still likely find 
 yourself with a constant surplus of gold -- though you'll quickly learn to keep all of it in the 
 bank. Shadowbane employs what is possibly the most punishing death system of any game in its genre. 
 When you die, you lose experience points, and all your unequipped items and gold stay at your grave. 
 EverQuest players will probably have flashbacks as they traipse across Shadowbane's huge landmass 
 just to recover their goods. Unfortunately, in Shadowbane,  anyone  can loot your grave, so carrying 
 your life savings around is an unwise decision.  

  As to what you'll do with all the gold you manage to hoard from the greedy hands of passersby, 
 the answer is simple: You save it for later. The fact that you level up so quickly in Shadowbane 
 also means that you can basically advance to the highest levels quickly. This means that, after 
 you've spent some time killing monsters and exploring the world, you must find other ways to occupy 
 yourself.     

  Like in Mythic's Dark Age of Camelot, the killing of monsters and gaining of levels in Shadowbane 
 serves as a primer for the player vs. player game. When you reach level 20, you can no longer use 
 a computer-controlled city as your character's home (where he or she will appear after he dies) . 
 You can become what the game calls an "errant" character, but your best bet is to join a player 
 guild. Guilds can build cities within the world, with forges, shops, houses, and guards. And other 
 guilds can raid these cities and attempt to burn them to the ground. While Dark Age of Camelot's 
 high-level game is basically a massive session of capture the flag, Shadowbane's is like a cross 
 between SimCity and capture the flag, which raises the stakes on the flag considerably. Note that 
 at the time of this review, no real sieges have even taken place. In other words, it's not clear 
 whether laying siege to a city will be as enjoyable and challenging as the game's advertising purports 
 it to be. It's also unclear what will happen to the world of Shadowbane once it becomes crowded. 
 Hopefully it won't suffer the same fate that Ultima Online has: turning into a large tract-housing 
 development.  

          You'll need to watch your back, even while fighting monsters.     

  Some may find Shadowbane's 
 player vs. player component a bit extreme. As if grave robbing weren't enough of an issue, thieves 
 can also sneak up on players in the field and take their goods without detection. There are safeguards 
 against such actions, such as items that allow you to see hiding characters, but you'll still find 
 yourself checking your pockets frequently.  

  You'll likely be frustrated by some of Shadowbane's other design decisions as well. For one, in 
 addition to health and magic power, you must conserve your character's stamina. While this isn't 
 as much of an issue for spellcasting classes, fighters can use up a great deal of stamina in the 
 field. Furthermore, you also burn through stamina very quickly when running, so you must sit and 
 rest fairly frequently when traversing the world, especially if you're wearing armor. It's very 
 annoying, and hopefully something that will be adjusted in upcoming patches.  

  There are other issues that will hopefully be addressed as well. At peak hours, the game is usually 
 nigh unplayable because of severe lag, and server crashes have occurred with some frequency since 
 the game's launch. Another problem is the chat interface, which allows characters to broadcast 
 information to a wide area. Anyone who has played a massively multiplayer game will know that other 
 players are both the genre's strength and its weakness. And listening to the worldwide ramblings 
 of your fellow players in Shadowbane definitely falls into the latter category.  

  One thing that certainly won't be fixed in a patch is the game's graphics. Frankly, Shadowbane's 
 visuals aren't its strong point. If you have a powerful system, you can crank the level of detail 
 up and make it look decent, but you run the risk of significant slowdown when you reach areas that 
 are graphically intensive.  

          It's hard to think about Shadowbane's interface and technical problems when you're too 
 busy fighting.     

  But again, you may end up forgiving Shadowbane's visual shortcomings once you get into the details. 
 Character creation and modification are interesting and varied. There are four basic character 
 templates: mage, fighter, healer, and rogue. When you reach level 10, you must choose a profession. 
 It is here that things get interesting, because Shadowbane allows for a variety of professions 
 for the different classes. And they are distinctly different -- a fighter who chooses to become a 
 knight will be very different character than one who chooses to be a barbarian. Likewise, a rogue 
 who becomes a scout will end up being very different than an assassin. And Shadowbane offers even 
 more variation, allowing characters to find powerful runes that will give them higher-level skills 
 called disciplines.  

  It's true that Shadowbane's design has a few questionable aspects, and that figuring out how to 
 use the game's interface can be a chore. There's also no denying that Shadowbane is going through 
 some growing pains, and that it has yet to prove whether the town sieges will be any fun. But there's 
 no denying that when you find a good group and you're fighting, chatting, and gaining levels, Shadowbane 
 is at least as good as EverQuest and Dark Age of Camelot. And though at first you may ask yourself 
 if you really need another game that plays, for the most part, like both of those games, you may 
 eventually be so busy fighting that you'll forget the question.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (22 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gamewize
Rating: 6
Date: May 13, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Shadowbane, one of the last "Hard Core PvP" games remaining. 
  
  Well, now it's totally free forever, all expansion packs included, all the races, areas, and classes 
 open to you. Now, this is a game that your going to have a love/hate relationship with.
  
  First off, the game looks Archaic, below a beta-class Playstation game, but this has been said 
 by everyone else, as has the sound. I'm going to focus on the game play here.
  
  The PvE: It contains a Surprisingly small grind, and it is over with much more quickly than other 
 games. You can hit the cap of 75 with a little effort in just a few days to two weeks, the only 
 thing that elongates this is how dangerous the world outside the safe zone cities and newbie area 
 is.
  
  The PvP: Right, this is where the real meat of the game is and is both it's greatest strength and 
 worst weakness. First off, the pvp is fairly thought out, with castle seiges and warfare well implemented 
 and providing, from what I've heard, a good time. But. . ., since the game uses an OPEN pvp system, 
 the lower level players are always in danger of being griefed, and, as of this writing, I myself 
 have been griefed about 8 times in the last 5 days. It will definitely turn off allot of new players, 
 and since you lose everything in your inventory, it means you have to bank everything but a few 
 potions, a Scroll of Recall which you MUST HAVE, or you have to run all the way back to a city. 
 I have only ever grouped once outside of the newbie zone, everyone else has tried to kill me. It 
 gets very annoying to be killed by a stealthed thief while I'm busy with two mobs. This also makes 
 "open" player cities dangerous, as there are people that just love to sit in the shadows and ambush 
 a player who is just trying to get something.
  
  Basically, if you can stand being griefed a number of times, and you are a cautious person, you 
 might find Shadowbane an enjoyable experience, for others, I would highly recommend just shelling 
 out the money for World of Warcraft, Everquest II, or, if your after pvp, Guild Wars, as all present 
 a markedly better experience than shadowbane.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brasstwister
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  What is Shadowbane? A simple question, but not so simple to answer. Shadowbane is many things to 
 many people. The game is officially classified as a Massively Multiplayer Online Roleplaying game 
 (MMORPG or MMO for short) , but there are some who would classify it as a real-time strategy game. 
 Which is it?
  
  Well, both actually. Shadowbane uses many elements from strategy games such as city building, sieges, 
 territory conquest, and tactical formations and weds them to a game system similar to other fantasy 
 MMORPGs. Players level and adventure in Shadowbane as they do in other MMOs, but Shadowbane offers 
 unique activities in the game world, adding reasons to continue play after the more conventional 
 RPG has been mastered.
  
  Shadowbane has expanded the concept of what an online persistent world RPG can be. Rather than 
 focusing on the story arc of the single character and taking the game no further, Shadowbane extends 
 the experience by creating a backdrop of political intrigue and warfare for players to become engrossed 
 in. Players can join together to form guilds, raise armies and conquer Kingdoms. Leaders marshal 
 their strength to build keeps, temples and fortifications. Armies battle their rivals to control 
 resource mines crucial to their kingdoms' growth. And when diplomacy fails, legions and siege engines 
 batter down the walls of cities, and the destinies of player nations are decided on virtual battlefields.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Theres not that many MMo's out there with I totally hate with a vengance, those are the ones which 
 cater to the hardest minority of hardcore PvP'ers only, those few select people who just love to 
 grief at every possible chance and since launch Shadowbane has been one of those games. 
  
  Since launch the ubisoft forums was alight with flames, threats and all in-between because of small 
 minded 'thugs' running around griefing and loot whoring from lesser geared/skilled players - sure 
 SB like most other PvP minded MMo's are about survival of the fittest but really doesn't give you 
 much satisfaction to gank newbies and steal there pointless gear, I guess Lineage II follows in 
 SBs footsteps with that one.
  
  Purely PvP based MMo's are just clearly a bad idea, always have been and always will be, I think 
 all the people "DEAD" in real life because of problems in game are proof enough of that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  + It's free.
  + The PvP is pretty good.
  - Horrible game interface, along with horrible server connections.
  - It's about as fun as listening 
 to someone else's grandmother tell stories.
  
  When I first got this game, I was thinking it was going to be like a massively huge world with 
 game play much like Diablo or other action RPGs. If anything, maybe a little like Everquest. Nope, 
 I was wrong. Everything you can think that could go wrong in a game, does go wrong in Shadowbane. 
 I don't even know what a Shadowbane is, but I certainly don't care to find out.
  
  The first thing you'll notice in-game is the horrible graphics, even for when it was released. 
 Everything is blotchy, generic, and feels much like a free MMO. The shadows don't even cast correctly, 
 giving only up to a character's shins for a shadow. It's pathetic. Moving from there, you'll be 
 drawn to the attention of it's horrible interface. Sure, you can move about everything on the interface, 
 but that doesn't mean it's any good. It's ugly, it's generic, and it's hopeless. Geez, could it 
 get worst? Yes. For now we look at the controls. They somehow managed to make doing something as 
 simple as fighting hard to control. You have to push C when you want to fight, but if you're doing 
 anything else, you have to be out of combat. This really shouldn't be an issue, since it's just 
 hitting the C button, but it just really gets annoying. One of the best features of the game, the 
 PvP, is even flawed in some areas. When in a group, you are allowed to attack your team mates. 
 I actually like that idea, but what happens when you combine that with lag and a horrible interface? 
 You end up thinking you're attacking something else, when in fact, you're attacking a teammate. 
 That's where the C button comes into a problem. When the game picks back up after lag and confusion, 
 you find yourself almost killing someone and everyone is ready to turn on you. Well, you're not 
 thinking about hitting C. You're now thinking about running the heck away. But then you have the 
 problem of your character throwing his weapon at people (somehow, your warrior is now a axe throwing 
 maniac) . It's really a confusing mess, much like it was written.
  
  The main issue with this game, aside from the complete boredom and extremely steep learning curve, 
 is the amount of lag you'll experience. During a group run, you'll find yourself running for a 
 while, only to be lagged back to a mile ago where you came from. Apparently, on the server, you 
 weren't going anywhere. That's not all! When fighting, you'll sometimes see that you're not taking 
 any damage off of the person you're attacking. Oh, that's because of lag. Then there's the death 
 lag. This is highly annoying. When you die, your body has to spawn back to the graveyard . I've 
 sat and wait for that to happen for 5 to 10 minutes at a time. Another fun glitch is when you're 
 in a group and you see everyone getting attacked (according to their health numbers flying about) , 
 but no one is near you. Oh, that's a really nifty lag-glitch in which you have to restart to fix. 
 Well, as you'd expect, when you hope back in the game, you'll notice you're now dead. Joy!
  
  There's so much to complain about in this game. Overall, if you want to have the most boring 
 time of your life, play this game for a few hours. You'll absolutely hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikael_uddenhed
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  A short review on Shadowbane.
  
  Shadowbane is a commercial MMO and therefor they should perform better then free MMO's so that's 
 what we'll compare it to.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Even though I didn't really like this game it's still a good game for those who like PVP. The problem 
 in Shadowbane is that most of the world is a free-for-all zone so you can get killed by anyone 
 anywhere and frankly people will kill you on sight if you're low on health.
  There should have been a pvp/nopvp setting for each character.
  But other then that the whole 
 concept behind the game is fantastic with sieges and massive combat.
  
  The graphics: 5
  Nothing very fancy but on the other hand it is a few years old.
  
  Sound: 5
  Nothing out 
 of the ordinary, not bad but not very good either.
  
  Difficulty: Easy
  Max level in a few days so the actual difficulty lies in the PVP, measuring yourself against other 
 players.
  
  Recommended for:
  PVP Gamers that don't mind being killed over and over again, loosing money and items in your backpack.
 
  
  Since the game has become free I recommend you try it out especially if your into PVP.
  
  Overall Score: 6.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  Well, the game is free. You don't get much better than free.
  The Player Vs. Player system is something unseen in MMORPGs. Instead of fighting in an arena, 
 someone can come beat the crap out of you in a field and steal your inventory. It makes you want 
 to be aware and think about the people you trust.
  When you decide to be a punk, you can go out and murder anyone and loot their bodies. It's pretty 
 fun when a kid trash talks and you just own him.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  The interface is really annoying to work around. It takes a good while to figure out how to set 
 everything up and where everything is.
  The graphics/sounds are very limited and for some reason, there's usually a good amount of lag 
 in the game. I have no idea what's up with that.
  It's hard to just jump into the game and expect which way to go first. You'll want to put some 
 time away from life and focus on how to play this game to start out.
  
  :Overall:
  One of the better MMORPGs out there, and although not completely pretentious, it's a lot different 
 from most others out there with it's unique PVP modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bogfred
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 1, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  I have to admit I only just started playing this when they made it free. And now that they're shutting 
 down Wolfpack Studios I'm worried they're going to terminate it. In my short game lifetime, I have 
 came to love playing this game. It was definately worth waiting 3 hours to download. The game lets 
 you just go out, team up with a group of players and go kill some stuff. Although I haven't got 
 far enough to live the city building aspect of the game, I am looking forward to doing so. The 
 idea of ruling over a nation, and hundreds of other players sounds awesome. So ubisoft, if your 
 reading this, don't shut this down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnOBX
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 7, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  I stopped playing SB about the time the Wrath Server started to die. Before that I played for over 
 a year and a half, so obviously I found the game enjoyable. However, I was lucky and managed to 
 get in with good guilds with GMs who gave a damn about their people. I even had a city on Vengence 
 server just before that server went belly up. I could see where a new player could easily become 
 frustrated trying to advance in the game but grow tired of the bad attitudes of many of the players 
 in the game.
  
  Shadowbane does not have stellar graphics or a challenging AI for PvE that some players enjoy. 
 (The graphics are very minimal) Leveling up is a grind and a half and not a lot of variety. Many 
 players use a macro to fight mobs if that gives you any idea of how easy it is. However, character 
 diversity and balance are very good and the PvP fights are outstanding. Getting good at PvP takes 
 a long time. Except for a few areas for new characters, most of the map is open combat, so you 
 always have to worry about getting ganked. Keeps you on your toes.
  
  Creating a good character is not hard with all the advise in the character creation forums, but 
 "winging it" can really cause you to screw up your toon. Learning to play your character effectively 
 is a challenge. Unfortunately, there is a prelevance of buffbots and support characters that make 
 it difficult (not impossible) to be successful with just one account. You can run two or more accounts 
 at the same time, and many players do, to give yourself all the advantages of healing, summoning, 
 buffing, macro-leveling etc. 
  
  Generally, I'd recommend Shadowbane but it's not a game for everyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKMachine
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 14, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  More of the same a really poor game with many many errors in it and many problems that they can 
 not fix or refuse to fix. Please don't waste your time playing this game as really messed up people 
 will just grief you and your game playing. Not Worth your time or effort to play it or even consider 
 it. A real work of Junk and piece of crap. If you take any time at all please invest it playing 
 a different game. Really if Wolf Pack Studios really cared about where this game was going, they 
 would have fixed their many many errors and a lot of exploits and other mistakes they have in that 
 game that they never fix or try to fix. I suggest that even downloading this game is a waste of 
 server time on this sites part to let other players find out how messed up this game is. They ( 
 the programmers) Really don't care much about what the player thinks and some guy that thinks he 
 is GOD in the game called Ashen is really taking this game to New LoWS in the Gaming industry. 
 They give away 4 weeks of free game play and think that because 1000000 people download it to play 
 for free it's some kind of great wonderful thing that really isn't anything but a bunch of free 
 loading people who don't like to pay to play is great! They think they got a giant player base 
 when really after 4 weeks of crappy game play they all sign off for good and never come back. How 
 much can I tell you about a messed up game... DON'T 
  Waste your TIME!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 24, 2004 12:59 am PT
Review:  With so many MMORPG's currently vying for gamers' attentions, it is all the more important to learn 
 from the mistakes of other developers' efforts, as well as their successes. Having a unique game 
 world is a must, and removing all the common frustrations found in MMORPG's so that the player 
 can just have fun is an absolute necessity. Unfortunately for Wolfpack Studios, Shadowbane's unique 
 offering of guild vs. guild combat is overshadowed by the fact that almost every aspect of it is 
 done better by other games in its genre.
  
  At very least, the game is as addicting as any other MMORPG on the market. As is the norm in most 
 games of this type, you start by creating a character, choosing from different races, physical 
 attributes, and statistic combinations, and venturing out into the world to kill monsters, earn 
 loot, and gain levels. Shadowbane certainly delivers the standard, addicting gameplay with which 
 any fan of these games is familiar. Grouping and killing is, of course, a lot of fun, and with 
 the right group, can be a very thrilling experience. Of course, it is a great experience in most 
 multiplayer RPG's, and Wolfpack has attempted to hone Shadowbane's gameplay even further by introducing 
 guild vs. guild combat. In this system, every player is tied to a city, and there are both player-controlled 
 and non-player-controlled cities. Cities are created by the purchase of a guild seed, a very expensive 
 item with which a player or guild can create a Tree of Life. This is where the city will be built, 
 and where any guild member will appear after death. After a city is built, it must, of course, 
 be defended, and city sieges are by far the best aspect of the game, bringing a lot of tense fighting 
 and manic clicking. 
  
  Unfortunately, its other poorly designed features overshadow Shadowbanes unique player vs. player 
 system. Much has been rightly made of the game's lack of production values. The graphics are bland, 
 with poor animation and undetailed textures. Most monster animations are lifted right from Everquest, 
 and the monsters themselves are generic fantasy fare, featuring snakes, spiders, and of course, 
 giant ants. One wouldn't imagine that the poor graphics would be terribly taxing to a high end 
 system, but turning up all the graphics options brought this reviewers system, a 2.4 Ghz P4, Radeon 
 9700 PRO, 512 MB RAM machine, to its knees; in order to navigate in interior spaces, with wall 
 torches casting shadows, I had to turn down my graphic options considerably. It also bears mentioning 
 to owners of Radeon 9700 cards, that at launch, it is necessary to roll back the Catalyst drivers 
 to version 3.0 in order to read menu text. With Shadowbane's long development cycle, this is an 
 inexcusable oversight. 
  
  Shadowbane's sound fares somewhat better, and features NPC's that actually greet your avatar, even 
 if the same basic sound clips are used. As in Shiny's underrated classic Sacrifice, you will chant 
 as you cast spells. Generally speaking, most sound effects are standard fare, with familiar noises 
 of grunts and slashes as you fight your way through a group of enemies. The music is sparse but 
 well done, creating a dark mood appropriate for the environment.
  
  While Shadowbane's gameplay may be generally fun, it feels as though Wolfpack threw in as many 
 glitches as possible to stand in its way. While some may criticize Shadowbane's point-and-click 
 interface, it is easy to use and familiar to fans of Neverwinter Nights. Unfortunately, the game's 
 default setting has pathfinding turned off, which means your avatar will stop dead in his tracks 
 if he meets an obstacle on the way to his destination. Pathfinding can be turned on, although you 
 will have to flip through the manual to find the command. This frustration makes navigating in 
 building interiors too difficult to be worthwhile, as you click on your destination, rotate the 
 camera, click on the next destination, rotate the camera, and so on. And while some may enjoy how 
 the screen bobs at certain camera angles as your avatar walks or runs, others may find themselves 
 seasick as they traverse long stretches of forest or paths. 
  
  Kill stealing is rampant in Shadowbane, as there are no looting restrictions. While this may seem 
 part-and-parcel of a game based on PvP combat, it is an irritating aspect for a new player, as 
 the game seems a natural home to griefers. Death is also just as unpleasant as in Everquest or 
 Asheron's Call, and requires you to go loot your own corpse, as you will only resurrect with the 
 items you were wearing at the time of death. This decision seems at odds with the whole concept 
 of being bonded to a city; as you resurrect in your home city, it is not wise to stray far from 
 it, since returning to your corpse if you had wandered too far may be a time-consuming frustration. 
 If Shadowbane's game world was as fascinating as Norrath, Dereth, or Rubi-Ka, there would be more 
 incentive to explore, but Aerynth is an unvaried, uninteresting land. Perhaps that was a purposeful 
 design decision meant to discourage hapless player from wandering too far from their guild's city. 
 
  
  Potential buyers should also note that it took thousands of buyers days just to set up their accounts, 
 as UbiSoft's servers were unable to handle a large number of account creations. The game is generally 
 stable, although there are periods of enormous lag in more populated areas, which is at odds with 
 guild sieges.
  
  All in all, Shadowbane can be as addicting and fun as the other games in its genre. However, its 
 poor graphics and generic sound effects, along with its bland world and large number of poor design 
 decisions, make this game a must-have only for fans of the guild vs. guild concept. For everyone 
 else, there are other, better games that are worthier of your time and money. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shnelle
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 3, 2004 6:35 am PT
Review:  I was introduced to SB by many friends and had great fun playing with them. Once we all moved on 
 I realized this is not a solo game. You need to play it with a good number of peeps.
  
  The character creation in the game is the most creative and specific I have ever seen in ANY RPG. 
 You truly can make or break a character with what you choose. You can also create two completely 
 different kinds of characters that are the same race and class. This is one of the two awesome 
 points that SB has.
  
  The other good point is Pvp. This game's pvp is incredible. It is completely a free-for-all. I 
 had never joined in with Pvp before this game in a MMOG. The only experience I had was on a Race 
 War Server in EQ. I got PKed once, lost something I had spent hours aquiring and quit. The pvp 
 in SB is really the only draw for the game.
  
  The graphics and sound suck so I'm not even going to talk about it. The city building is only a 
 support and conflict area for Pvp but it's nothing special.
  
  I really enjoyed my time in SB and if anyone was smart enough to take the good parts of this game, 
 slap some up to date graphics, a server that could handle lag smoothly and some new features they 
 would make such a bundle it wouldn't even be funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Branneth
Rating: 2.8
Date: Aug 13, 2003 9:45 pm PT
Review:  After having played this game for a few months, I can honestly say I'm tired of it. Just like a 
 lot of toerh games its luster fades with time. The game was unfinished when it shipped, and it's 
 still unfinished 5 months later. Save yourself the money. That coupled with the playerbase is what 
 makes this a truly unenjoyable experience. This game is everyone out for themselves. Unless you 
 have 9 other friends who are going to play with you from the beginning, levelling and actually 
 doing something in the world are neigh impossible. nearly 20% of the people who are playing at 
 any given moment are pking newbies, and being general greifers. This, I think, will be the downfall 
 of the mmorpg. I pay 40$ for a game, and let someone else ruin it for me. What the hell kind of 
 bargain is that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VurtHead
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 11, 2003 10:25 am PT
Review:  Yesterdays graphics and lag issues notwithstanding, Shadowbane can be a heck 
 of a lot of fun. I was intimidated by the notion of a pure PvP slash-fest, but the game has turned 
 out to be much more complex than that: The games political landscape is dynamic and varied, 
 the in-game lore is quite rich, and the in-game economy permits many different ways for players 
 to carve out a niche in Aerynth. You want to be a monster hunter? Develop a ferocious minotaur 
 barbarian and go crush monsters with your guildmates. Want to be a merchant? Pledge fealty to a 
 city and build a shop. Thievery more your style? Join a thieves guild and pluck the gold 
 from unsuspecting travelers. Rangers, crusaders, prelates, warlocks, furies, Amazons, bards, confessors: 
 The list goes on, but suffice it to say that theres no lack of variety in the characters 
 youll see roaming the countryside in the world of Shadowbane.
  
  In my opinion, its really the political landscape and the near-constant threat of PK-ing 
 that sets Shadowbane apart from some of the other MMORPGs out there. (I say near-constant 
 because theres a special little corner of the world for newbies to safely develop their 
 characters before venturing forth into the more dangerous realms) . For instance, the games 
 mechanics really encourage the forming of groups, be they hunting parties, guilds, cities or nations: 
 There are tremendous EXP and gold bonuses for groups and, while I didnt expect to really 
 like that very much, Ive been surprised at how exciting it is to pull together an impromptu 
 hunting party and tackle a vicious gang of constantly respawning bandits. Furthermore, Ive 
 found that by keeping the notion of group-play in mind during a character build, I can really develop 
 a specialist: You dont need to max every stat because if you want to be a healer, for example, 
 you dump all your training into your spells and basically ignore melee skills, relying on your 
 groups fighters to protect you.
  And its in the group-play aspect that the games political elements become really 
 important. Yes, a relative newbie whos out of the games Safeholds is easy prey for 
 a thief or a band of marauders, but if you choose your alliances wisely youll find yourself 
 protected by a guild of much more powerful characters. This is also what prevents the game from 
 degenerating into chaos: Theres no accountability for PK-ing as far as the games 
 rules are concerned (and no EXP either, incidentally) , but theres plenty of in-game accountability. 
 Steal from the wrong person, and you might find yourself and your entire guild on the receiving 
 end of a siege.
  
  So, having said all that, I guess my real point is that Shadowbane seems to me to 
 be a pretty close approximation of what a real gamer-run society would be like. There are forces 
 of law and order, and there are forces of chaos. There are gods and there are demons. You can plan 
 and develop a peaceful city of merchants who mean no harm to anyone, but when that army shows up 
 on your doorstep, youd better be prepared. Sounds like a harsh world, but I dig it.
  
  One final note: Theres been some discussion of the fact that the games developers 
 allowed beta-testers to bring their developed characters into the general-release servers. This 
 put me off at first, but I realized after a bit of playing that the existence of uber-powerful 
 players encourages the forming of factions right off the bat, without the necessity for NPC leaders. 
 That means that the people who govern your game world are actual humans, with leadership skills, 
 brains, charisma, and jealousies. Or not. Choose your allies wisely.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaelon
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 5, 2003 11:01 am PT
Review:  Shadowbane was believed to be the end-all, be-all of Massively Multiplayer role playing games, 
 capitalizing, according to its designers at Wolfpack Studios, on a truly dynamic world. Having 
 played the game for over 40 hours in the first week of June of 2003, I found that the attempts 
 to balance Player vs. Player with a level-based and skills-imbued character progression model inherent 
 in the Player vs. Environment, utterly render the game boring at best.
  
  It appears as if the game was designed in large part to the complaints of EverQuest's users, who 
 felt that they had to contribute far too much time to the game's never-ending multifold tiers of 
 timesinks, and who didn't have any lasting impact on the game world, aside from the bruised egos 
 and fierce competition that ensued. Yet, in Shadowbane, attempts to remedy these complaints resulted 
 in a sloppy final product that neither entertains nor inspires. Because Players complete over huge, 
 mostly-empty landscapes for monsters (since only PvE encounters grant experience) and their loot, 
 the resulting guilds and nations that players form dynamically end up being stagnant and locked 
 in a deceptive harmony of idle existence. In fact, Shadowbane's game masters recently admitted 
 that for the few months that the game has already been out, guilds seem no desire to enter into 
 competition with one another, because there are really no rewards for doing so. They plan on "spicing 
 things up" by creating artificial conflicts that pit guilds against one another. But is this why 
 you buy Shadowbane?
  
  Players begin the game in a village on the outskirts of one of the three major metropolitan regions 
 of the newbie island. At first glance, the worst features of the game come to light -- the graphics 
 are horrific. The game has been in development for years, and it certainly looks it - the graphics 
 engine is dated, the polygons are unrealistic and blocky, and even at the highest settings (which 
 some reviewers may argue add detail and depth) , you only receive higher quality textures. None 
 of the dynamic graphic effects of most graphics cards GeForce 3 and later are taken advantage of. 
 
  
  One change from most other MMORPGs is that leveling, in Shadowbane, happens dramatically fast. 
 Within the first three hours, I went to Level 10 at the same camp. But the combat experiences were 
 utterly boring and unengaging. The rewards were menial, and the lack of tangible benefits seemed 
 discouraging. 
  
  The game world itself lacks realistic depth. Though there is a Day/Night Cycle, there is no in-game 
 way, aside from looking at the sky, to take a guess at what time of day it may be. Furthermore, 
 there don't appear to be any weather patterns. Even if it were just the periodic rain-shower or 
 snow-storm, I think that Shadowbane's realism would have benefitted tremendously. The one exception 
 to this is the icy peaks of Vorringard at the Northeast Isle, where it snows all of the time, day 
 or night. An over-abundance of dynamism does not compensate for a lack of world realism.
  
  Music in the game is actually one of the finer points of entertainment in Shadowbane. While you 
 walk endlessly in empty, desolate wastelands or countrysides (since virtually all monsters spawn 
 - and respawn rather quickly, by the way - in clusters or camps that are few and infrequent) , you 
 are accompanied by a stirring and epic musical theme. Yet, there are only one or two environmental 
 sound effects that could have really brought out audio realism in Shadowbane, and so, you don't 
 really feel like you're in a forest, but when you get near a torch, you can certainly hear the 
 fire crackle. By contrast, it would have been nice to hear some of the wildlife as you travel - 
 because you have to travel a great deal.
  
  The game's progression model - wherein characters select a class at creation, and then a profession 
 at Level 10, and then continue to specialize with skill training and proficiencies - allows for 
 incredible complexity and uniqueness. It is assured that no two characters would ever be the same. 
 Herein was incredible potential that was impeded by the absence of a meaningful Trade Skills system 
 and further hindered by the lack of identifiable abilities or class trademarks that visually distinguish 
 players. The visual limitations of the game are extensive, since every member of the race looks 
 virtually identical, but adding visual markers for classes and professions might have remedied 
 this flaw.
  
  The core of the game appears to be its PvP element. Once players have attained their first rank, 
 they are encouraged to leave the newbie isle and seek membership in another guild. Yet all of the 
 guilds, even on the most crowded servers, appear to be only city-building experiments and protected 
 experience farming. Here is where the game reeks with utter boredom -- though you can level quickly 
 (and this is assuredly a benefit, because leveling is repetative and straining) to get to the end-game 
 content, there appears to be no meaningful end-game content. I reached a mid-level activity, and 
 basically saw all that there was to see in the game. You acquire vast quantities of gold, team 
 up with other rich players, and can build your own cities in your guild. Sieges, which are supposed 
 to be fun, happen only when the boredom threshhold forces players to decide to risk all that they 
 have. Because in a Siege, everything - the vast quantities of gold that you have collected since 
 the beginning, the lives and well-beings of all players under your control, and the destinies and 
 futures of the characters in the other guild or city that you decide to siege - are at stake. In 
 a blink of an eye, in one of the laggiest and link-death prone activities that the game can muster, 
 sheer randomness appears to take precedence in determining who can win these drawn out player vs. 
 player battles.
  
  Perhaps if they happened more frequently, the Sieges and PvP warfare would alone be enough reason 
 to play Shadowbane, given the many flaws of its visual and game realism system. Yet, they don't. 
 The guilds enjoy resting contently, are not challenged by new goals and higher expectations, and 
 instead just build large cities that, while on some scale visually impressive, do little to advance 
 characters and careers.
  
  In the end, Shadowbane suffers mostly from its concept design. With no end-game content (even if 
 this end-game content were highly accessible, unlike EverQuest's competitive, exclusive end-game 
 content) , Shadowbane is a race to acquire land and resources, and then gain control over leveling 
 areas - the only "real" commodity. But with so few players playing this game, land is extremely 
 abundant and there is no need to worry about impending competition, warfare or crisis. In the end, 
 you're stuck with nothing to do. And that's boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celsian
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 11, 2003 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Shadowbane is the latest raindrop in a vast sea of massively-multiplayer online RPGs. Developed 
 by Texas-based Wolfpack Studios, the game has spent quite a long time in coming. Touted by Wolfpack 
 to be a player-versus-player-centric experience (a shaky proposal in the MMORPG business) , Shadowbane 
 actually offers a wide variety of gameplay -- a welcome change amidst the cookie-cutter slew of EverQuest 
 clones on the market.
  
  At first glance, Shadowbane looks like most any other MMORPG on the market -- an enormous 3D world 
 populated by a large variety of player characters, NPCs, and monsters. Appearances can be deceiving, 
 however; while Shadowbane certainly cant deny its vaguely Ultima Online and EverQuest-inspired 
 roots, its gameplay approach is a unique mix of monster-killing, player conflict, and social intrigue.
 
  
  Before jumping into the world of Shadowbane, a player must first of course create a character. 
 A wide variety of races are available, including such standard fantasy fare as humans, dwarves, 
 and elves; theres a fair assortment of original races as well, including shades (half-undead) 
 and irekei (demonic-looking elf offshoots) . There are also three restricted races, which unlock 
 at the rate of one per month of paid game time -- a nice reward for consistent gameplay. After selecting 
 a race, youre given a choice of one of four basic classes: fighter, mage, healer, and rogue. These 
 starting classes are fairly basic; once you gain a few levels, youll be given the option to promote 
 to a much more well-defined profession.
  
  After selecting a race and class, youre allotted a number of training points with which to increase 
 your characters basic ability scores (strength, dexterity, constitution, intelligence, and spirit) 
 or purchase runestones. Runestones give characters special abilities, such as faster movement speed 
 or the power to see invisible creatures. Extra training points are awarded as you gain levels; 
 these are used to raise your ability scores and improve your characters skills.
  
  Once character generation is finished, you are placed on a beginners island; this island, which 
 is designed to teach new players the ropes, is populated with low-level monsters and a liberal 
 assortment of villages. The first few levels of a characters existence are primarily composed 
 of hanging around spawn points and killing monsters; to this end, it is in a characters best interests 
 to group with other players and form hunting parties. Finding fellow players to group up with is 
 as easy as sending a message across Shadowbanes flexible chat interface, which includes a number 
 of channels to facilitate a variety of global and private communication.
  
  Your character improves in level as you gain experience; eventually, you will be given the option 
 of promoting to an advanced class. These advanced professions are significantly more in-depth than 
 the four basic classes -- players may elect to become thieves, warriors, druids, assassins, bards, 
 scouts, rangers, and more. All told, 18 classes are available, with 6-7 selectable by each of the 
 basic classes. Players may further customize their characters through the use of disciplines, which 
 grant even more specific sets of skills -- as long as youre willing to spend your hard-earned training 
 points on them.
  
  Combat is as easy as drawing a weapon and double-clicking on a target. Various factors, such as 
 a characters weapon skill and defense, factor into how fights turn out; as your combat skills 
 improve, your character also gains access to several nifty weapon powers (or spells, in the case 
 of magic-users) for some added punch. Fallen enemies yield gold, items, and of course, experience 
 points. Death is usually a minor setback, usually facilitating a quick corpse run amidst the hope 
 that no vindictive players have wandered by to clean you out. Fortunately, equipped items stay 
 with you when you die -- but any gold or extra items youre carrying are fair game.
  
  As noted earlier, player-versus-player combat is a major theme in Shadowbane. In addition to the 
 possibility of having a fallen corpse looted by other players, characters are free to attack one 
 another at whim; once the beginners island is left behind, anyone is fair game. Thieves are free 
 to steal from unwary players as well, so youll have to keep on your toes. Fortunately, players 
 are able -- if not encouraged -- to form guilds, both for safety and friendship.
  
  If that werent enough, several guilds can get together and build entire cities. Players can purchase 
 real estate, elect city officials, make laws, and hire guards -- all in an effort to build a flourishing 
 empire. True to its conflict-oriented roots, Shadowbane allows for large-scale city-to-city combat; 
 cities can wage war upon one another, laying siege and engaging in massive group skirmishes.
  
  Shadowbanes interface takes a bit of getting used to. Movement is not accomplished via the 
 arrow keys, as in traditional MMORPGs; instead, your character moves about via mouse clicks on 
 either the main screen or a small mini-map window. Actions, such as talking to shopkeepers or drawing 
 a weapon, are facilitated by various keyboard hotkeys. The default view is an over-the-shoulder 
 third-person perspective, though you are able to zoom and swivel the games camera with almost 
 total freedom. A few hours of tinkering should get you accustomed to the interface, but those first 
 few play sessions are bound to be at least a tad confusing.
  
  Shadowbanes graphics are fairly dated. Having been a work in progress for several years, Shadowbanes 
 graphical engine isnt extremely impressive -- it looks like a game that should have come out a couple 
 years ago. Though the character models are large and fairly detailed, much of the games environments 
 are very bland; after a while, most places just end up looking the same. There are plenty of clipping 
 issues as well. The dated aesthetics can be improved by tweaking the graphical settings, though 
 the game retains its somewhat shoddy visuals no matter what the case is. At the time of this writing, 
 there are a slew of notable driver problems, particularly with ATI video cards.
  
  The music in Shadowbane is comparable to most any game of its type -- fairly good, though it gets 
 repetitive fast. Most players will likely find themselves shutting off the games background music 
 after a few plays sessions. The sound effects are nothing new; players, monsters, and NPCs come 
 fitted with an assortment of grunts, yelps, and annoying greetings. Most of these are likely to 
 cause eventual irritation, though sound effects are often a crucial way to gauge the situation.
 
  
  The Shadowbane clients performance is a mixed bag. The game runs nice and smoothly most of the 
 time, with only the occasional lag bubble. Populated or densely-foliated areas of the map can cause 
 extreme amounts of latency as new textures are loaded; it isnt uncommon to come out of a lag spike 
 only to realize youre suddenly at half health thanks to the monster that just appeared right next 
 to you. Thankfully, Wolfpack seems to be steadily improving the performance problems; the retail 
 version of Shadowbane is leaps and bounds ahead of the beta test client.
  
  Shadowbane isnt a game for everyone; its mainly geared toward gamers who have grown weary of 
 the run-of-the-mill monster-killing MMORPG fare. The city warfare aspect is certainly a unique 
 approach, as is the fairly elaborate character development system. The graphical engine is a bit 
 archaic, and the game client certainly has a few glaring problems that need to be addressed. Despite 
 these issues, one must certainly admire Wolfpack for weathering the numerous production hurdles 
 associated with Shadowbanes development. MMORPGs are a cutthroat business, with only a handful 
 of true successes and an exponential sum of dismal failures. Which category Shadowbane falls under 
 remains to be seen, but if Wolfpack plays their cards right (and judging from the loyal cult following 
 theyve garnered, theyre off to a good start) , they could have a real winner on their hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Final Form
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 24, 2003 11:15 am PT
Review:  Never has the sayings "nice guys finish last" been more true than in Shadowbane. You may start 
 out trying to be a niceguy, but eventually you realize only the evil and treacherous will succeed 
 in this world. This game will make you hate humanity. The entire game seems to have been crafted 
 to promote hostility, killing and stealing -- a theive's and assasine's paradise, but not much 
 fun for the noble palidan. 
  
  Think I'm exagerating? Here's an example: My brother and I both started playing this game at the 
 same time, he played a ruthless theif, I played a noble crusader. He's now level 48 with almost 
 two million gold, me, I'm level 29 with just twenty thousand gold to my name. Nice guys really 
 do finish last.
  
  All throughout the game the developer's seem to have done everything they can to promote anger 
 and bitterness in the hopes that it will eventually lead to more player killing, which the entire 
 game is built around. (Which it really depends on since there isn't anything else to do. No quests. 
 Nothing to explore. Just random acts of violence against other players.)
  
  First, there's the looting system. When your party kills something the first one to loot the corpse 
 gets the spoils. At first, you may try to be fair about it, but eventually you'll find that no 
 one else is, and a first come first serve mentality quickly takes over. This really leaves the 
 spellcasters (who are always in back, furthest from the corpses) with the short end of the stick. 
 Of course this all usually leads to a lot of bickering, arguing and the occasionaly killing. 
 
  
  Second, there's the fact that you are allowed to attack your own party members. All it takes is 
 a simple double-click to attack something, and looting corpses is also done with the same double 
 click. Combine that with the lack of an auto-split feature, where you have people racing to loot 
 corpses, and you have a recipe for disaster. 
  
  Then, there's the fact that when you die, everything you're carrying that's not equiped is dropped 
 on the ground for any passerby or party member to take. This of course leeds to a lot more bickering, 
 arguing, and killing.
  
  Next there's the rampant theiving problem. Theives are completely invisible, and can run around 
 stealing and backstabbing without fear. There's only one class -- the scout -- that can see theives, 
 and they can't even do it all the time, they have to be using there scouting skill, which only 
 lasts for a short time, so theives can pretty much run around killing and stealing from whoever 
 they want with complete impunity. 
  
  I could go on and on. Everything in this game seems to have been designed to make people hate each 
 other. Basing a MMORPG entirely around PKing seems to be a really bad idea to me, but then I've 
 never really enjoyed PKing. Others may have diffrent feelings. One thing that I think everyone 
 will agree on though, is that Shadowbane is butt ugly -- we're talking circa 1998 graphics here. 
 Shadowbane's sole redeeming value for me was it's deep character building system -- which is actually 
 the best I've yet seen in any MMORPG -- but it just wasn't enough to make me forgive all it's countless 
 faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foopy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 17, 2003 12:56 pm PT
Review:  It's difficult to judge a game like this because so much of it is dependent on the player community -- much 
 moreso than a game like Everquest. This is because, at its core, Shadowbane allows the player community 
 to shape the game world to a far greater extent than any other massively multiplayer role-playing 
 game I've ever played or read about.
  
  In short, I believe that Gamespots review was using the wrong lens to look at the game: it was 
 judging it as a player-versus-environment (PvE) game instead of a player-versus-player (PvP) 
 game, which is what it really is; these two kinds of games are actually very different and the 
 strengths of one can be the weaknesses of the other.
  
  In Everquest -- the very model of a PvE game -- fighting computer-controlled monsters and gaining levels 
 was by far the main focus of the game. A handful of other players -- the friends you adventured with -- certainly 
 added a great deal to the fun factor, but the community as a whole didn't matter as much because 
 they didn't have much power to alter the game's history, economy, or politics -- in short, what makes 
 a persistent multiplayer world really interesting in the long run. For me, the major flaw in this 
 PvE model is that it gets very boring very fast. Computer AI can only be so good, and after a while 
 I get tired of wandering around, raising my level and stats, getting new weapons, mechanically 
 killing really stupid monsters over a period of several hours, even if I'm doing it all in good 
 company. Shadowbane's designers realized this, so they decided to make a game that made players 
 the masters of their world, allowing them to build their own cities, guilds, companies, religious 
 organizations, or nations, form alliances, declare vendettas, start coups -- in short, they wanted 
 to give players the power to shape the game's environment. As a result, I believe that Shadowbane 
 is so dependent on the creativity and participation of its player community that its world is kind 
 of like a "blank slate" that the players write on.
  
  This has both good and bad effects. For instance, one reviewer could play on a Shadowbane server 
 with an immature player community, and write a (justifiably) horrible review of the game, while 
 another reviewer could play on a server with an excellent player community and a burgeoning political 
 scene, and write an excellent review of the game.
  
  Since Gamespot's review was written when all of Shadowbane's servers were still nascent, there 
 was no political structure to speak of. For a mature and interesting world to develop, a lot of 
 relatively mundane stuff has to happen first.
  
  For one thing, players first have to go through a "leveling treadmill". This is a somewhat controversial 
 part of the game that's like any other PvE MMORPG stripped down to its bare essentials: get some 
 friends, find an enemy, kill it, gain cash, gain levels, get new powers and equipment, repeat. 
 Because Shadowbane's designers were so focused on PvP mechanics, they made the PvE element so barebones 
 as to allow players to gain levels as quickly as possible so that they could easily "max out" their 
 character and then get into the political scene, at which point their player is mature and can 
 compete with other "maxed out" characters. The irritating thing about this is that because the 
 PvE combat is so cut-and-dry, it makes it more boring than in most other MMORPGs. Fortunately, 
 at least this leveling treadmill is turned on "high speed", so you still get through it far faster 
 than any other MMORPG, but it still takes at least a good week of full-time playing to accomplish 
 this, which is horrible for the casual gamer. Fortunately, guilds can help greatly speed this process 
 in a variety of ways, so a mature political scene also makes this treadmill move even faster.
 
  
  After going through the treadmill, extremely dedicated players can start guilds and build and maintain 
 cities, which costs a great deal of money, manpower, and (most unfortunately) time commitment. 
 To get the money, guild members "harvest gold": this is very much like the Shadowbane equivalent 
 of harvesting resources in a real-time-strategy game, only instead of cutting down trees or mining 
 ore, you're killing monsters and taking the gold they drop. Unfortunately, this can be pretty boring, 
 but at least it can be combined with the leveling treadmill so that incoming guild members can 
 harvest gold while gaining levels.
  
  From what I've seen, most servers are still in this early phase: many characters are still leveling 
 up to the point that they're "maxed out", and most guilds are still fortifying their positions 
 and harvesting gold like crazy to create buildings and train merchants in their cities. Once this 
 happens, large scale inter-national relations can start taking place. Shadowbanes innovative hierarchical 
 guild system is very simple, yet extremely flexible: it just means that one guild can be the parent 
 of another guild, and the highest-level guild in a heirarchy is a nation. This simple concept 
 provides for a huge variety of political structures. With the maturation of a political scene, 
 guild cities can become the vassals of nations, a nation can start colonies in far-off lands, a 
 religious organization can build cathedrals in cities across the world, companies can be incorporated, 
 alliances formed, wars started, cities besieged, and more. Its all up to the creativity of the 
 player community. Theres even a ton of background lore available for the game -- its far more unique 
 and provocative than the generic Greek/Norse polytheism of most fantasy worlds like Everquests -- but 
 its up to the players to take advantage of it and build their characters and guilds off it, if 
 they so choose.
  
  Put simply, Shadowbane is not a PvE game, but it looks like one at the time of this writing because 
 nations are still forming, so most people are fighting monsters -- either to gain levels or harvest 
 gold for their guild -- instead of other players. And because Gamespot reviewed Shadowbane as a PvE 
 game, many of the flaws they pointed out about it are actually its strengths -- the issue of stamina 
 points and player death, to name two. And, above all, the feature of Shadowbane that the review 
 touted the most -- its mundane PvE combat -- is actually one of the games biggest flaws.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jongar
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 16, 2003 10:27 am PT
Review:  I WAS A BETA FOR THIS PIECE OF GARBAGE,,,,, WHAT A WASTE OF TIME THAT WAS. THIS GAME PUT THE CAPITOL 
 "L" IN LAG, EVEN WITH A 1.5 ADSL LINE WASNT ENOUGH TO COMPENSATE WITH SHADOWBANE. IT GOT SO BAD 
 AT TIMES I THOUGHT I WAS PLAYING TRESPASSER. THE GRAPHICS ARE SOOOOOOOO OLD IT HAS GREY HAIR. I 
 THOUGHT IT WOULD GET BETTER WITH TIME BUT I WAS WRONG. AS IT GOT CLOSER TO RELEASE DATE IT DIDNT 
 IMPROVE ONE BIT. LEVELING UP MEANT WACKING AT SNAKES AND ANTS UNTIL THE COWS CAME HOME. THE CLAN 
 IDEA I THOUGHT WAS COOL... UNTIL I COULDNT FIND A SOUL THAT WANTED TO GO INTO CO-OP.... THEY ALL 
 JUST WANTED TO WACK SNAKES AND ANTS. SAVE YOUR MONEY AND BUY ANYTHING BUT SHADOWBANE ( EVEN DAIKATANA 
 IS BETTER THAN THIS ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griminald
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 15, 2003 12:44 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a Player-vs-Player game with a political twist that gives players the freedom 
 to set the rules, then Shadowbane is the game you've been looking for.
  
  A game over five years in the making, Shadowbane's premise has been made clear: Player-vs-Player 
 fighting and city sieging are at its core. And while the game has a couple of problems that are 
 currently keeping it from being perfect, the game generally very well addresses the idea of developing 
 your character and keeping things fun.
  
  There are ten Races in Shadowbane, ranging from your common Human to Elves, Dwarves and even playable 
 Minotaurs. There are also 18 Professions to be able to promote to once you reach level ten, your 
 exact choices depending on whether you started your first ten levels as a Rogue, Healer, Mage or 
 Fighter. On top of this are 26 "Disciplines", which enable your character to learn more specialized 
 spells. Discipline availablility is limited by Profession and Race, and each character can select 
 up to three for their character. This creates a daunting number of possibilities for character 
 development. For information on each, check out Shadowbane's website.
  
  The interface takes some getting used to in the game. To its credit it's highly customizable, so 
 you can configure your interface as you see fit. Changing the options requires you Control-Click 
 on the chat window you wish to modify. You can set the font sizes, colors and types in the window, 
 and what sort of chatter you want on each one. In this way, if a particular chat channel is getting 
 annoying, or you want to separate one channel of chat from the others for easy recognition, you 
 can set it by control-clicking on the window and following the prompts. Players can also make their 
 own skins for the interface and import them into the game, although there are none freely distributed 
 yet.
  
  On the fighting side of the game, casting classes have your typical mana resource to keep track 
 of for when their Powers are casted. Melee characters in comparison have "weapon powers" that are 
 very similar to the weapon styles you may recognize from Dark Age of Camelot. These are swings 
 that cost the melee character extra stamina to execute, but do increased damage as well as some 
 side effects, such as one weapon power slowing an enemy's attack speed for a few seconds, one slowing 
 their run speed, one stunning them, one making them more vulnerable to certain types of damage, 
 among other things. There are levels in Shadowbane, but the "treadmill" of past MMOGs is shortened 
 considerably; a "casual" gamer can attain a competitive level for combat in a matter of weeks instead 
 of months. 
  
  Profession balance in Shadowbane is surprisingly well-done for being so early in the game's release. 
 However, do not think that every class can fight every class one-on-one. As Shadowbane is a group-oriented 
 fighting game, each of their Professions is more importantly designed according for what they bring 
 to that group. For instance, while Priests aid melee classes by healing them, "buffing" them (casting 
 temporary character enhacements) and stunning enemies, they can rarely do much damage and must 
 rely on their groupmates to defeat what they're after. Confessors, while being able to both heal 
 others and deal damage with offensive spells, can not heal as well as a Priest and cannot do more 
 magical damage than a Wizard. Wizards can deal out a great deal of damage, but are frail and cannot 
 take many hits before dying. Thieves can stealth invisible and steal from characters, but can be 
 spotted and revealed to the world by Scouts. You will find that there is no "best" Profession, 
 but simply Professions with different playstyles that are best for different people.
  
  Graphically, Shadowbane is nothing to write home about. Through its five years of development, 
 Wolfpack realized that during city sieging and large-scale player-vs-player engagements, there 
 are a lot of characters and a lot of items on-screen at once. With this much information to process, 
 a grand graphical engine would spell immense slowdowns every time enemies met, and so steps had 
 to be taken to make Shadowbane look beautiful while making sure it wasn't too elaborate to keep 
 the on-screen lag down. The animations in the game are very fluid however, easily topping Dark 
 Age of Camelot's character animations in running and especially in fighting.
  
  Your character begins on a "newbie", non-PvP oriented island in which you can safely get used to 
 the game's interface and controls. After Level 10, you can use any of the starting village's runemasters 
 to repledge to the main PvP land to engage in higher-level activity, or you can choose to remain 
 in the non-PvP land until Level 20, when you are forcibly removed. After this, you can either join 
 one of three NPC-controlled mainland cities until level 35, or join a player-run guild, the latter 
 of which is usually your most "fun" option. 
  
  Player-run guilds are able to build their own cities with a "Tree of Life" seed. This Tree gives 
 protection to up to ten buildings around it so that any raiders you may run into cannot simply 
 run in and destroy them. Using Builders and Stewards (Two different NPCs) , contracts can be purchased 
 for merchants and deeds for workshops and these placed within the guild's city limits. Among these 
 are Barracks which train city guards. These guards can be assigned to kill a specific individual, 
 a guild, or an entire nation on sight, which is necessary for defending yourselves against hostile 
 players and guilds. The guild itself is in charge of managing both the finances and the protection 
 for their cities.
  
  The player-vs-player combat system can be a little overwhelming however for people that are used 
 to the way Everquest and much of Dark Age of Camelot plays. In Shadowbane, outside of the NPC-controlled 
 cities, anyone may attack you, and you may attack anyone freely. This also holds true in Guild-run 
 cities. Your protection against this is supplied by your guild leadership, which must take political 
 steps to help make sure their members are safe from other guilds that they want no trouble with. 
 Or, through your guild's swift and harsh reaction to any enemies of yours, sending a message not 
 to mess with you. Death can be fairly harsh in Shadowbane as well, as your equipment takes damage 
 and can break when you are killed. Fortunately, your character doesn't lose experience if you're 
 killed in a PvP fight, but any unequipped items stay on your corpse and can be looted by anyone. 
 Obviously though, if you are a part of a group that is attacking an enemy, you will have nothing 
 overly important in your inventory anyway.
  
  Unfortunately, Shadowbane has suffered from a couple of problems that have held it back. By far 
 though, the most crucial are lag and client compatibility issues, especially the former. The release 
 for Shadowbane went surprisingly smooth until the servers began getting more populated, after which 
 some problems arose with in-game server-side lag and crashing. Wolfpack has been making sound attempts 
 to fix these problems however. There are also some compatibility problems with the client for some 
 users, particularly those using Windows 98 Second Edition and problems with those using Radeon 
 video cards. My personal system uses a Radeon 9700 pro, and although I had graphic glitches when 
 I first started the game up, Wolfpack supplies a downloadable configuration utility that solved 
 my problems. Be sure to check out Shadowbane's public forums for any possible compatibility problems 
 with your system. 
  
  Despite this though, Shadowbane has succeeded in creating a highly customizable game tailored not 
 around the players' ability to work with rules, but the ability of player guilds to set these rules 
 and play to them themselves. There is enough capacity for player accountability among a guild to 
 offset most, if not all possible types of "griefing" in the game.
  
  This is finally the game that guilds looking for player-vs-player action have been looking for. 
 If you want a game where your guild as an entity can mean more than a name, you've found it here.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ulrick28
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 14, 2003 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Shadowbane has a few strong points and a few weak points. The weak point everyone focuses on is 
 the graphics. Yes, they aren't up the likes of Asheron's Call 2 but they are better than the original 
 Everquest. The spell effects can look very good and the amount of detail on armor and weapons is 
 significant. Another thing constantly overlooked in reviews of shadowbane's graphics is the ambience. 
 This game has tons of ambience. Everything from rolling fog in the bogs to wind swept sand in the 
 desert. This immensely adds to the feel of the game.
  
  The level of advancement is refreshing. It's very easy to find a group and the classes are incredibly 
 varied. You can also tell a lot of thought was put into each class's usefulness. They also put 
 a lot of thought into the annoying 'busy work' of other games. Now you can go out and have fun 
 without having to build 100 arrows before you can use your bow. 
  
  You can also build cities. Different cities will have different looks depending on the government 
 type involved and favored classes. The Mage guild hall is a mage tower, the priest guild hall is 
 a church. Apparently there are 10 different 'looks' and governments that I have located. There 
 might be more.
  
  Disciplines are also a nice addition. This will let you round out your character. I have run across 
 a few werebears and wererats. Some seem more popular than others but then the game is but a few 
 weeks old.
  
  The PVP aspects seem well thought out considering I never thought I would like a game with pvp 
 as a focal point. While adventuring my group has come across a few thieves. Sometimes they are 
 successful and sometimes they aren't. If you have a scout in your group the thief has a much harder 
 time. This adds a definite new addition to gameplay when forming adventuring parties. It also doesn't 
 seem to suffer from the mass of PK's that Ultima Online had in it's early release.
  
  Overall, the game is a little rough around the edges but they are being smoothed out. It doesn't 
 have the graphics of Asheron's Call 2 but it has a lot more diversity in gameplay. It doesn't have 
 the crafting and in game story/questing depth as Everquest but it's much faster paced and has city 
 building.
  
  Mix in the city building of Ultima Online. Add the character generation, item randomization, and 
 some of the character generation/advancement of Diablo 2. Add in the class variety of Dark Age 
 of Camelot. Then add in a healthy mix of well thought out pvp. The result is a game that isn't 
 the top of it's class technically but is a whole lot of fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KarmaMule
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2003 3:32 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Shadowbane I thought the idea sounded fairly uninteresting, and I only got 
 it because my interest in AC2 had worn out, Star Wars Galaxies was delayed, and I wanted something 
 to keep me occupied until it was released. I? ve been pleasantly surprised at how much I? ve enjoyed 
 playing this game since then.
  
  The makers of SB have stripped away much of what most people expect in modern MMPORPGs: no quests, 
 NPCs serving as vendors only, no dungeons, no crafting and it has an absolute minimum of character 
 appearance variations. What they HAVE concentrated on is a simple but effective way to build and 
 design your own cities, a rich character class-based development system that seems deceptively 
 simple at first, and a well-thought out set of rules to support a PvP environment.
  
  While the Gamespot review is correct in saying the tutorial is minimal, I found the interface itself 
 easy-to-use and very customizable. It is a non-standard interface, ignoring lots of typical conventions, 
 but once you get used to a few of its odder quirks, it is quite efficient and, in its own way, 
 well thought out.
  
  The gameplay itself starts out as a very typical level-treadmill, but the levels come fast and 
 furious and, after the first 10 levels, you have lots of choices and options for shaping your character 
 into your own creation. It? s usually easy to find a group to adventure with, and after level 20 
 when you? re off ?newbie island? and onto one of the main continents, you? ll most likely be joining 
 a guild and have a ready-made supply of friends to whack monsters with. Later on there? s also enough 
 variety in armor, weapons, etc. that your character can finally look somewhat unique.
  
  Being open to thieving and the potential to attack or be attacked by other groups who are also 
 out fighting monsters adds enough spice to keep the leveling interesting while you continue running 
 on that treadmill.
  
  All MMPORPGs can sink or soar depending on whether or not you successfully find a group of people 
 you can enjoy the company of on a regular basis, and this is especially true for Shadowbane.
  
  Because they? ve stripped the game to the essentials of PvP, the quality of both your friends 
 and enemies will greatly influence the fun you have with this game. The classes are well-designed 
 so they all play a vital role in later levels, and solo-ing after the first 10 or so levels is 
 very difficult, making for a game that absolutely requires you socialize a great deal.
  
  Ultimately, if you? re looking for thrills from the game itself, such as great graphics, sound, 
 or a dynamic and interesting environment, then you? ll be disappointed. But, if you? re fortunate 
 enough to find some good people, you? ll have lots of fun in Shadowbane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Furey
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2003 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I played Ultima Online and EverQuest - Shadowbane reminds me more of Ultima Online (when Ultima 
 used to be a free-for-all) . I think the review really overlooks the fact that once past level 20 
 - anything goes! There is no "pk-switch" - everyone who plays will be at risk to be killed or stolen 
 from. I like this, it adds a element of fear/excitement when travelling outside a city center. 
 Graphics & sound aren't that impressive I think the fun-tilt of the game is that its not just a 
 kill-monsters-get-gold drivel - you are basically playing a survival of the fittest RPG and have 
 to be creative in advancing. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
