-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shadow Force: Razor Unit
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/shadowforcerazorunit/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  8, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.6
Critic Score: 4.6, 5.8 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 51 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: FUN Labs
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Feb 24, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You mainly run around 10 bland variations of a single desert level while shooting at the same two 
 enemies. 

  Activision Value's new shooter, Shadow Force: Razor Unit, isn't even mentioned on the official 
 Activision Value Web site. That's an implicit review you should probably trust, because, even judged 
 against the somewhat threadbare standards of budget publishing, Shadow Force isn't real good.  

  Here's the online manual's description of the game:   

  "You are a member of the Air Force Special Operations Group. One of the elite Combat Controllers, 
 responsible with everything from directing air strikes to controlling air traffic, you are ready 
 to be sent in the Middle East. Trouble has arisen again over there, and you will support a team 
 of Army Rangers."           All the levels in Shadow Force are simple and boring.    

  It's a shame that the game part of the game never manages to be as entertaining as those three 
 sentences. And in case you're wondering, you don't actually get to fight the arisen trouble with 
 any shadowy air traffic controlling. You mainly run around 10 bland variations of a single desert 
 level while shooting at the same two enemies.   

  Shadow Force was developed by Fun Labs, the Romanian software house responsible for the much better 
 budget tactical shooter Secret Service. Although they share the same engine, Shadow Force isn't 
 nearly as ambitious as Secret Service, nor does it feature that game's variety of environments. 
 In fact, virtually every one of Shadow Force's environments and enemies appears to be constructed 
 out of bits and pieces left over from Secret Service's first mission, which took place in a Middle 
 Eastern city.   

  Secret Service's physics engine was one of its best parts, and it ends up being Shadow Force's 
 only notable feature. The engine permits bodies to realistically interact with their surroundings. 
 For instance, a fallen enemy might hang over a precipice for a few seconds before the weight of 
 his body causes him to slide over the edge and tumble head over heels to the ground, the body's 
 spin potentially getting intensified by an intervening clothesline. Bullets penetrate flimsy building 
 materials. Objects in the world, such as barrels and furniture, are also governed by physics and 
 tip over or break appropriately according to the amount of force being applied to them. Like most 
 games that try to implement "real world" physics, nothing feels exactly solid. Everything's a little 
 too lightweight, as if you're infiltrating the Middle Eastern section of the Moon. But it's as 
 successful as any attempt made in a shooter, and it leads to some cool, unscripted moments.   

 
  Other than that, there isn't much to recommend about Shadow Force. It often seems like more of 
 a rough draft of a game than a finished product. For example, halfway through one level, you have 
 to escort an American soldier to the exit of one of the game's interchangeable environments. To 
 get him to follow you, you have to put your aiming reticle over him and press the use key. Unfortunately, 
 this command isn't mentioned anywhere in the manual, the readme file, the official Web site, the 
 online help, or the training mission, though the training mission does instruct you in the use 
 of a bunch of weapons that never really appear in the single-player campaign. This oversight is 
 compounded by the fact that when you finally do press the use button on him, you're given absolutely 
 no audio or visual cue that you just did something important. Pressing use again causes him to 
 silently accept the unspoken command to stop following you, which can lead to more unpleasant confusion. 
 And once he is following you, he doesn't do a very good job of it and often gets stuck in things 
 like unobstructed, wide-open doorways. The enemies' artificial intelligence isn't a whole lot better -- their 
 one big trick is to run back and forth really fast, making them much harder to spray with bullets. 
   

  There are no memorable moments in Shadow Force. Even when something does seem about to happen, 
 nothing happens. In one level, after fighting your way to a terrorist leader, you're told to hold 
 your position and guard the prisoner until the Rangers arrive. Instead of actually "holding your 
 position" in the not unreasonably expected "defending your position against attackers" sense, you 
 honest to God just stand there with the guy for a few minutes until the level finally ends. It's 
 a funny story, but not a terrific gameplay experience.           The action never gets particularly 
 interesting or intense.    

  The sense that the game is unfinished extends to the multiplayer mode as well. There's no built-in 
 server finder and no third-party server browser support, so finding a game is challenging enough 
 that it could probably be an Olympic sport. There are bots, but they're so hidden that they might 
 just be Easter eggs. To access them, you have to bring up the command console while already in 
 a game and type a server command that adds them one at a time. Deathmatch, team deathmatch, and 
 capture-the-flag modes are supported, though the bots don't know any of the rules of CTF.   

  Shadow Force will make you nostalgic for the relative salad days of Secret Service, so in some 
 ways it's not a total loss for Fun Labs. Here's hoping it does better next time, though. In case 
 you're still on the fence about this one, here's the review's secret shock ending:  Shadow Force 
 has no in-mission save!      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for like 20 bucks in a pack with other great games. I was excited becuase this 
 game looked like a great modern type FPS. This is a modern FPS, but it is not great at all. The 
 first missions make this game seem like a perfect follow up to Delta Force. The graphics are better 
 than most console games and the mix of action and stealth in the first mission is amazing. This 
 really got me thinking this was going to be a great game. Then the second level came along and 
 it was still fun, it was a little bit of the same thing from the first level, then the third level 
 comes along. This level is complete gaming hell. I say this because the crappy AI makes this level 
 seem almost impossible to beat. I went to the end of mission, but no I cant go on I have to go 
 back and find some more bad guys that i missed. Guess what? I swear I went back and forth at least 
 three times before giving up and trying agin. I still couldnot finish this level. I still cant 
 too this day and I have given up all hope. I mean when a game cant be beat on the third level then 
 I think that it is an unplayable game. This games only pros are that it is set in a realistic war 
 time period with weapons that I can imagine people in the Middle East are using right now. The 
 graphics are also very well done for this piece of crap. This game has sooo many cons I cant explain 
 them all. The cons are basically everything that I didnt mention in the last paragraph. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mp5slipknot
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 8, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  Well, I downloaded this demo a while ago just to see what it was like. And if this game is worth 
 $9.99 by now, thats maybe 6 dollars more then its worth. Actually, this game shouldn't have to 
 be paid for at all. If it was a freewhere game, then this would be a decent title. Cause all it 
 is is running around and shooting terrorists.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay isn't horrible, but its uninspiried. All it is is going around desert areas 
 and shooting at the same basic guys, only with different guns. Theres a fair variety of weapons 
 in the game, ranging from the typical MP-5 to AK-47, shotguns and a few others. So basically its 
 only fun for about 5 minutes.
  
  GRAPHICS: For the budget title shooter the graphics are actually not to bad. However, you will 
 find yourself pretty much looking at the same thing throughout the game. While the level design 
 is decent, its pretty repedative and dull, as they are all just desert areas. In addition the enemies, 
 while they look ok, look basically the same.
  
  SOUNDS: The sound isn't that bad. The weapons have your basic sounds, and well it basically has 
 all the sounds you need in a FPS. One thing I do kinda like about it though is the music, which 
 to me isn't all that bad.
  
  VALUE: Something I must say, this has the clunkiest rag-doll physics I have ever seen. The enemies 
 fall in funny positions, and well, this is the only game I have seen in which the grenades have 
 rag-doll physics. Though you are givin the option to turn those physics off. Thats one thing I 
 give it is that the menu allows a pretty nice amount of custimization for the game. The A. I. is 
 pretty basic though. They dont provide much of a challenge, though they do sometimes work with 
 the enviornments and will move from cover to cover, so that is fairly admirable for a budget title.
 
  
  OVERALL: If you wanna play this game, I recommend just downloading the demo and use it when you 
 need to kill a few minutes. If it was freewhere it would be easier to recommend this, but this 
 game just dosen't offer enough for its price. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
