-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shadowgrounds
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/preyground/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Challenging shooter gameplay with some good weapons and enemies.
 Nice-looking visuals.
 You can hold a flashlight and shoot at the same time--take <i>that</i> Doom 3.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game tries to be atmospherically creepy but fails.
 Some glitches and other gameplay irritations are prevalent throughout.
 Lame voice acting.
 Story is entirely throwaway.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.5, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 387 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Meridian4
Developer: Frozenbyte
Genre: Sci-Fi Shooter
Date:     Apr 25, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's like Doom 3 done top-down in Shadowgrounds, a shooter with an old school sensibility but not 
 much in the way of captivating gameplay. 

  If you like your shooters built on nostalgic value, Meridian4 and Frozenbyte's Shadowgrounds might 
 be up your alley. A top-down shooter in the vein of Smash TV with an atmospheric twist that borrows 
 heavily from the Doom series, Shadowgrounds has simplistic mechanics but uses challenging gameplay 
 to back them up. Unfortunately, challenging doesn't always equate to fun, and in the case of Shadowgrounds, 
 its difficulty doesn't make the action any less monotonous as time goes on. Rather than testing 
 your skill by throwing huge gangs of enemies at you, as many old-school top-down shooters tended 
 to do, Shadowgrounds keeps its enemy attacks regulated to short bursts done to induce some kind 
 of jump or scare in you. The trouble is that it's not effective. Shadowgrounds is too campy to 
 be even remotely moody or scary, and without the scares, the action just comes across as kind of 
 flat after a while.  

          The top down shooter hasn't gotten much love in recent years, especially on the PC. Kudos 
 to Shadowgrounds for at least trying to kickstart the genre again.     

  The premise of Shadowgrounds ought to be eerily familiar to fans of the Doom franchise. You're 
 a lowly mechanic on a space base parked on one of Jupiter's moons. One day, all hell breaks loose 
 when a crew of creepy alien creatures shows up on the scene and starts wreaking havoc. Amid many 
 moments of verbally wondering what the hell is going on, you're forced into battle, shooting your 
 way through the scads and scads of nasty aliens. The game tries to inject some story into the whole 
 equation by having you interact with other survivors on the base and even by out-and-out thieving 
 the whole thing from Doom 3 where you'd walk around, reading people's computer screens and PDA's 
 to piece together a picture of how this all came about. Unfortunately, none of it is interesting. 
 The dialogue is generally pretty stilted, and the snippets of story just aren't all that intriguing. 

  On the plus side, you don't really need to get too heavily into the story to appreciate a game 
 like this. However, you do need to get into the gameplay. Initially, any shooter fan almost certainly 
 will. Shadowgrounds takes the top-down shooter perspective and gives you plenty of labyrinthine 
 environments to explore, as well as plenty of ugly aliens to blast your way through. The aliens 
 themselves are nicely varied and come at you with a wide array of attacks. One moment you'll be 
 flamethrowing acid-spitting slug creatures and the next you'll be firing off rockets at a towering 
 beast with laser rifles for hands. The inspirado for Shadowgrounds' aliens is blatantly borrowed 
 from many, many sci-fi action games of years past, but that doesn't make them any less satisfying 
 to shoot. And it is satisfying... for a time.  

  As mentioned earlier, the problem with Shadowgrounds' gameplay is not the mechanics or the weapons 
 or the enemies, but rather the core design of how the action is presented. Shadowgrounds really 
 wants to be Doom 3. It only sends you periodic swarms of enemies and more often tries to unsettle 
 you by having small groupings of them pop up through the floor or out of a dark corner, and so 
 forth. It goes even further by keeping things rather dark and forcing you to use a rechargeable 
 flashlight to effectively get around certain areas. But as we said before, it's just not scary. 
 There are no moments of fright to be had in the game, and the atmosphere really isn't all that 
 creepy. So what you end up with are a few specific moments of excitement, experienced during the 
 scant number of times in the game where you feel legitimately frantic and overwhelmed as you stave 
 off heavy enemy attacks. Otherwise, you're just corridor crawling through dark rooms and occasionally 
 shooting off small groupings of enemies. That's not to say that this isn't at all challenging, 
 as even these small groupings can present a fair bit of danger, but it's not very thrilling for 
 very long, and it all becomes predictable once you get a feel for the rhythm of the game.  

  Also, there are some quirks and glitches in the gameplay that drag things down. In several scenarios 
 you'll find yourself traveling with artificially intelligent companions. They're good about shooting 
 at enemies when they come around, but they're also real bad about grouping up too closely next 
 to you, to the point where you actually can't move. Eventually they'll get out of the way, but 
 if this happens in the middle of battle, you usually won't be able to get away before the enemies 
 have pounced and horribly murdered you. It wouldn't be such a big deal, except that you get limited 
 respawns for each stage, and once you're out, you have to do the whole stage over again.  

  Respawns themselves are also an annoying quirk. The game is real strange about where it wants to 
 respawn you when you die, often forcing you to trek back much further than you'd prefer. You won't 
 have to shoot down any of the enemies you've previously killed on the way back, but if you died 
 in an especially inopportune spot, you may find yourself screwed. For example, in one scenario 
 we died while standing inside an elevator on a top floor. After dying, we respawned on the bottom 
 floor. After finding the elevator again and taking it back up, we were unpleasantly surprised to 
 learn that the enemies that had killed us were all still standing in exactly the same spot inside 
 the elevator and killed us in seconds simply because there was really not anywhere for us to go. 
 Other times, respawns can be too opportune and destroy a challenge. In the game's first boss fight, 
 you're in a room where the door locks behind you and you've got to fight a giant squidlike thing 
 that keeps popping out of various water tanks. If you die, you'll respawn outside the room, and 
 if you don't walk immediately back in, you can simply shoot the squid from afar while using the 
 doorway to the room as cover and never die again. It's annoyances like these that make Shadowgrounds 
 decidedly underwhelming from a gameplay perspective.  

          The game's monsters are appropriately grotesque and evil-looking, but the game just isn't 
 very creepy or scary.     

  Atmospheric deficiencies aside, Shadowgrounds does do a good job of presenting itself. Since the 
 game takes on a top-down camera angle through most of the game, it's not too surprising that the 
 character models aren't exceptionally detailed up close. However, from that top-down view, the 
 game has a pretty nice look to it. There's more detail in the environments than you might expect 
 from a game of this type -- the weapon effects are all pretty cool and the enemy designs are, again, 
 varied and cool-looking, if not exactly original as far as aesthetics go. Also, Shadowgrounds runs 
 quite well. Even with every graphical bell and whistle turned up, the frame rate only suffered 
 during a few very specifically crazy sequences, but otherwise it ran wonderfully.  

  Shadowgrounds is one of those games that manages to endear itself with certain qualities but ultimately 
 can't shake off its problems to make the whole experience worthwhile. Its old-school nature is 
 certainly going to appeal to a specific audience, but most people will find themselves rather bored 
 with the whole thing once they realize that the game is neither scary nor action-packed but rather 
 a muddled gray area between the two. If you're the sort of person who simply loves the idea of 
 a Doom 3-esque sci-fi shooter done in classic top-down fashion, the game's cheap price tag and 
 single-PC cooperative play might be enough to make it worth checking out (although playing the 
 game with multiple people doesn't make it any less monotonous) . But if you aren't within this specific 
 group of people, Shadowgrounds probably won't do much for you.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Colt_1911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  this game is pretty neat. i love the fact that frozenbyte took the atmosphere of doom 3, aliens, 
 etc.. and tossed it into a blender with super smash TV elements, and out came shadowgrounds! not 
 a bad game at all. totally worth the 6 bucks i gave for it. i do admit that the mixing in of new 
 school graphics with ye old school gameplay, is rather refreshing. i wish that i could play it 
 on 1440x900 resolution, but i guess 1024x768 will have to do for now.. other than that, its a great 
 game so far. havent beaten it yet, but i feel i am close.. i dont know why gamespot is hard on 
 reviews, i think this game deserved at least an 8.. maybe 8.5. but thats me.. other than that, 
 good game. i mean, who doesnt like walking down a dark corridor, and having to actually turn on 
 your flashlight to see whats in a dark room, and not seeing the alien fixing to eat your face off?! 
 and the invisible snake-like aliens just add more spice to the flavor.. yeah they can sneak up 
 on you, but just tell them to back off with a blast of the shotty, or chew them up with the minigun.. 
 its all good.. reminds me of alien shooter.. but not as difficult 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devvy01
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Being addicted to shooter, one can never go past a top down shooter such as this one. It has all 
 the elements of great graphics, plenty of level to search and atmospheric music to keep one going. 
 Although the gameplay may be repetitive, it certainly doesn't detract from the time and effort 
 put into it. So the adventure begins...
  
  As the story unfolds, your a mechanic quite happily working away on you hummer expecting the day 
 to go out bush bashing. Unfortunately the army has decided that you should swap your wrench for 
 a pistol and throw you into the meat grinder. You start off in a finally basic world of exploration 
 and have really only the spiders to deal with at the beginning, but as time goes on, the pistol 
 is practically useless against later monsters. Your given tasks on each little adventure, well 
 the maps are quite big, but your sorta steered in the direction you need to go. Searching other 
 areas will quite often give you bonus ammo, health, and maybe even a new weapon. Every so many 
 of aliens that you spray over the wall, one will drop a green disc, gather these up and upgrade 
 your weapons to deal with the ultra nasties. As the game progresses you'll get bigger and better 
 weapons.
  Each level differs somewhat from just searching a camp, to visiting a mine, a large starship and 
 finally the alien mothership. Keep your shooting to the aliens as when you run out of ammo, your 
 wasted, literally. These aliens don't care for harsh words, and they simply will tear your limbs 
 for breakfast. Each level will give you 4 respawns from somewhere within the level, but if you 
 lose all 4 lives, its back to the beginning. So that's it, go and get'em..
  
  The graphics are well drawn, its basically a top down shooter with most things being able to be 
 blasted. You'll feel the urge to just shoot monitors, boxes, panel, but I assure you, you'll need 
 you bullets for Mr & Mrs super nasty. But it kind fun to see things explode into a flash of sparks 
 as they did do a great job on particle explosions. One word on the carnage though, the graphic 
 nature of the killing, means that there's alot of blood from the former occupants so just prepare 
 for the gore. These poor souls didn't have a chance.
  
  The music ranges from some very atmospheric music to quite pacey music when the aliens are about 
 to attack in numbers so listen carefully when you need to get you mortal gun ready to detonate 
 half the hallway..
  
  Mostly using your arrows keys (well that's what I assigned anyway) and your mouse, you can do most 
 things, but you need your handy enter key for opening the medical lockers and reading the computers 
 to see where these damn scientists have left us.
  
  A great blast, as always I played on 2nd hardest to give the game its credit and put up more of 
 a challenge than the normal.. Play time was about 5 serious nights of carnage... 
  
  In space no-one can hear you scream.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjornishigi
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  I have just played through the demo and found it to be just what the doctor ordered. You'll probably 
 need a refill on your prescription though, by the time you finish. The graphics are really clean 
 and the game as a whole seems tightly designed. Apparently the game developers, Frozenbyte, have 
 20 personnel now, so a substantial amount of work went into the game. The game looks better than 
 most of the triple A games out there, as far as I'm concerned anyway. I enjoyed the overhead arcade 
 style strategy, which is seek and destroy with some kind of plot going on that I really didn't 
 find the need to be concerned about. Soundtrack is polished and seems to cue appropriately. A Really 
 Big boss at the end of the scenario scared me, while taking me back to the days of Contra, where 
 down at the local mini-mart after school we would waste our quarters. My how the times have changed... er... (cough) , 
 moving on. Weapons have an upgrade system which seems to be the only real depth to the game, if 
 you can call it that. Weapons have primary and secondary fire mode. This is where the game really 
 shines as I don't seem to tire of the carnage with these spiffy weapons of mass destruction. The 
 pulse cannon has a nice electrical discharge as its secondary firing mode that stuns the crap out 
 of most enemies so that you may better retire them. Careful though because its got a very short 
 range. Those are my only cautionary words as I entreat you to join struggle X against enemy Y in 
 alpha quadrant Z. Hustle your virtual ass out to Ganymede and join the ranks of the unknowing as 
 they struggle towards a greater oblivion for all person-kind, virtual or otherwise. Carry on soldier, 
 dismissed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: it009x9281
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 29, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is surprisingly good and reminds me of my much loved games that i played to death called 
 Crusader no Remorse&amp; Crusader no Regret so was very surprised to see a game like them all these 
 years later.
  The game is amazingly good and i was quite surprised how good it was when i played a demo of it 
 and a week later i bought/downloaded the full game from valve download site. So much i love about 
 this game good graphics, upgradeable weapons and some really cool upgrades at that, intelligent enemies 
 i also like the edition of bosses seems rare for most games today to have them so all that ammo 
 i saved up i could actually use it.
  To round of a surprisingly good solid game the only flaw i found was i completed quite quickly 
 on hard mode but did find myself playing it again.
  Is a great effort and hope to some more in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 3, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Dun shun it cos it's a budget title. Shadowgrounds feature high production values, especially intense 
 gameplay pacing and great particle effects. Yes it has an I-couldn't-care-less storyline but it's 
 just a formality for bringing out the action.
  
  People relate it to Doom 3 for the plot premise or Diablo II for its gameplay style but none of 
 them are a fair comparison to this humble game. I feel that Shadowgrounds did not try to capitalise 
 on the current trend of popular hits like the above mentioned games but it's more of aiming to 
 bring back the old-school way how games should be played. A top-down shooter is very retro, like 
 the earlier Sega games Contra and Master of Elements and these are the games that started the world 
 of video-gaming. Shadowgrounds was going for this, from the gameplay mechanics to the simple story 
 premise.
  
  Other than that, it does feature contemporary elements like upgrading of weapons to give it a role-playing 
 feel and that each weapon has it's own advantage in certain situations without giving you the lame 
 idea of sticking with ultimate weapons ultimately.
  
  One thing makes it different from retro shooters and that is the graphics. Very nice backdrop and 
 great particle effects (like explosions and the flamethrower) refurbish the looks well enough to 
 attract new generation of gamers. Great music tracks. An overall enjoyable game for a week.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doogz23
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  A 3rd person perspective puts you (a mechanic) on an extended planet setup by the government to 
 help Earth as it has become overpopulated. The story is nothing to wrtie home to ma' about but 
 it's short and action-packed. You could stow up for a good day and finish this game without a problem; 
 which makes the story feel more complete than coming back the next day. The problem with this is 
 obviously the extended value of the game. The controls are easy and you can dive right in without 
 having to look into any instructions. There is a simple weapons upgrade system and a few protagonists 
 that you try to help out that keeps you interested. The stoy itself is of aliens taking over the 
 compound you work on and you get stuck in the middle of it all. It's been done before... The enemies 
 are interesting; however there do not seem to be very many variations (or kinds) of monsters. Just 
 the sheer quantity keeps the pace up. The weapons upgrades can add some variety and you'll find 
 yourself conserving ammo in the later stages.
  
  Graphics:
  Nothing to complain about here. The characters look good. Nothing ground-breaking but the overall 
 aesthetics are there. Outside sceneries feel like you're outside and likewise for the indoor / 
 cave levels. The ambience is very well set at each stage of the game. The visual effects of explosions 
 and attacks are good, but once again, nothing special here.
  
  Sound:
  There is some voice-acting in this one and it's decent. You look at the characters and think that's 
 the voice that should be with that face. The music playing and the atmospheric noises throughout 
 the levels are done very well. It really gives you the effect you're playing in the game and not 
 just sitting down for a chore. It keeps you going and keeps you awake.
  
  Value:
  With very little replay value it's tough to put out the cash for this, luckily it's pretty cheap 
 and dowloadable (no gas money or taxes needed!) . Only varying difficulties will bring you back.
 
  
  Tilt:
  Shadowgrounds left me with the taste of a nostalgic old school game when i played through it. The 
 substance of the game me this feeling and the graphics and sound made it feel like a refurbished 
 old school 3rd person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pashitos
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 23, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Some bad words were said about this game, some of them may be true. I agree, that if in the beginning, 
 we can see some traces of the story, after a while it is just shooting your way through aliens. 
 But isn't it a point of this game? I didn't like Alien Shooter, because it was too crazy action 
 and almost no style at all (action here could be called a style though) . Here everything is style!
 
  
  This is only the introduction, I have the most important thing yet to say.
  
  Have anybody noticed graphics in this game? I play a lot of games, a lot of new games, but I have 
 NEVER seen something like this. EVERY (and I mean it!!!!) single shadow in the game is processed 
 in real time. No other game I saw can make boast of that. Do you remember Doom 3? Sure you do. 
 Now remember in Doom 3 some single shadow. For example, you see a shadow of the railing, it is 
 on the ground on your side, 'cause the lightning of the room you are in is on the other side of 
 that railing. Now what you have to do is turn on the flashlight and point it at the railing. What 
 happenes? Nothing, even though the light of the flashlight is brighter than the one of the room, 
 there is still the only shadow, which is on the ground on your side. Try doing the same thing in 
 Shadowgrounds. Here the shape of shadows changes even if light is closer or further from the object, 
 which casts the shadow. And EVERY object can cast a shadow: a box, railing, even walls. Isn't this 
 fantastic?
  
  Drawing a line here: gameplay is great, 'cause shooting some interesting (and not so stupid) aliens 
 is fun, graphics are crazy, sound is very appropriate (yes, voices are lame, but music and ambient 
 sounds are so Alien!) . The point is, Gamespot doesn't have a place to grade a plot (why the hell?!?) , 
 so why does this game has an overall grade below 9 or 8? I am going to put 7 as a game value, but 
 what I really ment was game plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kendel
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 12, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  I have been seeking a fun action game for awhile. This game hit the spot.
  
  It has a few quirks, but overall I have really enjoyed it thus far. Let me hit on a few of the 
 points:
  
  It is very easy to learn. I was up an running in under 10 minutes from install to playing. The 
 interface is very easy and has some good options. 
  
  The graphics are above what I was expecting. Seeing the shadows in your flashlight, the storms, 
 gun fire flashes. Overall the the lighting in this game rocks. 
  
  Story? Well it has a story, its not to bad. Its about as good as many other games out there. 
 
  
  Things I found annoying... well you can't choose to save. So when I was half way through a chapter 
 I needed to go run an errand, and had to just pause it. The chapters can take an hour to complete. 
 So you have to plan out your play time in blocks. The NPC's are ... stupid. They like to stand 
 right next to you and keep you from moving. They rarely shoot when your moving around. In fact 
 your character makes a few comments to that in the cut scenes, almost as if making light of the 
 annoying NPC AI. 
  
  Overall though it is a fun game. I'm hoping the coop is good. I have not tried it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  I have heard some arguments that this game is not like Doom. While the gameplay may not exactly 
 be like Doom it certainly borrowed a very similar plot (yeah, Doom does too have a plot!) as well 
 as a lot of other elements. Its like a cover of a song by a tribute band addiing its own style 
 while not killing the original. 
  
  You play Tyler who is a mechanic on a space base where *gasp* scientific experiments and such is 
 going on. Almost immediately, things go wrong and chaos ensues as aliens take over leaving carnage 
 in their wake. Tyler is, of course, becames our unwitting hero as he helps out the few miltary 
 personnel that our left alive taking on missions such as saving scientists, repairing satelite 
 links and of course kicking alien butt with an arsenal of weapons typically found in most first 
 person shooters. The catch is that Shadowgrounds is not a first person shooter.
  
  You control Tyler from a top down view perspective as you find in many action RPGs like Diablo. 
 The environments both inside and outside of the several installations you will explore are dark 
 so you have only a limited field of view which can be slightly extended by your flashlight. Of 
 course, as in all future flashlights it only lasts for a period of time before needing to recharge. 
 In Shadowngrounds, your flashlight often plays a more strategic role than usual because some of 
 the aliens are afraid of light while some cannot even be seen at all unless using a flashlight 
 directly on them. Those sneaky aliens.
  
  Another addition to the gameplay, which I found quite enjoyable, was the ability to find upgrade 
 pieces on some of the aliens you kill. There are 10 weapons ranging from flamethrower to minigun 
 each having 3 unique upgrades. For example, you can upgrade your grenade launcher for 15 upgrade 
 points to give your 5 explosions for each grenade you launch. One extremely useful upgrade which 
 I suggest getting early on is a stun gun on your machine gun which freezes enemies momentarily. 
 This even works on some of the larger enemies so you can freeze them with your machine gun and 
 then switch to some thing heavier like your mini-gun to lay waste to them. You have to be really 
 close up to them to stun them though so some minor stealth is required using this strategy. Tyler 
 even has a nifty little roll move to get out of the way quick if all else fails.
  
  The graphics are very clean and has a lot of options to tweak for lower or higher end machines. 
 It may not be something spectacular to look at but the aliens are really well done and so are the 
 animations. The environments themselves are pretty plain as is the case with most futuristic shooters. 
 I guess Trading Spaces must be canceled by the time we reach 2050. There are a lot of detail in 
 things as dead bodies strewn on the floor, lighting effects and destructable objects.
  
  The sound is very average and weapons sounds (albeit for the mini-gun) just don't have the impact 
 that is needed to get your blood pumping. Voice acting is another throw away "I don't care about 
 this job" affair except for Tyler who does at least have some funny lines that he carries off now 
 and then. 
  
  Overall, I found the game a refreshing mix that is rarely seen these days. It has an old school 
 flavor like Contra 3D but with new school panache. Don't be turned away by its budget price because 
 it is a pretty polished title. There is also a level editor included in the game that hopefully 
 will get some extra love for the modding community expanding replayability. So if you like your 
 sci-fi shooters but want it in a different perspective give this game a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Is this a Doom clone?
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  I don't know. I can't judge these kinds of things. But what I can say is that it's not as interesting. 
 I mean, there's not as much "fun stuff" that you can do with other games I play. 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Pretty good, but not as good as it could be. Think of Half-Life 2: Lost Coast on a 
 GeForce 7900. This is much worse. 
  
  SOUND:
  Eh... Not as Hi-Tech as Source. When you're far away it sounds the same as when you're near. 
 
  
  VALUE:
  This is just a rip of Doom, so if you like Doom, I guess this is OK. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shimo1989
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  I must admit, when I first got this game, I was somewhat disappointed before I even started playing, 
 but after finishing this game, I found this game to be quite fun and different from traditional 
 shooters. Perhaps that is why it was received so badly by the reviewers.
  
  Lets start with the gameplay. Because the camera angle is pretty much the same as the sidescrollers 
 of old, gameplay in that aspect is very similar. You see an enemy on screen, you shoot it. The 
 biggest mistake one may make while writing a review for this game is comparing it to Doom 3. While 
 the story may be similar, in fact almost copy-and-pasted from Doom 3, the atmosphere was never 
 really meant to be as creepy and scary as Doom 3 or any other horror game. This game was never 
 designed to scare ANYONE, even little kids. The arsenal you have access to in the game has a nice 
 variety to it, ranging from pistols to shotguns to flamethrowers which are all upgradable, each 
 weapon being significantly different from all other weapons, making the game feel very similar 
 to modern shooters such as Doom 3 and Farcry as well as ye olde side-scrollers such as Abuse. While 
 the action is quite standard, it is by no means bland. The large variety of monsters, ranging from 
 spiders lurking in the dark to massive humanoids with miniguns for hands make the action quite 
 different from mission to mission. The game is quite stable and will not usually crash. 
  
  Next is graphics. This game's graphics is average at best, but because of the camera angle, you 
 never get a chance to move closer to the textured surface of the game world as well as your characters, 
 therefore the quality is always very high, and at no times will you be able to detect any pixels. 
 You can barely see any polygons on a surface meant to be round.
  
  Now I'll admit... the sound is the weak point of the game. While the music is average, the sound 
 the monsters make is overly generic, and sounds the same as any other modern shooter. The weapon 
 sounds have the same problem. The sound acting is horrible, especially for the female main character 
 of the game. 
  
  All in all, this game is quite decent and likable, if you are willing to endure an extremely unoriginal 
 storyline and overly generic sound effects. I found the game to be quite likable, and I'm sure 
 anyone of you who does not expect a Doom-like experience from this game will find it fun to play 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZX1234R
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 7, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  One of the most exciting games i played in a while. The graphics engine is very well structured 
 (considered it's basically a 2D game) and the first thing that impresses is the flashlight. The 
 shadows are so well designed that you can actually see every little detail of an object transfered 
 into it's shadow. It provides a wide variety of weapons and each weapon can be upgraded to do more 
 damage, hold more bullets and have an alternative firing mode by using upgrade parts which the 
 player gets by killing creatures. The game has excellent sound and music during fights and can 
 alone create the perfect atmosphere ideal in beast-slaughter situations. It does however get very 
 difficult after some point and the bosses are quite tough even in easy mode but with some training 
 and jumping around, you can get used to it. Definitely worth buying and playing more than once. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiitzme
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  So Shadowgrounds starts with you, working on a tank/truck thing around the year 2072 or so. The 
 electricity has a malfunction, and you are told to go fix it, since you are an engineer of sorts. 
 You go outside and fix a few control panels, then get a few scares, and eventually small spider-like 
 things attack you, and you get some weapons. You blast through different levels with a range of 
 enemies from spiders to gargantuan water-dwelling poison-spitting snakes. 
  
  This game has excellent possibility, although from what I played it is excessively hard from level 
 2. The game is fun, and challenging, but once you meet up with these dog-like creatures, it gets 
 excessively harder. On level two there are plasma shooting baddies. They are not that hard, except 
 when you get two or more shooting at the same time it bogs my GeForce 6800 XT down so much I can't 
 move very clearly.
  
  Overall, this game has high potential but doesn't quite meet it. The top-down view on the world 
 is a bit dizzying, and the enemies are too hard. Maybe if VALVe could make a different game with 
 this engine it would succeed more. Don't get me wrong, it's fun, but it's a bit too hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonanza35
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 24, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  Very boring looking from top down in 2D puts this game into the low level gameplays unfit for most 
 shooters. storyline is so boring that i gave it away, after 3 hours of trying to get into playing 
 a cheap 2D Look down mode game. Way overpriced game unless one values the box it comes in. Akward 
 play with the Look down view not providing enough looking range to shoot monsters until they are 
 charging too close. Akward aiming in 2D mode without any elevation difinition. Akward retreating 
 for cover and having the players view to turm around onto you, making it impossible to shoot while 
 retreating, because player is facing opposite direction from attacking monster, this is so dumb 
 and frustrating gameplay that i felt i was playing on a Win95 100 watt system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ButchDapper
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  When I hear the words "top-down shooter" I immediately think of the Raiden series, Smash TV or 
 the original Grand Theft Auto. Shadowgrounds does not fit the shooter mould this easily, and feels 
 a lot more like 2002's "The Thing" than an old-school run and gun.
  
  Like "The Thing", Shadowgrounds is atmospheric, engaging, and flawed. The voice acting is adequete, 
 the facial animations stiff and the enemy AI at a Doom II level. What Shadowgrounds does have going 
 for it is excellent sound design, solid feeling (and looking) weapons, nicely varied enemies, relatively 
 challenging puzzles and a stack of tongue-in-cheek references to sci-fi gaming and cinema classics 
 such as Aliens (movies and arcade shooter) , Doom, The Thing and Starcraft (to name a few) .
  
  For twenty dollars, Shadowgrounds provides a surprisingly lengthy and satisfying gaming experience 
 - if you can look past the corners that have been cut in its development. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowGryphon
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Point blank....... this game was ALOT of fun.
  If you go into this expecting dum 3..... then go away because YOU ARE AN IDIOT!
  If you want 
 dum 3 **** game that it is) then go play dum 3 
  
  For those who actually use their heads for more than just something to keep your ears apart, this 
 game is for you. it's not supposed to be anything other than what it is.
  
  If you found Shadowgrounds boring, then you must have been using the cheats.
  
  The only thing 
 that I found odd was the fact that the flame thrower could destroy the alien generators fairly 
 quickly, but it took a bit to kill the creatures.... seemed a bit unbalanced in that area.
  Otherwise this was a great little adventure with some nice graphics
  
  And to hanoda "i dont 
 have anymore word to tell you about it it boring in the mean of the word" 
  reading your review.... it seems you didn't have the words to begin with, but then that seems to 
 be the case with most of the kiddies on this site.
  
  LEARN TO READ AND WRITE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 11, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  this game is a waste of time play doom 3 it would be better the important thing that i did not 
 understand why they called it in gamershell the most horror game 
  ever played its boring with no soft graphics or shaders model 1,2,3 the game 
  is so so boring 
 wallken in the spaceship or the hq and shooting monsters for 
  survive its advice from me dont try it its sik and the bad thing they say in gamershell it like 
 doom 3 doom 3 is a realy perfect game meaned to play 
  but this game i dont have anymore word to tell you about it it boring in the mean of the word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Shadowgrounds sets the same awesome environments that Doom 3 tried to recreate in the first place. 
 You have a newly colonized planet, Ganymede; you play a person working there, a mechanic; and you 
 have nasty, ugly, badass aliens tring to kill you.
  All in all thats a great formula in my opinion for a game that works. Sci-fi shooters are just 
 great when its up to aliens on other planets and plenty of weapons to kill them. Matter of fact, 
 this game just looks like Doom 3 in a top down perspective. Someone might think "well... thats 
 no fun", but actually it is. It might not be as SCARY as Doom was but the sound effects and visuals 
 are well made for a game of this genre. I have to admit, my computer wouldn't even hold maxing 
 out the settings, and I thought they were good nevertheless. The flashlight is quite the thing 
 too, it casts very realistic shadows on the ground with the objects the light hits and aliens react 
 to that light aswell, so try to keep it charged at all times lol.
  The weapons are quite diverse aswell, ranging from the simple pistol to the bazooka and minigun. 
 They can all gain secondary fire if you grab these disk like looking objects that enemies drop 
 every once in a while and use them to upgrade your weapons. In a way this gives you a more strategic 
 feeling because you'll try to upgrade the weapon you use most or the one that you have more ammo 
 for. I personally just upgraded wich ever used less points though lol. 
  The only total letdown that this game presents is the voiceover. Just plain UGH! Most of the time 
 i just prefered skipping the dialogue scenes because of how bad they were. I'm sure if the actors 
 were better it would of been a sweet game.
  It's lacking an active save system too, it automatically saves at the beginning of every new scenario, 
 but at times these can be quite long to complete and if you just quit while in the middle of it, 
 you'll have to start all the way back. Sometimes my character also got stuck between certain objects 
 while I had a dozen aliens jump at me and chew me to shreds. VERY frustrating combined with the 
 save settings. Maybe some more design could of fixed both.
  Nevertheless, Shadowgrounds is worth playing, don't expect it to blow your mind away but if your 
 looking for some plain shooter fun, I would defenetly recommend it. If you don't like it at first 
 glance, give it a second try, it gets better and more interesting in later levels, trust me. Sound 
 effects help that, they get better and better in later monsters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 9, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  I've played the game through three times now and I still think it's a fantastic game.
  
  The graphics by todays standards are not the best but they are impressive for an old school shooter 
 like this. The sound effects aren't anything to write home about but the music is quite atmospheric. 
 Best of all the gameplay is fantastic!
  
  Every so often a little developer that no one has heard of releases an absolute gem of a game that 
 shows the big boys that gameplay rules and this is one such game! 
  
  If you like old school shooters such as the legendary Alien Breed then buy this. Even if you don't 
 go in for these types of shooters then buy it anyway you'll like it!
  
  I simply can't wait for the level editor to be released! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdhegs
Rating: 7
Date: May 6, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I will not go into great detail on this game as the Gamespot review is spot on! 
  
  The game is fun, really fun! As a diversion. I am playing it with friends in co-op mode and it 
 is a hoot! I don't see this as one that I will turn too very often, but it is fun in a campy sort 
 of way.
  
  Has a very B-Movie feel to it. The voice work is completely cheesy and hillarious, yet serviceable 
 and the graphics are decent. Not bad, but certainly not excellent. The story feels more like watching 
 the movie DOOM, after the second cut scene I stopped reading the PDA's and computers as they plot 
 and story is pretty ho-hum. The action does get exciting at times ... worth a rental or a borrow 
 from a friend, if possible or if your patient this will hit the bargain-bin in no time I am sure! 
 The guys at my local Gamestop didn't even know they had it!
  
  Oddly enough it is a system hog ... I have a decent machine (above recommended) and I still see 
 some pretty good chop in the cut scenes and when the action gets hairy. 
  
  All-in-all a nice game that flew in under the radar ... Just dont expect too much! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasgueado
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 1, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Shadowgrounds is a new action adventure game from independent developer Frozenbyte. The title was 
 first released in Europe last November and it is now on sale in North America courtesy of Meridian4. 
 The game is a sci-fi action/suspense game played from an isometric perspective. Designed as a budget 
 title from an independent developer this game largely succeeds at achieving the ambitious goals 
 it sets for itself except for the suspense part. 
  
  The game revolves around disgruntled mechanic Wesley Tyler on the Jupiter moon of Ganymede. Wesley 
 used to work security on the newly established colony until he asked too many questions about a 
 series of accidents on the colony and found himself repairing consoles on the outskirts of the 
 colony. One night while working on a broken vehicle the power goes out and Wesley is sent in to 
 figure out whats breaking down. From there the game follows along a fairly standard invading 
 alien storyline that is delivered through logbook entries and in engine cut scenes. There isnt 
 anything all that compelling or original about the story itself, but it really just serves as a 
 backdrop to the action based game play that the developers were trying to deliver. 
  
  The story doesnt really try to take itself too seriously, which is good because it seems as if 
 they were trying to make something completely over the top with this game. Like many other ambitious 
 budget titles like Duke Nukem: Manhattan Project or Nosferatu: Wrath of Malachi, Shadowgrounds 
 fully embraces its concept and just delivers on its premise of action and aliens. Little things 
 like the voice acting and some of the dialog will pull you out of the moment until you remember 
 that its just an action game and you go back to putting a few more holes in alien skulls. Other 
 minor details like finding log entries written by colonists who supposedly had time to write down 
 their screams while being eaten is somewhat comical (Monty Python and the Holy Grail) but again 
 it is easy to work past these little problems with the narrative.
  
  The action is what this game is really all about, and while the developers arent setting out to 
 re-invent the wheel with this title, what they have done is none the less fun. The game uses an 
 isometric perspective to showcase the action which is best controlled with a keyboard and mouse. 
 The controls themselves are simple and fairly responsive. You control the aiming cursor with the 
 mouse and Wesley is always turned to face the direction that you are aiming. In a sense this game 
 handles very much like Robotron were it to be given proper mouse support. Apart from running around 
 and firing Wesley doesnt have very many other moves aside from a roll that can be performed to 
 quickly get out of the way of rampaging enemies. In playing through this game I havent ever once 
 had to use the roll, but I suppose there might be some situations on higher difficulty levels where 
 it might be useful.
  
  Shadowgrounds features nine different weapons to serve your thirst for alien destruction. The weapons 
 range from standard pistols and machine guns to flame throwers and electricity weapons. Each weapon 
 in the game also comes with three upgrade slots that can be unlocked during the game. When you 
 find a weapon each of the slots is empty, but as when you destroy aliens they will occasionally 
 drop upgrade parts. Each upgrade requires a certain number of parts to acquire, with the more useful 
 upgrades being more expensive. A lot of the weapons have fairly useful secondary functions that 
 can be unlocked in this manner aside from the more general upgrades such as damage increases or 
 a larger clip size. Some of the upgrades, especially for the electricity gun, require a lot of 
 markers so be sure to look in as many dark corners as you can to find enemies to blow away.
  
  Shadowgrounds is a very dark game. There will be many areas that will be completely unlit, 
 which is where your flashlight comes in handy. The lighting effects in this game, while not as 
 sophisticated as games like Quake 4 are still very cool and atmospheric. Your flashlight illuminates 
 just enough in the direction that it is pointed to keep you on your toes while running through 
 pitch black offices and mess halls with enemies moving in the darkness. Some really great moments 
 happen when you run too quickly around a corner into a group of enemies and you can just barely 
 make out their running shadows before they scatter into the darkness.
  
  The alien enemies in Shadowgrounds, while cool in their own way, are also not the most original 
 in the world. The developers obviously worked hard to create a fairly diverse bestiary, but it 
 still would have been nicer to see a little bit more variety in the enemy types. What is really 
 interesting about the enemies in the game is the way in which they react to your light source. 
 Some enemies might scatter and run away from your light while others might be attracted. Another 
 enemy type can only be seen in brief glimpses while in the narrow beam of your light. In the later 
 stages when a lot of enemies are thrown at you at one time you have to be able to quickly adapt 
 to the different tactics used by the aliens to survive.
  
  Survival itself in this game likely wont be much of a problem however. In lieu of a save game 
 system the developers decided to use a more arcade like approach to this game. Every time a mission 
 loads you are given four respawns. Should you be killed at any time in the game you drop unconscious 
 only to wake up in a safe area not far from where you fell. You keep all of your current weapons 
 and ammo and can continue, basically, right from where you left off with full health. Should you 
 run out of lives so to speak before you complete a mission, you will be required to replay it 
 again from the beginning. The missions themselves can be fairly long in length if you take your 
 time to explore them and find all of the hidden secrets (read: weapons) if you find this game 
 difficult early on then be prepared to play through some of the levels more than on. Generally 
 speaking, the game shouldnt be too difficult for more game players with the exception of a few 
 of the boss encounters that are made easier with the advent of the respawn system.
  
  The game is about as long as most others in the more expensive next-gen tier of gaming. There 
 are a dozen or so levels and it should take the average player about 7-10 hours to play through 
 it. After youve completed the game on your own, you may then do so with a friend! The game also 
 includes a multiplayer co-op mode that will allow you to undertake the entire singleplayer game 
 with a friend on the same computer. The computer set-up that many people have might not be the 
 most conducive to multiplayer gaming, but the experience is still fairly fun and is handled adequately. 
 The only major complaint with this mode is that one person will have to use a gamepad and configuring 
 this game to use one isnt the most user friendly on the market. Thankfully the developers have 
 a section on the website dedicated to explaining how to configure different gamepads properly for 
 use in co-op play.
  
  For a game from a small developer at a budget price there is a lot to like in Shadowgrounds. There 
 are plenty of problems that players will likely notice with the game that could have been fixed 
 (like wheels on vehicles actually rotating) , but the game moves along quickly enough that its 
 easy to forget things like that. If youre the kind of person that likes old school action games 
 than Shadowgrounds might be something youd be interested in trying out. If youre still unsure, 
 there is a great two level demo to try out that will likely answer that question for you. You can 
 find Shadowgrounds on retail shelves in North America now and later in the month of May on Steam. 
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
