-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shattered Suns
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/shatteredsuns/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 One of the few 3D RTS space games on the market.
 Good, yet crazily overwritten, script establishes the campaign story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Abysmal production values.
 Too much of the campaign storytelling is conveyed through text.
 Space combat is only superficially 3D.
 Most of your toughest combat will be with the terrible camera system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 4.1, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 4.0, 91 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Clear Crown Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Aug 19, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Shattered Suns wastes its promise with terrible presentation values and poor implementation of its 
 3D combat system. 

  Fully 3D real-time strategy games set in space are a rare breed. Adding the third dimension seems 
 to scare off both developers and gamers, so many games simply ignore the oft-confusing vertical 
 plane and stick to 2D stellar battlefields. Shattered Suns is a good example of why so many people 
 shy away. The Clear Crown Studios game is certainly adventurous enough, due to the ostensibly more 
 realistic depiction of outer space, the mix of RTS and 4X space sim traits, and a few innovative 
 touches when it comes to custom ship design; but the production values are bottom-drawer, and your 
 galactic adventures are highlighted by boring resource management and simplistic combat that doesn't 
 really utilize those three dimensions. These issues, along with some serious problems with the 
 in-game camera, all but ruin the reasonably original game design.  

           This planet's ready for its close-up.      

  Originality doesn't extend to the plot, 
 however. In the single-player campaign, you play Captain Max, a former starship commander in the 
 Statian military who's drafted back into active duty during an invasion by the evil Qalan and Trexon 
 Empires. So the story deals with the standard  shtick, albeit with 
 the rather interesting addition of a love story. At the same time as Max is trying to save Statia, 
 he's also searching star systems for his missing fiancee, a fellow officer with the much more exotic 
 name of Seeng-Si. A fair bit of the game is spent with the hero dithering over his duty and chucking 
 it all to search for his woman, which gives the game a bit of teen-love cheese, as nobody over 
 17 actually thinks like Captain Max.  

  Still, much of this tale is fairly well told, regardless of the lapses into  90210  melodrama. 
 The one huge flaw is that every plot point is described through text, as though you're playing 
 the game via instant messenger. As the budget apparently didn't allow for any cutscene production, 
 a single screen filled with a drab starfield map and a huge block of tiny, hard-to-read green-on-black 
 text conveys all of the story and dialogue. Even some full missions take place here and are resolved 
 entirely through answering questions. Many of the lines are well written, although apparently the 
 designers realized this and allowed the writer free rein to ramble on to absurd lengths. Scenes 
 meander for many, many minutes, and you're stuck waiting for every single line to slowly pop up 
 onscreen because you can't skip ahead. All of this dialogue goes beyond sci-fi boilerplate to help 
 develop realistic characters with depth and personality (like your snarky computer assistant, Citron) , 
 although it's hard to appreciate any of it when you're screaming "Get on with it!" at your monitor. 
 More appeal is lost due to the text scaling in lower-resolution displays. Letters are shrunk to 
 what looks like an 8-point height and scrunched so tightly together that you soon squint your way 
 into serious eyestrain or a king-size headache. Keep eyedrops and ibuprofen on hand.  

  Shattered Suns isn't particularly easy on the eyes during missions, either. Ship design is generic, 
 textures are plain, and the lighting and shadow effects are so primitive that there is no depth 
 to any of the models. Star systems are just as rough and ready, with basic planet types like Earth 
 look-alikes and lava worlds. The background is really odd looking, too, due to the inclusion of 
 so much green nebulae gas that it overwhelms what should be a very black outer space. At times, 
 this backdrop is so green and lush that it seems more like you're waging war in front of an English 
 country garden than the inky darkness of space. Ship movements and explosions are nothing short 
 of embarrassing. Vessels avoid colliding with planets by simply jerking to one side or the other, 
 and the usual pyrotechnics of ships going ka-boom have been replaced with wimpy puffs of smoke 
 and chunks of debris flying in all directions. And despite the game's low-rent appearance, loading 
 times can be onerous. Initially loading the game up takes so long that you can not only safely 
 duck out of the room to make a sandwich, you just might have time to bake the bread, too.  

  Of course, really ugly games sometime boast some really stellar gameplay. But that isn't the 
 case here, as Shattered Suns is just as unappealing within as it is without. The game sort of blends 
 typical RTS gaming with 4X space sims, with campaign missions that are split among building fleets 
 for combat, focusing on space-station base building, and fulfilling economic duties such as setting 
 up a trade route or gathering resources. You generally accept an order at the beginning of the 
 assignment to do something like juggle the game's three resources of crystals, ore, and credits 
 in an effort to repair ships, set up a mining operation on a moon, or simply crank out ships and 
 blast into a system to annihilate the enemy. Everything is pretty straightforward. Most resource 
 management can be done with a couple of clicks. To mine a planet for ore, for example, all you 
 need to do is load up a ship with miners and send it on its way. Combat is equally simplistic, 
 with the only complication provided by the ability to rig up different ship production lines on 
 space stations to crank out vessels for different purposes. So you can build one line of ships 
 with huge storage capacity to serve as cargo carries, another line with serious weaponry and armor 
 for front-line combat, and so on.  

           There's a battle going on here, but you wouldn't know it to look.      

  None of these 
 actions are particularly interesting. Resource management is a dull production-line affair where 
 you shuffle goods from one space station to another to boost ship production. Combat, in both the 
 campaign and the skirmish mode -- which happens to be the only other way to play the game, as there 
 is no multiplayer option -- mainly involves band-selecting fleets and then right-clicking on enemies 
 to start lasers blasting in scraps that are just as ridiculously drawn out (20 minutes to take 
 out a few pirates? Really?) as the interminable between-mission dialogue. Most of the challenge 
 comes from trying to figure out exactly what you're supposed to be doing when missions start, as 
 there are few instructions given out after the initial orders are passed along on the main map/text 
 screen. Combat missions often dump you blind into a system and leave you aimlessly flying around 
 until you discover the ship you're supposed to escort, the enemies you need to exterminate, or 
 whatever else. The only serious drama during battles is provided by the drum-thumping score. Even 
 then, the pounding is so relentless that you'll soon want to turn off the music and enjoy the silent 
 vacuum of space.  

  Worst of all, the 3D engine for space battles is just about meaningless. It doesn't add serious 
 tactical considerations; you can essentially ignore the extra plane and click directly on enemies, 
 space stations, and planets just as you would in a typical 2D RTS. If anything, it just gets in 
 the way due to some annoying camera issues. For starters, everything moves all the time. Ships 
 float randomly through space the moment that they leave space stations, which makes it tough to 
 keep them in view. Locking the camera by left-clicking on an object like a planet or a moon helps 
 somewhat when it comes to keeping an eye on an entire region of space, but even then every interstellar 
 body is orbiting something else, so you still experience a lot of irritating "Stop the world, I 
 want to get off!" moments. You can scroll way back to view an entire system at long range, but 
 this turns ships into tiny dots and makes the game just as unmanageable as it is when you're looking 
 at a close-up whirl of soaring vessels and rotating planets.  

  If you're in the mood for a 3D RTS in space, you might be better off heading to the mall and going 
 spelunking in the bargain bin for an old copy of Homeworld. That almost decade-old classic remains 
 a better bet than Shattered Suns.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 8sardinr
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 27, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Game was supposed to revolutionize the genre... right it made me feel like i was playing some awful 
 windows 95 version of home world. 
  
  This game is a definite avoid for horrible game play on top of horrible graphics and sound. This 
 is a game you expect to find a freeware somewhere on the internet, not something you'd pay for. 
 
  
  The Dev's are new so I am hoping they get their act together before putting out more abysmal stuff 
 like this and expecting to make a quick buck. Shame on you guys for falsely promoting your game 
 as ground breaking, and getting all this hype for a game I saw touted as the next Sins of a Solar 
 Empire. Instead you leave us with a game barely playable.
  
  The tutorial is mediocre at best, leaving you guessing with a large majority of the game.
  
 
  The storyline is so awful I gave up on the campaign half way thru it.
  
  Skirmish mode lacks the usual settings you'd expect to see nowadays.
  
  Overall this game is 
 an avoid, 2/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koivex2443
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 23, 2008 3:26 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to play this game, but it was a very disappointing experience.
  
  Graphics 2/10
  Let's face it, the graphics are HORRIBLE. It may have been good 5-6 Years ago 
 but not with today's standards.
  
  Sound 2/10
  The ONLY sound I heard was the annoying background music and the beeping sound of the computer 
 between missions. I think a voice for the characters would have been easy to integrate into the 
 game.
  
  Gameplay 4/10
  It is nice to have to manage economics and a fleet at the same time but the AI messes everything 
 up. For example: every ship you build has follow mode on. Even if you click on the enemy they want 
 to follow it around instead of attacking. This can be very irritating during the heat of battle.
 
  
  Ideas 8/10
  There re some nice ideas in the game. To be able to auto trade (balancing resources by buying and 
 selling) and to make supply lines (balance resources between two stations) are nice features. 
 
  It is also good to be able to make custom upgrades to each station and to customise every squad 
 (crew, engines, weapons, etc...)
  
  Overall 3/10
  I take 1 point away because the homepage said so many promising things about ths game, but failed 
 to keep the promises.
  
  In the end Shattered Suns is an ugly, badly optimised game that failed to live up to the expectations 
 of its fan.
  
  It is a shame... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: URGE
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 22, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game, good idea. The gfx was a bit bad, but i don't mind much about that 
 as long as the game is good. My first let down was the mission briefing. Lines of text announced 
 by a beep and comes every 2 sec or so, couldn't find any way to skip it. Well, to make this short, 
 this was just the first of many let downs. It tries to measure up to homeworld, but both game play 
 and graphic was waaaaay below what homeworld is and game play is about as bad as the graphics. 
 Their idea of a fleet formation is ctrl+number and designing is choosing what level equipment it 
 should have. Names apparently is a big no no, only way to see what kinda ship is flying is to select 
 it and see the stats. I shudder to think what would happen if i had 20 ships and wanted to find 
 one certain ship. 
  
  Try this game if you need something to waste time on and like to torture yourself.
  
  If you 
 excuse me, i am going to do some incantations and rituals to cleanse my pc of this abomination... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dharma481516
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  Picked up this one while I was looking for some cheap games to pick up. This one was on sale since 
 it was just realeased. Tried it out and felt it has a lot to be desired in looks, but some of the 
 things in the game were actually kind of cool.
  
  First off, there are a lot of items in the graphics department that need work. the engine flares 
 are really simple looking and things like shields and stuff are pretty dodgy too. There ships look 
 pretty cool, but they're not the typical "spacey" ships you find in games like EVE or anything. 
 Some people will probably think they look weird but I kinda like the styles. Theres three races 
 in the game and they all have a different look to their ships.
  
  The thing that I thought was fun was being able to change the ships around a lot. You can load 
 up the thing with a ton of lasers, boost the engines, tweak the cargo, all that stuff. And it's 
 not like other games where it's only a couple of tweaks you can make to a unit. You can all sorts 
 of stuff to one ship, and then pump out a different ship and it looks totally different. This makes 
 it easy to specailize the units you're using so that they don't have a lot of useless features 
 for what you're using them for (mining, fighting, etc)
  
  I guess it's kind of a two faced problem with this game, because on the one hand it seems like 
 there are some good ideas being implemented here, but those things are kinda killed by the lame 
 graphics. I think if you can get over the whole look of it, the game has some fun concepts that 
 make for a good strategy game. MAybe if they can upgrade this thing like it looks like they're 
 trying to do in the forum, they can bring it more into the mainstream with the graphics.
  
  Overall, not too pretty, but it has some good points if you can look past all that. I guess you 
 could say I like the game for it's personality! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hal9000c
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  My reaction is mixed. Overall I like this game because it has things no other game has and the 
 3D fighting is better than any other space RTS I've played. The ships really do fight in 3D and 
 they act more like they're really in space constantly moving instead of stopping and starting. 
 Planets really do orbit but I don't care that much about that.
  
  The problem is you have to learn to control things in 3D. Easier said than done. Once you get the 
 hang of it, it's not that hard, but it does take time to get the hang of it. That's why I say this 
 game isn't for everyone.
  
  The reason I like the 3D fighting more than other games like Star Wars Empire at War and Homeworld 
 is because there's more action. Ships fly all over the place. They don't just stop in one place 
 and fire at each other. I also like how they keep firing instead of strafing the way they did in 
 Homeworld. Strafing runs aren't as good because you spend half your time just turning around so 
 you can do another strafing run. In this game the ships turn as they pass by so they can keep firing 
 the whole time. They never let up. And the whole time they're flying all over the place while they 
 attack.
  
  But if you're not into the 3D fighting as much as I am then it might not be worth the difficulty 
 of getting used to the controls you need to fight in 3D like this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to describe Shattered Suns, maybe cause it so bad that its hard to think where to start, 
 every thing about this game is terrible, except maybe for one thing.
  
  The screenshots of the game looked promising, but when you play this game, you'll punch the nearest 
 person to you just because of how terrible this game really is.
  
  The story... What the hell were they thinking, its not even a story, I couldn't get into the story 
 just because of how terrible the gameplay was, the story is so incohesive its not even funny. Don't 
 play the story!
  
  The gameplay is so pitiful it actually gives me another reason to stop playing space strategies, 
 its like Sins of the Solar Empire, without the fun, this game is so confusing to control, all they 
 give you on the gameplay interface is a bunch of symbols they don't even tell what they mean, the 
 tutorial doesn't make much sense, so don't even bother with it, know what they call there ships? 
 Ship 1, ship 2, so on, so forth, what the **** does that mean? The Controls are workable, if not 
 confusing, its hard to figure out, again the tutorial doesn't make much sense, so don't even try 
 to decipher them.
  
  The graphics are merely decent, the detail on planets are remarkable, but the ships, jesus christ 
 they look terrible, with no shading, they look like dull pieces of plastic. The game was advertised 
 to be able to make your own ships, and customize them, WHERE?! That is a LIE, LIE, LIE, LIE!!! 
 TO SELL MORE, ITS A LIE, STAY AWAY FROM THIS HYPOCRITIC GAME!!!
  
  The sound... EVEN WORSE!! No mere words can describe how bad it is, the effects are so bad, it 
 made me **** my pants, the music score is decent, but to bad it has been wasted on such a bad game.
 
  
  Value... NO! Its not even worth pocket change, not even worth a pirated copy, not even worth attention, 
 not even worth burning, not even worth taking a **** on! ITS NOT EVEN WORTH PAYING SOMEONE TO PLAY!! 
 STAY AWAY FROM THIS GAME!!!!!!
  
  You may be asking why my review is so short... maybe cause this game is SO LOUSY! It doesn't deserve 
 this many words to get reviewed, it so bad, you can review it in a few words "TERRIBLE, MINDNUMBING, 
 PEICE OF **** OF A GAME" Please, whatever you do, don't even play this game, if someone pays you 
 to play this game, Reply with a round house kick to the face, if anyone even mentions this game 
 to you, answer them with a kick to the nutsack, thank you.
  
  If you really want it me to explain the game, its a wannabe sins of a solar empire.
  
  Last 
 words... STAY AWAY FROM THIS GAME!! DON'T EVEN LOOK AT THIS GAME!! Thank you for Reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khobar
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 20, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  "Bleh" I would say. When i first heard of that game i had big hopes. Screens cooled me down a bit 
 but the game itself made me sick just looking at it. Graphics - horrible it's not what do we expect 
 from space action. Old aged Homeworld had much better graphics than this. We got 2008 now, games 
 placed in 3D world look much more better than this. Plannets looks like the were rendered on some 
 low-end homePC. If it would have at least some action in it.
  Sound - over and over same reaction from your unit.
  Gameplay - maybe only thing saving it, but 
 the rest of the game makes it just disgusting. I'm a big fun of in space-placed games but Shattered 
 Suns was very disappointing. Installed wasted some time... un-installed it. Unfortunately it wasn't 
 worh the time. Better get Sin's of Solar Empire, or even Homeworld (even the first part) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mburkart
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 20, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Shattered Suns was an ambitious project which could have been a shining jewel in an otherwise sparse 
 crown of space games. But this appears to be another rushed out the door title with glaring bugs 
 and broken gameplay.
  
  For example. Pause does not stop the countdown timers, Mission critical ships can be lost and the 
 mission does not end, Accidentally docking with an allied station causes your ships to disappear, 
 and many other glaring issues. 
  
  The interface is also horrible but the game is so broken you wont spend long looking at it anyhow.
 
  
  
  Also this game is boring... Generally speaking.. any game that I can walk away from to do something 
 fun while I am waiting for things to happen does not make for a fun experience. 
  
  Anyhow there were good moments to this game.... It just happened to be when I clicked uninstall 
 and saw the space come back on my hard drive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dddd2
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 19, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok, ive bought the game for 40 bucks and i thought the gameplay was fun.
  
  Gameplay 4 : What the.... Scale is small, ship design isnt even complex, no ship classes actually, 
 just different ships to give a name to, not really a different arsenal of weapons.
  Uhmm.. teamwork? i just put ships together in a group.
  The move system is hard to learn as well, 
 and not even usefull, i moved my ships wrong all the time, untill i got the hand of it, the meaning 
 is that you move the camera all around!
  As for tutorials, even worse, they are unclear, bad letters and the chat in the campaign is almost 
 impossible to read since they reply very fast without voices and sometimes the text is trough another.
 
  And what the hell is with this camera?!
  I cant command ships like this.
  
  
  Graphic`s 3 : This looks even worse than homeworld from 1999, seriously, what a junk.
  Look, 
 we dont need crysis`s eyecandy, but this is just horrible to see for a game in 2008.
  
  Sound 6 : Sound is OK, not epic, but not bad eighter.
  No furder comments.
  
  Storyline 3 
 : Confusing, weird and hard to keep the text, you missed some stuff? good luck!
  
  
  Overal, this game is not worth it, i suggest sins of a solar empire or homeworld 2, which are way 
 better.
  
  If you like the spacestation building or empire building, get space empires.
  
  Avoid this game! not worth the money!!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
