-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shattered Galaxy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/shatteredgalaxy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  7, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 123 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nexon
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Aug 21, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The battles in Shattered Galaxy can be spectacular, tense, and exciting, with one caveat: you're 
 always limited to one small corner of the action. 

 With Shattered Galaxy, the US version of Nexon's enormously popular Korean game, real-time strategy 
 enters the realm of massively multiplayer gaming. But the question is, does it belong there? Fans 
 of online games like EverQuest will certainly appreciate what Shattered Galaxy achieves. But if 
 you've cut your teeth on Warcraft and Command &amp; Conquer, perfected Brawler rushes in Total 
 Annihilation, and stayed up until 3am playing Age of Empires II, you'll find that Shattered Galaxy 
 is, in ways, the exact opposite of what you've come to expect from the real-time strategy genre. 
 However, if you approach Shattered Galaxy on its own terms, you'll find in it a solid, appealing, 
 and unique new game.           It may look like Ultima Online, but it plays more like Starcraft. 
    

 When you log on to Shattered Galaxy, you're staring at what looks very much like Ultima Online. 
 Your avatar is a hero with several attributes, and you can walk him around a little city, rubbing 
 elbows with other heroes whose names and ranks hover overhead. The first building you'll visit 
 is a factory, where you can buy units. Money is rarely a problem, since units and repairs are incredibly 
 cheap. Instead, the limiting factor on what's available is your hero's influence, which is increased 
 by fighting battles. When your influence is high enough, you can buy advanced units, customize 
 your existing units with new components, or update them to improved models.   

  This is one of the best things about Shattered Galaxy. There's an incredible amount of breadth 
 in terms of how you advance. You have a level in each of the four divisions, each of which correspond 
 to unit types: infantry, mobile, air, and alien organic units. You also have an honor rating, which 
 represents how well you've served your faction and gives your units more hit points. You have prestige, 
 a measure of how successful you've been against other players, which determines your political 
 standing. You have improvable attributes that tweak rules, like how many units you can take into 
 battle or how many components you can fit into a unit's chassis. Furthermore, each of your units 
 has its own personal experience level and influence rating. Shattered Galaxy sometimes looks like 
 an unsightly sprawl of details, but it keeps you constantly on the verge of new milestones. There's 
 always something to improve, some new toy to buy, some reason to play just one more battle. This 
 is one of the basic tenets of massively multiplayer online gaming: keep giving players something 
 to look forward to, and they'll keep paying $10 a month for the service. There's no denying that 
 Shattered Galaxy does this well.           Is it an infantry rush if you have only six units?  
   

 But then there's the issue of how it plays as a real-time strategy game. To advance, the game all 
 but forces you into battles against other human players. This is the only way you can earn the 
 influence you need to unlock better units. You're aligned with one of four factions vying for control 
 of adjoining sectors, each representing a single battle map. When one side attacks another side's 
 sector, a 20-minute battle begins. Whoever holds the most victory locations when time runs out 
 wins the sector and, more importantly, the most experience.   

  The battles can be spectacular, tense, and exciting, with one caveat: You're always limited to 
 one small corner of the action. Initially, you can use only six units at a time (this number can 
 increase as you gain levels) , so success relies heavily on coordinating your actions with the other 
 combatants from your faction. By the time a battle is over, more than 20 players might have joined 
 in. If everyone shows up with artillery or flying units, you're sunk. If no one's on defense, you're 
 sunk. If your faction scatters after several different victory locations, you're sunk. Even more 
 so than in team-based multiplayer shooters like Team Fortress or Tribes, Shattered Galaxy is all 
 about playing your part in the big picture rather than running off on your own. To some players, 
 this might seem contrary to the whole point of real-time strategy games, in which the focus is 
 usually on letting you create and command a force of combined arms and maneuvering them across 
 the battlefield to outsmart or overwhelm your opponent. If you expect to personally oversee every 
 aspect of battle, then you'll be in for a rude awakening when you begin playing Shattered Galaxy 
 and soon discover that much of the action is out of your direct control.    

 Otherwise, as a real-time strategy game, Shattered Galaxy works very well. Although the battles 
 are short, there's a lot of back-and-forth. Reinforcements continually arrive as new players join 
 in, so there's a sense, up until the last few seconds, that a battle can go either way. The wide 
 variety of unit types is arranged in an intricate rock-paper-scissors relationship. Then there 
 are all the special abilities that come into play: Infiltrators, cloaking, mines (land and air) , 
 sensors, teleporting, long-range missiles, snipers, and disabling attacks are all available once 
 you reach the higher levels. Granted, you have to muck around with a lot of relatively less-interesting 
 low-level technology before you get to play with these elements, but you'll still see other players 
 using them on the battlefield.           The battle for a victory location heats up as flamethrowers 
 join in.    

 Actually, the disparity of player levels can be one of Shattered Galaxy's problems. A higher-level 
 player with advanced units is going to bulldoze through most of his opponents. What makes this 
 particularly troublesome is that there's no convenient indication of how powerful or how damaged 
 an enemy unit is. Are those first-level rookies, or souped-up veterans tricked out with uber weapons? 
 Are they almost dead or are they fresh reinforcements? Do you run for help or fight? You won't 
 know the answers until the shooting starts. Even then, you might not know until they've killed 
 all your units and you've failed to inflict a single casualty.   

  There are plans for Shattered Galaxy to split into multiple planets geared toward different experience 
 levels. This should help address a common problem previously seen in the game, where a handful 
 of maximum-level characters dominate the battles, making the low-level ramping an exercise in frustration. 
 You simply throw your units to their deaths over and over. Fortunately, destroyed units are cheaply 
 repaired after a battle.           You can customize and rename your units to give them a personal 
 touch.    

 From a technical standpoint, Shattered Galaxy is somewhat primitive. It runs in 800x600 resolution, 
 uses blatantly 2D graphics, and is squeezed into a cramped viewing area. Its sci-fi sound effects 
 are generally unremarkable. Fortunately, it does give you a helpful minimap with grid coordinates, 
 which is a great boon to communication with other players. Also, shortly after its US release, 
 a patch added some helpful unit management features. Although the servers are surprisingly stable 
 (the load tends to hover at a modest 400 players) , there are a few bugs yet to be addressed. For 
 instance, the unit pathfinding is rather poor -- you'll find that one of your few units will occasionally 
 stray from the pack because it can't figure out how to get up a crowded ramp.   

  On the other hand, the ongoing and persistent nature of the game universe gives Shattered Galaxy 
 something missing from most real-time strategy games, even those with superior technology. This 
 isn't necessarily a better way to play real-time strategy, and it's certainly not going to replace 
 any of your favorites. But it is new and intriguing. If you can accept your limited role in the 
 war, if you can stomach the dated technology, and if you're willing to struggle through the tedious 
 early hours, then you'll find Shattered Galaxy offers plenty to keep you engaged over the long 
 run.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: frostymourne
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2009 6:52 am PT
Review:  I have played Starcraft. C&C and WC3.... No matter how popular and good these RTS games are. Somehow 
 ill always end up playing shattered galaxy and forget about the rest.
  
  Why? you ask...
  
  The great thing about this game is that it emphasizes on teamwork... solid teamwork and good 
 gameplay. You don't work alone you work together with your team and you can make a difference to 
 turn the tides of battle. Playing in a map with 18+ players on both sides is fun and exciting. 
 Your regular RTS game probably pits you on 1v1 or maybe 5v5 but shattered galaxy is unique in its 
 own way, it is a massive multiplayer strategy game anyway.
  
  In normal RTS games you build a massive army and macro manage your forces. In this game you use 
 a squad. The amount of troops you send per reinforcements depends on how much points you put into 
 tactics. You can level up 4 divisions and you can distribute the points into 4 main attributes, 
 tactics, clout, education and mech apt.
  
  The beauty of this game is the customization and upgrading of your units and how you use them in 
 the battlefield. You would be spending time in the lab fully equipping your units before sending 
 them off to battle instead of just buying a unit and deploying them in other RTS games.
  
  The game is also beginner friendly in some way. As now there is the powerrating system which handicaps 
 veterans. Allowing the less experienced enemy side in a map to have more players joining in.
  
  Unfortunately the tutorial for the game is rather bad. Thus increasing the learning curve of 
 the battle and like any other RPG game there will always be veterans who picks off on less experienced 
 ones. As the game emphasizes more on PvP, this problem is a common sight, as u enter a battle full 
 of new players who do not know what to do.
  
  The problem with this game now is the lack of attention it has received by the their current owner 
 KRU. The development of the game has slowed down tremendously.
  
  Despite all of that the game has always maintained a healthy population of 400 to 900 players 24/7. 
 That's enough for constant battles and endless fun.
  
  Try it, its free to play now but pay for benefits for only USD$10.
  
  If you need help in the 
 game visit www. sg-city. com to download the game its www. sgalaxy. com.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xaldx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 8, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Enough accurate commentary has been made about SG, except about the learning curve. I have been 
 playing SG for two years (since the demise of Earth &amp; Beyond) .
  
  Just when I think I have it all figured out, I learn something new and interesting to try out. 
 As long as the enemy evolves, there is learning to do and changes to make. There is map-strategy, 
 unit selection, diplomacy, balancing development vs dominating on the battle-field.
  
  That is why this game is an addiction: it is simple fun, but challenging at many levels. There 
 is almost no limit to the depth and number of strategies. Battle is intense, strategy is pre-eminent, 
 individual contribution is apparent, individual skills can always be elevated. And then there is 
 the regiment dynamics.
  
  Shaping a regiment is extremely challenging, since the members need to work together and have complementary 
 units. Some units are better than others, but every unit has some weakness that can be exploited, 
 if you know your enemy. It takes ongoing diplomacy to keep your regiment happy, since there are 
 so many other regiments trying to get good players. Paying the ten bucks a month is a no-brainer, 
 if you think how much enjoyment you would get out of a six-pack of beer or two packs of cigarettes. 
 If you are going to play the game, don't short-change your own enjoyment by handicapping yourself 
 in game-play. One win against a powerful regiment is woth ten bucks -- you really cannot believe 
 the morale highs and lows in this team-war game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AccessApproved
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Shattered Galaxy was built by Kru Interactive in 2001. Since then, it has improves A LOT! Gamespot 
 has reviewed this game on 2001. I started this game since 2005, came back, and tried it again today 
 on 2006 of 27th of December. Let me tell you about Shattered Galaxy.
  
  Gameplay: Shattered Galaxy has a STRONG gameplay. Kru Interactive really sat down and thought about 
 it. This is no ordinary RTS/RPG game. Kru has made it stand-out from the rest. Shattered Galaxy 
 is the first MMORTS game ever built in the gaming world. Gameplay involves in your units going 
 to capture a POC (a capturing field - about 6 - 7 of them to conquer the whole land) . Sometimes 
 it's easy, sometimes it's not. In the 2006 version, there are 3 teams that all crave for land. 
 If one of their land is under attack, they rush to their land to protect it. The battles get so 
 INTENSE and it's remarkable and fascinating of how many units are out there! The POC's are all 
 crowded with units protecting them! Bombs and explosions everywhere! The fun never stops in Shattered 
 Galaxy. Also, in the RPG aspect, the more battles you battle, you can give your hero (person that 
 goes to lands) knowledge points. Upgrades for your units are available as well. Graphics: The graphics 
 aren't that WOW, but it gives a clear idea that it is in the future. The game options doesn't have 
 that much graphic advantages. The textures seem dull and primitive by using the same texture block 
 over and over. In addition, other resolutions for this game aren't available; the game only uses 
 - somewhat primitive - 800 x 600 resolution. I don't mind it that much, though. Sound: The sound 
 is Shattered Galaxy is its major flaw for such a kick ass game. The sound seems dull and unattractive 
 as it does everything repeatedly. The sound seems like below 22Khz of sound quality of the most. 
 I truly hope the sound quality advances to 44Khz soon. Value: It's worth a try. I recommend playing 
 at least 2 weeks until you can make a final decision whether to play it longer or come back another 
 time. The game is totally free and well worth the try in my opinion. Thank you for reading my review. 
 My online nickname for Shattered Galaxy is b20 if you wish to play with me at any time! :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbm25
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I found this game while I was looking for MMORPGs on the web. I thought it sounded cool, so I downloaded 
 it and started playing. The tutorial is a bit confusing, but once you get the hang of it you will 
 seriously get addicted to it. What I found most interesting about this game is that it is an RPG, 
 RTS, and multiplayer at the same time. In the game, you control a hero, and you get to assign skill 
 points to him as he levels up. Your hero never actually fights in the battles, and this is where 
 the RTS bit come in. In battles, you must deploy squads of units to fight the enemy. Each unit 
 has their drawbacks and advantages, and you have to choose which units you want to deploy at each 
 battle. If all your units are killed, you can deploy another squad in about half a minute. Since 
 this game is real-time, reinforcements from far away cannot help as quickly as the ones that are 
 closer, and the enemy can block by starting a battle in the reinforcement's path. Though this game 
 still have some glitches and some of the spelling is wrong, I really recommend this game for those 
 of you RTS/RPG fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShirohamaX
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot covered this game in 2001. It is not 2006, and in the 5 years this game has morphed and 
 changed drastically. An brand new interface along with free to play. However there is a catch and 
 that is you will not get as many bonus as paying players, but hey, it is free.
  
  There are two planets, Relic and Morganna Prime. On these two planets are 3 different fractions 
 on each planet. On Relic it is the Troy, Pompeii, and Helike.
  
  The goal is the fight for your fraction, earn uranium and kick the other fractions butt. However, 
 this game is primarily based on team work, and without proper communication you will surely fail.
 
  
  In order to control the planet, there are different land pieces which the 3 different fractions 
 fight for. To control a piece you must capture the POCS, which is pretty much sitting on this circle 
 for either 0:45, 1:00, 1:15, or 1:30 to capture one POC. 
  
  What makes this game interesting is that you, yourself play a hero which can update in stats, (Tacts, 
 Clout, Edu, and MA) Tacts allows you to deploy how many units in battle at one time (6 is the minimum, 
 and 12 is the maximum) . Clout allows you to get more advanced units. Edu allows you to upgrade 
 your units to have better weapons, and armour. And MA allows you to raise the weight limit for 
 your units, basically allowing you to put more onto your units.
  
  This game requires a lot of teamwork, and if that is not possible for you then this game won't 
 be for you. I encourage anyone who is tired of the big RTS, like WC3, and C&C to try SG, you might 
 become hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolognat13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 8, 2005 7:12 am PT
Review:  A great game in my mind. With all the choices of online play today, this game just doesn't meet 
 the standard anymore. This game was and still is fun to play, it's just no longer worth a fee to 
 play. Great game to play with friends and to make new ones. Above average is the best way to describe 
 it. Download the demo, play it for at least 2 weeks and if you're still interested sign up. Hold 
 yourself back until you've done the demo for a short while. I think you'll find it's fun, but by 
 the end of those 2 weeks you and your friends will have found a new game to become addicted too 
 and in the long run you'll actually save yourself money. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
