-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shattered Union
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/shatteredunion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cool premise of a modern-day American civil war.
 Very easy to pick up, yet also offers challenging gameplay.
 Lots of replayability.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Strategic portion of the game lacks depth.
 AI factions don't gang up on the leader like they should.
 Easy to get mired down.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 27, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 6.9, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 352 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: PopTop Software
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 17, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite some flaws with its strategic game, Shattered Union is a fun, turn-based wargame that anyone 
 can pick up and enjoy. 

  It's easy to dismiss Shattered Union as a clone of the hyperpopular Advance Wars games found on 
 Nintendo's handheld systems. Yes, there are certainly similarities to Advance Wars. For example, 
 Shattered Union is a turn-based combat game that features simple yet deep mechanics that are easy 
 to pick up but hard to master, just like Advance Wars. But Shattered Union feels more like a spiritual 
 heir to Panzer General, the great PC wargame of the early '90s that helped define the "beer-and-pretzels" 
 style of wargaming. Panzer General was a huge hit because it offered elegant and simple gameplay 
 that belied a considerable amount of strategic depth and replaybility. In other words, it was a 
 game that just about anyone could pick up and enjoy, from the complete newcomer to the grizzled 
 wargame veteran. The same could almost be said of Shattered Union, because it's a lightweight wargame 
 that anyone can play and enjoy. In fact, Shattered Union gets the combat so right that it's a pity 
 that the rest of the game doesn't measure up; otherwise, this could have been a classic in the 
 making. As it is, it's an enjoyable, though somewhat flawed, strategy game with a ton of potential. 

          Shattered Union depicts a modern-day American civil war, so choose your favorite faction 
 and go take your aggression out on the rest of the country.     

  The problem with most modern-day military wargames is that it's tough to find a fitting opponent 
 for the United States and its military. So the solution in Shattered Union is to pit the United 
 States against itself. Thanks to a deeply divided electorate (sound familiar?) and some dastardly 
 Russian sabotage, the United States shatters into six regional factions, including Pacifica, the 
 California Commonwealth, the Great Plains Federation, and the New England Alliance. To further 
 complicate things, the European Union "invades" the smoking ruins of Washington D. C. (destroyed 
 by a terrorist nuclear bomb) to restore order, thus setting the stage for the mother of all civil 
 wars. Your job: Take control of a faction and reunite the shattered union by force. At your disposal 
 is an arsenal of modern-day weapons -- M1 tanks, B2 stealth bombers, Apache gunships, and infantry 
 units, as well as a few hypothetical ones. And while the American factions tend to have the same 
 arsenals (the Europeans, naturally, have their own gear) , each faction does have at its disposal 
 its own unique units and special powers. These special powers vary, but they come in both "good" 
 and "evil" types, and you gain access to them by your political reputation in the game -- but we'll 
 get to that a bit later.  

  Shattered Union takes place on two levels. The first is the strategic map, which divides the country 
 into territories, though not necessarily states. Each faction starts with a handful of territories, 
 which generate revenue that can be used to purchase new equipment or repair existing ones. During 
 each turn, you can manage your units, and you must decide whether to attack a neighboring territory, 
 or whether to defend a territory when invaded. Whether you go on offense or defense, you have to 
 allocate forces to that battle; those forces will be unavailable for other battles later that turn, 
 so it's important to keep a reserve, in case someone counterattacks you in a different territory. 

  When you go into battle, you have the option of letting the computer automatically deploy your 
 forces or doing the honor yourself. Your can have a wide variety of units at your command, and 
 each has a role to play. Infantry are cheap and numerous, though relatively lacking in firepower 
 and protection. Stick them in the confines of a city, though, and they might be tough to dig out. 
 Engineers can lay mines and other obstacles to try and channel advancing enemies. Light armor have 
 decent firepower and speed, making them great scouts, but they're vulnerable. Heavy armor are the 
 kings of the battlefield, but they're slow and expensive. Antiaircraft units are worth their weight 
 in gold, because they may be your only defense against fighters, bombers, and helicopters, but 
 that also makes them a priority target for the enemy. Artillery can pummel most light units, but 
 they're also high on the target list for the enemy. Units can only attack once per turn, and when 
 two units engage one another, the game shows only those units and the results of the battle. There's 
 very much a rock-scissors-paper balance to the units, but that doesn't mean that combat turns out 
 the same way every time. There are modifiers that can improve or decrease your odds of success 
 (for instance, is the enemy unit dug in to the confines of a city while your units are exposed 
 on the open land outside the city?) , as well as just plain luck in the way the virtual dice roll. 

          The combat is incredibly easy to pick up, yet there's a lot of depth in the gameplay.  
    

  Of course, the relationship between the units is important, but what's also cool in Shattered Union 
 is how they relate to the battlefield. Basically, as you battle over chunks of America, the game 
 keeps track and remembers everything that happens. Blow up a bridge and it'll stay destroyed in 
 subsequent battles. Pummel a city to rubble and it'll remain rubble, should you happen to revisit 
 that battlefield. That also brings up an important feature in the game: political reputation. If 
 you inflict too much collateral damage (by, say, leveling a city with a B-2 bomber to kill some 
 infantry) , then your political reputation will take a hit, as the global media instantly transmits 
 your deeds around the world. This will affect you in battle several ways. For one, it may result 
 in more partisan units appearing to battle against you, and these units, though extremely vulnerable, 
 serve as excellent scouts, and more importantly, canon fodder that can make a unit waste its attack 
 for that turn. More importantly, your reputation will affect your special powers, which are abilities 
 that are unique to each faction. The better your reputation, the more "good" your special abilities, 
 such as being able to heal units or to extend their visibility range. Conversely, the worse your 
 reputation, the more "evil" abilities you can unlock, such as tactical nuclear cruise missiles 
 and depleted uranium munitions for that extra punch.     

  Shattered Union also abstracts otherwise complex issues into simple terms. For instance, logistics 
 is handled well; your units have limited amount of fuel, and when that's all burned up, they can't 
 move anymore. This means that you can't race across the map, but must halt to allow logistics to 
 catch up to you, refueling and repairing damage. But this also gives the enemy a chance to regroup, 
 so you have to carefully decide when to go all out, because the worst thing that can happen is 
 to run out of gas with your units vulnerable and isolated from one another. Your units actually 
 gain experience over time, becoming tougher, more powerful, and essentially, more valuable. That 
 makes you go out of your way to try and preserve them in battle, and it also increases the sting 
 when one of them is destroyed.  

          Combat is simple and makes sense, and it rewards good tactics, such as seeking protection 
 in cities.     

  Put it all together and the combat in Shattered Union shines. The tactical battles are fast-paced 
 and simple to play, yet they offer lots of challenging tactical gameplay. For instance, when you're 
 on the attack, you'll quickly learn to amass your firepower and use scouts (which are cheap and 
 disposable) to locate the enemy so you can bring the hammer to bear down upon them. Meanwhile, 
 when on defense, it's all about setting up a layered defense to whittle down the enemy. And, generally, 
 the computer is a decent opponent, though it does make some stupid mistakes. The artificial intelligence 
 is pretty good when on defense, as it knows how to keep forces in reserve and it likes to attack 
 when your forces are strung out in a march. On offense, though, it's fairly predictable and sends 
 units at you somewhat piecemeal. And the computer also doesn't seem to identify the "real" threat. 
 Since units can attack only once per turn, it makes sense to take out the most potent threat first; 
 however, the AI will occasionally pass up the logical target and go after a less obvious one. While 
 that's great for you, it's also the kind of rookie mistake that kind of ruins the illusion that 
 you're battling a ruthless foe. Thankfully, Shattered Union does allow you to play skirmish modes 
 in both single-player and multiplayer, and in the case of the latter, it offers hot-seat and network 
 play that works fairly well, though you're in for a long wait for your turn if your opponent takes 
 his or her own sweet time.  

  A bigger issue is that the strategic portion of the game feels fairly basic compared to the richness 
 of the battles. For one thing, there's a notable lack of even rudimentary diplomacy, and it would 
 be nice to have been able to create alliances of convenience, so that you can gang up on the faction 
 that's currently in the lead. Speaking of which, the computer factions tend to do a horrible job 
 of recognizing the real threat. If one faction has a dominant lead and momentum, the other factions 
 don't seem to recognize that and will exhaust their strength battling one another, or you, rather 
 than the real threat. This can be a bit frustrating, because that gives the major faction a free 
 pass to bulk up while you're constantly being harassed by the minor factions. And progress in the 
 game can come slowly; it often feels like you take one step backwards every time you progress two 
 steps. For instance, take a territory, and odds are you'll be counterattacked in that territory 
 in the coming turn, which means that you'll have to fight there again. It's not unusual to have 
 to battle in the same territory time after time until you finally boot the enemy out of any adjacent 
 territories. And while that captures the back-and-forth of warfare (just think of the Civil War) , 
 it can often make you feel as though you're mired in a quagmire.  

          In between battles you can repair damaged units or purchase hideously expensive new ones 
 to replace losses.     

  Shattered Union very much has a board game feel to it, right down to the hex-based maps and the 
 huge unit counters that make tanks and helicopters Godzilla-size compared to cities and the terrain. 
 Because this is a game about a second American Civil War, you'll get to battle all across the great 
 land, and landmarks in individual cities help identify them, such as the famous St. Louis Gateway 
 Arch, or the Pentagon in the burnt-out ruins of Washington D. C. (By the way, destroying landmarks 
 is an extrabig negative in your reputation column.) Though nowhere near as pretty or as cutting-edge 
 as other strategy games, the style of Shattered Union works for the game; it has an old-school 
 look and feel to it, which is fitting since it's an old-school strategy game. The Xbox version 
 of the game simply isn't as crisp-looking as the PC version, though, and as a result, it's harder 
 to get a "big picture" of the battle -- you have to keep the game zoomed in most of the time to tell 
 what's going on. The Xbox version also suffers from some annoying load times between battles. The 
 game's simple mechanics lend themselves well to the Xbox's gamepad, and it's easy to control, at 
 least. The sound effects and music are pretty solid, though pretty much what'd you expect from 
 a modern-day strategy game. You can hear the rumble of tank engines, the thrum of helicopter blades, 
 and the whoosh of missiles flying in the air.  

  Despite Shattered Union's flaws, we still found ourselves enjoying the gameplay quite a bit. This 
 is the kind of lightweight wargame that no one seems to make anymore, and it's still a bit surprising 
 that a major publisher would be behind this in a day and age when turn-based wargames are the domain 
 of the niche publishers. There's certainly room for improvement, and we hope that Shattered Union 
 will get a chance for a sequel, because this is a game with a ton of potential. Make no mistake, 
 though; this is still an interesting and engaging wargame that anyone can pick up and play, and 
 the subject matter is undeniably cool.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 17, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  If you were to merely look at a game from face value, Shattered Union has a really fantastic image 
 and back-story. The chronicle is that in 2009, David Jefferson Adams is elected as the 44th President 
 of the United States following a tie-vote, and achieves the remarkable distinction of becoming 
 the most unpopular President in US history (no mean feat, given the work of his predecessor) . Over 
 the next few years, a large number of terrorist attacks across the country lead to the introduction 
 of Marshal Law on the West Coast, as well as the almost total collapse of the economy. With dawning 
 of a new election in 2012, the now corrupt Supreme Court sidesteps the democratic process, and 
 disqualifies several popular candidates from running. In November 2012, the incumbent Adams is 
 re-elected after rigging the election, and the public begin to revolt. Then, on January 20th 2013, 
 during the 57th Inauguration Day celebrations, the city of Washington D. C. is hit by an atomic 
 device, killing the President and most of Congress. This act throws the entire country into chaos, 
 and with no nationwide command structure left in place, the Union begins to fragment. California 
 and neighbouring states become the California Commonwealth, whilst other factions such as the Great 
 Plains Federation and the New England Alliance emerge. Finally, the European Union, at the request 
 of the UN, deploys peacekeepers to the remains of the Washington Metropolitan Area. And thus the 
 stage is set for the Second American Civil War. Slightly later on, the Russian Federation forcibly 
 annexes Alaska (by claiming it had always been part of Russia) and also gets drawn into the fighting.
 
  
  This gripping story was excellently depicted in a long trailer for the game (which also features 
 as the game's introduction) , and at the time it quite caught my imagination. Sadly, the game in 
 no way lives up to the seemingly epic war promised and glimpsed in the trailer, and this game just 
 goes to show how an excellent idea on paper can be so terribly spoiled. Shattered Union is attacked 
 on all fronts by glitches, perennial hiccups and random errors, which interrupt and prevent most 
 of the actual gameplay from taking place. When and if you do actually get around to playing something, 
 the turn-based war-game strategy is only mediocre, superficial and uninspiring. I expected a lot 
 better from PopTop Software (the great Railroad Tycoon 2 and 3, as well as the brilliant Tropico) .
 
  
  Let's start right at the beginning. What Shattered Union is trying to be is an old style, turn-based 
 war strategy game, similar to something like Panzer General of Advance Wars. Most of the game plays 
 out in various regions of the former United States, and movement is controlled over a hexagonal 
 checkerboard. The intervening time is spent looking at a national map, showing the various former 
 states held by each faction. Before each game turn, you are given the choice of attacking a region 
 bordering the ones you own, or recuperating your looses. If you choose to attack, you then assemble 
 a taskforce, and take a series of mini-turns against the AI enemy on the battle map. If you achieve 
 the main objective, you gain control of the territory and all enemy forces are pushed from the 
 area. Failure to stop an attack on your land can result in the loss of regions and military personnel. 
 Some problems with this system arise from the fact that as far as the AI are concerned; they are 
 just playing a giant game of Risk. It is utterly random chance who or where they will attack, and 
 they also maintain the decidedly antiquated First World War tactic of launching assaults on the 
 same place, time and time again. This means that the outcome of the entire escapade can be decided 
 in the first move, so it can be an almost purely a matter of chance whether you win or be defeated.
 
  
  Though made out to be fundamentally different, each of the six different US factions has almost 
 identical military equipment. There are variations in population in each territory, which will 
 limit the number of units that can be recruited, but this basically descends the strategy to a 
 simple game of superior numbers. Only the EU and the Russians have any difference in equipment, 
 though again both of theirs approximates the Americans in many ways. Since this was developed in-tandem 
 with the consoles in mind, the strategy elements have been substantially toned down. For example, 
 there is no means of resource gathering. All you have is cash in hand, which you then use to recruit 
 men. When actually playing the game, units are moved in a hexagonal format across the territory, 
 and can open fire on the enemy once they are within range. This battle map is fairly well designed, 
 and the graphics are quite good as well, although it is a bit bizarre to see a bright red tank 
 and helicopters depicting the different coloured faction's forces (though probably necessary for 
 differentiation reasons) . All of the units have varying capabilities and ranges, and can only attack 
 once during the turn. There is also a deep fog of war, obscuring most of the map. One issue with 
 all of this is that it simply feels severely lacking in depth, and purpose. It's not terrible, 
 but it's in now way anywhere above average either.
  
  However, now we arrive at this game's terminal downfall. To be perfectly frank, Shattered Union 
 is just a totally broken game. There is a plethora of horrific and terminal errors that continually 
 pelted every attempt to run the game. Each and every one of these caused the game to lock up or 
 shutdown, forcing a complete quit. In the end, I was never able to play more than five minutes 
 of the game at one time. Eventually I made the decision to completely give up on ever even thinking 
 of completing anything more than the first mission. And do you know the really appalling thing 
 about all of this? The developers of PopTop Software know perfectly well that the game is incredibly 
 buggy, but either because they didn't feel like it, or they ran out of money, an official patch 
 which could solve some of these issues has never been released.
  
  Overall, Shattered Union is a distinctly average game, but with a brilliant starting premise. Sadly, 
 this premise is almost entirely wasted, first by the lacklustre gameplay, but mainly by the never-ending 
 errors and bugs. If you are obsessed with the old-style turn based strategies, this will probably 
 be mildly diverting and entertaining for you, as long as you can get past the bugs. For everyone 
 else, it's going to be a coin toss of whether the technical issues affect your system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Well, I must start of with this. This game has a extremly lavish and unique story. The idea of 
 this game is very good. The story takes place in America in 2012 when a hated american leader is 
 killed and the nation falls apart. The nation breaks up into 7 factions. The factions are set-up 
 okay. The kinda unique from each other. Each has one very special unit. The game's campaign is 
 basiclly a conquer the world mode, just a tad bit better. The game is turn-based and unit-based. 
 You know, get a unit, send it to attack a tank, see which one is better. That gets sort of boring 
 though. But, the idea and conquer the world mode is very fun.
  
  I suggest this game for a player who loves great storylines and can get along with most games easily. 
 There really is not much more you can say about this game.
  
  ++storyline
  +idea
  -gets boring fast 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  Well, although Panzer General fans will be a little disappointed with the gameplay, it offers very 
 well scenario and atmosphere which makes this game worth playing. Very simple yet attractive interface 
 is quite successful and player is not bogged down in tons of menus and controls. The strategy aspect 
 is fine as you dont have to kill every foe on the battlefield, victory is attained by capturing 
 enough victory points (cities) on the map which contributes to tactics as players find themselves 
 in necessity of building a battle plan. One of the strange things is music is not proportional 
 to the situation and when the heat is extremely on music plays soft and calm tunes which makes 
 a weird atmosphere, it Just like tries to say calm down, there is nothing serious . PROS:
  + Nice graphics and animations.
  + Very well sound effects and alright music + Special abilities 
 (There was no such thing in PG)
  + Easy to understand, easy to manage.
  + Cant use every unit you have in attack, you have to spare forces for defence also, which contributes 
 to balance of the game.
  + Auto deploy feature.
  + Air strike as it is supposed to be (call air strike, no directly control of air units on battlefield) 
 + Easy roster screen, buying, repairing and cycling through units was never this easy.
  + You can easily see the entrenchment value of your unit and the factors modifying it. (until PG-3 
 it was not available)
  + Every city you capture improves to your cash-in, purchase cost, repair etc capabilities.
  + 
 There are unique units like European or Russian units you have to confront.
  
  CONS:
  - Your survival highly depends on other countries' aggression with others rather then you.
  - 
 No diplomacy, no alliance, no trade and such (the weakest issue in game)
  - No Auto-resolve feature. - Artillery units don't backup your units under attack (PG was very 
 good at it)
  - You cant see your total income per turn nor others. it is displayed per province. (You have to 
 add them up)
  - AA units doesn't fire air units directly attacking them??? (They do respond if they survive the 
 attack)
  - No pop-up explanatory texts on icons. No tips, no help.
  - AI factions don't go for the strongest which eventually leads strongest to strengthen much more 
 and become an invincible giant. Also they often are over-stubborn in capturing some provinces no 
 matter how many times they have attempted and failed.
  - Units are not sorted by type in Roster screen, (they are sorted to purchase time) makes it difficult 
 on eyes to see same type of units.
  - Hard on GPU, if you intend to increase detail, frame rates are easily bogged down.
  - Units 
 are not restricted by enemy units on movement as much as they are supposed to be. Enemy easily 
 passes between your units and kills your artillery at the back. (PG was better i that)
  - No estimations given before battle (PG offered that and you knew more or less the outcome of 
 the fight.
  - Political reputation can only be influenced by destroying or not the cities. There is no apparent 
 benefit in having high PR other than obtaining different special abilities on the contrary often 
 evil abilities are more destructive. I mean, it would have been superb at least to receive international 
 Funds for being good. All in all, Shattered union is not a bad game, it is promising, Just Plain 
 fun for Turn based strategy lovers and I believe if there is to be a SU-2 to be released, it will 
 be highly improved (and would be better with a world scenario) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GalacticOrigins
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  This is a great game for those who like to control their economy, build units, and attack strategically. 
 You have to balance your attacks be realizing that any units you attack with will remain in the 
 province they attacked until the beginning of your next turn. Therefore, such units are not available 
 to defend any other province during your opponents turns. They will, of course, defend the province 
 you attacked  provided you won the battle. The Easy difficulty means you can only be attacked 
 once during your opponents turns, so it is, um, easier (and a good way to learn the game) . On 
 the Hard difficulty setting you can be attacked up to 3 times from different opponents and thus 
 you can run short on units to defend with. The Medium setting is the best for casual games.
  Each province is unique and is mapped out just like reality. It is interesting to see which major 
 cities made it onto the maps! Provinces also have special facilities, like Banks to increase all 
 your income (by 5%) or Steel Mills that increase your defense (more rare, and thus more highly 
 prized) . As the wars rage, maps take damage, and some facilities are destroyed, as are precious 
 bridges. One tactic to use on defense is to bomb distant bridges, thus slowing down the enemys 
 advance to your defensive positions.
  Money is a necessity and each province is worth 10k, capitol provinces are worth 15k. The total 
 number of Banks you own then adjusts these numbers. AI opponent s will definitely defend capitol 
 provinces as best they can.
  As far as politics are concerned, your actions on the battlefield will either move you towards 
 Evil and Destruction or into a more responsible position. It is better, in my opinion, to avoid 
 mass destruction because you also receive special abilities based on your political alignment and 
 the good ones are the better abilities. Each faction has a few unique abilities gained this way.
 
  Some players have remarked they would like a diplomatic system for the game. I believe that this 
 is so they can abuse they AI by making a limited peace on one front all the while plotting invasion. 
 This game is all out war and does not need a diplomatic system between the various factions.
  In the strategic game I usually sell all my choppers and artillery since they are magnets to be 
 easily destroyed. I buy an extra stealth and fighter and load up on the Abrams tanks (sometimes 
 an M8 or LAV or two) . I then push forward gingerly and sweat out the eventual counterattacks. Eventually 
 my entire force consists of tanks. The AI will swarm you with the right units to take out what 
 you use. So, if you have artillery (nice range, poor visibility, and horrible defense) , plan on 
 seeing them go BOOM to enemy air and chopper attacks. As a matter of fact, your first goal in any 
 battle is to figure out how to take out enemy helicopters. The AI will also have excellent air 
 defense, so if you use choppers, watch them get shot down.
  Each faction is definitely playable and you can win with anyone  choice of faction gives a splash 
 of color and decides which maps you will fight your more important battles on. Dont use too many 
 of the factions unique units. They are nice but way too slow (except for Pacifica, which has the 
 best armor in the game) .
  The main review stated that the AI does not gang up on the leader. The AI is smart, and will not 
 attack someone massively stronger in strength (unless that someone is spread thinly) . The writer 
 also mentioned he did not like being counterattacked in territories he just took. Well, other factions 
 will do what they can to push you out of their territory, especially if the previous battle greatly 
 weakened the offensive force. I should mention, the AI seems to be on a war binge, which means 
 that neighbors who attack each other usually keep going at it. Sometimes it is best to sit tight 
 and not attack, or attack with a Humvee and one Fighter (just to take out a chopper!) .
  I have almost no bugs from this game. It locked up twice since I started playing it and those problems 
 were from other software I had in the background.
  All in all Shattered Union is a great game. It even has a pick-up battle scenario portion for those 
 who want to just fight the battles. It is also turned based, which is pleasant in the Age of Real-Time 
 Stupidity. The True Strategy lover will appreciate the choices you have to make as you buy units, 
 fail to repair units (they will heal each turn if they do not move in a battle) , and choose your 
 battle sites wisely. Of course, you cannot control the actions of your opponents, but you can limit 
 their invasion routes into your territory by taking certain blocking provinces. Great Games are 
 those you want to play, time and again, and always have on your hard drive - this is just such 
 a game. This is a great game, not too serious but a whole lot of Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike1212ms
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Not much missing at all. Good overall game play. Not too hard but never too easy. A lot of thinking 
 involved. I especally like how realistic this game is. In games such as command an conquer, you 
 can dominate with one unit type. You cant do that in shattered union. Its balance is its best feature 
 in my oppinion. I'd have to say that my favorite faction is the great plains federation. I forgot 
 the name of there special artillery unit, but it kicks ass. The only thing I dont like is how long 
 it takes to build up powers with your politics. I cant tell you how often I had to purpously attack 
 a city just to get points towards my "controversial" superweapons. It's been running great on my 
 system. I read reviews of people having trouble running it, but no problems here at all. I couldnt 
 however run I-tunes when I tried to run them at the same time. Oh well, the sound in this game 
 is pretty good anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggoldsmith
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  An addictive game, but TONS of bugs! This game hates my computer. And it will probably screw up 
 with your system too. PopTop doesn't want to spend the money for a patch, so I'm doomed to suffer 
 hard lock after hard lock until my hard drive gives up the ghost. Oh well. 
  
  And its a real shame because this game is really quite unique. It takes the gameplay of the traditional 
 hex based wargame ( think Panzer General ) and places it in a beautifully abtracted 3D map of the 
 entire United States. I've really never seen anything like this game. The graphics are really superb... not 
 cutting edge... but really superb.
  
  Unfortunatley, I've never experienced a buggier game.
  
  Wish me luck.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  If you can get past Shattered Union's ridiculously implausible premise, you'll find a turn-based 
 war game that will keep you interested through at least one campaign. Maybe.
  
  The combat is interesting at first, but entirely too easy, even on higher difficulties. I did not 
 find combat challenging enough after the first few battles to really hold my interest.
  
  While all war games simplify things such as logistics, this game does so almost to a ridiculous 
 degree. It is completely unrealistic. And while I enjoyed the familiarity of battles over known 
 US territory, the whole thing seemed to defy reality.
  
  In the end, it only took one or two engagements to figure out which units to use against enemy 
 units. From then on, the game became increasingly tedious.
  
  The graphics were adequate, but nothing spectacular. The same could be said about the sound design.
 
  
  Its lack of reality when it comes to war, coupled with a decided lack of replay value, means that 
 I cannot recommend this game. It lacks the tactical depth which war games need in order to stay 
 fresh, and lacks any other significant innovation in the genre to warrent a purchase merely from 
 the curious. Avoid it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric1000
Rating: 3.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:03 am PT
Review:  There is something missing from this game, strategy & depth. Okay then two things but for a title 
 that tries hard to play like a simplified tabletop wargame these are the two main elements. 
  
  There are only three basic screens in the entire game. The 'tactical' map of the USA, the units 
 screen which allows you to buy, repair & select units for battle and the battle screen. The latter 
 does however have different geography for each of the regions.
  
  The game starts with the player choosing one of the seven factions to control and then heads straight 
 into the 1st turn when each faction decides to attack a region belonging to a competitor, seemingly 
 at random as there is no reasoning behind the decision. The AI isn't even consistent with who it 
 attacks, sometimes attacking three different opponents in the 1st three turns. This lack of intellect 
 continues on the attacked factions turn, in which more often than not they will ignore the aggression 
 and attack someone else like a bunch of crazed lunatics with a death wish.
  
  As if the strategy side wasn't bad enough, no politics, no alliances, no secret deals etc. then 
 the battles themselves are even worse with no tactical acumen needed at all, simply field more 
 units than the other guy and you will win.
  
  All in all this game starts with a good concept and rapidly goes downhill from there, one for the 
 bargain bin.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobLyon123
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  As a beer and pretzels strategy wargame, Shattered Union is Budweiser and Rold Gold to Panzer 
 Generals Heineken and Philly soft pretzels with spicy mustard. 
  
  2K Games and Poptop Software have put together a solid game thats held my interest for 15+ hours 
 of rumbling treads, devastating artillery barrages, and awesome air strikesand Im not even halfway 
 through my first campaign. The campaign portion itself is a bit of a lightweight, with no diplomacy 
 and few real strategic decisions other than which territory might offer the most bang for the buck 
 in terms of bonuses garnered as a result of a successful invasion. The political/cultural backstories 
 of the various factions does lead one to think  Hey, wouldnt it be nice if I could ally with 
 other like-minded factions, ganging up on those ultra-conservatives in the South and West or those 
 sissified liberals in the North and along the coasts. But whos playing this kind of game for the 
 overarching strategic considerations, really? 
  
  The meat of the game is the tactical portion, and this is, as I said  solid. Tactical forethought 
 and adherence to proven doctrine will produce expected results. Careful scouting leads to diminished 
 fog of war casualties, concentration of force to point of contact leads to quick, efficient kills, 
 and conservative use of airpower can prove a real life-saver in tight spots. Those whove played 
 any of SSIs very similar Panzer General (PG) series, however, will immediately notice a certain 
 lack of depth in terms of tactical options. Infantry do not entrench. Terrain bonuses are simplistic 
 and undervalued. Artillery barrages will not diminish a units defensive bonus, as one might expect. 
 Airpower options are non-existent (In PG III, recce runs, Wild Weasel runs, and straight-up bombing 
 runs were all handled differently in terms of the level of risk to which the airframe was exposed 
  not so in Shattered Union (SU) . In SU you either bomb or dogfight, period) . In SU there are no 
 paratroopers, no airmobile troops, and the commando troops are just a tougher infantry platoon 
 with better legs, and no special abilities (like, say - laser designator capabilities to increase 
 the effectiveness of air strikes, or stealthy movement abilities to allow for infiltration behind 
 enemy lines) . 
  
  The oversights lead to a rather straightforward tactical assault or defense. Once one embraces 
 standard, proven doctrine  that doctrine is all youll ever need  or be given the option  to 
 employ. Putting some Rangers onto an airfield far behind enemy lines, with all the risks and benefits 
 of such a daring stroke, would have been a nice option to have. Employing commandos in a stealthy 
 support role, rather than as just another front-line force, would have been a nice option to have. 
 Having a dug-in heavy infantry platoon crush an armored platoon in house-to-house fighting within 
 city limits would have been nice. Being able to send a B2 Stealth bomber on a reconnaissance run 
 over a distant enemy-held city (and return unscathed) would have been nice. 
  
  For all the oversights, there are some nice additions to the PG formula. Engineers in PG could 
 entrench quickly, bypass entrenchments when attacking, and lay down obstacles (that were so easily 
 bypassed, and took so long to lay down, that they were almost inconsequential) . In SU, engineers 
 dont entrench, but can lay down pressure mines, dragons teeth, and barbed wire. All of these 
 are extremely effective, and the race to lay obstacles before the invaders reach your city can 
 lead to some heartstoppingly close calls  and some extremely satisfying booms when the enemys 
 recon units stumble into a hidden minefield, or a heavy armor platoon gets bogged down in your 
 dragons teeth, allowing you to bring artillery and air strikes to bear to soften them up. 
  
  Another welcome feature is the ability of all units to shoot and scoot. In PG, all but scout 
 units ended their movement if they chose to attack. In SU all units have the ability to hit and 
 run, allowing more fragile units, like choppers and AFVs, to hit hard then get out of the line 
 of fire, which I feel is more realistic. An Apaches not going to go toe-to-toe with a platoon 
 of Anti-Air Vulcans if it can avoid it. Make a standoff strike on an Abrams platoon then duck back 
 under your AA cover  that seems smarter, and more realistic, to me. 
  
  The last of SSIs Panzer General games was released years and years ago, and Ive been going back 
 to them on occasion, wishing for an update, for just as long. Shattered Union is a worthy successor 
 to the PG line. One could wish for more depth, in both the strategic and the tactical portions, 
 but the game overall  with its chilling premise, good (not great) graphics and sound, and interesting 
 economics-based underpinnings (in terms of purchasing lost materiel with proceeds gained from holding 
 territories) , makes for an utterly enjoyable  at times nerve-wracking (in a good way)  foray 
 into the beer and pretzels genre. Heineken and soft pretzels are nice treats on occasion, but Bud 
 and Rold Gold goes a long way toward satisfying the need for a good time in front of the computer. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:16 am PT
Review:  I like turn based strategy games as i was described earlier in review of Massive Assault Network 
 game.
  I hardly wait game to come but is not good enough.
  Idea is good and unfortunatly will be true.
  Tacticaly is not too dificult i like it .
  Graphic 
 is not good as hardware need for same.
  There is no idea in game and is dificult to hold teritories with other enmies around.
  A. I. always 
 attack when he is stronger. there is no random events.
  In skirmish mode there are russian units (i like but not enough variety only small number of well 
 known units as T 90 tank and Specnaz which are best in fantry unit in game) 
  as John titor described russia will help to stop disaster in America in second civil war as intro 
 told.
  I like Rpg part as in AOE III scale of good and evil.
  Also like different republic have different type of units for buying this is good.
  
  There 
 is idea but it can be better done.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scipio77
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:04 am PT
Review:  Buy it when it hits the bargin bin. The concept is quite good and intregueing but at the end of 
 the day it falls short of what it could be. The main problem with it is that all of your units 
 are in the same pool a nd not attachted to any territory.
  
  So you cannot commit troops from specific territories. This becomes lame when its down to 2 factions 
 and you beat the cu into the ground then spend countless battles fighting no oppositions but wasting 
 alot of time. Its even been down to the cu having one unit and it will still attack every turn 
 and defende every turn.
  
  You also only get one move per game turn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nizo211
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 14, 2005 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Where do I begin? Well my main problem with this game is its total lack of depth. From the beginning 
 of the game to the ending (6-10 hours) you get the feeling that this title was rushed onto the 
 market. No diplomacy, no economics whatsoever, leaves you just buying units and repairing them 
 as needed. The AI is really bad, they pretty much attack every round and then if you attack them 
 in the same round, they'll just retreat and you win without a fight. The graphics are poor... we 
 are talking 16 bit era graphics. The sound is nothing special. This game is a serious waste of 
 money, I took it off my HD and threw it away soon as I beat it. It is not a game I can see anyone 
 over the age of 14 wanting to play again. Save your money and pass on this one... it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LorinSS
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 12, 2005 11:29 am PT
Review:  Shattered Union is a modern day battle in the same vein as Panzer General was for WWII. I enjoy 
 wargames with modern vehicles and capabiliities because of the many options available to them. 
 This game is very addicting as you always want to play just one more turn to see the results and 
 end up playing longer than perhaps you originally anticipated. But then, that's a compliment for 
 the game, just be ready. There are four levels of AI difficulty which will on the Very Hard level 
 will challenge veteran wargamers quite well. Fighting on maps with familiar terrain such as Northern 
 California makes the game enjoyable. Let's see, should I defend San Francisco from a perimeter 
 set up in Vallejo, or in Oakland. Watch out for the units coming from Modesto, or Santa Cruz! 
 
  
  You can play a campaign game, with an unlimited time to complete, or individual skirmish games 
 that you can set up to your liking with initial map location, money, faction, special powers, and 
 more. Not many people yet available on multiplayer but hopefully that will change soon as more 
 people pick up the game.
  
  Recommended Tweaks: 
  - I would have liked is an ability to turn the map left or right to view the units. The zoom is 
 great but sometimes I would like to view the units from a different angle. 
  - In Panzer General you could select enemy units and see an approximate display of the damage and 
 retaliation that you could expect. I don't see it here until after you attack. 
  - If you move a unit by accident, you cannot take back the move. I understand not taking it back 
 if the move resulted in identifying the location of enemy units, but if not, what is the harm?
 
  - A unit that is badly damaged should not defend or attack with the same strength of an undamaged 
 unit.
  - It would be nice if infantry could entrench. This would add to strategy as a commander would 
 need to consider the need to move an otherwise dug in unit that if moved, would lose their aquired 
 entrenched status.
  - Although I can zoom in and out of the entire battlefield fairly qucikly, I believe a radar map 
 of the whole battlefied should always be displayed in the tactical view. 
  
  None of the above recommendations detracts so significantly as to cause this reviewer to still 
 thoroughly enjoy playing and recommending this game. See you on the battlefield!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lpdbronco
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 30, 2005 7:04 pm PT
Review:  For the price they are asking this game is a good buy. The strategy is fun, not cumbersome like 
 some games in the genre. I liked it, and if you like turn based strategy games, you should give 
 it a try. The graphics are passable and keep it interesting. I like the landmarks in each territory 
 that every American should recognize. There is a bit of a story in Campaign mode that keeps things 
 interesting the first time you play through it. Vetrans of this type of game will want to start 
 out on at least the medium level of difficulty, the easy is exactly as advertised, really easy. 
 Game could have had a few more variations of units to keep things a little more interesting. 
 
  
  Give this game a shot, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cipherf
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:55 am PT
Review:  It is a failed hex-and-turn-based strategy game.
  
  In this game, I see so many points that have been poorly designed and they destroy a strategy game 
 like this one.
  
  For example, the Crusader self-propelled artillery (M109A6, although this weapon project was cancelled 
 because of budget decrease) can shoot a target 4 hex away, whether before or after movement. Well 
 that is considerable, as Crusader was designed to do things like that. But as the weapon range 
 is not divided into anti-air and anti-ground, so its 7.62mm machinegun can shoot down a JSF patrolling 
 4 hex away, after moving a long distance to do a active attack.
  In the mean time, Avenger Stinger missile Air-Defense can only shoot air targets 3 hex away, but 
 its 12.7mm mg can also fire 3 hexes away, far than M1A2's 120mm main cannon. How can I accept that?
 
  
  Strange things like that happen all the time. Without settings of fire priority cause the attacker 
 is always get a huge advantage too much to affect the balance of the game; A badly damaged unit 
 always does the same damage as a healthy one does, while with the attacker-wins rule list above, 
 the game becomes boring; B-2 stealth bomber will be counter-attacked by a tank (and lost quite 
 a amount of health) while throwing bombs, so why US government throwing billions of dollars to 
 develop a stealth bomber and JDAM?
  
  If you do like this kind of game, including units on hex; data of real-world weapon, from modern 
 to WWII; turn-based and so on, I strongly suggest you forget games made by US or EURO corps -- especially 
 this one, the "Shattered Union" -- try Japanese. They really make such games good.
  
  For the beginner of hex/turned based strategy games, I suggest a Japanese game called KAIKA NO 
 GOUHOU, made by KOEI. Although it is somehow simple to a experienced player and still with some 
 problems, it IS interesting. 
  First, you can use weapons from 6 countries, including US Marine, US Army and Air Force, Russia, 
 German, England, and Japan. (actually, 5 countries) , instead the same US weapon used by friend or 
 foe in Shattered Unions.
  Second, some feathers much more "Strategic", such as supply and replenish, ammo of weapons, etc.
 
  Third, also using settings of army legion, KAIKA can use the whole legion into a attack or defense 
 battle, instead of a disgusting reserve of troops settings. Why can I only use just a few units 
 in a turn-based game while nowadays PC can support 20k units in real-time games? (Rome: Total war)
 
  In fact, someone call Shattered Union is a American edition of KAIKA, and the former is too much 
 bad.
  
  At last, I had to say, judging from its contents, a 100MB or so should be able to put the whole 
 game in, but it use 2CDs and cost 1. x G in the hard disk. I'm glad I used Anti-blaxx than buying 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brealeygp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2005 11:25 am PT
Review:  When i first heard of Shattered Union, I cant say i wasn'y somewhat excited. The concept of leading 
 a faction in a new US Civil War seemed appealing to say the least. The turn based side to it looked 
 like a new perspective & one that allowed the tactician in me to spend time thinking on moves, 
 more like chess then any real-time strategy game. 
  
  The battles themselves are well put together. Well detailed landscapes that retain their damage 
 (which at times is annoying as surely ud repair bridges at least after the battle is won) , well 
 made units with a variety of ads & disads (eg. Spec forces good vs. tanks & infantry but poor vs 
 air) with mean u have to be careful what u send where, especially as the enemy could just blow 
 up units uve moved during their turn) . The cut scenes for the unit engagements are nice, if a tad 
 unessercery as they dont add alot to the game but none the less. Map objectives too make the battles 
 interesting as if ur not willing to bleed the enemy white, u can just take objectives which give 
 u points & points equal victory. The pressure of only having 14 turns in which to win if ur attacking, 
 or 14 turns to hold off the enemy if defending. & finally the tactical side to the game is heightened 
 even further by units only being available once per turn, meaning if u attack with all your units, 
 ull have nothing to defend with if someone chooses to attack. It all adds up to a great experience.
 
  
  Yet this game has its demons, in this case its one huge demon & that is the campaign map. To put 
 it simply its really quite pointless. All it serves to do is show u the territories & which faction 
 controls them, what resources are available in each, ur diplomacy rating, & access the buying/selling. repairing 
 screen. For me at least its just too simple. There is no real diplomacy to speak of, at least none 
 ive encountered. The diplomacy ratings purpose is only to unlock special moves for your battles, 
 there is no communication between the sides & the rest of the world, just battle after battle. 
 While this rightly keeps the focus to the fighting part it lacks any real interaction apart from 
 point & click to get it out the way a. s. a. p. Its a shame really as there could have been much scope 
 for economic management on the lines of Total War, & while that may have distracted from the fighting, 
 at least it would give a real usefull purpose to the campaign screen rather then just a multicoloured 
 map of the USA with bits that u can click to invade.
  
  Shattered Union is by no means a bad game. The turn based battle simulation is an innovative & 
 fresh take on a game such as this which leads to an enjoyable session of violence & war. However, 
 the campaign side to the game bugs me so much that it turns what could have been a great hybrid 
 in the same league as Total War (which perhaps the developers were trying to avoid, being another 
 clone) , but instead makes great battles get weighed down by a tedious & quite uneccersary campaign 
 screen. 
  
  (please excuse any spelling errors) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabal23
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 28, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  I never once drew the conclusion that this was anything like advance wars as this type game predates 
 advance wars by almost ten to twenty years. I have never been so challenged by a wargame like this 
 game does. I found the lack of a diplomacy mode a bit discouraging, but once the action starts, 
 you forget about that. The action is paced quite well and really makes you think each move as losing 
 units can cause a good game to go bad very quickly. My only other complaint is the lack of funds 
 in the campaign game. After each battle you really feel like you don't have enough funds to resupply. 
 And forget it if you lose multiple aircraft, with the price of aircraft you should just restart 
 the battle over. It is a great feeling though when you are finally victorious. This is a game not 
 for the light hearted as to complete a campaign it will take much reloading (I save at the beginning 
 of each battle and recommend you do the same) and careful troop movements. The only other enhancements 
 I would have liked to see is a more technological edge to the game. Why are we wasting humvees 
 and partisans to find enemies when GPS is available? Kind of unrealistic as the modern battle field 
 has many resources at its disposal to find enemies. Overall I do love this game and I can put aside 
 my complaints as it is by far the best game in it's genre in many years. I highly recommend this 
 to armchair generals and wargame enthusiasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ponca_Vegas
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 9:42 am PT
Review:  I've been looking forward to this game for months, when I got my hands on it I was really bummed 
 out. 
  Dai Senryaku meets Panzer General in a new civil war, but it seems unfinished, there's nothing 
 else really but the battle field, and that's weak. 
  A fresh Abrams gets hit by a nearly destroyed T90 and it gets half its health wiped out, come on! 
 
  Not to mention some bizzare graphics conflict w/my video card. The game appears to be a system 
 hog, and you don't get much in return.
  Maybe a serious patch might help, but I still bummed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundsODD454
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 27, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Shattered Union, a wargame set in a fictional conflict between different ideological regions in 
 a fractured United States, is a solidly entertaining game that is easy to pick up, but at times 
 can be a bit frustrating. 
  
  The game plays a lot like Nintendo's classic Advance Wars games for the Game Boy, with military 
 units across a large battlefield battling through a turn-based format. This style of gameplay is 
 well expressed in Shattered Union, with well detailed tanks and helicopters moving across the maps 
 dueling in small well animated mini-battles. These animations help the pace of the game stay interesting, 
 especially for those used to the more popular real-time format.
  
  Another similarity to the Advance Wars games is the use of different types of terrain enhancing 
 the defensive capabilities of the units that occupy them. This brings up one of the only real complaints 
 with Shattered Union. The defensive modifiers seem overpowered, with infantry being able to lay 
 waste to much stronger opponents, with minimal chances for repercussion. While annoying, this problem 
 is easy to overlook.
  
  The strategic map, which is used to determine a faction's plan of attack, falls a bit short compared 
 to the depth of the tactical map. The player must select the units he or she brings to the battle, 
 and these units cannot be used in another battle. While this feature is realistic, it does make 
 defending territories more difficult, especially in the late game. Also, the only way to recruit 
 units is by spending revenue earned but the amount of territories captured, but often it feels 
 as if you never have enough money to really conduct a large-scale campaign.
  
  All in all, Shattered Union is a very entertaining game, despite a few nagging difficulties. It 
 is easy to recommend for grognards and newcomers to turn-based strategy alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rasgon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, it sounded a little stupid, but a friend convinced me to pre-order 
 it. When it arrived i was doubtful, but then, i double clicked on the shortcut, and it started 
 to pick up. The opening video is great, introducing the plot in the best possible manner. The tutorials 
 however, were disappointing because they are not interactive tutorials. What they do, they display 
 videos of the actions, then narrarate them. It taught me the basics though, and i started the campaign. 
 The campaign is really really good. YOu get a set amount of money at the start of the campaign, 
 and you can buy units, or sell them, or repair them. Each battle is great, i never had to use the 
 keyboard, and they are fun. The graphics are great! The AI is insanely hard for me, I don't know 
 why, but its a good challenge. Start playing on easy, then go to medium. Overall, this game is 
 worth getting for anyone who has an ounce of logic, and can expand on that. Good night, and Good 
 luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnOldMan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  
  Me: 35, RPG/Strategy/Turn Based fan. Currently playing, have not 'won' a campaign yet on medium 
 difficulty. Played about 6 hours of the game at this point.
  
  Pro: Challenging twist on stratey in the campaign mode. You have central group of units to choose 
 from but you have to be careful about what units you designate to attack and defend. Use all your 
 units to re-buff the advance of the EU and you will have no units left to defend other strategic 
 territories. Each unit can defend one time or attack one time. A unit that defends a territory 
 vs. EU is not available to defend vs. Texas advance in that game turn.
  
  It sounds a little confusing but I really like the extra challenge it adds in balancing how much 
 to send on attack and to dole out to defense. 
  
  Neg: Units that I tell to defend a territory vs. Texas, will not be there when the EU attacks the 
 same territory a bit later in the turn. I like the challenge of having to be careful with allocating 
 units, but seems a little off that they wouldnt still be in the same territory until my next turn. 
 
  
  END: Really enjoying it so far. Hope they have some fun cut scenes/end game scenes to flesh out 
 story for different 'countries' and not just a single generic. If you are a fan of Panzer General 
 series or turn based gaming in general you will enjoy this game! 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
