-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shattered Light
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/shatteredlight/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  8, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.8
Critic Score: 3.1, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 4.2, 16 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Simon & Schuster
Developer: Catware
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Apr 30, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A good adventure can overcome shoddy graphics or a clunky interface with an imaginative plot and 
 interesting gameplay. Shattered Light, unfortunately, has neither. 

 A better name for Catware's role-playing game Shattered Light would be Diablo Lite. What has been 
 removed from Blizzard's now-classic dungeon romp? Three things: a polished interface, attractive 
 graphics, and fun.  

 Shattered Light is essentially an RPG adventure builder with a sample quest included. The packaged 
 campaign tells the story of Delos, a world "not unlike our own" until someone rather stupidly tries 
 to "capture the primal power of the universe." The upshot of this quite frankly insane attempt 
 to "capture the primal power of the universe" is that Delos becomes less like our world and more 
 like Middle Earth. Some inhabitants become much more magical, while others become one of over a 
 hundred monsters such as dragons and unicorns. As a result of all the newfound fantastical wizardry, 
 medieval weapon stores are opened, dungeons are constructed, and many people lose things then offer 
 rewards for their retrieval. You are cast as the hero of Delos. Your duties include wandering all 
 over the place and finding the ten gem shards needed to access the dungeon containing the Final 
 Boss Monster of Delos, the Laria.  

 As in any standard RPG, you must first create a character. Shattered Light includes eight character 
 types covering all the basics, with spell casters, fighters, and various combinations of the two. 
 The character creation screen is where you'll get your first sense that you may not have purchased 
 a triple-A title. Of the eight choices, three have the exact same palette-swapped portraits. A 
 small detail perhaps, but indicative of Shattered Light's generic, bargain-bin atmosphere.  

 The game itself, like Diablo, plays out in real time across maps rendered in isometric perspective. 
 The graphics are tile based, rather washed out, and not particularly mood setting or otherwise 
 interesting. The interface is presented as a series of desktop windows. The main playfield, inventory, 
 spell list, etc. are all separate, often overlapping, screens. Performing a standard operation, 
 such as removing an active inventory item and replacing it with another, often involves opening 
 up several windows and manually dragging them into viewable position. This is a tedious drill at 
 best, and, when attempted during a time-critical situation such as combat, effectively sucks the 
 fun right out of Shattered Light.  

 A good adventure can overcome shoddy graphics or a clunky interface with an imaginative plot and 
 interesting gameplay. Shattered Light, unfortunately, has neither. For a game that advertises quests 
 written by such noted fantasy authors as Robert Silverberg, Chelsea Quinn Yarbro, and P. N. Elrod, 
 Shattered Light has virtually no task more elaborate than listening to an NPC describe his lost 
 treasure, then fetching it for him. There is no sense of an evolving story composed of a complex 
 chain of actions and reactions. The only thing leading you to believe that multiple authors may 
 have written the plot is the inconsistent way in which NPCs address you. Some speak directly to 
 you, while others have their actions narrated in the third person, perhaps by famous fantasy author 
 Jody Lynn Nye - who knows?  

 Gamers excited by the possibility of creating their own adventures with Shattered Light's world 
 builder will be disappointed. Although every map, monster, item, spell, and NPC can be redefined, 
 graphics must be selected from the stock images provided with the game, and the basic goal of finding 
 the ten gem shards cannot be altered. More importantly, no scripting language is included, severely 
 limiting the storytelling possibilities. While the ability to tweak the stats of every game item 
 might give the illusion of creative power, the core quest activity of item retrieval is immutable. 
 This inability to script sophisticated event sequences outside of the standard quest structure 
 leads inevitably to frustration for anyone hoping to create compelling scenarios.  

 The provided editing tools are also subpar. Editing screens contain lists of hundreds of items each 
 with ten or more separate attributes, yet they cannot be sorted or searched through, making managing 
 them needlessly cumbersome. In other places, previously defined items must be linked to other items 
 by manually typing their cryptic identifier tags, rather than simply picking them from a list. 
 These are just two of many examples of the editor's overall lack of polish - excusable when the 
 tool is included as a bonus, but not when it is a game's central feature.  

 Shattered Light includes a server application that allows user-created scenarios to be experienced 
 by up to eight people simultaneously over the Internet. The host can act as a sort of dungeon master, 
 altering some statistics on the fly. Mutiplayer works as advertised and is stable, but the rewards 
 of playing the game are so meager as to make this fact all but irrelevant.  

 In the early '90s, SSI released an RPG builder called Forgotten Realms: Unlimited Adventures. It 
 secured a cult following and, although out of print, retains a community of quest creators to this 
 day. To anyone who fondly remembers that game and hopes some developer will bring its robust scripting 
 capabilities into the realm of Internet multiplayer gaming: With the release of Shattered Light, 
 your wait continues.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ioden
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 2, 2004 10:21 pm PT
Review:  I received Shattered Light as a birthday gift from my cousin. She had never heard of it, but it 
 was $5 and so she thought that even if it sucked, it was only $5. After playing Shattered Light, 
 I can safely say that I would've killed myself if I'd been the one to spend even one cent on this 
 wreck of a game.
  
  The story is very cliche. Something goes wrong in a boring world, and you have to find ten gems 
 to save everything. If I had enough brain cells left from even thinking about this, I'd use them 
 to yawn right now.
  
  The gameplay itself is terrible. It's a rip-off of Diablo, but it's hard to call it a rip-off because 
 where Diablo was fun and simple, this is tedious and overly complicated. The actual pre-built campaign 
 is terrible and will not keep you playing if you have half a brain, and the campaign editor seems 
 very nice at first but turns out to be lame, not letting you do half the stuff you want to do.
 
  
  The graphics are terrible. They look like a zoomed-out premature build of Diablo from 1989. The 
 "fancy" menus and such are just cliche rip-offs of Dungeons & Dragons stuff.
  
  The sound is the one thing that I thankfully can't remember about this game, as I played it a year 
 ago, but since I don't remember one thing about it (whereas I remember sound clearly from games 
 like Starcraft that I played in 1999) , I'm going to assume that it's just as terrible as the rest 
 of the game.
  
  In terms of value, the game is also poor. I didn't even get close to getting a tenth of the way 
 done with the single-player, since the game was just too terrible to play. I guess that means that 
 I can't tell you how long it is, but really, you won't care, as you'll be too busy wanting to kill 
 yourself for wasting even one cent on this atrocious game. The multiplayer is, as the GameSpot 
 review pointed out, stable, but nobody plays it anymore at all, so I didn't get to play it. If 
 thousands of people still play Diablo from way back in 1996 but not one person plays Shattered 
 Light from 1999, I think that tells you something about this game's quality, or lack thereof.
 
  
  What depresses me most about this game is the fact that it still retails for $5 at used game stores, 
 while Diablo, an infinitely better game, sells for $2. Honestly, my cousin paid $5 for this, but 
 I paid $2.26 for Diablo.
  
  Don't buy this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
