-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sheep
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/sheep/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  7, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 7.5, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 45 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Developer: Mind's Eye
Genre: Action
Date:     Nov 29, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While the innovative game mechanics are challenging and fun at first, they quickly become frustrating 
 where precise or fast control is needed. 

 Sheep is an action-packed puzzle game with bright, colorful graphics, a humorous premise, and plenty 
 of challenging levels. The game begins with a short background story to set the stage and some 
 simple tutorials to help familiarize you with the unusual controls and game mechanics. You then 
 set out on the primary journey through a series of seven distinct worlds. However, soon into this 
 journey, it'll become apparent that Sheep manages to blur the line between game and chore and that 
 the game's eye-catching graphics and lighthearted cartoon humor don't completely make up for its 
 inherent flaws.   

  The basic story of the game is that aliens landed on Earth millions of years ago and left a group 
 of observers behind to keep track of Earth's inhabitants. Over the course of time these observers 
 forgot their mission and slowly evolved to the point that they became indistinguishable from ordinary 
 Earth creatures. Now the aliens have come back to save their comrades from the plans of an evil 
 scientist, but to their dismay, they find that their comrades have lost all of their knowledge 
 and common sense in the course of becoming what we know today as sheep. The aliens quickly round 
 up a group of earthling candidates to rescue their brethren, and you assume the role of one of 
 these four different herder characters: Bo Peep, Adam Half Pint, Motley, and Shep. Each character 
 has slightly different herding attributes, but each character's mission is to round up as many 
 sheep as possible and guide them carefully to safety through each level.   

  Each of the seven worlds in the game consists of four levels, and you can choose which of the four 
 types of sheep to rescue on each level: pastoral, factoral, long wool, and neo genetics. Each type 
 of sheep has unique attributes that govern its reaction to herding and its environment. To complete 
 a level, a minimum number of sheep must be rescued in the given amount of time. The levels begin 
 with a base group of sheep; in the beginning this number is fixed, and depending on your success 
 in the levels, the number can increase, which in theory should make it easier to rescue the minimum 
 number of sheep required.   

  You control the herder, using the keyboard, mouse, or joystick. When you use the mouse control, 
 a small white dot, which is essentially the herder's target, appears on the screen. The herder 
 will run after this dot, slowly if the dot is close by and faster if it is farther away. The effect 
 is as if you had a rubber band attached from the dot to the herder and used it to drag the character 
 around the screen. The sheep react to the herder much like opposing magnets react to each other. 
 If the herder runs at them quickly, they run away, but the herder can also creep slowly to get 
 closer without frightening the herd. Each sheep acts as an individual unit, and while they are 
 primarily social creatures, they can easily get detached from the group and will require rounding 
 up. In addition to their basic herding ability, herders can pick up sheep and throw them a short 
 distance, shout at sheep to make them scatter, and gather power-ups such as radios and throbbing 
 hearts to make the sheep act differently.    

 The levels are built with progressively more difficult traps, enemies, and puzzles. Some traps and 
 enemies merely stun or flip over sheep, while others can flatten, blow up, or electrocute them. 
 The herders aren't immune to these dangers, but they are indestructible, so a trap that would kill 
 a sheep will only stun the herder. It is certainly possible to safely guide the sheep past all 
 these dangers, but the combined effect of using a rubber-band control scheme to magnetically repel 
 a group of sheep and ending up with the required number of sheep within the allotted time limit 
 often makes the game very frustrating. At some points in the game you'll feel as though you are 
 an unpaid babysitter looking after a large number of mischievous toddlers, and you might wonder 
 whether there isn't something better you could be doing with your time.   

  The three difficulty levels exponentially increase the difficulty of the game by raising the number 
 of sheep required for each level while at the same time reducing the time limits. This makes even 
 the medium difficulty setting very challenging and the hard setting all but impossible in the later 
 levels.   

  The graphics used in each level are bright and cheery, and they tie in well with the theme of the 
 particular world they belong to. Completing each world rewards you with a short rendered cutscene 
 that depicts one part of the sheep's long journey. These video sequences are well designed and 
 produced, and they add an entertaining story that ties together the different worlds. The music 
 and sound effects used in the game are less impressive and can quickly become repetitive, especially 
 after you replay the same level a number of times, which is all but inevitable if you plan to complete 
 the level.   

  It's clear that a great deal of effort went into the design of the levels and cutscenes. Each level 
 has a great sense of creativity in its wide variety of devious traps, all built according to the 
 theme of the world. Horses kick sheep across the screen in the rural Polygon Farm, archers pin 
 sheep to targets in the medieval Village Fete, and giant robotic transistors slice and dice sheep 
 (in a cartoonlike, nonviolent way) inside a giant computer in Lost in Space. The cutscenes are 
 short, but they're entertaining and effectively tell the story of the sheep without narration. 
   

  All of the game's good qualities cannot completely overcome a few basic flaws. While the innovative 
 game mechanics are challenging and fun at first, they quickly become frustrating where precise 
 or fast control is needed. Sure, precise control isn't a realistic expectation to have when dealing 
 with real-life sheep, but real-life sheep never have to deal with cauldrons full of acid, midget 
 spacemen with laser guns, or fire-breathing monsters. What makes the game most frustrating is that 
 while the levels in Sheep are somewhat similar to those in a platform action game, the control 
 scheme prohibits you from directly controlling the subjects as you normally would in such a game. 
   

  Another disappointing element in the game is the level requirements. The scoring is already set 
 up to give you bonus points for every sheep rescued, as well as bonus points for leftover time. 
 Either one of these should have been enough of an incentive for you to finish the level as quickly 
 and completely as possible without having to resort to both minimum sheep requirements and time 
 limits.   

  Sheep is a deceptively difficult game. The cute graphics, cartoon humor, and unique game mechanics 
 are appealing, and players who have an above-average resistance to frustration will enjoy playing 
 the game's many challenging and interesting levels, as will those players who are looking for a 
 twist on the traditional platform puzzle-action game. Otherwise, players who don't appreciate being 
 frustrated can save themselves a great deal of hair pulling and head shaking by avoiding Sheep 
 altogether.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bubble2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Sheep is a truly charming and lovely experience. Even the manual is so sweet, one might look back 
 to it, from time to time, just to look at the various sheep and herders.
  
  Upon beginning, the game feels very much like cinnamon and rainbows. You'll get a sweet intro and 
 awesome charming animated cutscenes from the vey start and throughout the stages. Each stage has 
 its own theme and nails it very well. Like a nifty middle age theme (gets tiresome though after 
 some of these levels) and a funky disco theme. And a cheesy space hightech theme. Oh, and I forgot, 
 a kind of Charlie and the Chocolate Factory theme. Very sweet. The levels will always try to integrade 
 you and your sheep in the level, making it somewhat adventures for people who like to explore enviroments. 
 Sheep is just filled with sweet touches here and there, which is one of the reasons why it is so 
 great. Details and variation.
  
  The music fits also very well and delivers some cool music. Especially in the first training level, 
 the music just makes you like happy .
  
  The gameplay is ,what should we say, cool enough. The goal is to get as many sheep from A to B. 
 You play as a your chosen herder with similar controls to gta2 and herd the sheep like gta victims 
 through contraptions. It works out, but it needs a little patience and skill. You can even pick 
 up sheep and sacrifice them, which is AWESOME.
  There are quite a number of funny deaths your sheep can experience, you almost want to see it happen.
 
  
  In the end it is very well worth checking out, because of its sweet graphics and interactivity 
 and innovation. I had great fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wasser_Spiegel8
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 7, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Before you pick up the box -- at least before you put it back down -- let me be the first to say, the 
 images or descriptions you'll find are absolutely of no use. There's no real way to properly convey 
 to a buyer what kind of game they're getting themselves into, and whether or not you'll enjoy it 
 is really up to you.
  
  Calling it an action game would be like doing the same for Tetris -- while the gameplay involves 
 a lot more input and fun than you'd normally find from its true genre bretheren, Sheep is, at heart, 
 a puzzle game. The differences between your various Sheep breeds are minor and hardly noticeable, 
 as well as your selection of sheepherders, but each of the worlds are nicely revamped and distinct -- but 
 in many ways, very much alike, leading you to anxiously work to see the next, but never stranding 
 you in a whole new realm where you must re-learn the gameplay. It's this kind of set-up for the 
 story mode that will keep you wanting to play it through, but as far as replay value goes, I'll 
 be the first to admit... there isn't much of one.
  
  Where Sheep truly shines is the value, of course -- I picked up my copy at clearance from a Best 
 Buy for $4.
  
  But the game itself is well worth a more standard $20, as the graphics, although simple, are sharp 
 and clean, the sheep models simply adorable, and the worlds nicely textured. The real beauty of 
 the game is in the countless quirks, as so many of the game's features and aspects are designed 
 to be fun and entertaining.
  
  The sound is marginal, enough to provide a nice and immersive environment, but is certainly short 
 of stellar. The soundtrack is original and spectacular, providing a tasteful atmosphere without 
 overbearing or becoming too annoying.
  
  The gameplay is, of course, the hardest part to describe. The developers' AS (artificial stupidity) 
 leaves your sheep hard to maintain in a cluster, and having to negotiate them through a minefield 
 can get a little annoying. Often enough, you may find yourself trying to pick up and run your Sheep 
 one by one to the exit, although there are plenty of puzzles in each level to make sure you can't 
 always make this possible. To some gamers, this could be a fun and engaging challenge. To others, 
 this is enough to make you want to put a brick through your monitor and write a nasty letter to 
 Mind's Eye.
  
  If you're looking for an interesting and one-of-a-kind game experience, or looking for a cheap 
 and cool gift, find yourself a copy of Sheep. Just peel off the price tag, first. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
