-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: ShellShock: Nam '67
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/shellshocknam67/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 16, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 5.2, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 276 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Guerrilla
Genre: Historic Shooter
Date:     Sep 14, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
ShellShock is a run-of-the-mill shooter with periodic interruptions for bad language and really 
 violent cutscenes. 

  It looks like the Vietnam War is quickly becoming the new World War II. ShellShock: Nam '67 is 
 the second Vietnam War-themed shooter to be released in as many weeks, and another three will arrive 
 in stores over the next month. ShellShock attempts to differentiate itself from the pack by threatening 
 to provide a disturbing level of realism, or, as the official Web site puts it, "the shocking realities 
 and tragedies of what actually happened out in the jungle." Unfortunately, what this means in practical 
 terms is that ShellShock is a run-of-the-mill shooter with periodic interruptions for bad language 
 and really violent cutscenes.  

          The brutal realities of Nam: a head on a stake and a scary message written in blood.   
   

  The box lists "character growth" as one of the game's key features. "Develop from a fresh rookie 
 to a hard-edged Special Forces operative," it reads, the implication being that there's some sort 
 of skill- or character-advancement system present in the game. This is a classic example of disingenuous 
 marketing-speak. The only character growth occurs during a short cutscene in which your character, 
 as promised, is promoted from a fresh rookie to a Special Forces operative. Which has exactly zero 
 effect on gameplay.  

  ShellShock's promise of "brutal realism" also turns out to be somewhat hollow. Your character -- controlled 
 throughout the game from a third-person perspective -- can carry only a few weapons at a time: one 
 pistol, one large gun, and some grenades. And that's pretty much where the realism ends. In fact, 
 ShellShock has one of the least realistic damage models of any recent military shooter. Your health 
 bar regenerates over time, so healing is simply a matter of finding a safe place to stand around 
 for 5 or 10 seconds.  

  For the majority of the game's missions, you're accompanied by a squad of indestructible computer-controlled 
 grunts (though they'll sometimes die -- usually horribly -- as part of a cutscene) . The presence of 
 teammates makes many of the firefights feel like an actual battle between two groups of soldiers. 
 But your squad also provides constant cover, making it easy to fall back and heal, which often 
 robs the game of much challenge. Even with its checkpoint save system, most of the game's 13 missions 
 won't take more than 30 minutes to complete. A few take as little as 15.  

  What the Viet Cong lack in smarts, they make up for in numbers. Most of the time, they're either 
 standing in place or running straight for you, usually while screaming one of their three or four 
 annoying catchphrases. They'll occasionally utilize cover or toss a grenade, and the sheer number 
 of them sometimes makes for an enjoyably chaotic, if not overly difficult, battle. Most of the 
 missions require nothing more than moving through the level and killing whatever gets in your way. 
 A couple of mission briefings suggest that you employ stealth, but the game has no real stealth 
 mechanic other than walking very slowly and hoping nobody sees you. And even that's completely 
 unnecessary. You'll sometimes have to destroy some specific piece of equipment or hold an area 
 through a few waves of Viet Cong, and there's one brief on-rails section during which you'll man 
 a gun mounted on a chopper. For the most part, however, ShellShock is a meat-and-potatoes shooter. 

  Between virtually every level, you're taken back to base camp. Here, you can wander around, conduct 
 short, meaningless conversations with fellow grunts, listen to some licensed period music, and 
 engage in various other useless activities. Eventually, you can even trade items you've taken from 
 dead enemies for "boom boom" with local prostitutes. There's no practical benefit to this, and 
 the sex isn't actually shown -- evidently some of the realities of Nam are too controversial even 
 for the envelope-pushers who made ShellShock. The camp provides some nice atmosphere the first 
 time through, but by the second time, not to mention the 11th, it's nothing more than an aggravating 
 extra load screen. The game also features a series of six seminude photos of the camp's prostitutes 
 to unlock, but no multiplayer modes. After you've finished the single-player missions, which requires 
 roughly six hours of play, there's virtually no reason to replay the game.  

          The brutal reality of prostitution in Nam.      

  All three versions look pretty much 
 the same. The outdoor environments are nicely detailed and have a soft-focus haziness that complements 
 the jungle setting. The interiors, however, generally feature simple textures and geometry. The 
 character animation is lackluster as well, and the death animations are especially stiff and unbelievable. 
 Heads pop with a festive burst of what honestly seems to be confetti, and, in what may have been 
 an effort to depict the true horror of Nam, gunfire will occasionally remove an extremity. But 
 this animation is so bad and so frequently employed that the effect ends up being more laughable 
 than horrifying -- arms abruptly drop off less like they've been severed by the incredible force 
 of an explosion and more like they've simply given in after a protracted bout with leprosy.  

 
  At one point, a member of your squad ties a prostitute to an upright mattress, beats her mercilessly 
 with his fists, and then takes a giant Rambo knife to her breasts before finally slitting her throat. 
 This is the one way that ShellShock lives up to its hype -- it certainly raises the bar on vile, 
 pointless cutscenes. However, anyone interested in more than stubbornly average gameplay should 
 look elsewhere.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: owen_2
Rating: 2
Date: May 7, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  There are few games which had such shocking effect on me as this game. This might be a bad pune 
 on the title, but this game is actually a bad joke on the shooter genre. It's only positive effect 
 is that it makes other shooters appear better. 
  
  I can find only three good things about it. The box looks great, the main menu is stylish and the 
 music reinforces the mood. For all other things there is only laughter. 
  
  You might wonder what the game is about, for instance. Was there a story to go with the game? Maybe 
 there was and maybe there wasn't and it remains a mystery. It has probably something to do with 
 a tour of duty in Nam. 'Who needs a story anyway?', they must have thought, 'Heck it's a shooter. 
 Just give them something challenging to shoot at.' 
  
  But the lack of story has it's equal in the lack of a challenging smart AI. Smart AI? There is 
 more intelligence in a watch. The enemy consists of simpleminded stereoptyped vietnamese fighters, 
 who constantly shout the same lines in the same broken english and who's only tactics is based 
 on a random choice between jumping up and down or running at you. To offset these mindless tactics 
 the game throws swarms of them at you, being spawned continously. So more bad talking repetitive 
 stereoptyped AI is the danger you face. There is only one way to make this pain go away and that 
 is to advance quickly and finish the level as soon as possible. Or just stop playing altogether. 
 
  
  To add to the fun, the graphics date from an earlier age. With bad textures, ugly done soldiers 
 and awfull looking environments the game looks to stem from the time a 4 MB graphics card was the 
 hottest thing around. Was this an effort to give it a retro look? If so, they succeeded in their 
 failure. 
  A last joke is the hype around the level of violence in this game. I wouldn't worry about that! 
 People either stop playing after a few minutes because it's so bad or they turn into mindless or 
 reptitive zombies before becoming violent. 
  
  This game offers a great argument to introduce a quality rating next to a maturity rating. Not 
 that it's actually needed in our free market, because it will fade away into the void where it 
 belongs to stay there for always and always. 
  
  The only goal the game really offers is to stop the awful drones from appearing. If that keeps 
 you going, by all means buy it. If not: avoid it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikerider725
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Its a alright game wouldn't really recommend it, it's really up to you. This game has a lot of 
 problems the maps are big but, theres just way too many invisible walls not enough freedom; a lot 
 of times i found my asking where am i going? Some weapons just take way too long to reload before 
 you know it your dead. The graphics in this game is not the best i seen its almost as if i'm playing 
 a PS1 game. It's not very original it's like any other Vietnam game out there. I'll admit i had 
 high expectations for this game but, it was a total let me down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RSF_Valkyrie
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  I felt the game had it's ups and downs. I like some of the fighting but when it came to realism 
 the game lacks a lot to be desired. I don't know how many VC's would right Welcome to Hell in blood 
 on their fort or even how to say or spell it. The heads on steaks were probably some of the nastiest 
 CG graphics I've seen for any PC game which is fine by me. Little gore never hurt anyone. If they 
 improved on some of the stealth missions and added some more in it could have made the game a bit 
 better. Overall after just finishing over half the game in about 3 hours... pretty small and weak. 
 The graphics weren't the best I've seen but by far not the worst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowmajin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 22, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Shellshock 'Nam 67 is an exciting game for pretty much all of the levels. Unfortunately there are 
 many things that can be improved upon in this game and many things that can be added. The graphics 
 are okay, and the gameplay amounts to giving you the satisfaction of passing levels and ultimately 
 the game, but it gets boring after a while. Due to the lack of weapons at the beginning of the 
 level this game doesn't give you many options and seems like the same experience over and over 
 again when replaying. Cutscenes are really violent, and there's always swearing in the game. You 
 can't go ten minutes without hearing somebody swear. Firefights in this game can get exciting sometimes. 
 The jungle feel and look sometimes hides enemies and renders you to not be able to see them. This 
 sometimes adds to the excitement of a battle. Unfortunately this doesn't make up for other aspects 
 of the game. The compound in which you arrive after completing a level is your basecamp. Many things 
 can be found here including annoying vietnamese women, blackmarket item dealers and monotonous 
 zombie nurses. It doesn't feel much like home even if the designers' intentions were good. It tends 
 to get annoying when you're trying to buy something and the guy selling it to you won't stop talking. 
 Something else they could improve upon when fixing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 15, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Shellshock Is a game of mindless killing and running from place to place but makes it fun. The 
 game is full of gore dead soldiers everywhere with decapitated body parts chared vietcong after 
 napalm attack ,holes in face you name it its got it. Game play is very easy a few shots to the 
 chest of a NVA should do the trick and if you want a gorfest attack at the head, arms or legs they 
 will shot off into the air with a trail of blood behind it. Gameplay is simple go out on patrols 
 kill things come back to base and buy things with chits ( you get chits by finding NVA relics) 
 u can buy drugs and much such more such as a rocket pistol for 50 chits or so. Movies are terribley 
 acted but fun to watch. The graphics are bad at times but good at others. And there are MAJOR collision 
 detection problems. For example i walked into a bunker with out even a door or climbing a ladder 
 and you can fall thro the ground. The sound is horrible tho becasue if the NVA always skeaping 
 english and saying You Go Home In Body Bag GI our we gonn get you GI. The game is good you can 
 find it at big lots or EB games for about 5 bucks and its worth the few hours you will spen playing 
 it on the 3 diffrent modes. If you can get past sound and collision issues you got a great game 
 here.
  
  The Good-Earning Chits Lots Of Gore Random killings and execution, and free roaming on base after 
 missions
  
  The bad-Sound and collision issues lots of language. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DREU66
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  The game haven&acute; t got very quality graphics but is so funny. I have enjoyed it.
  If you want to live the real experience of war I recomended you. You feel like you be in Vietnam. 
 The IA of the enemies and your allies is so good, in general. The control is easy and good and 
 you can, before a mission, talk with the other soldiers, take a good time with a boom boom vietnam 
 girl or buy interesting things, like posters, drugs or especial guns.
  
  This isn&acute; t the best Trhid Persoon Game y have played but is enougth good for spend your money 
 in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xDarkpuppetx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 2, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I got this game when it come out and enjoyed playing it very much, one of the down points is when 
 you shoot a enemy in the right spot for example the head it blows the whole head off thats the 
 not so realistic part, but the graphic and firepower for example M16A2 FlameThrower and many other 
 its just right, the weaponery seems just right for the time that we're playing in (Vietnam) it seems 
 to be pretty right on the point of what actually happen there, not too gorey but if your a person 
 not like me which loves blood and gore then you might want to pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kap_thirteen
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is real lump of crap. I thought this would be great. I have been weighting ages for a 
 good vietnam game, but no on e came make a good one. This game is so crap. First of all it is so 
 liner you have no choice what to do. Second its advertised as gory, but its not. The graphics are 
 worse than pong. I hate this game and hope the makers lose their jobs and never make games again. 
 How hard can it be to make a good vietnam game? All you need is a rpg system where you can name 
 your guy and build stats. Heilcopters, tanks and loads of gore. How hard come on some one make 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flashtek
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  ShellShock: Nam '67 is one of those games you play when you want to kill something fast and you 
 dont have to think a lot. For the most part all of the negative reviews about this game are correct. 
 No character growth, limited firepower, self healing, non killable team mates and etc But I do 
 remember a time when WWII shooters were just as bad when they fast started coming out, see if you 
 remember G. I. WWII, Normandy, Desert Rats and etc The problem with this game is that the theme 
 it is built on is not one of America's finer moments and the developers did not know how the general 
 populace was going to react to it. So they goofed oh well big tragedies have happened. I will be 
 happy when the Vietnam conflict is as admired and revered as WWII. Until that happens games will 
 not only be much like ShellShock but probably worse. (See Purple Haze and Battlefield Vietnam) . 
 The one great thing this game has is a solid soundtrack, nobody can argue that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PierrotSorel
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  When I used the BFG 6600gt card I got no graphic but the sound. But if I used my ATI 9600 I got 
 graphic but no sound. For what I can see from the graphic (with the ATI 9600) the graphic are good 
 enough but not by far, especially when compare to Battlefield Vietnam. Now for the sound, (when 
 I used the Nvidia card) it not 10 materials, vulgarity seems to be the name of the game here. Gameplay 
 is not bad but then again very ordinary. The only good thing about the game that I can find for 
 it, When I bought It on EB Games, It's was only $4.97 can. But when I tried to make the thing work, 
 It's at that moment , that I understand why It's was that price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marriage0
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:06 am PT
Review:  first impressions? just another third person military shooter, nothing special, but wait? whats 
 this? its a bloomin good game actually. the missions are quite hard, never the less, they are fun 
 and are full or action. with the blood and gore, it really captures the dark side to the vietnam 
 war, although in my opinion they have gone over the top a bit. with graphic scenes of your men 
 on crosses and being hung, it really puts you off your appetite, although there are good sides 
 to this, it brings out the pure urge for revenge, to get back at those who destroyed your comrades, 
 so, what are you waiting for! my favourite parts of this game are in four bits:
  
  1. the final, final mission. i call it the final final mission as beciase when you do the "final" 
 mission and kill the main general who has been ordering these catastrophic attacks you can't help 
 thinking to yourself, well, that was that, now to abother game, but no.... it doesn'y stop there, 
 i wont tell you too much about what happens next but i can assure you, its bloody good fun!
  
  2. the fact that you can decapitate people with your guns!!! ofcouyrse, this is a high point, 
 geting your sniper and literally blowing peoples heads off is great fun!
  
  3. grenades, oh grenades! when you throw these at an enemy or better, more than one, they blow 
 up and you witness an array of limbs fly around the screen, oooooh yes!
  
  4. last but by no means least, the R and R compund, i wont give away the secets of this brilliant 
 idea, but a clue is there is money to be earned and the sexy vietnamese women are more than happy 
 to take it from you..... il let your imagination take over here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wrathorne
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2004 2:05 am PT
Review:  I just have a problem with games that dont let you save when and where you want. When you get 
 killed you have to go all the way back to a check point and start all over agene it sucks after 
 awhile. I cant recommend this game for that reason. There is nothing that amazing about the game 
 that makes it worth the aggravation. Graphics arent that good game play is bad you cant jump 
 or climb just run and crawl .If you dont mind games with no save feature fine just wait for it 
 to reach the bargain bin. Thats all I have to say I just put this in so I have 100 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adsmart101
Rating: 2.9
Date: Nov 9, 2004 4:55 am PT
Review:  Eidos, the creator of the Dues X series and Hitman Spree, has released ablosute filth with Shellshock 
 Nam. The controls are clucky, being more suited for a console controller. Your AI opponents are 
 either crack shots or have no idea where to aim. There is no realism. It turns a "simulation" of 
 vietnam into a stereotypical cartoon. It is supposed to be a simulation of the Conflict of Vietnam. 
 To me, all they did was insult every vietnam veteran out there by stereotyping vets at the time 
 as horny, retarded, doped up baby killers! SHAME ON THEM! If you want vietnam, go with Men of Honor 
 or atleast Battlefield Vietnam! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelipeGeyer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 11, 2004 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I found given low notes for this game unjust. Shellshock is a game of action in third person who 
 has as producing Guerrilla and the Eidos. Game if passes in the war of the Vietnam where you can 
 choose three soldiers. The graphics are good, mainly of the bush, leaving you in a propitious environment 
 to the game. The majority of the missions you walk followed for its friends of war, walking in 
 bush, tunnels and other places. One detail that some can be cool and for others it can be is not 
 the fact of that its friends are invincible. The movies is very good, already cutscenes I cannot 
 say the same being exageradamente violent. Although to be a short game, I advise to buy. It forgives 
 me for my English, but it is that I am Brazilian and my English is not fluent. In this review was 
 used one machine translator. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1alboogie
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 29, 2004 7:07 am PT
Review:  Well, it's not a horrible game, but, I wouldn't call it a great game either. For a shooter it's 
 not too bad, I have never liked those "checkpoint save" type games, but in this game even on the 
 hard level that's not real hard to do.
  Your buddies you run with can't die unless they're scripted to, I thought that was interesting 
 ( invincible buddies ) .
  Unless you really screw up, you always have a little backup so getting to the checkpoints isn't 
 to much of a problem.
  The gameplay isn't too bad, it's the storyline and cutscenes, they don't tell a very happy story. 
 It doesn't paint a very pretty picture of the war at all, not that it was a pretty war anyway. 
 It's definatly not a game you want to play with the kids around. The graphics weren't too bad, 
 same for the sound, other than that it's all pretty muchsex, drugs and 
  gore", lots of gore. It's a pretty short game too, I think they should have cut the cost too, they 
 cut gametime.
  My bottem line, it's worth a play, but you should wait for it to hit a bargain bin somewhere, it's 
 not worth $30. Wait
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamoz
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 23, 2004 9:00 am PT
Review:  I recenlty tried this game and I must admit that it left me impressed in the beginning. Lets start 
 shall we?
  
  The introduction is pretty impressive with excellent actual video clips from Vietnam war, photographs 
 and digital custom video too. An audio file explaining the reasons of war is also welcome even 
 though it may not satisfy everyone for political reasons.
  
  The cut-scenes throughout the start and end of each level are amazing as well. The developers have 
 done a very good job, putting a lot of detail, nice animations and violent scenes that some of 
 you may find them offensive, but not for the 'blood-suckers'.:)
  
  Another nice feature, something I have never experienced in other games, is the trophies collection 
 and reward system. Everytime you play a map, you may collect trophies (flags, stars, notebooks, 
 etc) that allow you to get back cash. Everytime you finish a level, the game drops you back in 
 your camp where you can just wander around, talk to your teamates, do some shooting practice, get 
 more information about the next mission, 'play' with the pretty nurses. You can also use your cash 
 to buy goods like, photographs (playboy style) , extra medicine, bonus weapons, pass outside the 
 camp, etc. The pass allows you to go outside the camp in order to talk to any of the pretty Vietnamese 
 'ladies' and have a nice going if you have enough money. To be honest I didnt manage to collect 
 enough money to experience it, you will see why below. 
  
  In every level, as expected you have several tasks and these dont involve jsu killing everyone. 
 There are usually interesting tasks, like blowing up weapons, search villages for enemies, etc. 
 You may have to disarm traps and definately dont fall in one, as you die instantly. The graphics 
 are quite good as well, especially when walking around the jungle. I must admit that all those 
 features increased my appettite for this game a lot.
  
  Its a pity though that a game with all the features above, would have such a terrible gameplay. 
 By that I mean, the character movement, the target movement, the enemy killing etc. Trust me, its 
 all that bad. I really played several levels just to give the game a second chance, but I was let 
 down big time. The movement is a big disappointment, as the character seems to be heavy and the 
 third person style doesnt help at all towards this issue. I believe that the camera angle is pretty 
 bad too, so that sometimes someone shoots you whereas you cannot seem him cause you think (camera 
 shows) that you hiding enough behind a rock. 
  
  Another bad thing is the killing. You may fire tons of bullets and hit noone. I mean sometimes 
 even if shooting in burst style it doesnt work at all. This is quite bad and upsetting I must say. 
 Generally, due to these issues the gameplay seems very bulky and laggy as well. 
  
  Overall, I would not suggest this game since the gameplay is terrible and this is the most interesting 
 part in a game, but I have to admit that it includes several unique up to now ideas. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 1.9
Date: Sep 18, 2004 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Sadly I am one of those who did buy this - it is another game that has caused me to wonder if I 
 will ever learn to wait for reviews from those who have played games before buying them on a whim.......
 
  
  It really has almost no redeeming features. Graphics would have been poor some years ago, characterisation 
 is sterotyped, sound is average, gameplay is pretty awful. Your teammates are immortal - you almost 
 are. Booby traps are almost impossible to disarm. Missions are repetative and are only made a little 
 challenging by the almost infinite numbers of VC - the game almost makes a feature of non-stop 
 re-spawning. Physics are almost non-existent - the only thing that does work is the recoil on guns 
 making them sort of realistically hard to aim except in short bursts. Grenades on the other had 
 almost seem random both in direction and distance that they fly. Oh and the manual is awful - it 
 really might as well not be there for all that it tells you. My only real pleasure as been shooting 
 bad guys in head for the comedy "exploding melon" effect that substitutes for realism. Blood looks 
 like poor movie gore. It is TOTALLY unfrightening - but attempts to achieve some level of atmosphere 
 through the use of unpleasantly graphic cut scenes that don't generally move the story on one iota.
 
  
  THIS IS TRUELY DREADFUL- DO NOT BUY IT.
  
  Save some money and buy Vietong from the bargain bin instead - that was a great game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 16, 2004 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Simply a terrible game. This is a game that would have impressed no one 4 years ago, and it's certainly 
 going to win no friends now. If anything gamespot was to gentle in it's score, although the review 
 was spot on. I won't waste words on a lengthy review, because I've already wasted enough time on 
 this game. Thank GOD I did not buy it myself, but rather played it with a friend. Truly, this game 
 has no redeeming points whatsoever. The graphics are not only chunky and outdated, but in a colour 
 pallette that is singularly unappealing. The "gritty action" is so clunky and pathetic it makes 
 you want to laugh. Don't worry about holding your dying buddy as he tries to hold in his guts... 
 your teammates are indestructible (and with the helth system, so are you, unless you are fundamentally 
 incompetant) . Bottom line: If this game were in the bargain bin for $1, it would still be a waste 
 of time and money. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
