-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: ShellShock 2: Blood Trails
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/shellshock2bloodtrails/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Serviceable, old-time shooter action.
 A few good scares, along with some unsettling gore.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dumb enemies.
 Simplistic levels based around triggering spawn points.
 Short single-player campaign and no multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 27, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 4.6, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 4.8, 240 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Rebellion
Genre: Historic Shooter
Date:     Feb 24, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
ShellShock 2: Blood Trails spices up Vietnam with a liberal application of zombies, but it does 
 nothing to liven up the generic shooter gameplay. 

  Vietnam shooters apparently need more than just Charlie creeping through the jungle these days. 
 ShellShock 2: Blood Trails takes a sharp left turn away from its gritty, realistic 2004 predecessor, 
 ShellShock: Nam '67, and throws zombie hordes into the expected mix of AK-47s and rice paddies. 
 Combining horror with stereotypical first-person shooter combat does little to make the game stand 
 apart from the crowd, however. While there are a few thrills and chills here, this is too much 
 of a shooter-by-numbers to be engaging to anyone but the least discriminating twitch gamer.  

 
           Taking down another refugee from 28 Days Later.      

  The plot introduces ravenous zombies into what is otherwise a standard Vietnam War movie storyline 
 about a kid experiencing the horrors of war for the first time. If you tossed  Platoon  and  28 
 Days Later  into a blender, this is pretty much what you would get. You play as Nate Walker, a 
 raw recruit who touches down in country and is immediately shipped off to a border base under siege 
 by the Vietcong (cue the usual angst about war being hell) . But then the game shifts suddenly from 
 one stereotype into another, with Walker being introduced to his zombie brother, Cal. As you might 
 expect, this isn't much of a family reunion. Just as you're coming to terms with a brain-chomping 
 bro who won't be interested in eating turkey on Thanksgiving anymore, the VC crash the party. Your 
 brother escapes, and soon you're running through the jungle to battle the zombie plague and figure 
 out what the mysterious Whiteknight is before the godless Commies do.  

  Sound like a decent basis for a shooter? It is, and the Source-engine-based visuals are reasonably 
 good, though a long way from something modern like Crysis. The level design is attractive too, 
 even if it seems like you're running from one Vietnam movie set to another. One moment you're racing 
 through a misty jungle, then you're dealing with booby-trapped VC tunnels, and then you're in a 
 run-down village. You get the picture. At least much of the scenery is chilling. Bloody streaks 
 (trails?) are everywhere, and it seems like you can't walk two feet without encountering a beheaded 
 soldier mounted on a wall, a buddy with his legs blown off, or some poor guy impaled on a bunch 
 of bamboo spikes. The audio is serviceable. M-16 and AK-47 fire sounds like it should, although 
 there isn't any thump to the rat-a-tat-tat or explosions. Most of the voice acting is well done, 
 at least by B-movie standards. The actor playing Walker sounds a lot like a young James Woods, 
 which adds a bit of Hollywood class to the proceedings.  

  But there isn't much game here. ShellShock 2: Blood Trails is very short. The solo campaign can 
 be blasted through in four or five hours, and there are no multiplayer modes, so when you're done, 
 you're done. Replay value is nonexistent due to the simplistic nature of the level design. Actually, 
 "design" is probably too strong a word for how these levels have been slapped together. There isn't 
 any artistry here. Every level is a straight run from point A to point B, with pauses along the 
 way at choke points where you have to hunker down for a few minutes and gun down respawning enemies. 
 Basically, you run along until you meet up with a bunch of fellow Yanks, then you stand still and 
 help them shoot the horde of VC and/or zombie wannabes that start spawning from nearby rooftops, 
 jungle pathways, and the like. Enemies never give any thought to what they're doing and typically 
 just run out of their spawn locations like clowns out of a funny car. You can simply line up these 
 spots in your sights and blast away at the respawning bad guys until the showdown ends and the 
 game tells you to get moving.  

           You know it's bad when even the hot USO chicks get it.      

  About the only intriguing 
 aspect of combat is a minigame that pops up whenever you get into close combat or you trigger something 
 like a VC booby trap. If you encounter one of these situations, the game surprises you with a quickie 
 challenge where you need to quickly hit a a number of specific keys to avoid certain death. For 
 instance, to avoid a zombie's clutches and give him a beating, you might need to press W-S-A, then 
 A-S-D, and then W-A-D. As the game progresses, you have less time to input these combos. In the 
 early levels, you can almost leisurely type in the letters requested, while later you have to key 
 them in almost instantly or wind up perforated by something like a VC spike pit. These moments 
 are kind of intense and often serve to underline startling moments like a zombie lurching out of 
 a darkened corner. But they also tend to be few and far between, especially in comparison to the 
 mundane run-and-gun combat.  

  Chances are good that you won't hate ShellShock 2: Blood Trails. But odds are also high that you 
 won't particularly enjoy it, either, and will likely forget playing the game in less time than 
 it took to blast your way to its conclusion. Even if you're interested in the Vietnam War and have 
 a zombie fetish, you can likely find a better use for your $30.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ficha13
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2009 6:15 am PT
Review:  its a simple fun run and gun fps game, what else do you want?
  its better than a lot of games (example: alpha prime, instinct,...)
  and i had lots of fun with 
 it. it has solid graphics, but high system req. I suggest you put the visuals on low and everything 
 on high (if you have a good comp.) , cause its faster and i didn't notice any changes in the graphics. 
 it sometimes has bugs, but like i always say, Better buy a good buggy game than a crappy game with 
 no bugs at all. Fun and simple, that's all there is to it :)
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Reviews 
 must be 100 words minimum. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. Reviews 
 must be 100 words minimum. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. Reviews 
 must be 100 words minimum 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soadforever1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Shellshock 2 doesn't offer the player almost anything. Too small single player and no multiplayer, when 
 multiplayer is necessary to almost every FPS nowadays. I couldn't even finish it, as it was too boring.
 
  For me Shellshock 2 has slightly good movements, some good weapons and some well-made scary scenes. I 
 can also say that the first hour of Shellshock 2 is quite entertaining.
  However cutscenes are a total disaster. A lot of sound bugs ,especially, make their appearance during 
 cutscenes which makes the player have difficulties in understanding the plot. There is also the 
 so-called ammo problem where the maximum bullet limit is up to 120. Not being able to carry only 
 1 main weapon makes matters worse. You also have the impression that Shellshock 2 tries to scare 
 you but with no success. In addition graphics are all messed up, no detail at all.
  The Shellshock series is one of the worst video game series in history. Don't expect much from this 
 game. There is no way it can measure up to a gamers' expectations at all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nero96
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 18, 2009 8:42 am PT
Review:  I borrowed this game from my friend. I had no games that time and i didnt expect this game to be 
 good. I just wanted some game to play. But his game is way more worse than bad. This is very much 
 overrated to give even 3.5 . This is most worst fps ever.
  
  Graphics:
  Very very bad graphics. Just like the previous version which. The graphic are like games like quake. 
 1/10
  
  Story:
  Very very very very bad story. This story is like a copy of other horror games which is done much 
 worse than other horror games.
  1/10
  
  Gameplay: 
  Very very very very very very bad. The most worst fps i ever played and i will ever play. I was almost 
 feeling sleepy when i played this game.
  0.5/10
  
  The reason that i gave this game 2 is that i liked the front and back cover of the dvd. Otherwise 
 i would have given it in negative numbers seeing the other factors of this game. Thats all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_being
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 3:55 am PT
Review:  Even though I never played the original Shellshock, and had no idea what's it about, I've decided 
 to give "Shellshock 2: Blood Trails" a try for two reasons: one, it is an action-horror hybrid 
 set during the Vietnam War, and two, it has zombies in it. While I admit the second reason isn't 
 enough of an excuse for playing a game I know nothing about, I felt the setting could provide intense 
 firefights and action, and still have enough room for some eerie atmosphere and jungle-creeping 
 horrors. Well, I was half right.
  
  The game throws you into the shoes of Nate Walker, a member of a special ops team that vanished 
 after being sent into the jungles of Cambodia to retrieve cargo known as WhiteKnight. Needless 
 to say, this so-called cargo turns out to be some sort of virus, turning anyone who comes in contact 
 with it into a blood crazed zombie. Luckily for Walker, he was not infected and now has to chase 
 after his infected brother Cal through towns, jungles and old temples. All of this, of course, 
 while mowing down VC troops and hordes of zombies. Yes, this story has been told many times before, 
 and in much better games, but amazingly it doesn't seem to be an issue here. The story is not what 
 drives you forward; actually, nothing really drives the game forward. It is slightly intriguing 
 to find out what happens next, since every mission ends up abruptly, like a bad novel, but it is 
 never about the plot. Nowadays, any reason to gun down zombies, however redundant, is a good reason.
 
  
  Since Shellshock 2 is a first person shooter, one would expect the action to take a major part 
 in the gameplay. Oddly enough, it never does. Sure, you get your fair share of firefights and even 
 quick-time events (forcing you to press a sequence of buttons to push off an enemy or avoid traps) 
 but it seems that the developers never though of trying something new. After the first two missions, 
 the action losses its edge and becomes more of an annoyance. As Walker navigates through each level 
 he encounters both friendly and hostile A. I., and while the hostiles can sometimes prove a challenge 
 by their sheer numbers, the friendlies are worthless husks. Each time Walker fights along side 
 a squad of GIs, they tend not to survive the first wave. Even those who somehow manage to survive 
 an attack will refuse to fallow Walker farther into the level, leaving him to pretty much defeat 
 wave after wave of zombies all by himself. This can result in some really frustrating moments, 
 like being cornered by the legion of the undead, with no one to back you up. Add that to the unresponsive 
 aiming controls and the action plummets below the mediocre. 
  
  But all is not bad in Shellshock 2. While this action-horror hybrid isn't going to please any hardcore 
 shooter fans, it does manage to create enough creepy atmosphere to appease the more forgiving fans 
 of the horror genre. No, you won't find any over the top gore or even a well hidden zombie, waiting 
 to jump out of the shadows; instead there are empty, quiet rooms, with the remains of your fellow 
 soldiers to serve as a monument to the horrors waiting ahead, or far off cries of babies or dogs 
 been slaughtered in the buildings around you. Shellshock 2 takes its tagline "War is hell" and 
 squeezes every last drop of blood out of it right into the game, making the lackluster action tolerable 
 for a little longer. You are never afraid of what is in front of you, but of what isn't, and that 
 is exactly right for this kind of game.
  
  Speaking of what's in front of you, the game's graphics, unfortunately, leave a lot of be desired. 
 Admittedly, most characters look pretty decent up close and personal, and when fending off an enemy 
 in a quick-time event, it is nice to see the attention to details. However, from afar a lot of 
 them look the same. There are about three versions of VC or GI troops, and a few more versions 
 of zombies (VC and GI, plus some civilian models) . So by the time you face off against the first 
 zombie horde, you've seen most of the character models the game has to offer. As for the environments, 
 they are the weak point of Shellshock 2's visuals. Spending most of the game in the deep jungles, 
 it can get a bit dull minding your surroundings (and sometimes you have to, in order to avoid traps) . 
 More diverse levels, like the one taking place in a small zombie infested village or a VC camp, 
 can get a little disorienting since everything around you look the same. I don't know if it is 
 intended, but navigating around the less linear levels is confusing at time, and down right annoying 
 when losing your way spells certain death by zombies. There are a few more nice touches, like the 
 blood spatter you get when finishing an enemy up close, which impairs your vision for a short time, 
 but since there isn't much to look at, it isn't such a nuisance.
  
  The audio is the Shellshock 2 is another example of the game's uneven nature. Voice acting is down 
 right horrible, with a lot of the characters sounding the same, meaning emotionless and bored. 
 It is especially true for Walker, whose tone never seems to change, even when finally facing his 
 twisted and sick bother. He always seems detached and unaffected by the horror around him, and 
 it is almost impossible to relate, or even care about him. There isn't any in-game soundtrack to 
 speak of, except the screams and explosions that accompany each level, of course, and it's difficult 
 to decide if that's a bad thing. The lack of music emphasizes the background noises and helps pull 
 you into the game's grim reality. Unfortunately, Walker makes such loud noises when walking around, 
 that it is at time impossible to hear anything else. Half the times it sounds like something is 
 following you, and it's hard to shake off this paranoia. You are never sure it the sounds of Walker's 
 steps aren't masking the sounds a zombie rushing you from behind, so turning around and making 
 sure nothing chases you becomes a routine. So the audio does contribute to the overall atmosphere 
 and horror elements, even if unintentionally.
  
  "Shellshock 2: Blood Trails" isn't a very good game, nor is it a total failure. It is a less than 
 mediocre shooter with some nice horror elements weaved into its gameplay. Unfortunately, there 
 are quite a few action-horror first person shooters out there, and most of them are better than 
 Shellshock 2. So if you already played all those other games, and are really craving for another, 
 give it a try; you may actually have some fun. But I want be shocked if you decided to play F. E. A. R 
 one more time afterwards, just to remained yourself that action and horror can go hand in hand 
 without sacrificing one or the other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamrob7
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 10, 2009 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Well it started ok, there was a reasonable amount of atmosphere, some plot about soldiers and weird 
 stuff. Fine.
  
  You start playing it and notice the combat system is a little clunky and unsatisfying, but perhaps 
 the story and atmosphere will carry it and make the combat bearable. Sure.
  
  It doesn't work though, despite my best efforts I could not enjoy this game. Ultimately the plot 
 just didn't really cut it, and neither did the atmosphere or anything else. The combat is just 
 horrible for a game brought out in 2009. Horrible mechanics lead to an unsatisfying fumble, rather 
 than engrossing combat.
  
  I had to quit half way through, it just wasn't worth it anymore. The game sucks, time to move on.
 
  
  If you enjoyed this game good for you, but I wonder how many decent FPS you have played because 
 this whilst not being the worst game ever is right down there at the bottom of my list.
  
  If you are going to have a game revolve around the combat with a fairly tenous and generic storyline, 
 you MUST.... I repeat MUST have good combat mechanics. This game does not.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kvaglund
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 2:42 am PT
Review:  ShellShock Blood Trails is an okay first person shooter having the price in mind, everthing looks 
 nice - the game is stable and have that creepy feel that I like ex sounds of dogs near by - are 
 they going to attact like in cod modern warfare or not. the gamespot score of mediocre is just 
 right everything is mediocre, graphics animation maps just everything nothing is top notch except 
 for that creepy feeling - dimm streets lots of fog and and and shellshock is much more easy to 
 relate to than all the sci-fi shooters with thair laserbeams and god knows what - in game you have 
 the option choose weather you want to storm into a fight or lock yourself down and the take them 
 down as they come running waiting for that sweet spot where they are not too many and then lounch 
 you assult - that style works for me 
  
  the real downside is the length of the game or the lack of - but all in all if you played Nam 67 
 you would know what you were in for - happy hunting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G4FP2W
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Shellshock 2: Blood Trials is the sequel to Shellshock Nam 67. If you've played Shellshock Nam 
 67 then based on previous experience you can assume that you're a soldier fighting in the Vietnam 
 War. Well you are fighting in the Vietnam War, but in a whole different scenario. 
  
  Shellshock 2 has been added with a horror theme. And guess what that theme is. Zombies or infected, 
 whichever you prefer. The basic plot in Shellshock 2 is to find your brother who is also an infected 
 and rescue him. Throughout the game you'll encounter the Vietnamese soldiers as well as the infected. 
 The story line is mildly clichd resulting in predictable events. The overall feel of the game 
 that I can best describe this game as is a combination of Condemned, Left 4 Dead, and a little 
 bit of the old Shellshock Nam 67 in which it does poorly with all three.
  
  The graphics, simply put, aren't competitive enough to catch much attention. The graphics are better 
 than its predecessor, but even on high settings still lacks much of the flair some other games 
 presented (ex. Crysis, Fear 2) . Let's just say that you won't be wowed by the looks of this game 
 at all.
  
  The audio is passably albeit it uses some generic horror music and the typical something-pops-up-in-your-face 
 sound. The voice acting is sub-par, probably the best thing about the game, other than fighting 
 tons of zombies. Once again, nothing that hasn't been done before, but may (depending on the person) 
 get you in the mood of the game. 
  
  The gameplay of a game is (in my opinion) the saving factor of the game. If it plays well and is 
 fun to play, than most anyone may disregard its other faults and deem the game worthy of playing. 
 Unfortunately for Shellshock 2 this is not the case. The gameplay consists simply of shooting stupid 
 AI, and pushing the right button sequences in cutscene events to fend off enemies. The AI, especially 
 the infected are awful due to their tendency to run into walls and/or fall down a cliff. Overall 
 the gameplay is cheap and unawarding.
  
  To sum it all up this game is pretty bad, putting it lightly. The horror theme is nice and fending 
 off mobs of infected is pretty fun, but other than that there isn't much else to the game. Linear 
 gameplay and an uninspired story don't make a very good game. Want to play this game, no one is 
 stopping you. Don't want to play it, don't worry you're not missing anything.
  
  Played on:
  Dell Dimension 9150
  Pentium D 3.4 GHz
  8800 GT 512 vram
  4 GB Ram
  Windows 
 XP SP3
  Settings: High
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skajo
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:51 am PT
Review:  Game: 3 in 10
  No substance, no adrenaline
  Just one more lazy and boring fps to the market
  I expect it lot better!!!
  and dont play this 
 game in bed, you will fall to sleep in less then 10min! 
  and one more think . I have got shocked when i get the pistol and the recoil of weapon is almost 
 null.
  
  Graphics: 4 in 10
  Not bad graphics but for what is shown i expect more improved Frame rating .. we are in 2009, is 
 a high-end graphic card needed for this? if its supposed to be a medium graphic experience game. 
 i think the graphic engine is badly used. Not fluid. 
  
  Sound: 6 in 10
  Its not relevant when the game don't gives you the spirit you need to be in the game..
  Replay: 
 000
  I will not touch this game again.
  ...............
  When all  are important. this is not a good game to buy.
  Thats why they dont release a demo, 
 i think!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: walkerm101
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  if they would have put out a demo no one thats a real gamer would have bought it. so from now on 
 no demo no buy. i have a feeling thats why they don't but out demos now. once they put out demoes 
 on almost every game but now alote of these companys know what CRAP there putting out and they 
 don't dare put out demoes out. the good companies put out demoes and the ones that don't have earned 
 our trust that the game will be good. i'm 61 years old on a small army medical pension so every 
 dollar i spend really counts and when i end up with a real crappy game like this, OUCH!!!!!!. OH 
 i know theres people crying now about this old dude, but i really like to play shooters and i'm 
 trying to get good enough to play on-line with out getting killed in the first 2 minutes. it makes 
 a big differene between 62 yr. old refects and young refects but i'm going to make it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AustinH147
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 5:20 pm PT
Review:  First of all, there should never have been a sequel to the first disastrous game "ShellShock". 
 At least this sequel is actually *better* than the first.
  
  When I first started the game, I've noticed that the graphics... are just... ugly. The graphics 
 aren't as bad until the levels progress. Once you enter the Jungle parts of the game, you will 
 start regretting you ever played this atrocity.
  
  The game play is really nothing special. Especially the controls that can get very clunky when 
 firing a gun at the enemy. And what I've noticed from the guns are that most of the guns and sounds 
 are very lackluster and recycled from previous War shooters. Another bad part about the game play 
 is when an enemy charges after you with some melee weapon or knife, and you have to hit a certain 
 button combination to push him away or shoot him in the face. It doesn't really feel satisfying, 
 it's just tedious. The creators might have tried too hard with variety and satisfaction.
  
  I rather play Soldier of Fortune: Payback than play ShellShock 2. At least both games are brutally 
 blood-thirsty with gore. No wonder ShellShock 2 was banned in Australia. SoF: Payback was another 
 bad present war-time shooter, but at least the graphics are appealing to look at. Sorry to change 
 the subject a little, but everyone might as well just keep ShellShock 2 off their mind anyway. 
 Do not play this game unless no FPS at all appeals to you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoatheMe
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 24, 2009 7:34 am PT
Review:  shock value doesn't fix any of the many problems like spastic controls, lifeless boring animation 
 and sound in your weapons, extremely linear gameplay, no vsync option seriously???, melee minigames 
 that force you to press a bunch of quick random wsad sequences... yes it actually tells you to press 
 those keys by name rather than telling you a direction to press... more annoying then it sounds 
 when you have to do 9-12 letter sequences quickly or instant death... just to name a few things.
 
  
  it's just packed full of bad/lazy design and glitches. the voice acting is actually alright and 
 it seemed like it had a decent plot/premise behind all the flaws... but it was so boring to play, 
 I just stopped caring. 
  
  and of course the graphics are not that great. it looks almost like an original xbox game at times. 
 I'm not primarily graphic based. if a game looks a few years old but is well done, I can get into 
 it. but with a game this poor it's just another negative mark on the list of problems. 
  
  I'm sure as usual you will see people trying to rationalize how this is really a great underrated 
 psychological thriller... believe me I wish it was. it reminds me of Legendary in a way. good intentions 
 and some clever, but poorly implemented ideas. somewhere along the line they just stopped trying 
 and figured "eh, good enough." and a month or two from now you will see this for $19.99 in bargain 
 bins where it belonged in the first place. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
