-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sherlock Holmes: The Awakened
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/sherlockholmestheawakened/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Feels like a real pulp detective story.
 sensible puzzles.
 attractive 3D visuals with full range of character movement.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A little dry in spots, largely because you can't skip cutscenes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.2, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 656 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Focus Home Interactive
Developer: Frogwares
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Mar 1, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An engaging story, logical puzzles, and nice visuals combine to make The Awakened a great adventure 
 game. 

  If Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and H. P. Lovecraft had ever collaborated on a novel, the duo might have 
 come up with a spooky saga a lot like Sherlock Holmes: The Awakened. This adventure, the third 
 in Frogwares Game Development Company's series featuring the protagonist of such classic mysteries 
 as  The Hound of the Baskervilles  and  The Sign of Four , pits the deerstalker-wearing detective 
 against the horrors of the Cthulhu mythos. While that combination may sound more like fan-fiction 
 cheese than a pulp-fiction dream team, the tale here is told brilliantly, and the adventure mechanics 
 are as faultlessly logical as the legendary sleuth himself.  

          The man himself: no deerstalker cap or trademark pipe here.     

  That doesn't mean 
 that the game is easy. On the contrary, Holmes and his sidekick, Dr. Watson, have to be extremely 
 careful and observant to stop cultists from setting off Cthulhu's alarm clock. The big difference 
 between The Awakened and the average adventure with its walk-through-prompting leaps of stupidity 
 is that you can figure out all of the challenges that come your way if you approach them as Holmes 
 himself. This means that you need to closely examine your surroundings, keeping an eye out for 
 footprints, scraps of cloth, bits of fiber, and other nearly imperceptible clues that can help 
 you unravel the mystery. In fact, this mystery begins with a missing servant and turns into a globe-spanning 
 investigation into (cue Lovecraftian purple prose) indescribable eldritch horrors from beyond time 
 and space!  

  However, the game isn't a tedious pixel hunt. If you scan all of the backdrops with Holmes' or 
 Watson's practiced eyes, you'll spot important items almost immediately. Such key areas as desks 
 and shelves can also usually be zoomed in on, so you know when something needs a look-see with 
 Holmes' trusty magnifying glass. There is a great sense of consistency and internal logic at work 
 here that keeps you on the right path as long as you scrutinize everything in sight. You are also 
 presented with the odd bit of old-fashioned adventure-game goofiness. At one point, you McGyver 
 together a blowgun out of a pipe and a hypodermic syringe, but much of the time, it feels like 
 you're a real detective running down leads and collecting clues.  

  Yet simply observing everything and slapping together makeshift weapons won't prevent cultists 
 from summoning Cthulhu. There are a lot of puzzles to solve during the course of the game, including 
 a couple of combination door locks, a devilish clock conundrum that must be solved to open a safe, 
 a few extraordinarily tough ciphers, and even one challenge to draw the bloody pentagram that serves 
 as the sign of Lovecraft's Great Old Ones. Holmes must also take evidence back to labs (both in 
 his famous flat at 221 B Baker St. and elsewhere) and examine it under a microscope or cook it 
 up with other solvents in a mechanical contraption to separate the elements. Some of this can be 
 a little finicky. Sometimes you have to use a scalpel or tweezers just right on a piece of evidence 
 slabbed under the microscope. Hot spots in the game can occasionally be a touch tricky to activate 
 as well. Still, the hands-on feel of these various challenges more than makes up for a few minor 
 technical issues.  

  Visual presentation also makes it seem as if The Awakened is right at your fingertips. Unlike the 
 traditional third-person adventure or stutter-step Myst clone, this game is depicted in first-person 
 shooter style. You look through the eyes of Holmes or Watson and have complete range of movement 
 in full 3D environments that are attractive and atmospheric. The story also takes you all over 
 the globe, so you get to sleuth your way from London to Germany to New Orleans and back again. 
 Some of the background scenery is a bit flat, although the characters are beautifully drawn and 
 loaded with such detail that you can see the pores and 5 o'clock shadow on Watson's face. Lifeless 
 street scenes are all that interfere with the illusion of stepping into the 19th century. For example, 
 Holmes' neighborhood in London is practically deserted in the middle of the day; the only citizens 
 in sight are a newsboy member of the Baker St. Irregulars, a hansom cabdriver, and a woman selling 
 flowers. This sure isn't the bustling capital of the Victorian world brought to life in Doyle's 
 short stories.  

          Examining corpses is all part of a day's work for Sherlock Holmes.     

  Audio is straight 
 out of the BBC. Although the acting and dialogue are unsurprisingly more workmanlike than the fantastic 
 Sherlock Holmes TV adaptations from the early '90s starring Jeremy Brett, everything remains entirely 
 believable. However, some of the cutscenes are rather wordy, and there isn't any way to skip them 
 or even fast-forward through specific lines. In some ways, this actually adds to the gameplay because 
 it forces you to concentrate on every word spoken, much like the obsessive Holmes would have -- or 
 not. Holmes is awfully talky and obnoxious a lot of the time, so there are moments when you long 
 for the ability to just hit the escape button to shut him up. The soundtrack is also sufficiently 
 ominous and worthy of a TV show or movie. Unfortunately, slight audio clipping mars the main score 
 on the menu screen and during level loads.  

  Both true to the character of Sherlock Holmes and a rip-roaring pulp adventure in its own right, 
 The Awakened is a must-play game. Mystery lovers with a taste for the supernatural will feel right 
 at home with this slice of Cthulhu-infused Victoriana.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Stilletokitten
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2009 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Sherlock Holmes: The Awakened combines the world of Sir Aurthor Conan Doyle's timeless characters 
 Sherlock and Watson with the the fantastical allure of H. P. Lovecraft's Call of the Cthulhu, one 
 of his most famous stories dealing with the return of the Great Ones from the depths of the sea. 
 As an avid fan of both Sherlock Holmes and H. P. Lovecraft, it was inevitable that I would give 
 this game a try. I was hesitant at first, as previous Sherlock Holmes games have been disappointing 
 and rather dull. I must admit, I was very surprised, and extrememly pleased, with this newest adventure 
 game from Frogwares. My rating: a 10/10.
  
  The SUMMARY: This game, set in the year 1894, takes you through several fully explorable locations 
 around the world including several locations in London, old forgotten tunnels, Switzerland, an 
 insane asylum, the city and swamps of New Orleans, and an island off the coastline of Scotland, 
 which keeps the game fresh and exciting. As Sherlock and Watson, you begin searching for missing 
 people, only to discover that a more sinister plot is involved, namely, without giving too much 
 away, a stolen treasure, an international smuggling and kidnapping ring, and horrific experiments 
 conducted on living subjects: all as a result of a cult dedicated to the return of Lovecraft's 
 Cthulhu. There are several surprises throughout the game that keep you on your toes. Nothing is 
 predictable, as in some other adventure games, which keeps you glued to your computer screen for 
 hours.
  
  The CHARACTERS: This game contains all of the usual quips which makes Sherlock and Watson so lovable 
 such as: "It is simplicity itself Watson," "Come Watson! The game is afoot!" and "Holmes, you go 
 to far!" As you travel the world you meet many characters, whose voices and accents are entirely 
 believable and about as close to accurate as I believe a developer can get. Not once did I role 
 my eyes at a character's "southern drawl" or Swedish accent. Speaking with characters is not monotonous 
 and kept interesting due to the fascinating storyline, great voice acting, adult content and humor 
 and original dialogue. Additionally, conversations are kept to a "need to know" basis, and do not 
 drag on with idle chit chat of no importance to the story.
  
  The GRAPHICS: The graphics are very well done. There is an option to play in either first or third 
 person. I strongly recommend playing in first person as this allows you a 360* rotation and full 
 view of every area you are in. I noticed in third person format that some of the inventory items 
 you need to pick up are not accessible due to limited camera angles so it is possible to get stuck 
 in a few places if you are playing in third person, an oversight of the developers. Due to the 
 fact that the graphics are so detailed and crisp, it would be, in my opinion, a waste to play the 
 game in third person. I highly suggest playing it in first person to get the full effect of the 
 game.
  
  This game is NOT for young children! There is enough blood, gore, and mutilated bodies to keep 
 any serious gamer happy. And because the graphics are so crisp, I found myself at times, even though 
 I played through the game of F. E. A. R and Silent Hill, truly horrified and unsettled at what I was 
 seeing. Lovecraft, were he alive, would be impressed at how this game was delivered, and the horror 
 it invokes in its storytelling.
  
  The ENVIRONMENTS: As mentioned earlier, there are numerous global locations to explore, each as 
 interesting as the next. With 360* camera angles, you can wander neighborhoods just admiring the 
 view. A bonus with this game is, once you have discovered a location of importance, it places it 
 on a map, so if you don't feel like walking from Point A to Point B you can just pull up your map, 
 click on the location and you are transported there immediately. Another bonus is that, as you 
 are exploring, you can avoid frustrating backtracking. If you are on a mission and not sure where 
 to go, Holmes will say things like, "I have no reason to go that way" to let you know you are on 
 the wrong track and should turn around. The sound effects in each environment are just as realistic 
 as the graphics without being too intrusive. The soundtrack plays at just the right moments to 
 heighten the intensity during certain "encounters." Because the game was so realistically put together, 
 you will be able to submerse yourself entirely and feel like you are really there.
  
  The PUZZLES: The puzzles are challenging without being too difficult. You must put yourself in 
 the mind of Sherlock Holmes and really be a detective: analyzing evidence, piecing together documentation, 
 studying maps and books of the occult. Logic plays a large part in the puzzles, and as long as 
 you can reason and deduce, you should have little difficulty getting past any of the puzzles, which 
 are spaced out enough to not overwhelm or frustrate. An excellent thing the developers did with 
 this game is include a strategy guide with the inventory. Therefore, if you do find yourself stuck, 
 you can access the "question mark" icon and be provided with clues, one by one to allow you to 
 solve it on your own. If each individual clue provided does not help you and you still find yourself 
 stuck, you can get the answer to the puzzle directly from the built-in strategy guide... no need 
 for online walkthroughs. I would like to see more developers utilize this added feature.
  
  As long as you fully explore your environments, inventory items are fairly easy to find. Just remember 
 that you are Holmes, which means looking for traces of blood, fingerprints, footprints, examining 
 dead bodies, etc. It does not take a lot of pixel hunting, the clues are fairly obvious, as long 
 as you fully explore the environment you are in.
  
  The CONCLUSION: Sherlock Holmes: The Awakened, will keep you interested and intrigued until the 
 very end and will leave you wanting more. There is no need to have a background in Lovecraft to 
 enjoy this game, as you will have a thorough understanding of one of the most popular morbid short 
 stories of all time, The Call of the Cthulhu, as you will have a thorough understanding of it once 
 you are done. Don't wait for the bargain bin for this one. Play it now. You will NOT be disappointed. 
 And Frogwares! Please keep adventure games like this one coming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Salar77
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Illogical and unrealistic game story, irrelevant puzzles, none flexible game play. Frogwares has 
 spoiled the good name of Holmes.
  
  Silver earring was a great success, but sadly they lost their way in the middle by making the awakened 
 and Arsene Lupin. I hope they stop spoiling down the good name of Sherlock Holmes, with such idiotic 
 games, and start to listen to the voice of gamers. Trying to compare Holmes with Arsene Lupin or 
 others is not a good idea, because they have different characters.
  
  I mean common, It's not a wrestling!
  
  All that gamers want, is a realistic Detective game 
 based on logical conclusions, a realistic story line, and a flexible game environment.
  
  Graphic is only one item of realism, not all of it. There are many other items that counts; e. g. 
 when there are dozens of ropes, all around the port, why the player must only and only take the 
 rope on the sandbags? and there are many other examples such as this throughout the game.
  
  In my opinion, the worst part of the game is where the servant (Davy) writes a hundred (maybe 
 more) different numbers in order on the blackboard, which he memorized from a piece of paper in 
 a challenge of life and death; This part is a funny joke.
  
  Overall this title is very disappointing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: askelly35
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I felt relieved when the long and convoluted story finally ended. Aaahhh.... It was like coming 
 to the end of an exercise class where you've suffered a lot but are glad you made it to the end.
 
  
  This Sherlock Holmes story was that way, painful. A lot of reading and listening to dialogue, cutscenes 
 that could not be ended and awkward puzzles.
  
  The story was an odd mess of madness, mayhem, cultism, violence and some gross bits tossed in to 
 round out the lot. 
  
  It really wasn't fun to play and there were technical glitches that caused me to re-boot several 
 times. The graphics were merely okay.
  
  On the positive side, the inventory worked well, the voice-acting was good, keyboard/mouse control 
 is good, sound was fine albeit not musical at all.
  
  Avoid or pick up at the bargain bin only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vkain
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  With an intricate storyline and interesting puzzles and places to explore this is a game that is 
 worth playing. 
  Yes this is an adventure game but you control the movement of your character using the keyboard 
 which gives you a sense of freedom. You can speed walk by holding down shift or slow wak by just 
 hitting the W key without shift. The areas of exploration are more expansive than a normal adventure 
 game so you don't feel boxed in. 
  The graphics are good and voice acting is very well done. 
  The only problem I had was reading 
 documents. I felt like there should have been a magnifying glass provided to see the fine print. 
 I was sticking my face so close to the computer but still had to squint. And in order to figure 
 out puzzles you must read the documentation. That was my only complaint. 
  Be warned that some items you come across cannot be picked up or used unless certain tasks/dialogues 
 are completed. So if you can't pick up an item or advance make sure you've talked to everyone and 
 checked documentation. 
  So if you like mysteries and adventures this is definitley a game you must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 24, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  The adventure genre is certainly getting on with the times now with realistically very little to 
 be adding something spicy in the mix. Of course a title pivots centrally on its plotline because, 
 well, if the story stinks why bother solving that dastardly murder or who pinched the grand piano 
 last winter. Sherlock Holmes is a world renowned name and has spawned a whole manner of mediums 
 to reach its fans; this is the third Frogware bid to deliver their flavour of a timed classic.
 
  
  This isn't some standard point and click adventure, though they'll definitely be some pointing 
 and clicking for the record, you're not going to be stuck in 2D backgrounds feeling like the fly 
 on the wall. Instead you'll be plunged into a FPS-like 3D engine for all your detective work; it 
 already adds a whole new volume to the game and helps provide better challenges ahead. Watching 
 a 2D background can make all suspense or thrill of finding clues a little weak, but having to eye 
 everything in a full 360 degree environment is a better immersion.
  
  The game starts with Dr. Watson blabbing away at Holmes who's more content with pondering when 
 his next great case is going come around the corner. Soon enough the disappearance of an immigrant 
 worker catches events and it's off to work, with pipe naturally in hand. A slight warning is that 
 you do need to actively pay attention to turn of events; you can always consult the journal which 
 updates itself as you go along. The reason for this is because crafty Frogware launch text-based 
 quizzes after each 'main event', and should you get it wrong you'll need to try again.
  
  The puzzles themselves ingame range typically from easy to somewhat hard at points. Your grey matter 
 (that's the pink squishy think hopefully between your ears: the brain) will be getting a workout 
 as clues on where to go next do require some logic. Luck though it seems plays a role as you can 
 find yourself experiencing 'detective-block' and are left wondering around without the slightest 
 idea on what to do next. This is a troubling flaw in The Awakened, challenging but equally despairing.
 
  
  The controls are very easy to pick up; they are a standard WASD format typical to most 3D action 
 games for the PC. The mouse buttons are naturally invaluable, a quick right click lets you have 
 access to anything you need. There aren't many key controls so you shouldn't have trouble remember 
 them at all.
  
  At times you also change whose shoes you fill by swapping places with Dr. Watson, this only occurs 
 at certain parts of the game and cannot be instigated freely. Good news, the voice-overs aren't 
 bad and won't make you cringe as some adventure titles notoriously pull off, but that's being a 
 little unfair as all genres have their audio 'bad apples'. Yes the sounds aren't amazing to blow 
 gamers minds away for sure, but they sit comfortably well for the purposes of a great detective. 
 The same can be said for the graphics, while it's a full 3D adventure with a surprisingly good 
 FPS feel, you're not going to be blown into the streets of 19th century London anytime soon. Still 
 the effort is well noted and a certain degree of visual charm is achieved.
  
  You'll pick Sherlock Holmes: The Awakened up only if you're into the adventure genre. While the 
 game does deliver a nice bundle of challenges and like a larger number of other adventure titles 
 now it comes with a FPS feel, you could still do better if you looked hard enough. Frogwares efforts 
 are comfortable and they've done a substantial job of injecting some excitement, even though it's 
 clouded by some troubles along the way. It's a nice ride; if you don't expect to be blown away. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfsebastianII
Rating: 8
Date: May 17, 2008 2:16 am PT
Review:  Overall this was a game I really enjoyed. I am a big Sherlock Homes fan, which certainly attracted 
 me to this game, as I don't play that many adventure games.
  
  The plot was a good one, involving investigations in several well-depicted locations  with one 
 notable exception. In the pub at the harbour, there is a big St George Cross flag with 'ENGLAND' 
 across it. As an Englishman I can assure you that these flags, used to show support to the England 
 football team, have only been really popular for the last 10-15 years. You certainly wouldn't have 
 had one in Holmes' time  not least because there wasn't even an England football team then
  
  Back to the plot  it is a fairly grim tale (though all Holmes tales are) which borders on 
 horror  my only gripe is that the end felt a bit anti-climactic. The game is also just a tad short, 
 I think  one more 'chapter' would have made it feel more satisfying.
  
  The first person perspective worked well, although the game sometimes swaps you from being Holmes 
 to Watson. To be honest, this didn't happen often and most of the time Watson didn't do anything 
 that was that great (apart from shoot something from a tree, but SH could do that) . Also Holmes 
 occasionally asks Watson to answer a question, the answer needing to be worked out from the evidence 
 gathered, but there's other ways of doing that whilst allowing the gameplayer always to be Holmes, 
 which would surely make one feel more immersed.
  
  In terms of movement, it was occasionally problematic, being clunky and involving having to be 
 unnecessarily circumspect when going around certain objects. There were a couple of times when 
 you are required to move quickly (including one highly amusing chase sequence) but the movement 
 let these bits down a bit, doors particularly causing problems  UT this ain't.
  
  The voice acting is for the most part good, particularly Watson, but sadly I didn't like Holmes' 
 voice at all  in terms of the accent it was not at all how the public-school educated Holmes would 
 have sounded, and also is very thin and weedy  almost camp, to be honest.
  
  Not much to say about the graphics, except they are a pretty good standard.
  
  The quality 
 of the problem-solving is what really makes this enjoyable  solving them made use of stuff I hadn't 
 thought about since school, and they all required logic  you may feel a bit lost with the numerical 
 problems  I did  but others will excel in those and be stuck on others.
  
  Other problems are solved by good old digging around and intensive searching  the good news is, 
 the game never makes detailed search too daunting. Although as you go through the game you can 
 travel to and from various maps, it doesn't allow you to leave one map until you've discovered 
 everything you can in your present location.
  
  At times there are unwelcome constraints on freedom of movement within a map, for example you're 
 unable to walk on the grass in the garden of a big house, which makes the game feel less 'realistic'.
 
  
  So although there are some elements that could have been improved, overall it's a very enjoyable 
 first-person adventure game which, particularly if you're and SH fan, will engage, challenge and 
 entertain you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  The story starts with a missing case in Captain Stenwich, one of Doctor Watson's patients. While 
 investigating the case, Holmes discovers that behind it are the activities of Cthulhu, a religious 
 sect with rituals of sacrificing living men. And this would explain what he usually sees in his 
 dreams recently... For anyone who has not read Conan Doyle's novel, the story could easily be mistaken 
 as one part of this famous literature work. It may contain fiction about alien from outside our 
 planet, but the logics is still maintained from beginning to the end.
  
  Various Puzzles: Besides ones that are fairly easy for any fan of Adventure genre, SHA contains 
 many challenging puzzles like New Orleans Clock or Davy Cryptography. They often require mathematical 
 or logical knowledge to solve. Moreover, the ability to collect, comprehend and synthesize lots 
 of details is very important. You should often examine the inventory, combine items, check the 
 map and read dialog book to find out the clue. Remember, Sherlock Holmes is very logical and clever, 
 and you should be like that! There are also plenty of mini games keeping players from boredom and 
 giving suggestion. Generally, SHA is a logical thread that you should not skip any part.
  
  Graphics and sound: SHA is developed in 3D environment with First Person viewpoint. You can use 
 WASD keys or mouse to move character, but sometimes there are small items that may be in the deaf 
 point, causing unnecessary troubles. Many scenes are in caverns, underground estates, harbour at 
 night, or covered in London's thick myst. All these pictures are in harmony with the mysterious 
 story, bringing about the chilling feeling. Unfortunately, both the character models (except for 
 Holmes) and items lack necessary detail. You will run into many emotionless faces in the game which 
 may reduce your interest in the adventure. Music of SHA is pretty good, especially the violin piece 
 that is played when Holmes standing alone besides the window of 221b flat, Baker street, London. 
 Sound effects are various but dialogue and voice acting are too lengthy and boring.
  
  If you have played 2 previous episodes, you will surely appreciate this one. Otherwise, it still 
 can bring you about 20 hours of interesting adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowerpass
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  As i said this is a very tough game. But if u want ur brain to work then this is the right game 
 for u. From the beginning of the game u might find it difficult.
  The graphics is pretty much well detailed. The voice acting is also quite good. But these are not 
 the reasons for u to buy this game. Because there are lots games out there with better graphics. 
 But I can assure u this game has the most innovative puzzles though they are frustrating at times. 
 But if u have patience this will not be a problem. So buy this game and get ur brain working and 
 remember "PATIENCE". There are also some free tips below:
  
  1. Check out everything in the environment.
  2. Always look for footsteps.
  3. Read every reports 
 and dcuments carefully.
  4. Again I will have to say have PATIENCE
  
  But if this all does not work for u then search for walkthroughs. But this will not feel very good 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bermudabrian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Adventure games aren't as common as they used to be, and rarer still is the high quality adventure 
 games that can stand comparison to gems of the past such as the Gabriel Knight and Myst series. 
 The Awakened manages to earn its place among the ranks of these greats not only by providing a 
 well polished game in technical terms, but by providing a well thought out mystery with an innovative 
 story.
  
  Technically, this is not the flashiest game you'll see this year (or last year, for that matter) . 
 This is not, however, a FPS, and the graphics are not the biggest concern here. That said, the 
 visual quality of the game is definitely appealing. All of the character models and locations are 
 unique and well executed. The interiors are populated by attractive (or sometimes grotesque) objects 
 and decorations and all of the character models are appealing if not life-like. The animations 
 are fairly fluid, as well. Although the graphics aren't going to blow you away, they are definitely 
 at the top of their game compared to most adventure titles. The sound is great, with an engrossing 
 soundtrack, realistic ambiance, and genuine and accomplished voice-acting. The game suffers from 
 almost no glitches, unless you Alt-Tab out of the program, in which case you might experience problems 
 with water textures.
  
  The real place where this game shines, however, is in the story. Built upon the legacy of Sherlock 
 Holmes, the developers were very clever in basing this particular mystery around the mythos of 
 the writings of H. P. Lovecraft. Without giving away more than the box: This is an occult mystery 
 which sets the master detective and faithful Doctor Watson on the global trail of a cult of fanatics 
 devoted to an ancient and evil god. The story is very well executed and very involving. 
  
  Another highlight of the game is its puzzles, as this is the real bread and butter of any adventure 
 game. Fortunately in the case of this title, all of the puzzles fit into the story very well and 
 feel very rational. You won't find yourself searching all of london for a box of matches so that 
 you can find a clue. Everything that you need is fairly accessable and most of the puzzle solving 
 in the game is a matter of investigation and information collection. Once you have completely observed 
 and collected all of the clues, the story will move on. There are times, however, where you will 
 need to make your own deductions. This is handled interestingly as Holmes puts the question to 
 Dr. Watson of what should be concluded and you must type in a simple word or phrase to answer. 
 This keeps you feeling involved in the detective work since most of the time Holmes makes the deductions 
 automatically. The only complaint I might have, actually, is that in a game where we're playing 
 as the mastere detective, I'd like to see a function for making our own deductions more often so 
 that it's less of a scavanger hunt feel to the game. The developer did experiment with this in 
 part, however, and should be given credit for that.
  
  In closing, I would definitely rate this as one of my favorite adventure games. The puzzles themself 
 were much more accessable and made much more sense than many other adventures, and the story was 
 very compelling. The graphics were average for the time, but exceptional for the genre, and the 
 sound qality was exceptional overall. The game suffers from very few technical issues, most of 
 which can be avoided or are superficial. Definitely a must for any fan of the genre, Sherlock Holmes 
 mysteries, or H. P. Lovecraft's writings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahid_xbox_360
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Sherlock Holmes meets Cthulhu? It's not the first time that the famous detective has investigated 
 a supernatural legend. Nor is it the first time that he's confronted a force so formidable that 
 no one should face it alone. In Sherlock Holmes: The Awakened, the intrepid detective encounters 
 the power of pure evil. Will he survive the experience? 
  
  The Awakened opens with Dr. Watson in the throes of a nightmare. As Watson awakens, the gamer is 
 swept into an extended flashback -- Victorian London with well tended streets, luxurious interiors, 
 and 221b Baker Street. Here Sherlock Holmes laments the impoverishment of the criminal mind, which 
 eliminates Scotland Yard's need for his help. Yet Holmes will soon face a crime certain to challenge 
 his talents, and perhaps even his sanity.
  
  This game succeeds in several ways. It places the gamer in authentic, believable, late nineteenth 
 century environments -- three locations in Europe and one in North America. It stretches the abilities 
 of Sherlock Holmes to reveal a less frequently explored aspect of his character. It tells a shocking 
 tale of murder, fiendish cruelty and horror that will keep you at the computer, transfixed, heart 
 in mouth.
  
  "It's Rather Sinister Here, and so Cold."
  
  The Awakened encompasses a large 3D gameworld, and you play from a first person perspective. To 
 start, you assume the role of Holmes. But occasionally you also play as Watson. These transitions 
 are abrupt  if you suddenly find yourself looking at Holmes and realize that this isn't a cut 
 scene, then you are playing as Watson. Many cut scenes show Holmes and Watson during encounters 
 with other characters, allowing you to observe Holmes as he investigates and as he reasons out 
 loud.
  
  Locations in the game literally drip with atmosphere; for instance, the waterfront area by The 
 Cursed Mermaid pub. Boats glide soundlessly through the mist. The rusted hulk of a ship, a crane, 
 and stained fishing nets loom in the fog. A veritable village of warehouses stands silently; one 
 hides a loathsome secret. 
  
  Travel to New Orleans breaks the tension temporarily. In an unusual romp through the American "melting 
 pot," you find yourself sprinting through the dwellings of disparate cultures -- up and down rooftops, 
 ladders, lifts, through various windows and doors. I laughed myself silly through this part, then 
 returned and played the sequence slowly to take in all the detail. There is also one heartbreaking 
 location in the French District. It's a sunlit garden full of butterflies and vibrantly patterned 
 blossoms. This small slice of Eden contrasts sharply with the trail of blood that is about to be 
 discovered. 
  
  Water effects and reflections in the glass windows of the shops and homes are remarkably realistic. 
 A graphical bonus  the load screen shows a sepia-toned sketch whose color and detail gradually 
 increase as the progress bar moves forward. The only graphical quibbles  some of the vegetation, 
 particularly in the swamp, looks distorted and collaged. Also, certain graphical elements are recycled 
 and occasionally texture seams are visible. 
  
  "A Nightmare Sleeping within the Sea?"
  
  I could recommend this game solely on the basis of its immersive environments, which are alternately 
 terrifying and exhilarating to explore. But there's even more going on. The Awakened also contains 
 a classic detective story with surprising twists and turns. There's evidence to analyze and plenty 
 of character interaction to further the story. Plus some new elements  the H. P. Lovecraft Cthulhu 
 mythos and an unexpected cameo by another mystery celebrity.
  
  The plot is rich in detail and intrigue. The game remorselessly builds a picture of the sect that 
 Holmes is investigating, and then unites all the elements in the final sequence with Holmes, Watson, 
 and an inexplicably localized, violent storm at sea. I played The Awakened twice. The first time 
 through I was surprised by the revelation at the end. On the second playthrough, I picked up on 
 a lot more of the clues. They are there, but camouflaged by an abundance of other information. 
 It takes a sharp eye to select the important clues from the artful window dressing.
  
  You should be forewarned that some events in this game are grisly and disturbing. One such plot 
 element needs more explanation. How do some of the game's characters become enmeshed in such a 
 crazed, ecstatic form of nihilism? Tantalizing hints suggest the influence of certain artifacts. 
 For example, while studying a book about Cthulhu religious practices during the voyage back to 
 England, Holmes' behavior becomes strikingly odd. Is he battling a deadly threat to his own sanity? 
 Further clarification would have been helpful.
  
  "Dey Just Don't Take to the Smell of Gentle Folks, Specially Foreign Ones."
  
  Character development 
 is another of the game's strengths. Sherlock Holmes demonstrates the brilliant deductions we've 
 come to expect of him. His flaws are also evident  in particular his impatience with human foibles. 
 (My favorite Holmes "moment" is his reaction to the weeping servant girl.)
  
  Holmes' language is exacting and formal  perhaps a bit too much so  though overall, it does suit 
 his character. He is also willing to take risks when the stakes are high. I had not thought of 
 Holmes as physically courageous, but I enjoyed discovering that side of him. 
  
  Other game characters range from the grieving mother to the cynical river boat madame to the love-stricken 
 scholar. I particularly enjoyed the New Orleans locals, who use colorful slang and view the impeccably 
 tailored detective and doctor as bizarre intruders from a disreputable part of the globe. Voiceovers 
 are professionally executed, including the voices of Holmes and Watson. The only exception  the 
 voice of the newsboy, who looks like an innocent child and sounds like a cockney adolescent. 
 
  
  The faces of the characters in The Awakened are quite detailed. Camera angles show them in close-up, 
 where you can see wrinkled foreheads, blotches and irregularities in the skin, circles under the 
 eyes, even stubble on some of the men's chins. Lip synch is pretty good. One drawback  some of 
 the minor character "extras" have two or three clones of themselves. At one point, I saw four iterations 
 of the same sailor, one sweeping the deck, one smoking a pipe, one dallying with a young lady, 
 and one throwing up over the boat's railing. While it is technically possible that quadruplets 
 shipped together on the same voyage, the odds are clearly against it. 
  
  "It will be Up to Your Agile Wit to Set Things Right."
  
  Gameplay is something of a mixed 
 bag. On the plus side  a large variety of puzzles and a nice range of difficulty, including many 
 challenges in the "tough" category. Some splendidly logical puzzles also fit well with the story 
  the bucket sequence inside the warehouse comes to mind. The developers are experts when it comes 
 to designing inventory for use in unexpected ways. You also experiment with Holmes' chemistry lab 
 at 221b Baker Street. I don't know whether the procedures and tools here are realistic or historically 
 accurate, but they are definitely amusing to use. 
  
  Problems sometimes occur because The Awakened relies on unidentified "triggers" before progress 
 can be made. For instance, even though you know that you'll need an item, you have to exhaust dialog 
 sequences before you are allowed to pick it up. Another example -- an object that hides an important 
 clue does not become "hot" until you've examined all the other evidence in the room. I found myself 
 repeatedly searching areas for small items or hotspots  if I wasn't extremely thorough, I was 
 stuck at that location without any idea as to why. 
  
  This game contains a handful of Question and Answer (Q&A) challenges. These tended to bring the 
 game to a screeching halt. Each one requires you to type the right answer precisely (once I failed 
 the challenge because I typed "the" where I shouldn't have) . Synonyms and alternate spellings are 
 not always recognized. For the Q&A challenges, when I deduced what Holmes was thinking and guessed 
 correctly, I felt brilliant, I admit. But when I guessed incorrectly, I felt stymied and frustrated. 
 
  
  Housekeeping  Beyond Mrs. Hudson
  
  Movement in The Awakened can be accomplished using either the mouse or a combination of the mouse 
 and keyboard. I tried both methods and found that the mouse alone worked best for me. After adjusting 
 to the idea of always pressing the left mouse button, I found that movement became smooth and intuitive. 
 Double-clicking increases your walking speed. The combination of mouse control with first person 
 perspective and wide-ranging 3D environments worked well.
  
  The gamer uncovers lots of evidence and other information. Items can be picked up by clicking on 
 the "hand" icon -- this becomes visible above the items as you approach. Once you've picked something 
 up you can work with it by right clicking with the mouse, which brings up a combination of inventory 
 storage, a book of documents, dialogs and reports, and a map. Below this is a task bar with icons 
 on which you click to switch between categories. (You can also scroll through the inventory using 
 the mouse wheel; working with the inventory involves a simple point-and-click.) As you collect 
 new inventory items or documents, etc., the corresponding icon appears briefly at the top of the 
 screen to alert you that something new will be going into storage. When you right click, the most 
 recently used category will be "live." Extensive texts can be scrolled through using a bookmark 
 tab at the top and bottom of the page. 
  
  This storage system works fairly well, especially considering the large volume of information that 
 you process in the game. The map is a significant timesaver, as it allows you to leap to various 
 locations once you have visited them for the first time. Still, the system has some drawbacks. 
 Scrolling through the page using the bookmark tab is cumbersome. Dialogs and reports are easy to 
 read, but the documents have tiny, faded print. And if you collect several things at the same time 
  a dialog sequence plus an inventory item plus a document, for instance -- it can take awhile 
 to find where each item went when it disappeared into storage. 
  
  Cue the Fiddle Music
  
  The music is almost entirely orchestral. It plays quietly (and ominously) in the background, 
 subsumed into the ambient sound layer. Some exceptions -- the obstacle course in New Orleans, which 
 features antic fiddle and banjo music to inspire you during the chase. Also, at a point later in 
 the game, the sound of drums plays repeatedly in Holmes' head. Ambient sounds are varied. For example, 
 at the waterfront you'll hear the sound of seagulls, a foghorn, a bell, and waves. These increase 
 and decrease in volume depending on your location.
  
  The Downsides
  
  There were a few minor annoyances in The Awakened, and one glitch. The glitch occurred when I moved 
 a bucket too aggressively and it got stuck in the wall, necessitating a reload of a previous save. 
 Other issues  the music stutters at the load screens. Dialogs sometimes can't be clicked through. 
 And in the swamp sequence the game gives the appearance of having crashed, then finally resumes 
 with no apparent ill effects.
  
  As noted earlier, the game's themes are very, very dark; this may be a downside for some gamers. 
 The corpse count is high, while a goodly portion of the living characters are (to put it bluntly) 
 not in their right minds. This is not unexpected in a game that ventures into the Lovecraftian 
 realm. Still, it seemed to me as though broken minds, bloody torsos, skeletons and severed body 
 parts outnumbered the living, rational beings. 
  
  The images and sounds were so disquieting in one part that I found it difficult to play for very 
 long and had to keep taking breaks. The knowledge that the torture these inmates endured was standard 
 practice in some institutions at that time made playing the game even more gut-wrenching.
  
  Although Arthur Conan Doyle's stories properly address the despicable corruptions that lurk 
 beneath the surface of Holmes' world, I thought this game missed the right balance by dwelling 
 too long and lavishly in the realm of the macabre.
  
  Quick List for Sherlock Holmes: The Awakened
  
  Courageous, ever-logical Sherlock Holmes takes 
 on a ruthless Cthulhu cult. Full 3D graphics; expansive, atmospheric locations. Absorbing cut scenes, 
 good voiceovers. Facial models reveal unusual detail. Plenty of character interaction, lots of 
 reading. Access to the game's documents and reports can be confusing. 
  
  First person perspective, an interface that allows either full mouse control or a combination of 
 mouse and keyboard control. The Options menu allows multiple graphic and audio tweaking. 
  
  A complex mystery plot with a satisfying ending. Themes are dark, ranging into horror, murder, 
 torture and dismemberment. A game for mature gamers only  the PEGI (European) rating is 12+, but 
 I would suggest 17+. If you aren't put off by the shocking visuals, the game offers a rich experience, 
 deep enough to reward a second playthrough.
  
  Unlimited saves. You cannot die, though a couple of times you can be caught by an attendant/guard 
 -- you are then returned to the point before your capture. One glitch during gameplay that required 
 reloading from a saved game.
  
  Varied puzzle challenges fit well into the plot -- a few are easy, many are difficult. Three of 
 the hardest were the glyph puzzle that taps visualization skills, the number code that taps observational 
 skills, and decommissioning the nurse/attendant, which requires imagination combined with common 
 sense.
  
  No sliders, one maze-like location, no sound matching or color discrimination puzzles. No timed 
 puzzles. Some hotspot and pixel hunting (for the latter, you use a magnifying glass) . Frustrating 
 Q & A challenges. 
  
  I downloaded the game from the Sherlock Homes: The Awakened website. (It is also available on DVD.) 
 You must create a folder for the game prior to downloading (this is only necessary if you have 
 purchased the downloadable version) . No problems with the download and installation. 
  
  Sherlock Holmes: The Awakened is aimed at gamers who like exploring detailed historical environments 
 while following a dark, complex plot and solving difficult puzzles. Also aimed at the many fans 
 of Arthur Conan Doyle and H. P. Lovecraft
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasoabdou
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  first iam araibian
  so this game is very hard and long because sametime you cant cut some secion from the game more 
 speak but its very good story (need some action) and graphics its good and this game not need high 
 profile for playing this game
  i have low vga XFX 6200TC and running good on 21 inch screen
  ram 1 GB cpu p4 3.0 cache 2.0 MB 
 msi 915
  after all that you must to try this game if you love films
  really
  but i wish to see this game in another longuage (arabic , france , )
  same that from sasoabdou 
 egypt portsaid
  portfoad elmohandss company for computers
  if you need anything tell me on 0020128234388 mobile
  
  i want one thing from my site gamespot 
 please
  1 - i want the game site
  2- read me file from the game 
  please help me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asche
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  This game was pretty good. it's been a while since I've enjoyed an adventure game. Good story, 
 satisying puzzles for the most part. Graphics and sound were not top end but not bad. 
  
  My sole complaint is that the game doesn't allow you to mess up. Remember Sierra's early adventure 
 games? Save early, save often? Screw something up and somewhere down the road you found that you 
 couldn't move on and had to either retrace your steps or start over? As much of a pain as that 
 kind of game play can be to me that makes an adventure. In The Awakened there was never any danger 
 of falling off the ledge, or forgetting to pick up a vital object. The game won't let you leave 
 the room until you've got what you need, and you simply can't walk off the path. A little danger 
 would have added some excitiement to the game.
  
  All in all though it was an engaging and enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: londonrider
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  First of all, it's a real, live 3D adventure game, which is a more than welcome change in this 
 genre. Yes, there are 2D scenes but they are used for some puzzles only. The controls are WASD+mouse 
 which is again a very welcome scheme.
  
  There is one more experiment in addition to a live 3D. Frogwares' approach to puzzles is not purely 
 classical- it's more like a simulation of real investigation where you really have to search for 
 clues. And that means that sometimes you are ending up with not knowing what to do next. Well, 
 sometimes that's annoying, but I do appreciate such a serious approach.
  
  Story-wise it's a real thrill. Actually, it is so good that it keeps me playing despite some clueless 
 situations and tons of unfinished high end games on my HDD. Do you remember the times when you 
 were reading "The Hound of the Baskervilles" for the first time? So The Awakened has the same atmosphere 
 and impact. It's just much more bloody and a little more mysterious.
  
  Another point that I appreciate a lot is re-created London. While in-game The City could be more 
 populated and noisy, it's still so recognizable. I actually believe that the developers took photos 
 of actual London (the central part didn't change anyway) and rebuilt it for The Awakened.
  
  The final verdict is: if you are not into adventure games, don't buy it, because it will not 
 amaze you neither with gameplay nor with graphics (that are still very enjoyable) . And those who 
 love a good story, immerse atmosphere and interesting locations, will not be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redserpentmetal
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  The Awakened is a brilliant adventure game that takes you around the globe to investigate as the 
 legendary Sherlock Holmes and his side-kick Dr. Watson. The plot line builds with quite a pace 
 as a simple servant disappearance evolves into cult rituals and murders to awaken their god. The 
 game could have been more perfect since all the puzzles that faces you actually make sense which 
 is kind of rare in these types of games. No tricky stuff and you need nothing except your mind 
 and maybe a small piece of paper for those hard but yet entertaining puzzles.
  
  This could have been a perfect game if it wasn't for the glitches this game has, I almost cried 
 at the end when the game started to go nuts and most of the passages got blocked, because of a 
 stupid glitch I could have lost everything. Another downside to this game is the dark lightening 
 in some areas where you have to get something but you can't see it, it really killed my until I 
 turned up the Gamma a little bit and the room turned pinkish donno why. If you get past those two 
 flows the game would be a perfection and would make the top of my list for adventure games, unfortunately, 
 that wont happen and the game is quite short, well I guess that is the thing with all adventure 
 games nowadays. I miss ya Monkey Island. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordAzmodan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  The main problem i had with this game was that you always have to roam around, and usually you'd 
 find something new, despite that you'd have to use your mind for several time during the game thinking 
 of the documents you read and reports you have, dialogues are pretty good, but you can notice some 
 defects in graphics while you are having a dialogue, the sound is annoying sometimes, and it misses 
 the effects (Water, echo.. etc) .
  The sequence of the game is pretty solid, you can enjoy the story indeed, but only if you read 
 it through, i'd recommend to you reading all of the documents and the reports, many riddles are 
 solved by them, and to make sure to examine EVERYTHING that you can examin, look up and down, right 
 and left. Another hint for gameplaying, always think of what do you want to do? and how can you 
 do it? mostly you'll find the solution, don't give up if you feel you are stuck, cause most probably 
 you missed something, so just go back again and check if you did everything right.
  The game takes you to several places, London, Switzerland, &amp; New Orleans, though you don't 
 get to see much of Switzerland, i really admired the designing of New Orleans, you can see small 
 nice details, you can also see that in London.
  BUT, the game can be really annoying sometimes, when you don't know what to do, and you are missing 
 a small detail, you keep on going around and around, most of the guys would just uninstall the 
 game, but you can check for help if you are totally stuck, try using your mind and think creatively.
 
  I just finished it and well, it was worth the playing, not a masterpiece but it's a good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javanniekerk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Quality adventure games are increasingly harder to come by. With so many of today's adventures 
 being little more than Myst clones, finding a game that is unique both in its mechanics and in 
 its storyline is a quest in its own right. Sherlock Holmes: The Awakened, however, manages to achieve 
 both to excellent effect.
  
  One of the key features of a true adventure game is beautiful scenery, and The Awakened is no different. 
 Rooms are richly colored, with beautiful textures and many of the little details that make a scene 
 complete. The locations are also wonderfully planned, and lit to perfection. London's reputation 
 for being drab and gray is perfectly communicated with desaturated colors. Louisiana, on the other 
 hand, is brightly lit, and you can almost feel the warmth emanating from the streets. You get the 
 feeling of expansive size, even if you are restricted from extensive wandering, as Holmes will 
 declare I have no reason to go there or something similar. An area where adventure games often 
 fall short is in the dialogue. Stilted voice acting and unrealistic scripts plague many games but 
 The Awakened overcomes both. The acting is nearly flawless - possibly one of the best examples 
 of how dialogue in games should be done, especially when it comes to the major characters in the 
 game. While there are a few rather cheesy moments (especially involving people screaming) , the 
 voice talent in this game is superb. The accompanying animations are also excellent, with believable 
 gestures, and minor details, such as Holmes looking at Watson when referring to him, give the game's 
 conversation a rich, nuanced feel. Wonderfully evocative ambient music provides an excellent score 
 and adds to the depth and immersive quality of the game.
  
  Of course, the most important element of any adventure game is the puzzle play. Here is where The 
 Awakened shines most brightly. Each puzzle is excellently integrated into the story, eliminating 
 the puzzle for puzzle's sake feeling from the game. They are also sufficiently challenging, with 
 a few downright hard ones to really give you the mental workout you'd expect from a Sherlock Holmes 
 story. There is one puzzle in the game that is downright fun and comical, providing a nice moment 
 of levity in a game that is otherwise a bit dark and foreboding. Clearly marked hotspots eliminate 
 the need for pixel hunting, removing the drudgery from puzzle play, leaving you free to concentrate 
 on the task at hand. Occasional quizzes keep you on your toes, and extend even further challenges, 
 as you won't usually find the answer directly in the game, but will actually have to come up with 
 it on your own based on information you've been given so far.
  
  With all that's right with the game, the Awakened does have a few significant weaknesses. Gameplay 
 is rigidly linear, often to a fault. If you haven't examined absolutely everything there is to 
 see, you won't be able to progress in the game - and will often be left wondering exactly what 
 there is left to do. While this makes sense in some cases - such as not discovering an important 
 clue in a footprint that allows Holmes to make one of his trademark deductions - in others, it's 
 simply infuriating. In one instance, I had picked up all the items, and interacted with everything 
 except a single footprint. In the end, I had to turn to a walk through to see what I had missed.
 
  
  The linear style of the game also means you'll often see items long before you can use them. Until 
 you've done some action that activates them, they are simply items with hotspots that you can't 
 yet interact with. A better solution would have been to allow you to take these objects when you 
 find them, and allow you to realize when it was time to use them, rather than forcing you to speak 
 with a specific person or visit a certain location before they can be picked up. There is also 
 a level where you must travel back and forth between two locations an inordinate amount of times, 
 which threatens to become a bit tedious, especially if you take a while to figure out exactly what 
 you need to do.
  
  These shortcomings aside, Sherlock Holmes: The Awakened is an evocative, engaging story. With some 
 downright eerie scenes, unflinching gore and horror, and a well-crafted story, The Awakened is 
 adventure gaming at its almost-best. Whether you're a fan of adventure games or Sherlock Holmes 
 (or both) , the Awakened won't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  Finally a great brand new Adventure game that deserves attention of the gamers. Adventure game 
 titles are becoming rare nowadays with many arguing in favour and against this genre. To me, this 
 kind of games adds to the diversity. I just love to have my games to be diverse in nature, that 
 is easy to control and challenging in nature. In the last one year a few good Adventure game titles 
 came out- notably Dreamfall and Fahrenheit (I have not played Sam and Max) . Both these games introduced 
 some new set of controls and commands. Sherlock Holmes also presents a new set of controls in the 
 Adventure game genre. However, this set is already well known in action games (WASD) , plus it uses 
 the Inventory, map, documents etc with mouse. Like Dreamfall and Fahrenheit, the game is set in 
 a perfect 3D environment.
  
  I always believed that a good intuitive set of commands is the key to a successful game. In this 
 area, this game really did an excellent work -- though I often felt that they should have implemented 
 Jump command. It has been my long desire to play an Adventure game that's designed like an action 
 game. With this game, this desire has been met by 60 percent.
  
  The heart of any adventure game lies in beautiful graphics and interesting puzzles. Holmes delivers 
 a lot of interesting puzzles. Graphically, the game tried to replicate the real London environment 
 of the turn of the 19th century. So its not quite a fantasy graphic presentation like many other 
 hit adventure games.
  
  The voice acting of Holmes is top notch and this is very important in setting the mood for the 
 game. You can never get tired of the classic British style conversation.
  
  Given this, I would say the developers did not work hard on cut scenes. The opening scene is unimpressive 
 and really not mystifying. In fact that might put off people who did not play an adventure game 
 before. There is some problem with sounds too. I am yet to complete the game. But so far I have 
 played, this is definitely a grade A game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simmo303
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 20, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  Puzzles are cleverly set and can be solved by due diligence, just remember Holmes's methods - the 
 clues are there. very satisfying when the answer comes for the tricky ones. The graphics look as 
 though they are from a while back. Human faces are difficult to do anyway and are not very good 
 here - see the faces in the half-life 2 demo for the best yet. Numerous irritating errors - Holmes 
 would not use metres, say 'Have a nice day', say 'speak with' (speak to) , he would know where that 
 bookshop is, those books mentioned are not novels, he would not wear a hat indoors and certainly 
 not when speaking to a lady. Sounds like the same person doing Holmes and Watson. Neat reference 
 to Poirot! - give points for that. Some good atmospheric music and sounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amp3d88
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 10, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  This game's ambitious and engaging story, interesting characters and locales (save one) make up 
 for the game's problems, including some incredibly (nearly impossible) puzzles, and technical problems.
 
  
  The game's story is far and away the game's highlight, and is at many times the sole reason for 
 trudging through some insanely difficult, albeit rewarding puzzles. It mixes the mystery of an 
 A. C. Doyle Holmes story with the overtones of the H. P. Lovecraft story, The Call Of Cthulhu. 
 Interestingly enough, although there are many statues of Cthulhu in the game, his (its?) name is 
 not mentioned once. This game is first and foremost a Holmes story with Lovecraft touches, and 
 disappointingly enough these story elements don't feel nearly as fleshed out as they should be. 
 However, fans of Holmes's adventures will be likely surprised how the plot twists and turns, and 
 many familiar characters pop up during the adventure, including a surprise one during a visit to 
 a mental asylum.
  
  This game resembles very much another recent Lovecraft-inspired game, The Call of Cthulhu: Dark 
 Corners of the Earth. It is as atmospheric and creepy, although the combat, health, and stealth 
 elements from DCOTH are removed in favor of more exploration and puzzle elements. And hollllllly 
 jesus, some puzzles in this game are downright BRUTAL. I'm not one personally to look at walkthroughs, 
 and I've gone through other adventure games barely looking at a walkthrough, including Syberia 
 and The Longest Journey. I've bowed to the walkthrough more than a few times through the course 
 of this game, and while most of them are logical, some are so completely esoteric the only one 
 who could perhaps decipher some puzzles (including a ridiculous cipher puzzle and another one where 
 you have to find a location on a map) is Sherlock Holmes himself. Just be warned before you decide 
 to play, find a walkthrough online and bookmark it. You're probably going to be visiting it frequently.
 
  
  With that said, most of the puzzles involve the exploration of the enviroment and using what most 
 game developers have written out of their games: logic. You'll investigate footprints, bloodstains, 
 samples of dirt, etc. You actually FEEL like Sherlock Holmes, sleuthing about. As for the enviroments, 
 most are well done and, despite the majority of them being dead, as you'll frequent, of course, 
 Baker St. as well as a ghost-town version of New Orleans, immerse you greatly within Holmes's world. 
 The only really badly designed enviroment (which is also more or less the low point of the game) 
 is an insane asylum you'll have to trudge through for about 5 hours, encountering the same drab 
 stone hallway after another. The graphics are very hit and miss. The lighting effects are pretty, 
 and the water effects are well done. Many models are well-textured, but the models have very stiff, 
 unrealistic motions. The voice dubbing is often very off, and only takes away from the immersion 
 factor this game does so very well. The graphics instead do a very good job at immersing you in 
 the enviroments. The voice acting is also solid. It gets the job done, and there are many memorable 
 characters, including the creepy Dr. Gygax, and Holmes is thankfully enough portrayed in a deserving 
 light, delivering his smarmy and often egotistical lines with enough conviction. Watson is also 
 done well, but nothing really outstanding to write home about. Many people complain of long winded 
 dialogue in this game, but I didn't find it very long winded at all, and actually rather engaging 
 (if you're a fan of long winded unskippable dialogue, look no further than the grossly overrated 
 PS2 hit Okami) .
  
  All in all, Sherlock Holmes: The Awakened is an often difficult mystery adventure with a great, 
 creepy atmosphere and engaging story. If you're a fan of adventure games, especially Dark Corners 
 of the Earth, give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackie103
Rating: 1
Date: May 10, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  Sherlock Homes :The Awakened is a bit off this gamers path. With no games worth a hoot comparable 
 with Windows VISTA new operating system. FrogWares and Focus Home Interactive claim that their new 
 patch
  version 1.3 claims it makes this game compatible with VISTA, the claims stand untrue. The game crashs 
 frequently from the opening screen on two high end gaming machines, a PC and a MAC After reading 
 other gamers and GAMESPOTS reviews this girl went ahead and purchased this game. If and when I ever 
 get the digital downloaded version to work I will continue my review. I can from reading other reviews 
 say that this game just may break the sad emptiness of Windows VISTA's operating system. I have 
 and always will be a PC gamer Well this game is a bit addicting but it is NOT compatible with Windows 
 VISTA operating systems not on a PC nor a MAC despite the developer making a patch saying it is. The 
 graphics are of the nature of a comic book.
  The sound at times adds to many in game crashs and the lip sinc is well
  just not there. Perhaps 
 this game was developed for the upcoming kid croud ages 6 to 12. Although the puzzles in the game, when 
 I could get it to run that is are very complex and mind bogling to say the leastAll in all the 
 game is somewhat fun if one is into the Sherlock Homes type of gaming.
  The game is rather easy to play, one only needing a good quality mouse and the occasional keyboard 
 questions directed to Watson. The developer should go back to the drawing board or find a high quality 
 rendering engine
  One that can lipsinc the sound and graphics respectively to the correct frame being displayed. 
 This games value is not of high qualty that one may think it is of the way to high price the gamer 
 is charged for it. All my brothers and sisters that have paid for it should ask for a refund or 
 a game of the same value, because Sherlock Homes : The Awakend is nothing more than a stab in the 
 dark at what could have been a satisfying game, that at times could have been addicting had it not 
 been for the constant sound and graphics crashs even after the developers so called fix it patch. No 
 thank you FROGWARE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themagicm
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 29, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  The Awakened is not what I expected from a 2007 adventure game. Although it features a couple of 
 nice (however not really innovative) puzzles, its graphics are way below standards. I must admit 
 that I'm a bit biased as I generally don't like first-person adventures, but the gameplay isn't 
 that great as well. This, as well as the unskippable (and often long!) cut-scenes and the mediocre 
 graphics made me uninstall this game after about two hours of playing. Because of this, I obviously 
 can't really tell much about the storyline and puzzles ahead.. In short, this game might be worth 
 your while if you don't mind looking at 1990 graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 25, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  I never thought that this game will be that good! From the beginning i noticed the cubic graphics, 
 with less details but as i started paying and getting in the heart of the story i became obsessed 
 with the idea that i have to save and continue next time and i didn't wanna but i had no choice. 
 So i did my best to find time and play it page by page, pixel by pixel and i must say that i am 
 very impressed. The game is a beauty!!! It has an extraordinary sorry line, with logical and great 
 puzzles. The voice acting is good but far too formal. The graphics are not that detailed, it has 
 great textures for example the watter is very well made almost realistic, but the environment lacks 
 details.
  
  The game play is as you are playing a shooter withs WASD+mouse controls, easy and fun to play.
 
  
  The one new thing that this game comes with is the quiz! I mean during an in-game you are asked 
 about next destination or you have give the answer to a puzzle. It's excellent, i tell ya. An after 
 the box appears where you have to type the answer you can still navigate through the dialogs and 
 documents to search for the exact response. I found this very challenging and original.
  
  All in one it's a great release for this year, another must have in my collection.
  
  Cheers 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogaty
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 11, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Sherlock Holmes - the Awakened is the third game in Frogware's series of Sherlock Holmes adventure 
 games. Each time, they try to re-invent the wheel and each time, they largely succeed but there 
 are always a few niggling issues that keep the game from being a true classic. The Awakened differs 
 from the previous titles in the series in that the game is presented from a first person point-of-view, 
 much like a shooter rather than the more traditional third person POV used in Secret of the Silver 
 Earring. The overall effect is very immersive as the graphics are very sharp and the frame rates 
 are silky smooth. The environments themselves are also very well done. The backgrounds detailed 
 and often include scenes and items originally described in the novels of both Doyle's and Lovecraft's. 
 Character facial art and animations are astounding. You can even see the individual pores in Waton's 
 nose. (not sure if that's really a good thing) . Sadly, the animation of the characters is a bit 
 stiff and there are frequent clipping issues. It does ruin the immersion somewhat when we see Holmes 
 threatening a suspect with a sabre, only to have the blade appear to poke through the poor man's 
 skull every time Holmes leans forward.
  
  The environments, while amazingly detailed, also feel rather abandoned as there are typically only 
 a handful of people or animals populating each game area. While this seems appropriate when exploring 
 a disused warehouse, places like London or New Orleans feel empty and hollow.
  
  The sound is well done. The voice acting is generally well done. Nobody's going to win an award, 
 but neither will you be cringing due to poorly delivered lines. Ambient sounds are good if a little 
 sparse.
  
  Gameplay is quite linear. You can't progress from an area until you've found all that is to be 
 found and solved all the puzzles that need to be solved. Holmes or Watson will let you know if 
 you still need to do something. While this enforced linearity can feel constraining at times, I 
 suspect it's better than the alternative of constantly having to backtrack. The puzzles themselves 
 are mostly inventory or observational based and, appropriate to Holmes's world, are almost all 
 solvable by applying logic, deductive reasoning and keen observation. There are a few of the more 
 abstract logic puzzles that are more at home in a Myst type game, but there are only a handful 
 off them. Gone too are the time based puzzles from the previous game. While this is generally a 
 good thing, there are a few places where it doesn't make much sense. The developers decided, somewhat 
 bizarrely, to throw in a chase sequence in the middle of the game. It plays out like something 
 from a Jackie Chan movie with characters leaping from verandas, swinging on ropes, dodging barrels, 
 and the like. As there's no time limit, it strains credulity as you can spend 5 minutes pondering 
 the best way to cross a chasm and still catch the man you're chasing. The chapter quizzes that 
 were present in the last game are here as well, but in a greatly diminished form. At certain key 
 junctions, Holmes will ask Watson a question based upon what has happened so far and you must type 
 in the correct answer to proceed. There are only 4 or 5 such quizzes and they all consist of a 
 single question each. The game length is a bit on the short side mostly due to the fact that few 
 of the puzzles are real head scratchers. (I did have to resort to a walkthrough for two of them 
 though. I suck at logic puzzles.... stupid clock puzzle...) . For those buying the game for the Cthulhu 
 aspects, I'd say you might want to hold off. The main focus of the game is definitely on Holmes's 
 world of rationality, scientific process and deduction and not on the supernatural aspects of the 
 world of Cthulhu.
  
  Overall, it's a decent adventure game, but not a classic. There were some pretty severe bugs with 
 the initial release, but they've been mostly cleared up as of the 1.3 patch. I still did have the 
 occasional problem getting the game to start and had to try clicking the desktop icon 2-3 times, 
 but no in-game bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinGnosis
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  If you like sherlock holmes and you like adventure games you should really check out this game. 
 You control the game from a first person perspective and you are able to freely move around the 
 game world like in an FPS. Pixel hunt problems have been eliminated by making the game focus on 
 interesting objects automatically. You need merely to take holmes to the correct place and it will 
 be easy to see if there's anything interesting there.
  
  During my run trough I experienced some sound issues and one or two crashes to desktop. But I was 
 able to forgive that easily since the game has a very creepy and aborbant athmosphere that will 
 simple suck you in and leave you wanting more. Sometimes it feels more like controlling a horror 
 movie than playing a game.
  
  The game also looks surprisingly good considering how easy it is to run, however sometimes the 
 game environment can seem a little sparse. But it's nothing that breaks the mood. Sum up - a really 
 good adventure game overall and the best sherlock holmes game to date. Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobberry
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This look like a simple crappy boring game, but inside of it, it is one good game.
  
  Graphics: wow, amazing and its pretty good too. When you see a old man, it really look like a old 
 man because of the rinkles and veins popping up.
  
  Gameplay: Worth to play this game, its fun, trains your mind and even you could learn things that 
 you never learned yet, example, like science experiments. Yes take home experiments.
  
  Sounds: great sounds, no looping music and even a good sound track too, im pretty surprised!!!
 
  
  Rent or Buy: i say you should buy this game, its worth the money and you shouldnt be dispointed 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
