-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sherlock Holmes: Nemesis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/sherlockholmesversusarsenelupin/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting, if not exactly innovative, cat-and-mouse plot.
 Famous locales bring Victorian London to life.
 Mostly common-sense puzzles based on artwork and historical artifacts give the game a tremendously Holmesian atmosphere.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating puzzles with lots of repetitive busywork.
 Linear design forces you to proceed through puzzles exactly as the designers intended.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 12, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.3, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 207 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Adventure Company
Developer: Frogwares
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Apr 14, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Obtuse puzzles make Sherlock Holmes: Nemesis a case that's about as hard to crack as "The Red-Headed 
 League." 

  Sherlock Holmes: Nemesis almost certainly isn't the game you expect, especially if you're hoping 
 for a battle of wits between Holmes and archenemy Professor Moriarty. Standing in for Moriarty 
 with the master detective is Arsene Lupin, a French thief who starred in a series of popular novels 
 written by Maurice Leblanc in the late 19th century. Lupin remains a hugely popular literary figure 
 in France, but this combo of characters lacks the punch of the Holmes-Moriarty showdown that the 
 title suggests. Where we could have had a titanic battle of wits, we instead get a somewhat going-through-the-motions 
 story where Holmes plays Batman to Lupin's Riddler, as well as puzzles that are too grueling to 
 solve without immense reserves of patience and access to an online walkthrough.  

           Like every respectable Sherlock Holmes adventure, this one begins with the great detective 
 and Watson ensconced at 221B Baker Street.      

  If you have any knowledge of how Lupin and Holmes plied their trades, you can probably guess the 
 basics of the tale told here. Lupin is on the prowl in London, having challenged Holmes and his 
 sidekick, Dr. Watson, to prevent him from stealing priceless artifacts. His goal is to humiliate 
 the arrogant British Empire; yours, of course, is to foil the obnoxious Frenchman by stopping these 
 thefts. Everything plays out as a stereotypical cat-and-mouse game, with Lupin leaving behind cryptic 
 clues after looting such famous spots as Buckingham Palace, the National Gallery, and the British 
 Museum. All in all, this is a fairly well-told yarn, even if it's obvious that the writers didn't 
 burn any midnight oil on the fine points of the plot. Fans of Holmes and Lupin will no doubt be 
 interested to see the two facing off for the first time since a couple of crossover novels penned 
 by Leblanc a century ago (which, incidentally, angered Holmes' creator Sir Arthur Conan Doyle so 
 much that he sued to force Leblanc to rename his detective Herlock Sholmes) . But everyone else 
 will find this story a basic take on the traditional "bad guy taunts police" crime drama.  

  Style and setting stand out more than the plot, anyhow. As with last year's The Awakened, all 
 of the game's locales are brought to life with a 3D engine that allows you to roam the full depth 
 and breadth of your surroundings. It doesn't exactly provide cutting-edge graphics, but the game 
 is still more attractive than the average adventure. Locales are nicely realized, too, with the 
 investigation taking you to all sorts of London landmarks. Many are quite impressively staged, 
 particularly the National Gallery and British Museum, which feature scanned copies of dozens of 
 famous paintings, as well as numerous historical artifacts. You actually get a fairly thorough 
 lesson in art history and history in general during the game. The only major sore points to the 
 presentation are subpar character art and awkward voice acting. Holmes, Watson, Inspector Lestrade, 
 and the many quirky Londoners with whom you deal during the course of the adventure look more like 
 shadowy, poorly sculpted wax figures than real people. The dialogue is also stilted and loaded 
 with many odd pronunciations (it doesn't even get "Arsene" right) . At least the musical side of 
 the audio is just about perfect, thanks to a subtle-yet-tension-building classical score reliant 
 on strings and piano.  

  But these issues are minor in comparison with Nemesis' wildly tough puzzles. While the game mostly 
 steers clear of the old-school "pick up everything that isn't nailed down" formula and sticks to 
 common sense (at least until near the end of the game where it explodes in stupidity with Holmes 
 practically turning into Inspector Gadget) , solving puzzles requires a ton of busywork. You constantly 
 wander back and forth examining your surroundings, engaging in a great many pixel hunts with the 
 naked eye, as well as Holmes' famous magnifying glass. Many puzzles aren't fully spelled out, leaving 
 you in the dark about what you're supposed to be doing, especially when it comes to set-piece problems, 
 such as arranging paintings into some kind of unknown pattern, building a wooden star to unlock 
 a chest, and lining up metal rods to form Roman numerals. A list of objectives in the menu would 
 have been much appreciated, as would added tips from Holmes, who often just says things like "Think!" 
 when approaching a puzzle. More help is needed here, given how involved some of the puzzles are 
 and how many steps they require to be solved.  

           Careful observation of your surroundings and the smart use of Holmes' famous magnifying 
 glass are crucial to solving puzzles here.      

  Worse yet, the design is incredibly nitpicky when it comes to the steps that you need to take to 
 move the game forward. Even if you've gathered enough evidence and know how you need to proceed, 
 the game regularly won't let you push unless you've completed all of the tasks required. This is 
 a particular problem in the opening National Gallery episode. You can quickly collect all of the 
 clues you need to start checking out paintings and tracking Lupin's next target, but you aren't 
 allowed to do so until you've completed every last little busywork job, such as measuring all of 
 the footprints spread throughout the gallery. Without recourse to a walkthrough, good luck making 
 it through the game without getting stuck a few dozen times.  

  Yet even with all of these drawbacks, Sherlock Holmes: Nemesis is often worth the struggle. Virtually 
 all of the puzzles here are worthy of the great detective, partially because of their difficulty 
 and partially because of their reliance on British historical or cultural artifacts. In many ways, 
 the game seems as much a part of gaslit Victorian London as Doyle's Sherlock Holmes stories. If 
 only it were just a little bit more playable.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nubystubs
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. The puzzles are hard enough to really sink your teeth into. It should be 
 noted that I really don't enjoy linear games where the interface and solutions to the puzzles are 
 streamlined. In this game, you have to really give the puzzles some thought. I like that you have 
 to type in the answer to questions to progress in the game. If you've been paying attention, the 
 answers are pretty straitforward. There is a real variety in the types of puzzles too, and they 
 are seamlessly integrated into the environment. The designers seem to have put alot of thought 
 into what parts of the game SHOULD be challenging, making for a real satisfying experience (and 
 not just frustrating from bad level design.) My only complaint is that it was too short. But for 
 the price, it's a moot point. Bring on the next installment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  Series of video games about Sherlock Holmes by Frogwares Game Development Studio have been gradually 
 improved with each version released. The last version, "The Awakened", placed the famous detective 
 against religious conspiracy by the fantical sect Cthulhu - a combination of 2 talented novelists: 
 Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and H. P. Lovecraft (reputed for his thrillers) . This time is another amazing 
 mixture: Sherlock Holmes versus Arsene Lupin (SHvAL) . Arsene Lupin, the renowned thief in over 
 20 novels by Maurice Leblanc, chivalrous and daring, will make a deserving opponent for our universally 
 loved detective. Once again you return to London of 19th century, where Lupin conspired to steal 
 5 invaluable items in 5 days, all of which was lying in well known places: National Gallery, British 
 Museum, Tower of London and Buckingham Palace. Holmes would have to try his best to save the Great 
 Britain from that terrible disgrace. so the adventure starts with both rivals for the Crown - a 
 national pride. 
  
  Old fans of the series will feel familiar with interface of SHvAL. Game is set to the default third 
 person view point, with some episodes switching to first person, and uses both mouse and keyboard. 
 You can move, take items, interact with NPCs with left mouse, open inventory, documents, maps with 
 right mouse. Besides, the game provides loading and option menus. Maps in SHvAL is convenient and 
 useful, however, most areas are large and contain a great deal of information. Remarkably, the 
 story is very clear and concise, therefore, subtitle proves very helpful for you to follow the 
 happening. Because of the wide environment, you should take notes to save yourself from travelling 
 wrong places.
  
  One phrase to describe puzzles of this version: extremely hard. Even collecting items is challenging 
 since they seems to be covered by an invisible layer. It's only the beginning. Puzzles of SHvAL 
 will make you crazy unless you have the game guide or must be real Sherlock Holmes. As a tradition 
 of the series, at the end of a scene will be a synthetic exam that requires clicking on the right 
 number or type the answer directly using keyboard. It's used to test if you have really understood 
 the details so the wrong answers mean game over and you have to reload. Although SHvAL provides 
 clues through poems or pieces of music but the essential ones are usually put excluded to make 
 it tougher. The number and types of puzzles are also various, including assembling items, pictures, 
 decoding characters... and it should easier if you have much knowledge of England. Sometimes you 
 feel so lost and have no idea what to do next, it feels like running behind Arsene Lupin all the 
 time.
  
  SHvAl inherits the success of graphics and sounds from "The Awakened". You will have familiar feeling 
 from the violin piece, the bell toll, the continual sound of rain... More remarkable are classical 
 music of high value which suits the scenery of old London. Voice play and narration are interesting 
 thanks to the charming accent. If "The Awakened" was immersed into dark colors, this one brings 
 a pleasant feeling with colourful, bright background in 3D. Players have an fascinating tour to 
 many famous places. Imagine the National Gallery of Painting with thousands of famous pictures... 
 Besides, Frogwares do not forget the famous foggy and rain effect that make an distinctive impression 
 of London.
  
  Although it's somehow frustrating, SHvAL still contains many things that will attract you. Why 
 not spend another 20 hours with one of your idols, in one of his most absorbing adverture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raziel2646
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the poster of new Sherlock Holmes game, "Sherlock Holmes vs. Arsene Lopin", I 
 was really excited. But somehow I knew that it wouldn't be really great. Because The Frogwares 
 was the same developer of "The Awakened", and it was a real disappointment. Everything was terrible, 
 graphics, sounds, gameplay, and I still don't know how it could obtain such a great score (8.3) ! 
 
  Anyway, I decided to try this new Sherlock Holmes game. It wasn't that bad at first. Graphics had 
 improved and was better than The Awakened, and I was starting to like the storyline, but then after 
 a while I found out that ruining the good ideas is the only thing Frogwares is good at. This game 
 has a really linear or better to say extra-linear storyline and you have to follow Arsene Lopin 
 and his absurd puzzles, in the exact way that he wants. You really don't have any freedom in the 
 game and there's almost only one thing you can do at a time, and this not the way a good adventure 
 game works. 
  The graphical bugs are lessened in this version, but you still can't enjoy it and everything seems 
 just artificial. For example watching the first scene of the game, where Sherlock Holmes is playing 
 violin is enough to show that this is not a game made by professional hands. 
  Characters' voices don't really suit them and the music gets repetitive after a while. I don't 
 know why every different character pronounces "Lestrade" in a different way, and I don't know why 
 it really gets on my nerves like this.
  I don't think that playing "Nemesis" is a good idea and right now there are a lot of better adventure 
 games to play in the stores (after all I believe that it depends on your taste) . I'm not a new 
 adventure player and I know what I'm talking about. I've played a lot of adventure games and I'm 
 telling you, this is not a neat and professional adventure that makes you enjoy playing it. You 
 can try other adventure company's games, but not this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johan444
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Sherlock Holmes: Nemesis is one of the most hardest games I have ever played, and I have only completed 
 a part of it! It's a good game, really fun to play and it puts your brain to the test which I like.
 
  
  The graphics are pretty good too, but I do think that the sounds could use better improvements. 
 The gameplay is, without doubt, the best I've seen during my gaming experience so far and I really 
 think that this game will really keep you busy for a time. It sure has done that to me!
  
  Some information about the game: Sherlock Holmes, with his assistant Dr. John H. Watson, has an 
 new enemy to face and it's one of the most famous cat burglars of them all, Arsne Lupin! He challenges 
 Sherlock Holmes by writing him an letter and saying that he's going to take five important monuments 
 from England. He gives Sherlock riddles and clues in order to find out where he shall strike! And 
 even though you find it in time and put a lot of guards in the area, Lupin still manages to steal 
 the monuments!
  
  So my final words is: If you want a point and click game that testes your intelligence, has incredible 
 graphics, somewhat good sound, excellent gameplay and extremely fun, then this is the game for 
 you!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: archiloque
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Great plot, fun, elegant, light and genuinely holmesian (no murders : Lupin doesn't kill) , amazing 
 puzzles, solid dialogs and fantastic voice acting : great adventure game, one you owe yourself 
 to play if you like adventure games and mystery novels. The plot is much more clever than it seems 
 at first, and if you figure out what Lupin is really up to before the end of the game, you're better 
 police than me !
  Graphically, the game seems a bit dated, but it looks good enough to make you feel like you're 
 really spending some time in a Victorian London. The beautiful pieces of classical chamber music 
 playing in the background help acheiving this goal. You'll also get the chance to view nice real 
 works of art as you'll explore the museums, beautifully integrated into the game's sets. 
  The game's atmosphere is extremely peaceful and relaxing, everything around you looks cosy, and 
 the "bad guy" you're up against is a pleasant gentleman who will make you laugh more than once 
 : this is just a pleasant and very challenging journey through some of the most beautiful places 
 in London. 
  The story has a good 
  The puzzles are difficult, but hey, this is a Sherlock Holmes story, what do you expect ? It's 
 too bad they gave up the quizzes from the Silver Earring though, it really gave you the impression 
 that you were solving crimes yourself. 
  This is a great adventure game, original, demanding, fun to play, and true to its inspiration : 
 Arthur Conan Doyle and Maurice Leblanc would probably be very proud.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redserpentmetal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Just finished playing this game yesterday, and my god did I enjoy it. First of all I must say its 
 a first person game, which is the same as the awakened and quite different than other games of 
 the genre. Sherlock Holmes is once again put in the test but this time the test is quite hard, 
 probably the hardest one in the series and of course the longest. The puzzles are great and some 
 of them are quite hard and they truly live up to the name of there creator, Arsene Lupin.
  
  The story is impressing and I would recommend translating it to a movie. The graphics are great 
 and the voice acting is awesome, probably done by the same actors who worked on the previous projects 
 not really sure about that. Also the graphics are colorful and intense taking point and click adventure 
 games into the next generation with a triumph.
  
  The game is somewhat long and requires many hours of game play for solving the puzzles which as 
 I said earlier are quite hard with the use of the word input system that somewhat need to be refined 
 for other versions to come, not that its no good, its just that it might need refining a little 
 bit to cover all bases since sometimes alternative words can be used but sadly it doesn't work 
 so you'll have to take a short cut and read a walk-through to pass them. 
  
  All in all its a great game, great puzzles, great story and the best in the series so far. The 
 only downside of it is that it requires a lot of back and forth moving which almost takes most 
 of the playing time. Of course the map hot spots that are updated as you play are quite useful 
 but sometimes you just have to do things the hard way especially when you're missing something.
 
  
  Now I'm waiting for the fifth installment of the series, Jack the Ripper I'm lusting for you.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: regnumekal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  If you're interested in the reviews of Sherlock Holmes vs Arsene Lupin, then it must mean that 
 you have already played Sherlock Holmes: The Awakened. Well, in The Awakened, I found one of the 
 best adventure games I ever played in my entire gaming life, and so I thought that the sequel would 
 be at least as good as the Cthulhu-themed title. I was kind of wrong. Of course, when I saw the 
 map of London in The Awakened, I wished that they would make a game using the locations from it, 
 because I never visited London. My wish was granted, at least, but I expected much more from the 
 game itself.
  
  Story / Plot
  
  I guess you can't expect very much from a story based on a competition between the famous detective 
 Sherlock Holmes and the inventive french thief Arsene Lupin, mainly because you already know that 
 your job is to follow and to catch the thief. Simple as that. The story begins when Holmes and 
 his eternal partner Watson receive a letter from the famous thief that roamed in Europe and brought 
 humiliation on the european police authorities. In that letter he states that he will do the same 
 with England's Scotland Yard, by accomplishing the greatest thievery acts known to the world, and 
 by doing so he will show England's true place in the world - as inferior to France. You can observe 
 in the game the immense grudge in Lupin's heart toward the English that the developers accomplished 
 to cultivate. That's about it. From now on Sherlock Holmes will try to prevent the plans of his 
 rival, and the story will develop mainly through the letters that Lupin leaves each time after 
 a theft. You'll travel to many locations in the British metropolis and you'll meet many characters 
 in your adventure. Actually the game shows that Lupin was partially right, because Holmes will 
 see from a close perspective the incompetence of the English authorities. There are many funny 
 moments, related with the methods that Lupin uses and the riddles that he creates.
  
  Characters
  
  The characters in the game were well designed, creating a special individuality 
 deducted from their role and the preconceptions that one would see in them. Though I actually saw 
 that some secondary characters have the same face (for example: the architect - apprentice class 
 of characters) . Anyway that is not a serious problem, especially in an adventure game.
  
  Environment
  
  One of the biggest disappointments for me in the game was the design of the 
 world. Of course, most adventure games don't have a 3D world, but they do have one thing - atmosphere, 
 a feature that gives a game a unique style, and the player feels a specific feeling that you can't 
 feel in any other place. Hey, even Next Life has plenty of it. I mean where is the fog, where are 
 the people on the streets. In short - where is the real London. I didn't feel any of it. 
  
  The good part, is that the game offers you a large variety of historical-cultural places to 
 visit in London: museums, towers, Buckingham Palace. And you will certainly enjoy their interior, 
 with loads of good art, masterpieces and various exhibits (egiptian statues, babylonian doors, 
 vases, swords and such) .
  
  Graphics
  
  Some say the graphics are good, some say they're not. I can certainly say that the graphics are 
 worse than in The Awakened, or should I say that they are less-polished. Everything is done in 
 rush, and I personally hate the Tower of London, when walking between it's walls, I felt a sensation 
 of "I am empty". All I can say is that there is something missing in the textures, in the sky representation, 
 in the walls, in the grass... the trees are fine though. 
  
  Anyway, that is if we are comparing it with Sherlock Holmes: The Awakened. Overall the game has 
 decent graphics, and maybe the best in the adventure world, if we exclude Dreamfall: The Longest 
 Journey. The first-person view combined with a reality-like movement is certainly something special 
 in an adventure game.
  
  Puzzles
  
  In Sherlock Holmes vs Arsene Lupin I met some of the most easiest and the most hardest puzzles 
 in an adventure game. One thing is clear is that they both lead you to frustration. They imply 
 lots of movement through the same places and a more-than-average general knowledge in art and history, 
 which is both bad and good. But looking at the game in general, I think that the developers filled 
 the game with too many puzzles where they shouldn't have, and that's the most frustrating part 
 - when you know that after the statue puzzle, another one, this time a vase puzzle awaits you, 
 and after that a babylonian door puzzle, or the other way around.
  
  Sound / Voice Acting
  
  I'm proud to say that SH vs AL has one of the best voice acting, choosing 
 from the games released in the recent years, thus continuing the tradition in the Shrlock Holmes 
 Series. You can clearly see that the game borrowed the voice of some very talented actors.
  
  The environmental, the plot and the ambient sound are good, though it surely makes itself unnoticed, 
 in a good way.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The developers made some improvements to the interaction between the player and the world. But 
 that's not all that there is to gameplay. In my conception the gameplay is the overall gaming experience 
 in a game. Of course you don't shoot bullets from a new sci-fi weapon, but you get to catch Arsene 
 Lupin ! The combination between puzzles, old-school games, 3D world, non-violent solutions, humor, 
 First-Person View and reality does not look stupid, it's a new definition to gameplay.
  
  Closing Word
  
  If you're an adventure fan you should try this game, I don't recommend it if 
 you don't have patience.
  
  Note: My scores are usually relatively low for good games and high for bad ones. That's why I don't 
 have game ratings of 10 or 1.
  
  Note 2: My rating has an error of 0.5 points, so if you do not agree with my score you can just 
 imagine that I have put a 8.0 or a 7.0 instead of 7.5.
  
  Note 3: This review was made by a "Cthulhu, sci-fi, fantasy, monsters of the abyss, etc" fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loki_rj
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I've finished this game not an hour ago, and as I watched the ending credits my mind could only 
 conjure up two feelings: Immense satisfaction, combined with a strange urge to go to bed and sleep 
 for the next 48 hours. This game is absolutely exhausting. But then again, what could you expect 
 from a game that unites two absolutely giants from world literature: Sir Arthur Connan Doyle's 
 Sherlock Holmes, the world's greatest detective, and Maurice Leblanc's Arsne Lupin, the world's 
 greatest thief? A true Clash of Titans if I ever saw one.
  
  There is a warning to be made, though: This is for true, old-school, addicted adventure gamers, 
 and casual puzzle solvers will either scream for a walkthrough or bang their heads against the 
 keyboard at certain moments within the game. The solution of some puzzles will require a small 
 notebook by your side, if not a calculator. That being said, the game's highlight, aside from its 
 near-perfect plot, is the absolutely immense variety of puzzles this game. From old-school inventory 
 based ones, to ridiculously hard riddles, to frustrating numerical challenges (I kind of missed 
 that last one, lately) , you'll most likely see smoke exiting your ears after being stuck for half 
 an hour wondering what the hell are you supposed to do to open that iron door. That, in fact, is 
 the game's only flaw: The puzzles are ridiculous, at time, and I'm not ashamed to admit that I 
 searched for a walkthrough at a handful of points. I don't like walkthroughs, as I think you're 
 only fooling yourself if you use it to finish a game, but several of the game's most challenging 
 moments come with no background logic at all.
  
  The graphics are simply incredible, both the environments and the characters. I can't remember 
 full 3D environments as detailed as those of this game in any adventure game I've ever played, 
 and the scenarios are simply stunning, both on its immense size and on the scale of its details. 
 You'll literally spend hour after hour just watching the paintings at the Museum of Art, across 
 Trafalgar Square, or going through every corner of the London Museum of History's library, and 
 while the prospect might seem boring, it's one of the most pleasing aspects of the game.
  
  The characters are well designed, both visually and in their voice acting. Each character 'looks' 
 and 'sounds' unique, with their voice generally matching their looks. A fat ol' drunkard at the 
 Golden Lion pub will sound uneducated and disrespectful. Lady Leomunda, the Queen's lovely companion, 
 will sound well-raised and arrogant.
  
  The gameplay is for the most part point-and-click. Though rather than moving from screen to screen, 
 as in most adventure games, holding down the left mouse button will take you around the 3D scenarions 
 (double clicking will make you run) , with the cursor instantly changing to an eye, to look, or 
 a hand, to operate, whenever you come near an object you can interact to.
  
  So, while it WILL frustrate you, I can't bring myself to give this game a lower score. Why? Simply 
 because of the sheer weight of the two main characters' name, and how well they both interact on 
 this absolutely amazing and immersive plot. I can't help but call this a classic... If it was any 
 easier, it wouldn't be a challenge worthy of Holmes and Lupin, and while the developers failed 
 to deal with this difficulty (it'd be actually pretty easy... Just put a hint button or something 
 of this sort) , it steel feels better than any adventure game I've played lately.
  
  Go get yourself a copy, just be ready to become frustrated, nothing that a little patience wouldn't 
 fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRPliskin
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  I am a long-time fan of Sir Aurthor Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes series, and also a big fan of 
 the Sherlock Holmes games (except for the "mummy" one... but let's not dredge up those bad memories) . 
 That being said, I'm happy to say that this most recent installment, despite some minor and not-so-minor 
 annoyances, is an excellent game and completely worth playing.
  
  Its strongest point, by far, is the story, which is complemented by the mostly stellar cast of 
 voice-actors who bring the characters to life (the voice of Arsene Lupin, however, was a bit lacking 
 here) . You'll untangle clues and puzzles left by the antagonist, the gentleman thief Arsene Lupin, 
 as he leads you on a chase around London on a mission to humiliate England by stealing its most 
 valuable possessions. The ending is really killer, and may totally take you by surprise.
  
  And now the bad points. First and foremost, pixel-hunting has always been, for me, the most annoying 
 aspect of the adventure-game genre. But what is a slight annoyance in a 2D adventure game becomes 
 astronomically so in a 3D adventure game. There is simply too much wallpaper to paint with your 
 mouse cursor; and the effort can be a bit overwhelming. In addition, some of the puzzles are so 
 maddeningly difficult that, as someone else already said, you would actually have to be Sherlock 
 Holmes to figure it out. Because of these two complaints, I would consider the game unplayable 
 without a walkthrough (unless you possess either great genius or great patience... or an affinity 
 for self-torture) .
  
  I could certainly go on about the pros and cons of this game, but I know that no one wants to read 
 twenty pages of my own asinine opinion. Let me just say that it's a great game for fans of the 
 Sherlock Holmes books, for fans of the previous Sherlock Holmes games, and for adventure game fans 
 with a bit of a masochistic streak. Just make sure you have a walkthrough at the ready. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinGnosis
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  The last game in this series was "Sherlock Holmes - The Awakened", and I think many of us were 
 pleasantly surprised with that game due to its great atmosphere, story and user interface.
  
  This latest game continues in the same vein as The Awakened but also has many improvements 
 to the basic game design. Especially the graphics stand out here and this may very well be the 
 best looking full-3d-adventure-game made to date.
  
  Some of the artwork in here is just downright impressive and the 3d-designers surly must have spent 
 a lot of time, and effort, recreating the various museums that you come across; sometimes it's 
 almost like being there at the museums in person. The game engine also seems very well taken care 
 of, if you have the processing power you can crank up the settings and enjoy some very good looking 
 surroundings.
  
  Similarly the voice acting and storytelling is also top notch and anyone who enjoys Sherlock Holmes 
 and/or a good detective story is in for a treat.
  
  So why then isn't this game rated higher than 8.0? Well - the simple truth is that the game can 
 be frustratingly difficult and vague at times. In order to catch Lupin you have to follow a large 
 number of clues that he's placed in your path, but some of them you truly would have to be Sherlock 
 Holmes to figure out.
  
  I can honestly say that I don't think anyone who plays this game will be able to complete it without 
 resorting to a guide. It's not really that the riddles are exceedingly difficult (Heck - I've beaten 
 Riven and Myst, that's difficult!) but instead that sometimes it's very vague what you're supposed 
 to do. Most of the times it works, and then it's great, but then suddenly you just become completely 
 stuck and have no idea of what to do next. 
  
  At several points you also have type in the correct answers to riddles, and if you then don't think 
 along the lines of the game designers you're in trouble. The problem is that in real life there 
 would be several answers/solutions on how to solve a problem, but here in the game you have to 
 do it in the exact manner, and sequence, that the game designers were thinking about and it can 
 all become very frustrating.
  
  So while "The Awakened" was a much more easygoing "come along for the ride" kind of game this one 
 is a much more in your face puzzle/riddle type of game. Some will surely like it but I myself found 
 some of the puzzles unnecessarily vague and farfetched. So yes - it's a good adventure game, but 
 definitely not the first choice for casual players. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
