-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shivers
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/shivers/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 7.2, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 115 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Sep 30, 1995

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A surprising change from the typical Sierra blueprint, this graphic adventure aimed at teens offers 
 an intricately detailed world to explore and plenty of classic puzzles to solve. 

 A surprising change from the typical Sierra blueprint, this graphic adventure aimed at teens is 
 more like Myst or The 7th Guest than Mystery House or King's Quest VII, offering an intricately 
 detailed world to explore and plenty of classic puzzles to solve.   

 Shivers is set in Professor Windlenot's Museum of the Strange and Unusual, an abandoned collection 
 of strange artifacts from around the world. It seems you've been dared to spend the night in the 
 dilapidated old museum, which was never open to the public due to a bizarre incident that took 
 place many years ago. Two teenagers and the professor himself disappeared under unknown circumstances, 
 and you must solve the mystery if you're to survive until dawn.  

 Basically, your task is to collect a series of mischievous spirits, or Ixupi, which have been unleashed 
 from the urns which held them. The urns and their accompanying lids are scattered throughout the 
 grounds, and you must find the correct lid/urn combination to capture the corresponding Ixupi. 
 Finding these objects is made more difficult by the fact that the professor was an eccentric who 
 filled his museum with plenty of puzzles and secret passages.  

 These puzzles aren't particularly challenging, and many of them must be repeated every time you 
 need access to an adjoining area. (This occurs all too frequently, since you can only carry one 
 object at a time.) Fortunately, wandering around the museum is, at least for a while, an interesting 
 experience. The displays are eerie and fascinating, and the mystery surrounding the museum is unveiled 
 through the personal belongings of the missing persons. Unfortunately, once you've seen all there 
 is to see, traipsing back and forth searching for objects you've already found becomes a repetitive 
 chore, and the game loses some of its allure. In the end, Shivers is a game that has a look and 
 feel guaranteed to get your attention, but may lack the depth of play to keep it for the long run. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: grootelaar
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Well where shall I begin it all started when you are locked up outside the museum where 3 persons 
 where missing. A girl named Beth. A boy named Merrick and Professor Windlenot (The owner of the 
 museum) . Later you find out that they are all dead you find there body's in 3 places Beth (I havened 
 found her but she's dead all right I found her soul trapped in a Jar (more too come later) Merrick 
 in a Lion and the professor on a rock by the lake. The story go's that 32 years, 4 months, and 
 13 days after Motcambo's birth, he crowned himself king of Zapana. As a celebration, he ordered 
 that no bloodletting (sacrafices) bepreformed for an entire year. This angered Motcambo's gods, 
 and as punishment they ordered the underworld's portal kepper, Xibalba, to unleash the Snake God's 
 children (better known to us as Ixupi) on the Zapanans. Each night Ixupi would sneak into the citizen's 
 homes and slowly steal their life essence until their ka was gone (Ka is the Egyptian term for 
 spirit; apparently your life essence makes up your ka) . Motcambo was frantic, and gathered up all 
 of his priests, ordering them to make many sacrafices to the gods. This did not help. For many 
 nights the Ixupi continued to steal the ka of anyone they could find. Finally, Motcambo offered 
 himself as a sacrafice. This gained the pity of the Moon goddess, Ixchel. She gave the people of 
 Zapana pots and lids to capture the Ixupi in. Each vessel had its own element representing the 
 type of each Ixupi. Fifteen days after the sixth moon ended, Motcambo and his priests captured 
 each one of the thirteen Ixupi inside its own vessel. Each pot was sealed away and buried deep 
 beneath the earth where they could never be opened again. If the Ixupi were ever freed, they could 
 not stray from their vessels unless another life force took their place; that life force being 
 a human. Thousands of years past, and Professor Windlenot found the Ixupi. He took each one of 
 the vessels to his museum and put them on display. On a plaque outside of the Ixupi tomb, Windlenot 
 says not to open up the vessels, ever! Beth and Merrick couldn't listen, though. One night, this 
 curious duo snuck into the museum to see what it was like. Beth, ignoring the professors warning, 
 freed all thirteen Ixupi. Two of the Ixupi stole all of Beth and Merrick's life essence, trapping 
 them inside two vessels. Windlenot returns to his museum to discover something is wrong. He notices 
 everything is a mess. Furniture is turned over, and the book "Egyptian Heiroglyphs Explained" is 
 missing. A short time later, Windlenot's life essence is stolen as well. That was 1980. Since then 
 the museum has never opened and just stands there, taking up space. The year is 1985 now and your 
 four best friends decide to lock you inside the museum for a night. Your mission for the night 
 is to enter the museum, discover what happened, and fix it. They didn't say that on the back off 
 the box ore whater ever you bhot ore going too buy. well you open the mail box and you find a letter 
 you open it Bla Bla Bla Bla then you find 2 numbers 29 you wander around and you see 8 picture's 
 rite them down and the choler too. You goo too a boat house and enter the number 29 now FOR YOU 
 FIRST PUZZEL you need too switch the black ones down with the upper ones (white one's) you only 
 have 9 ore 8 moves after that you goo over the stones that just raise out off the water. you go 
 after it BE CARFUL they have sharks in it (just kidding) and then you see your 2 puzzle the STONE 
 HENGE PUZZEL turn the stone's over. It opens you go down and open a door its dark you look left 
 and you turn the lever. Lights go on and the music starts (the only place where it's not scary 
 is in the puzzle room the elevator nice music and out side) you go too a tunnel and you come out 
 on a lake and you see a boat and you see Windlenot DEAD with a book in his hand. You go in the 
 boat move foreword and you hear something and then BOEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE a part of you Life Essences 
 stolen by the water Ixpux. the reason why I tell you this part is it change very quickly the environment 
 when you first been locked up you havened got a clue what's going on but when you see the Windlenot 
 and the water Ixpux. It's really scary especially the sound. All things change with every game 
 that's good and you can here where they are hiding. There is one last thing that bothers me WHY 
 CANT YOU CARY ONLY ONE PART OF A POT JESUS your are in danger and you still carry just 1 piece 
 JESUS. Play it DON'T GIVE UP and tip don't play at night play it with not loud music. GO and capture 
 then and this what they didn't told you 3 Ixpux escaped the museum Fire, Stone, Jade and that's where 
 Shivers 2 starts Good luck you need it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogepr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Great and creepy puzzle game. Very interesting story, point and click gameplay with good visuals 
 for its time, creepy atmosphere, creepy music and overall entertaining game. As a kid, this game 
 scared the hell out of me. Sure the "ghosts" were cheesy looking but everything from the story 
 to the music just gives you the chills and sets you forth on an interesting, creepy adventure through 
 an abadonded haunted musuem. The puzzles also range from very simple to quite complicated and keeps 
 you thinking. Even for experienced gamers you're still bound to play for perhaps ten hours or more.
 
  
  For it's time I'd say it's a pretty good game, loved it as a kid and I'm surprised it's not rated 
 higher than a 6.6 on the site.. you have to give an aged game some credit (it was from 1995 afterall) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoss4573
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Shivers is a good game with plenty of exciting puzzles to solve all the while trying to stay alive. 
 It is a must have if you like puzzle or even horror games due to the fact it does have its scary 
 moments. It isnt that hard to play, but it does have its times when you just want to throw it away 
 but you always end up playing it over and over. The only drawback is that if you try to install 
 it on some modern day computers it doesnt work because of the speed of the cd drive. Otherwise 
 awesome game would love to play it again. Good game to add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opt1mus_R
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 17, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  This was one of my first games, and I have never gotten bored of it. I have beaten it 10-20+ times 
 and it is still one of the greatest games I have ever played. One of the best parts about this 
 game is its unique system of randomly placing the vestals to catch the Ixupi, it makes every game 
 experience different. This game also has challenging puzzles, an awesome sound track, and a great 
 story and game play, you can almost believe that those two teens were actually in the museum with 
 all the detail they put into their back story and path through it. Not many old games were as surprisingly 
 good as this.
  
  I hope that everyone that ever considers buying, or locating this game does, it is an awesome addition 
 to any collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heatherceana
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 25, 2005 11:39 am PT
Review:  There are puzzles to confound almost anyone. The puzzles in this game have a wide range of difficulty 
 level. My 12 year old and I played it separately and both loved it! The story-line is well thought-out. 
 If you are patient, observant, and relatively logical, this is a game for you! 
  
  You are trapped on the fenced and locked property of a creepy so-called museum. Your supposed friends 
 have locked you in for the night. A cursory look around the grounds will catch your attention immediately! 
 You must first find a way into the museum. You learn within that there are spirit-critters loose 
 and you must recapture them. They had been housed in what resemble ancient egyptian style canopic 
 jars, but with an ancient Meso-American look. The various spirit-critters are hiding in one of 
 numerous parts of the museum. You MUST listen carefully as you wander around. This will keep you 
 from running amiss of the critters before you can re-capture them with the appropriate soul-jar.
 
  
  There are bound to be parts of this that will confound you, so I would advise book-marking a walk-through. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
