-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shogo: Mobile Armor Division
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/shogomobilearmordivision/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 13, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.2, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 472 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Monolith Productions
Genre: Action
Date:     Sep 30, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Shogo never feels pointless and, with its careful attention to narrative as well as action, is clearly 
 of the new breed of shooters. 

 It's about time Shogo happened. Not that it's a victim of your typical teary-eyed, long-overdue 
 game development cycle, but more that at last a team had the insight, and the decency, to make 
 a great game out of an undiscovered but highly deserving medium. The battle sequences in Japanese 
 animated science fiction series like Macross and Gundam are characterized by their huge scale, 
 breakneck speed, and subtle sense of style. In between the wars fought by enormous yet graceful 
 transforming robots, such cartoons weave intricate and often moving melodrama to make the battles 
 seem that much more significant. While Shogo's makers aren't Japanese, it's clear that the people 
 who made it have a fine grasp of the subtleties of Japanese animation, as the game combines the 
 conventions of furious action and vivid characterization within a conventionally first-rate first-person 
 shooter.   

 In Shogo, you play a hotshot commander caught in the middle of a war that cost him his family and 
 closest friends. Now you're in it for vengeance as well as for duty, and there's a 30-foot-tall 
 ally in your corner that'll help sway the odds in your favor. You see, not only is the hero Sanjuro 
 an ace with any number of handheld firearms, but he's an ace in the cockpit of a Mobile Combat 
 Armor unit, a steel giant that eats tanks for breakfast. MCAs may look like the typical Battletech-style 
 mech made popular in computer gaming by Activision (Battletech, after all, is itself closely based 
 on Japanese animation) . But the difference is, MCAs, in true anime fashion, are every bit as lithe 
 and maneuverable as their apt human pilots. In no way does Shogo feel like a clunky simulation; 
 this is a first-person shooter through and through, with its highlight being that certain levels 
 must be traversed on foot while others demand the firepower of an MCA. There's nothing quite like 
 stomping on tiny armored guards with your metal suit. And you'll get to stomp all kinds of things 
 in full, gory detail thanks to Monolith's impressive 3D engine.  

 Monolith's proprietary LithTech engine pushes polygons fast and lights them well. On the one hand, 
 it doesn't look quite as rich as either Quake II or Unreal; its colors look a bit washed out, and 
 you can spot the occasional seam between texture maps. But at least LithTech looks different; the 
 explosions, the gore, and the particle and lighting effects don't look anything like any other 
 first-person shooters out there, and are refreshing if only for that reason. On top of its unique 
 special effects, Shogo contains all kinds of different indoor and outdoor scenery, and all of it 
 looks convincing. Outdoor areas are expansive and desolate, with clouds casting foreboding shadows 
 across the land. Indoor areas are realistically lit, and the architecture is plausible. All together, 
 the assorted level designs are varied and recall the best of the recent batch of great 3D shooters, 
 including Quake II, Jedi Knight, and Unreal. The levels are often short and sweet, with plenty 
 of variety and storyline within and in between to keep you going. Shogo never feels pointless and, 
 with its careful attention to narrative as well as action, is clearly of the new breed of shooters. 

 A first-person shooter without a variety of interesting and deadly weapons isn't much fun no matter 
 how fancy its engine. Fortunately, Shogo delivers the goods with an arsenal of sadistically satisfying 
 guns, including a number of classic archetypes along with a few unique additions. Though the assorted 
 weapons in the game appear unwieldy or even uninteresting as you lug them about, they're remarkable 
 when put to use. When you're on foot, you do business with a number of sleek pistols and machine 
 guns that all look and sound like they pack a serious punch, with especially nice muzzle flare 
 effects. When you're strapped into the Mobile Combat Armor, your arsenal is a hi-tech mix of energy 
 and ballistic weapons, many of which look astonishingly powerful. It's a safe bet that between 
 the laser cannon, the multi-warhead launcher, and the rapid-fire machine gun that doubles as a 
 sniper rifle, there's a little something for everyone in Shogo.  

 Meanwhile, Shogo's soundtrack is subtle and effective and changes dynamically along with the onscreen 
 action, while the sound effects are almost always clean, strong, and appropriate. Many of the sounds 
 are pulled straight from classic anime series, so not only do they make Shogo sound good, but anime 
 veterans get a little trivia game out of them free of charge. There's a lot of speech in Shogo, 
 and most of it is well acted, if not by typical voice-acting standards then certainly by the low 
 bar that measures the typical English-dubbed anime. Several of the characters, including the protagonist, 
 are really brought to life through speech, which single-handedly drives the plot between levels. 
 On top of that, you even get a fluffy Japanese pop song in the intro movie, the likes of which 
 may invoke anything from fear to fury in the uninitiated.  

 It looks and sounds great, but Shogo raises the philosophical argument as to whether or not flaws 
 within a game are permissible if the developer recognizes them. The fact of the matter is, the 
 game that ships on the CD contains two detrimental defects. First, the enemy artificial intelligence 
 in the game ranges from passable to pathetic. Oftentimes the enemy is entirely oblivious to your 
 presence, such that you can stand clearly within its view yet it won't react at all. Mind you, 
 the game is still perfectly challenging; the designers solved the wrong problem by placing enemies 
 in terribly awkward locations, making the game feel downright foolish at times. Enemy mechs wait 
 around for you all day around corners, right behind doors, and in other such clever hiding places. 
 You'll find yourself getting shot up by surprise repeatedly, yet while these occasions are challenging 
 the first time through, they're something like a chore once you load the game and know what to 
 expect.  

 And then you've got the fact that the game is basically unfinished as far as multiplayer is concerned, 
 being far too slow or unstable over a typical (or even a fast) Internet connection. But Monolith 
 has already confessed to both these crimes and intends to address each in turn within the next 
 two months. As it stands, Shogo is an attractive, highly stylized, and by and large thoroughly 
 enjoyable single-player game. Its presumably temporary shortcomings will only ruin the game for 
 those players who insist that multiplayer support is a first-person shooter's decisive factor. 
 If, on the other hand, you're looking for the next evolution of first-person shooters, your search 
 ends with Shogo. It may not end up being the best shooter of the year, but that's a testament to 
 just how suddenly and dramatically this genre is improving.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lord_Vipes
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  I remember playing this game when I was seven... It being bundled with Septerra Core. But Shogo 
 blew my mind then, and still today.
  
  It has EVERYTHING a Anime fan would want in a game: Gigantic Robots (MCA) , Deep Story, BIG EXPLOSIONS!. 
 You name it, it has it. I just got this game back 8 months ago. Campaign is one of the best at 
 the time. Even nine years later, I find me playing it non-stop. I'm actually surprised on how many 
 people never herd of the game, or hate it.
  
  The Online gameing, I managed to miss this one. It requires MSN Games, but, MSN Games no longer 
 supports Shogo. Way to go Microsoft!
  
  I remeber Monolith talking about bringing the series back. Yea, where is it? This game is one of 
 the few that is unique. Look for a Giant Robot game for the pc. Not many are there? Now look for 
 an Anime game. Some here and there. Now look for an Anime game with you controlling Giant Robots. 
 Dead end huh? If you can, try to get Shogo. The copies are hard to get a hand of. But its a diamond 
 in the ruff. Get while you still can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MF_2
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 10, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great story. The type of complex story that you can expect from a complex Japanese 
 Manga. Confusing really. I've been playing it since 1999 and I still do not know the story that 
 well.
  
  This game does show its age graphically. It has not faired well against the likes of Half-Life 
 which has survived in just as long a time period. But back in 98, this had some of the best graphics 
 around.
  
  There are sound issues. If you are playing in XP, do not enable 3D sound that uses EAX. You can 
 use Direct3D with Hardware Support. Thats about it. This way the characters do not glitch and not 
 run after you and have super fast reaction times.
  
  The sound isn't that good the begin with for this game. It has great graphics but lacking in quality 
 even for 1998 standards. Half-Life was about 50 times better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talonfire
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I'm not particularly fan of anime, I've watched some anime series' here and there, but for the 
 most part I tend to ignore them. I saw Shogo bundled with an RPG called Septerra Core at a local 
 store for $10, and I figured why not? I definitely was not disappointed with my decision.
  
  Shogo: Mobile Armor Division is set in what I assume is the far future (No actual dates are 
 given) in a very animeish setting. You assume the role of the resident smart ass Sanjuro Makabe 
 who angsts at the beginning about how he has lost everything because of a war on the only planet 
 featured in the game, Cronus. When Sanjuro's commanding officer gets a lead on the leader of The 
 Fallen , the terrorist group on Cronus that his military organization is combatting, he is dispatched 
 to deal with the situation. The story is solid, and flows quite well; you can even make a decision 
 near the end of the game that changes how the story plays out, along with what missions you'll 
 perform.
  
  Shogo doesn't really differ from most first person shooters. Essentially the game has two different 
 modes, the on foot mode, and the MCV (giant kick ass robots) mode. Ultimately both of the modes 
 play exactly the same, save for the MCV's vehicle mode which lets you go a little faster though 
 you'll probably never use that function. Both modes involve you running around, and killing enemies 
 usually with no help from other soldiers. Is this a problem? It is in my opinion. Other than the 
 obvious scaling differences I found that more often than not even when piloting a giant badass 
 robot I was playing the exact same way I was while on foot.
  
  Despite the lack of differences, both of Shogo's game modes are a blast to play. You can mow down 
 funky looking enemy soldiers on foot, and step on enemy soldiers when piloting an MCV. Shogo also 
 gets brownie points for being the first (and probably only) shooter where you can use a squeaky 
 toy as a weapon. I had quite the time running at enemies while I brandished my deadly Magiclaw 
 shouting pirate cat doll.
  
  Shogo's graphics are definitely nothing special. The character models are pretty bad, and the MCV 
 models aren't much better. Despite this, the environments are very memorable, and the fact that 
 Shogo has excellent level design aids in this.
  
  Audio wise Shogo is pretty good. The voice acting isn't bad considering this is a shooter from 
 1998, and the music is very memorable. The game also has great sound effects, so in the end Shogo 
 delivers a very immersive audio experience.
  
  Shogo is a great game. Even if you don't like anime you may very well enjoy stepping on people 
 in giant robots. Shogo has its fair share of problems, it would have been a lot better if there 
 were actual gameplay differences between the on foot, and MCV missions, but regardless it's worth 
 playing if you're looking for some old school shooter action with a solid storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raulacho
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  What a classic, i liked it as much as half life, the whole anime thing was great, good levels, 
 good graphics for that year, great story, fun gameplay, just good, i was so hooked on this game, 
 i have played it twice, i think i still have the installation cd.... maybe ill try again... to 
 see if it keeps the essence.... pales in comparison to actual shooters, but in that year was a 
 very good game... a little difficult at some levels... but not impossible... too bad they didnt 
 make a sequel... i would have bought it, i loved the song in the intro, it was catchy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 3, 2006 1:56 am PT
Review:  It has been a couple of years since I played Shogo and I always had very fond memories of it so 
 I was a bit nervous when installing it again. Unpatched it ran free of hassles on my XP installation 
 save for the odd crash to the desktop when things got a bit hectic on screen. Sure, the graphics 
 look a bit dated but are still colourful and serviceable, the sound effects and soundtrack remain 
 as atmospheric and rewarding as when the game was new.
  
  The main gimmick of Shogo is the change of perspective as you switch between soldiering on foot 
 or in a heavy MCA mech. The game excels in offering fast and entertaining action in both these 
 modes, and the added twist of seeing the soldiers giving you such a hard time inside buildings 
 being crushed under your MCA or yourself becoming splattered on the walls as you are jumped by 
 an enemy Mech help tie the two modes together effectively.
  
  Storywise Shogo is nothing special and it features a handful of run of the mill characters, but 
 they still manage to deliver their lines in a both entertaining and effective manner. Their banter 
 and commentary strike a fine balance between seriousness and comedy. The plotline is very linear 
 but offers a couple of branching points, but save for adding a few extra levels at the endgame 
 it doesn't really come into play.
  
  Being an older generation FPS there are some small quirks that make you realize gaming has evolved 
 a bit. Secondary firing modes and ability to manually reload your guns are sorely missed. But after 
 playing it through again it left me wanting more and I immediately restarted a new campaign at 
 a harder difficulty, something I would very rarely do with any game, and I guess that must be held 
 as one of its finest qualities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darktail67
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 31, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  When i first played this game, my dad had gifted it to me, i was 8 and had no idea what the game 
 was about, and neither had my dad. i didn't see much gore and blood since i was so bad at English 
 i didn't understand anything about what i had to do, so it took me nearly a year to beat the first 
 2 levels. still, i thought it was great, just i didn't understand it. months ago, i found it agaain, 
 and decided to give it a try. i got sucked right in. if you enjoyed games like Half-Life you're 
 going to love this game and if you're an anime fan you're definitely not going to drop it and protect 
 it like if it was gold.
  
  Tell me, what other FPS takes you through 2 types of playing where sometimes you'll play 'as a 
 human' and sometimes you'll be in a Mechanical Combat Armor (MCA) ? what other FPS has 2 different 
 sets of weapons where you'll need each weapon to complete your missions? what other FPS game gives 
 you a mission where you have to find and recover a squeaky toy you use as an actual weapon to get 
 an old woman's cat?
  
  The plot is's a simple as it seems: Far away from earth, on some very distant system, there is 
 planet called Cronus, which is rich in a mineral, if to be called like that, called Kato. Kato 
 is a somewhat unique and powerful resource for weapon and transporation development as it doesn't 
 only emit enormous amount of enery when used as a weapon, but that same energy can be used for 
 hyperspeed travel when Kato is used as fuel. Unfortunately, there isn't enough to satisfy everyone, 
 so a 3-sides war is engaged. the three bands are the United Corporate Authority (UCA) , the Cronian 
 Mining Consortium (CMC, also a part of the UCA that declared itself independant) and a terrorist 
 group native from the planet called the Fallen. You play the role of Sanjuro Makabe, a young UCA 
 promise, until you are sent into a mission to the Avernus, where an earthquake happens, you hallucinate 
 and end up shooting at your lover, your brother and your childhood's friend, and are later on diagnosed 
 with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder.
  
  When the game begins the war has been on for a while, and you have started dating your ex-lover's 
 sister, who is also your Admiral's daughter.
  Admiral Akkaraju, your superior, comes up with a plan to finish this war once and for all, to send 
 someone behind enemy lines and kill the Fallen's leader: his acecard. That would be you, Sanjuro.
 
  
  The game counts with 2 sets of about 10 different weapons each you are independently going to rely 
 on to complete each mission.
  
  As a mecha, you have to your disposition a shock-weaving pulse rifle, an armor piercing laser cannon, 
 a spider-mine launcher, a multi-headed rocket launcher, a gigantic rifle that can also be used 
 to shoot enmies from a distance, a shell launcher and a multiple-headed and highly fast explosive 
 laser launcher, A. K. A. the Shredder
  
  As a human you're getting the common weapons: a couple of powerful dual pistols, a silent machinegun, 
 a highly accurate assault rifle, 2 kinds of grenade launchers: the Energy grenades thaat cause 
 high damage and the Kato (yes, Kato) grenades that have pretty much the same effect as the Energy 
 grenades, just that you can bounce off walls to catch your enemies unwarned...... and a TOW rocket 
 launcher. oh yes.
  Oh, i forgot, the squeaky toy that can only kill one thing: yourself if you use it anywhere else 
 in the game other than to rescue the cat
  
  The graphics are rather impressive and it makes you feel the environment a lot more than most FPS 
 games: when you're in your MCA you can see the clouds' shadows crawling about on the ground below 
 and the scales are just great: you can walk over soldiers and if you crouch and take a close look 
 ate them (or whatever is left of them) you can see them with the same detail as if you were on 
 foot. Weapons aren't much worse: each type of weapon you use in the game leaves its own trail marks 
 of lost bullets, explosions, bruns, etc left on the walls they impact, and the game is so detailed 
 you can shoot up a wall, go eat and take a shower and when you come back, the marks will still 
 be there
  
  Sound isn't left behind, as every sound in the game is highly recognizable and by the end of the 
 game you will be shooting rockets and grenades around corners waiting for the enemy to yell a long 
 yell, or a fallback order to know they're dead. the weapons also have amazing sound effects and 
 you never get tired of them from how realistic they sound, as you hear the Kato grenades explosions 
 with joy everytime you see it exploded right where it had to, just as you hear several people yelling 
 their lungs out as they get vaporized to their death; bullets ricocheting off walls; the laser 
 burning holes in the walls; the energy emitted from the Energy grenades and some others. The gore 
 sound effects are also amazing, as you will also find yourself unconciously wincing at the sounds 
 of blood and body parts hitting the walls
  
  Only lowpoint of the game is the enemies' AI: you'll have to go throuigh the hardest levels to 
 get a decent challenge, as you can be standing right next to an enemy and he still won't see you. 
 the guys at Monolith made up for this by spawning enemies at the most uncomfortable and hard to 
 reach spots so they can be bugging at your butt until you get to fire a well-placed shell or rocket 
 in them
  
  Overall, it's a game you have to get, since the fact it was outshined by Half-Life still doesn't 
 make it an overrated game, but an underestimated and awkwardly unknown masterpiece you just can't 
 walk by without giving a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoldoAsesino
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  In the middle of a mission, I received a greatly uncomfortable surprise. My supposedly dead girlfriend 
 talked to me on the intercom, urging me to meet her in a disco called The Mecca, that was located 
 in the hot spot of Maratropa, the capital city of the enemy. Disobeying direct orders from my superior, 
 I made my way to Maratropa to meet her, and I was so lucky that I got there at the precise time 
 of the curfew. My formerly dead girlfriend instructed me how to get past the controls, but I was 
 unable to do it. CMC troops and tanks blocked every street taking to the downtown. In my last attempt, 
 I even broke into some department buildings and crossed streets walking over electricity wires. 
 But everything was useless: I ended up in front of an electrified fence between a suspicious motel 
 and some headquarters of the CMC. And then, I noticed that there was this old lady at the door 
 of the motel. This electrified fence is yours?, I asked. Yes, answered the old lady. I begged 
 her to let me pass, since I was just a lonely poor kid that mistook his way. The lady thought in 
 loud voice that I was asking something risky: it was the curfew time, I looked like I wasnt from 
 there, and besides I got the uniform of the UCA. Well, she would open the fence for me if I did 
 her an errand. I would have to enter the headquarters of the CMC to retrieve his cat. His cat was 
 very naughty, and liked to play hide and seek in that headquarters. She was thinking to go there 
 to look for him tomorrow, but since there was this foreigner kid with the uniform of their enemy 
 who needed the fence open... So, I went into the headquarters of the enemy with the cats favorite 
 squeaky rubber toy, looking for him. Of course, the guys at the headquarters thought I was there 
 to sabotage them or something, and opened fire. It was a hell of a fight, but suddenly I was able 
 to find the cat and take it to its mommy.
  Did you ever play a first-person shooter where one of the missions directed you to find a lost 
 cat? Then, you must play Shogo, perhaps the best and most funny shooter I ever played. It was the 
 first game I played this February, when I bought a new computer and discarded my old Pentium-100; 
 and believe me if I tell you that it really was the greatest way to inaugurate a new computer. 
 It seems as if every little part of the game was designed with such effort and care that I wasnt 
 unable to find anything that was wrong or weak, and when I finished the game on both endings I 
 was so pleased with it and wanted so much more that I played it again right from the start.
  Before I start telling you something about the game, let me state that Shogo is meant for anime 
 fans. As a matter of fact, Shogo was designed from script to artwork as if it just were a conversion 
 of any Japanese anime into a PC shooter. So, if you dont like anime at all, you should stay away 
 from Shogo; or give it a try with that on mind.
  The plot, as usual on animes, is so complex that you must read it in the games documentation before 
 playing it. Theres a kind of galactic war being carried on a planet very far from Earth called 
 Cronus. The cause of the war is an alien chemical called kato, some kind of organic vestige that 
 apparently is alive in some sense. What makes kato so important is not only the possibility of 
 being used as a heavily damaging caloric weapon, but instead the property of allowing speeds greater 
 than light if used like fuel. There are three forces confronting themselves for the control of 
 kato: The UCA, which is the Terran corporation you serve; the CMC, formerly the base of operations 
 of the UCA on Cronus but later it declared its independence from the UCA; and the Fallen, some 
 kind of native guerrilla commanded by a mysterious and unknown leader called Gabriel. You incarnate 
 Sanjuro, a guy who lost his girlfriend and his brother on the war and who is being put on probation 
 for being considered responsible of their deaths.
  This is only the previous information you need to know before launching Shogo, since the game starts 
 from the point where the Plot section of the manual ends. When Shogo starts, the war has gone 
 very long and it became a real pain in the ass for the UCA; so, Admiral Akkaraju decides to play 
 his best card: to send a lonely guy with the order of infiltrating into the Fallen to kill Gabriel. 
 Of course, this lonely guy is Sanjuro. You.
  From then on, the story unfolds, develops and twists itself, following a very cleverly written 
 script. Suddenly, you lose the notion that you are playing a game and start feeling that you are 
 playing the lead role on a movie or a book. The plot is so interesting and so well integrated into 
 the game, that when you reach the last level you will not notice that you just completed more than 
 40 levels to get there. As a matter of fact, the script had enough stamina to make Shogo a game 
 with 60 or 70 levels and not only 40; and you notice that on the last levels, when plot threads 
 tend to end and resolve themselves in a very abrupt way. I tell it again: finishing Shogo lets 
 you with such a thirst for something more that probably you will start the game anew, as I did. 
 No, the fact that Shogo has two possible endings doesnt fix the thirst.
  Plot is not the only strong issue of Shogo. About the graphics, Shogo looks even way better than 
 Unreal, period. And it is damn fast. I played it on 1024x768, with every possible texture, shadow, 
 light, blur and effect at maximum levels, and it flew. Of course, it was a feast to the eyes. Shoot 
 a laser, and the beam will light walls along its way. Destroy a car, and you will witness an explosion, 
 smoke and dust trails, and pieces of debris and shrapnel flying everywhere and incrusting themselves 
 onto the walls. Try to walk over people when youre on board of your 30-feet-tall mecha, and see 
 what happens. More than a time, I stopped in the middle of a mission, just to take a screenshot 
 of the situation I was in, without caring if the enemy killed me or not.
  About the music, it is so good that I downloaded it on MP3 format from the Monolith server and 
 I use to listen to it from time to time. Yes, it is that good. The soundtrack has only seven tracks, 
 but the computer plays them as if it were a DJ: it cuts selected sections of forty seconds from 
 every track, pastes them, and plays them. You will believe that the soundtrack has a lot of songs; 
 but no, they are only seven, and they are damn good. Sound effects are excellent, and the voice 
 acting is very consistent and well performed.
  About the level design, its the level design which is meant to be the support for the development 
 of the plot, and not conversely. Levels do not start and finish: they evolve; and they are something 
 to be lived and experienced, not just a list of objectives that must be completed in order to get 
 a new list of objectives. Apart from the now standard changes of objectives in the middle of a 
 mission, the levels are full of life. Climb three sets of stairs with the fat Hank Johnson, and 
 he will tell you to stop some time to rest because he went out of breath. Make some noise, and 
 some enemy that was located at the other extreme of a corridor will run to see what happens. To 
 avoid monotony, some sections of Shogo must be completed with you maneuvering a mecha, while other 
 must be completed on foot. And believe me, the levels that you play grounded make Counterstrike 
 to seem silly, while the mecha levels will compel you to throw Mechwarrior to your trash bin. I 
 have never felt again 30 feet of height as really being 30 feet of height, as in Shogo.
  To sum up, this is not a game but a piece of art, period. It has more than everything to kick butt, 
 even on present times. The only negative remarks are the abruptness of both endings, and that anime 
 haters will feel like a toad from a different pool with Shogo. And that even the straight 10 that 
 Im giving to Shogo feels like an insufficient score. Its not a usual thing to see games with 
 this level of quality, and even less usual to see games that want so feverishly to involve us into 
 a hellishly good story. If I would have to synthesize everything I said about Shogo into only one 
 word, I should say: unavoidable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  Shogo is a good game, because it has a lot of features and has a decent number of levels.
  
  Gameplay:
  Shogo features a lot of weapons which all are really cool.
  Shogo also features 
 playing as a robot or just as a human and these things make Shogo a unique game.
  The action of the game is also amazingly good, with decent enemies and bosses.
  The number of 
 levels also improves the gameplay and value.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics look great and the engine runs good.
  It looks a bit cartoony, but that is what 
 it makes good.
  
  Sounds:
  Strange but still OK sounds, some music provided which is good too.
  
  Value:
  Excellent, 
 with multiplay and singleplay.
  Multiplay offers a lot, but singleplay offers even more then a lot.
  
  Variety:
  Good, great 
 number of enemies and levels, huge weapon pack.
  Online kicks ass.
  
  Online:
  Really kicks ass, when played over LAN with the number of weapons.
  
  Shogo makes FPS good, 
 just like doom or Serious sam.
  Cya all.........: p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armor_Key
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  I bought this game years ago on a special offer. Well, when I tried it for the first time, I saw 
 that the game was about 90% Anime like. No, it wasn't something bad, it was pretty funny. Well 
 the game holds some funny humours also. It's like it's own kind of a game.
  The game is a first person shooter. You either control a guy or a big robot, depends on the missions. 
 You rarely get to use the robot, though. But nevertheless, it's much more fun to blast people than 
 humans, especially into a million pieces. 
  Graphics looked really good, back then.
  Music was, well.. OK. Voice acting was good, but I didn't like the sounds of the guns. 
  Well, 
 I didn't see any good value playing this game, I made it trough, then played once again, then got 
 tired. Well, it was still fun while it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holb
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  I sat down and watched KaotixGTX play this for a few and I enjoyed just watching it. He had no 
 problem with the controls and even let me edit them and try it myself. Controls are alot like an 
 FPS. For mech games i'm more of your dual joystick virtual-on or mechwarrior type guy, but this 
 game was fun when I played it for a well. The only think I didn't like was the ingame sound it 
 for some reason gave he godzilla flashbacks. Graphics are crap I think I would get 999fps on my 
 PC if I ran it on this one. Gameplay is good tho and that is whats important with ANY game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 26, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  The idea of Shogo is nice but it feels too cartoonish, too Japanish. Cartoons seem to be the hit 
 over there. The graphics are awful, and added with the child-like feel, this isn't worth it. It 
 just feels very articicial. If you do have it, some of the pros I can think of would be the transition 
 from foot into vehicle, fighting in the "cities". The story is strange. If you're a fan of anime 
 then this wouldn't be so bad for you, but for those who prefer not to watch Hello Kitty, Pokemon, 
 or whatever else that's related to those things, avoid this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaotixGTX
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2005 2:08 am PT
Review:  Shogo: MAD has to be THE most undersold pc game ever. I bought this and Septerra Core (sucked!) 
 from Target for $10. I thought it would be some RPG. I was wrong.
  
  Even though the graphics are about mid-Windows 98, the gameplay is something from today. From the 
 start you are thrust into some action, some easy action, to let you gain an understanding of what's 
 going on. The storyline provided before gameplay is completely original: no aliens involved. Sanjuro 
 has lost his brother, best friend, and girlfriend, Kathryn, in an earthquake while they were on 
 a recon mission. So what does Sanjuro do? He rebounds and dates Kathryn's sister.
  Score one Sanjuro.
  But that has little to do with the plot. If you want to find that out, buy 
 it.
  The weapons can get destructive at times, so make sure your not standing near any explody thingies. 
 Oh and the game includes several demos. One of them for Claw, a cat pirate game. In Shogo, Claw, 
 the main character of mentioned game, is a weapon. A squeaky toy one at that.
  Score one Monolith.
  You can choose your own mecha whether it be high armor, high speed, normal 
 evereything, whatever.
  
  The graphics are poor by todays standards, but at least it makes up for it in length. 
  
  The 
 sound is amusing. The badguys sometimes say stupid things when you shoot them. The music is very 
 much in the background and doesnt get so loud you cant hear the weapons.
  
  Even after this game was beaten, I went back through it and played it again. Then again. Then I 
 DLed level maps and played online. Its got so much to add on to it that you'll want to keep playing 
 it. But you cant because it wont install on Windows XP. SUCKS!!
  
  This game is and always will be one of my favorites. I just hope Windows can come out with a version 
 that plays games for 95 and 98. Or just 98. 95 was just lame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nictipoloi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 1, 2005 4:39 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of Robotech, Evangelion, Mazinger, Patablor, Gundam, or any other gian robot series, 
 this game is rigth for you.
  If you are a fan of the anime sci-fi series, this game is for you.
  If you are searching for 
 a good ol' first person shooter, and don't have the $ to upgrade your ol' rig for the last DOOM, 
 this game is for you!
  Shogo is a FPS where you 'll have to play 2 games: one like a simple, run of the mill human trying 
 to make a career in the army (very original, isn't?) , and when you are piloting your huge, fast, 
 powerfull (full of fire POWER? :D ) mecha. Did I mention you can transform your robot? the to shapes 
 are the robot and the car like, this one is for times whan speed is your most important asset. 
 And belive in me, in some missions you 'll need all the speed this machines can give ;) . With 
 3 models to choose from (the light armoured, fast speed scout; the medium weight, jack for all 
 trades; and the heavy armoured, turtle slow heavy hitter) , you 'll be able to face all the missions 
 in this game... alas, sometimes it isn't easy to know beforehand which one to choose, (but you 
 can allways reload form a previous save slot and choose another mecha :P )
  And if you ares in search for something more, and have a little inclination and experience with 
 progaming, you can make GREAT scenarios with the editor (it is hard the first times, but once you 
 get the trick it is ALMOST easy to use ti (I NEVER say intuitive, right?)
  The graphic engine is just great, and it run SMOOTH in most of the game rigs, with or without 3d 
 accelerator card (no matter brand, model or flavor) , with INCREDIBLES FX (explosions and shadows 
 can let you drooling)
  In short, this is a shure bet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillyBob
Rating: 2.8
Date: Apr 28, 2003 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I have never been more disappointed in a game than with Shogo. After installing the game, I proceeded 
 to look at the help file for the default key config, and was shocked by how inconvenient the whole 
 setup was.
  
  I then ran the game and entered the config mode (the supposedly LEAST hardware-intensive part of 
 ANY game my experience can recall, this case being no different; you'll see why I mention this) 
 and decided to make a few adjustments, entirely to the keyboard/joystick config. The interface 
 for the joystick difficult to work with, at best, as you have to scroll through all actions to 
 get the function you need. Besides the fact, the game doesn't have support for a multiple-axis 
 interface (at least with most games you can change that) , so I decided to just use the keyboard-mouse 
 interface common to FPS-type games.
  
  After switching over to the keyboard section, I began setting up for a WASD config when the game 
 crashed! I had to restart my macine to get it out of this little trance.
  
  Finally, I said "screw it" and just went with the default config after a factory reset of the game, 
 then just try the game with the config it had. While the graphics and sounds were impressive (for 
 its publishingh time, mind you the game is five years old as of this review) the game crashed when 
 I just barely got off of the ice planet in the first "level." Strike two. Another restart and I 
 figure, what the hell, I'll give it another go.
  
  I restart the game, this time tweaking the graphics to run in LOW setting. I at least manage to 
 make it to the next mission briefing, I go to select my MCA, and the game crashed on me AGAIN! 
 Strike three, get the POS outta there!
  
  Today's lesson: Avoid making software purchases from the bargain bin; there's a good reason why 
 it was put there! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
