-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shogun: Total War Warlord Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/shoguntotalwarwe/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 24, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.7, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 507 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Creative Assembly
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Aug 13, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
For the game's existing fans, it's a must-have. And for the uninitiated, it's an ideal opportunity 
 to see what all the fuss was about. 

 The Mongol Invasion, Creative Assembly's official expansion to last year's impressive real-time 
 strategy game Shogun: Total War, is just about everything you could want from an expansion pack. 
 The Mongol Invasion sits somewhere in that gap between being more than a mega patch, but not quite 
 a bona fide sequel. It's the mark of a good expansion like this that you can't imagine going back 
 to playing without it. And The Mongol Invasion renders the original Shogun, an excellent game in 
 its own right, almost obsolete.           The Mongols fight their way into Japan from the beach. 
    

  Among the most prominent of the additions featured in this expansion is a new era, 250 years before 
 Shogun's 16th-century clan warfare. The Mongol Invasion supposes that Kublai Khan's hordes successfully 
 reached Japan and pushed the then-dominant Hojo clan back far enough to establish a beachhead. 
 You can play this era as a full campaign, single battles, or a new type of game called a "historical 
 campaign." This is something of a misnomer, since the historical campaigns are really just a sequence 
 of linked battles without the campaign shell.   

  However, this new era isn't one of the expansion's strong points. As a full campaign, it plays 
 blunt and fast. The Mongols don't build the structures that make the strategic game compelling. 
 Instead, they just conquer and pillage and wait for random reinforcements that just wash up on 
 shore from time to time. You spend most of your time splitting them up and running them around 
 to put down rebellions. It's all the tedium of army management with none of the payoff of building 
 up an empire or raising custom armies. The Mongol campaign is more interesting when played as the 
 Hojo clan beating back the hordes of cavalry. But even then, it's missing a lot of the original 
 Shogun's nuance.   

  Most of the expansion's new units occur only during this era. The Mongols rely, of course, on their 
 cavalry, which dramatically change the unit balance by combining speed, melee shock value, and 
 missile attacks -- traits that were previously spread among various different units. Also joining 
 the Mongols are Korean mercenaries, including the grenade-throwing thunder bombers, who look like 
 they wandered into Japan straight out of Bungie's Myth series. Some fans might be disappointed 
 to find that Shogun's delicate attention to history goes right out the window in The Mongol Invasion 
 expansion. If you had a problem with geishas rampaging across Japan, wait until you see the black-clad 
 battlefield ninjas hiding in plain sight. Then there are the lone kensai "sword saints," who can 
 wade single-handedly through swarms of enemy soldiers like Jet Li at a rival dojo. At times, The 
 Mongol Invasion feels like it's entered the realm of dramatic license and set up camp.         
   The Mongol heavy cavalry arrive to the rescue.    

  A couple of the additions are of questionable value. There's a new building called a drill dojo, 
 which trains units to recover from routs quicker. It's a waste of time and rice that could be spent 
 upgrading a unit's weapons, armor, or honor to prevent them from being routed in the first place. 
 The new naginata cavalry are just an intermediary step between the current yari cavalry and heavy 
 cavalry. The graphics have supposedly been upgraded, but the only apparent difference is the dust 
 armies kick up when they move across the plains.   

  But then there's everything else The Mongol Invasion does. There are some excellent tweaks that 
 reduce tedium during the strategic games. Army management is much more flexible, allowing you to 
 easily drag and drop units onto each other to bring depleted armies to full strength. Armies can 
 also be given long-range movement orders, which they'll follow from turn to turn so you don't have 
 to move everyone one province at a time. There are new banners that make it easy to keep track 
 of your generals, who also have new markers so they don't get buried when placed in armies with 
 more experienced generals. A loyalty filter lets you tell at a glance which of your provinces are 
 in danger of revolt.    

 One of the most welcome changes is a set of alternate victory conditions that let you bypass the 
 oppressive micromanagement of Shogun's endgame, in which you had to spend hours mopping up every 
 last corner of Japan to reach the victory screen. The addition of three new sets of starting conditions 
 for the various clans is also helpful, allowing you to try alternate setups or jump ahead to later 
 developments like musketeers and Christianity.           You can now check your subjects' loyalty 
 at a glance.    

  The unaligned ronin on the strategic map are now broken into distinct factions so you're not fighting 
 a horde of unified rebels. In a new twist, a ronin faction can play host to a defeated clan's heir, 
 effectively putting that clan back on the map after you've supposedly vanquished it. Alliances 
 with other clans have more staying power, so it's easier to free up forces by securing one of your 
 fronts through diplomatic means. The expansion also includes a handful of new historical battles 
 and battlefield maps. More importantly, thanks to the included battlefield map editor, there are 
 plenty of third-party maps appearing online. Also, now that reinforcements can come from multiple 
 directions, the flow of action on a map isn't as predictable as it used to be.   

  There are also some changes that seem minor at first glance, but end up making a significant difference. 
 For instance, you can retrain your units after they've already been created to take advantage of 
 training bonuses. This is also important for maintaining the higher honor level of your experienced 
 units. Before the expansion pack, a constant tension in Shogun was whether to use your experienced 
 units at a depleted level or dilute them with new recruits. But with retraining, you can maintain 
 and upgrade units without sacrificing their hard-earned honor levels. The ability to disband obsolete 
 units to keep a lid on maintenance costs is also newly added. If you have a lot of extra money, 
 you can now use it to bribe enemy armies. These are the sorts of things that make it almost impossible 
 to going back to playing Shogun without The Mongol Invasion.           Korean thunder bomber artillery 
 are among the new units.    

  As a multiplayer game, The Mongol Invasion breathes new life into Shogun. There are now a variety 
 of objectives for multiplayer battles, such as base capture, assassination, and king of the hill 
 modes. Multiplayer battles used to involve a lot of camping out on hillsides until someone finally 
 decided to attack, but now the action has more purpose and focus. With these various game types, 
 there's also more incentive to play with different army combos. Unfortunately, Creative Assembly 
 still hasn't added multiplayer support to the campaign game. Electronic Arts has also officially 
 announced that there will be no more patches to the original Shogun, so it looks like the enhancements 
 in The Mongol Invasion will only be available by purchasing the expansion.   

  There are two ways you can get the expansion. It's available in stores for $40 as the Warlord Edition, 
 which includes the full game. If you've already purchased Shogun, you're eligible for a $10 rebate, 
 making it a relatively pricey $30 expansion. But you can also get just the expansion pack itself, 
 which requires the original game, directly from Electronic Arts' online store. This doesn't offer 
 the immediate gratification of plucking the box off a store shelf, but even after you factor in 
 shipping charges, it will only cost you $20. Either way, The Mongol Invasion is easily worth the 
 price. It's one of those indispensable expansion packs in the same league as The Conquerors for 
 Age of Empires II or Brood War for Starcraft. For the game's existing fans, it's a must-have. And 
 for the uninitiated, it's an ideal opportunity to see what all the fuss was about.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Epochend
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 4:06 pm PT
Review:  I finally got round to buying this game in late 2007, nearly 8 years after it came out - and not 
 for a single moment did its age ever bother me. This game was plainly fantastic, even after all 
 this time (I daren't imagine how good it was when it came out!) , and I never stopped playing it 
 'til I finally bought the sequels! (Note: This review is of the 'Gold' edition, featuring both 
 the full game and its expansion, just in case there's any mix-up...)
  
  ~
  
  Pros:
  
  + Painfully Addictive: I've been addicted to games before, but never to the degree I was with 
 Shogun. You always feel compelled to take that one last territory before you stop, always trying 
 to leave yourself safe, but somehow it never happens; and the next thing you know, it's 4am, but 
 you still won't want to stop!
  
  + Setting: The feudal Japanese setting is very interesting and unique for a game, and it's very 
 refreshing to sample a culture and piece of history that isn't usually gone over so much in school 
 and the media.
  
  + Quaterly-Seasons: I like that you can choose exactly what season you make your moves in, allowing 
 you to make more precise strategies and gambles with the weather than later entries in the series.
 
  
  + Pure Strategic Combat: It's partly to do with the limited diplomatic options, and partly to do 
 with the fairly small-ish palette of troops available (in comparison to later games in the series) , 
 and a big chunk to do with resource-gathering being largely absent from the game: whatever it is, 
 Shogun is about as pure a depiction of the strategy and tactics of war as you'll ever find, and 
 it's a great experience being challenged to truly out-think your opponents with every move you 
 make.
  
  + AI: It certainly has its issues (mainly that it can't do bridge-battles to save its life) , but 
 for the most part, the AI is very cunning, and will make you work hard for your victories - basing 
 its tactics on The Art Of War was clearly a good move!
  
  + Epic Battles: The scope of the battles is far beyond any other strategy series, and you'll truly 
 feel like a mighty general as you send your troops to their inevetable doom...
  
  Cons:
  
  - Poor Diplomacy: The only real diplomatic options available are full-on alliances, and the 
 computer clearly doesn't pay much of any attention to who's allied to who anyway, making them a 
 bit of a needless distraction as they are.
  
  - Fiddly Map Interface: You get very little information about your provinces by just looking at 
 the campaign map, and digging around to find what you're after can be a fairly awkward, frustrating 
 process.
  
  - Crash-Prone: I can't say how much this is to do with my computer, but I found that the game tended 
 to crash and quit to the desktop a fair bit - it's not a deal-breaker, but you have to make sure 
 you save often.
  
  - Unfair Auto-Battles: It's an understandable means of encouraging you to take command personally, 
 but the auto-battle feature still feels like it screws you whenever you use it, no matter how overwhelmingly 
 in your favour the odds are - a little more fairness would have been good.
  
  ~
  
  If you want a strategy game that truly makes you think, complete with a unique setting that you'll 
 rarely see in other games, then you can't do much better than Shogun. It's especially ideal if 
 you've got an old system that can't do all the flashy new stuff; but regardless of how old or new 
 your hardware is, as long as you can handle the occasional clumsiness of its campaign interface, 
 this is a brilliant game that anyone should try at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The Mongol Invasion isCreative Assembly's official expansion to last year's impressive 
 real-time strategy game Shogun: Total War, is just about everything you could want from an expansion 
 pack. As expected there are new fractions/units which of are the mogols and korean merciaries that 
 they get to hire. Among the most prominent of the additions featured in this expansion is a new 
 era, 250 years before Shogun's 16th-century clan warfare. The gameplay is basicly the same if you 
 ever played the original. You pick a fraction and then try to dominate and take over your neibours 
 land in a brillient combination of turn based base building and Real time army battles. As I said 
 in my review for Shogun, the terrian act accordingly to your position unlike most RTS game which 
 does not seem to matter and seems to only matter if you had better or more units in that area. 
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are well done at the time. Everything from the land to each and every soldier 
 is well detailed and colorful. Everything runs smoothly in this game and I love how the bodys pile 
 up during a battle, it's rather fun to watch.
  
  Sound: Of course the sound is great. The soundtrack is good and suits the game and so does sound 
 effects such as the marching of the troops. nothing much to complain about here.
  
  Value: All in all this is a great expantion and is great to play. This expantion again has great 
 replay value allowing you to play sevaeral diffrent fractions and also let your to just do skirmish 
 battles which I find fun. The only down side is that there is no multiplay for this game. I give 
 this game 8.5 out of 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoojher
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  The game allows you to pick from 7 different Worlords that will control your army. The game have 
 loads of features, but it still gives you lots of gameplay fun. When you start, you pick your Shogun 
 (King) . Each one starts you with different men and land. In the game mode, you can advance with 
 your men and buildings. You can even hire assasins to kill messengers and Shoguns, though ussualy 
 they are just replaced by his heir. Your Shogun may also die in battle and can also be assasinated. 
 Don't worry, you can also have a wife and children. You can only win the game by conquering every 
 land. You do not actually fight but just control the units. Though it's more a stratagest game 
 than a combat game so dont expect to be killing yourself. The game is fairly old now so dont expect 
 online, brilliant graphics and loads more. For a similar game were you can fight, try looking at 
 Samurai Warriors 2: Empiers.
  
  By Hoojher 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 21, 2006 8:14 am PT
Review:  Total War is the complete experience of warfare presented in the most realistic way possible through 
 the use of state of the art technology in graphics and AI. You'll need strategic brilliance to 
 manage your campaign, with the training, recruitment and funding of your armies. You'll need cunning 
 to deploy spies and emissaries to outwit your opponents while maintaining a web of alliances. And 
 you'll need tactical brilliance to take your army out onto the battlefield and crush your enemies. 
 
  
  Gameplay: The battle portions of the game are captivating. The controls really help you get into 
 the action. The strategic game suffers from some minor oversights.
  
  Graphics: The environments are truly remarkable but the sprite-based characters are a little blocky. 
 Nice interface for the campaign map and the throne room.
  
  Sound: The sounds of the battle are impressive with lots of shouting and clanking. The music is 
 also well done and suitably stirring.
  
  Value: It takes a long time to conquer Japan... a very long time. The battle editor is very flexible 
 and lets you create battles of any size.
  
  Tilt: Shogun is a remarkable game and definitely worth getting. So many historical wargames are 
 inaccessible to the casual gamer. They're usually so complex that only hardcore grognards have 
 the patience and understanding to get anything out of them. Shogun is the exception. It proves 
 that a wargame can adhere to standards of realism and fun. It's a great change of pace from the 
 genre's usual offering of Civil War or Second World War games. Hopefully it will convince more 
 developers that you can make an alternative strategy game without having to rely on fantasy or 
 science-fiction type settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 29, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  My first TW game was MTW. My second was RTW, and nothing compares since. I bought Shogun: Total 
 War Warlord Edition several years ago but it had problems such as unable to install properly, mostly 
 game crashing (crashed on the initial screen, crashed before a game could start) . I never made 
 it to the campaign map or the tactical battlefield. Recently I got the game to work, but there 
 are still problems with the screen flickering occasionally and game crashes. 
  
  It is clear when I played STW how crude it compares to the advances in RTW. The lack of details 
 on the strategic map, the fact that you can't see automatically what buildings/units a provence 
 has when you click on it only once; the strategic map interface resembles MTW's a great deal and 
 it makes sense since MTW was after this. The 2D units on the battle map from Shogun also carried 
 over to Medieval. There's the inability to zoom or to see your units in detail. The lack of control. 
 When you select an army, point somewhere else at the ground and drag the cursor, there's no way 
 to exit from the function, forcing you to put your units into an incoherent formation (same problem 
 plagues the other TW games) . Moreover, the inability to command a formation to face in the proper 
 direction - you only can do this by making them move in the direction you want. Clicking on a unit 
 is tricky, you have to click on its small banner and make sure it's not moving too fast, otherwise 
 you'll just click and command another unit, the one you currently have selected, to move where 
 the unit you wanted moved was. Same issue occurs in all the total war games in that you can't select 
 no units. You're always in control of a unit, and I found this to be very annoying when I wanted 
 to be "hands free". Also the tutorial doesn't show you how to play on the strategic map.
  
  This game does something that others lack: culture value. Most games are Western based such as 
 MTW and RTW from the TW series. There aren't many games that educate while providing fun about 
 another culture in history, but Shogun manages to do so. Sure, it may mean less people are willing 
 to buy it simply due to that fact, but there are others who are interested and such a game will 
 be noteworthy in the gaming community. I wish there would be more games like this on other historically 
 rich civilizations other than the jaded history of Europe.
  
  I'm the type of gamer who would rather grow the economy and wait for upgrades to my troops rather 
 than build my forces without the later upgrades. However certain circumstances dictate otherwise, 
 and in STW it is almost forced on the player to decide what he wants. Money is scarce so there 
 isn't the luxury of researching or building everything that you want. Betting on economics and 
 diplomacy will result in an early defeat. If you go the economically-focused path, that will leave 
 your borders unprotected, meaning you'll be under attack. Better to train un-upgraded units to 
 fight the enemy's rather than none at all. There is no real diplomacy in STW, just like there isn't 
 in the other TW games. I had the same clan come and ask for an alliance twice in a row and they 
 invaded me after I accepted. Besides the clicks you'll have to do just to see the basic info on 
 buildings and units being constructed for a provence, the management is low, unlike RTW when the 
 empire eventually gets too large to wield effectively. Rebellions aren't as bad in Shogun, I had 
 none by not building any churches or monastaries (atheist ruler!) . After all, it isn't like a French 
 ruler in charge of Egypt; everyone is Japanese. There is limited space within a terrority to build. 
 For example, if you can build 25 structures in a provence, there's only room for 20. I liked how 
 units recruited in a provence with a port can move to another provence under your control with 
 a port anywhere on the map. If you're like me, you were expecting to command sword wielding warriors 
 in Shogun. However the mainstay of your troops are units that are classified as spearmen. To my 
 disappointment, a significant amount of the battles are fought with spearmen and archers, as swordsmen 
 need a special condition to be recruited (and if you wait that long, you'll be overrun by enemy 
 spearmen/archers) . After a battle if you get a message saying that one of your warriors has achieved 
 swordsman status, only then can you recruit swordsmen. Very strange, I have my doubts on whether 
 this was historically accurate... armies without swords! The unit recruitment selection is very 
 small and fundamental. You can recruit battlefield ninjas and kensais. The ninjas are like RTW's 
 arcani. They can hide almost anywhere, throw deadly darts at their foes and engage in deadly h2h 
 combat. Their numbers are very low and it's expensive to recruit them, but they are very deadly 
 and can win even if faced with 1:15 odds. The trick is in how to use them. Like the kensai, if 
 surrounded, they will take many out with them but will ultimately succumb to being fenced in by 
 superior enemy numbers. The kensai is just one unit that costs 600 koku. It takes 8 seasons to 
 train one of them and on the battlefield they are 2x larger than normal units. One can do the damage 
 a unit of ninjas could. They are like supermen, but they do have a weakness like the ninja. They 
 are best used for specific goals such as plugging up a bridge or killing the enemy general. If 
 you fight with kensai in the single player campaign, the AI will fight you but run away in fear 
 on the battle map when you target their general with kensai. During some battles, there will be 
 thunder and rain. Given those weather conditions, the sky is actually dark, this is as close of 
 night fighting as one can get. If you're expecting castles to be of use, think again. Castles are 
 small and does nothing to stop the enemy. Its towers don't fire any missiles and your gate is open. 
 Purely a unit vs. unit game, and there are no seige weapons because you'll never need them.
  
  When I played Shogun, I knew of the advances of the latest TW game so it didn't compare. I 
 know gamers of which STW impacted love this, but for me, I was playing in hindsight so this game 
 never really sparked the devotion I had for RTW. During battles when men yell, that noise was annoying 
 because it sounded so weak. I did like the cutscenes. The opening movie is called "Ran", or chaos 
 when translated into English. The Japanese director is world renowned, so if you're a fan go rent 
 the movie. I recall that it's a Japanese version of a Shakespeare play, forgot which one though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onikage123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  A great Strat and one of the most original on the PC and for aout 5 Benjamins this is a must buy.
 
  The game is in japan..... Feudal japan in the fore of the Toyotomi period.... sound cool!? it is 
 so cool.
  Well 1st u pick a clan and youve got ur nobunagas and and ur takedas to choose from 8 different 
 clans.
  Then u set about Conquering japan with your samurai, ninja, diplomats and the untouchable geisha.
 
  On the risk-esk map screen you can choose where to expand, attack, form alliances, Train more men, research 
 new tech etc.! you have a lot of choices here and its very fun and satisfying to deck your opponents 
 or perform an assasination with some ninja!
  The graphics are a little bit dated but quite nice and you also treated to some traiditional japanese 
 art (no not manga) which looks quite nice.
  The sound is of war.... Lots of roaring slashing chinking and Blood spurts.
  The score is very 
 good with ambient japanese orchestration fitting the mood perfectly..... i mean it could be straight 
 out of a kurosawa flick.
  Overall an amazing strat and its only flaw is the fights can get slightly repetitive and more options 
 on the map screen wouldve been nice but apart from those its incredible. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
