-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shogun: Total War
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/shoguntotalwar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 19, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.7, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 1,166 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Creative Assembly
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Jun 13, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Shogun has a great subject, and a perfect melding of strategic and tactical gameplay. 

 Despite the apparent success of the strategy-game genre, there has been a pronounced lack of quality 
 games that offer more deliberate, strategic gameplay in addition to action-packed combat. Thus, 
 the arrival of Shogun is an especially welcome addition to the genre: Not only is Shogun a challenging 
 and engrossing 3D real-time tactical combat game, but it also features a great turn-based strategy 
 component that complements the combat wonderfully.   

  The goal of Shogun is for you to unify a fractured Japan. In the Sengoku Jidai, or warring-states 
 period of the 16th century, Japan is nominally under the rulership of an emperor who commands the 
 entire Japanese nation. In reality, powerful warlords, or daimyo, control their own regions of 
 a divided Japan, and each hopes to become the shogun, the ultimate warlord who would unite Japan 
 under his military banner. Historically, the time period was one of great warfare and strife, which 
 makes it well suited for a strategy game.   

  The main component of Shogun: Total War is the campaign mode, which simulates the course of the 
 Sengoku Jidai period. There is also a historical battle mode, which lets you replay five historical 
 battles from the 16th century; as well as a custom battle mode, where you can cull your own armies 
 and game-world variables to create a battle to your liking.   

  In the campaign mode, you begin as the leader of one of seven rival clans of Japan. Each clan has 
 its own strengths and weaknesses, and each starts out in a different area of the map. All of the 
 seven clans have unique benefits and geographic advantages or disadvantages, which lend the game 
 greater replay value. Regardless of which clan you choose, war is the focus of Shogun. The game's 
 research model is very simple, and there is a paltry diplomacy model and limited espionage options. 
 There isn't a bewildering array of choices to confuse or distract you. Some players might be put 
 off by this simplicity, but it's actually liberating. The strategy portion of Shogun is very much 
 like an enhanced version of Risk, as it distills the basic fun elements of strategy gaming without 
 offering too many choices, much like the classic board game.   

  The campaign mode begins with an overhead view of Japan, which is portrayed as an unfurled map 
 of the country spread out across a table in your throne room. Each province is visible, along with 
 pieces that designate your generals and special units, such as ninja and emissaries. The strategy 
 portion of the gameplay involves moving your pieces around the map to gain intelligence (using 
 shinobi, your spies) , offer alliances (with your emissaries) , assassinate other leaders (with your 
 ninja) , or conquer other provinces (with your generals and their armies) . All the while, you're 
 trying to generate money from your provinces to fuel your war machine with unit-producing or unit-enhancing 
 buildings and castles, as well as with troops.   

  Each province you hold generates koku, or bushels of rice. This is the game's resource unit, which 
 you use to buy troops and buildings. You collect the koku tax every four seasons, or turns. You 
 will never have enough koku to buy all the troops you want and to construct buildings in all the 
 provinces; instead, the game always forces you to make difficult strategic choices about what to 
 build and when. Luckily, there are several things you can do to enhance your influx of koku. You 
 can set higher tax rates each year for your people, at the cost of their loyalty; build improvements 
 to your farmland; or conquer other provinces for their yearly income.   

  One problem with the annual tax collection is that the tax report indicates yearly unit and building 
 costs but provides no detailed breakdown of this cost. For instance, it would be helpful to know 
 the yearly upkeep cost of a common spearman compared with that of a more costly samurai, or the 
 upkeep cost of a particular building.   

  Diplomacy in Shogun is also pretty flimsy. All you're doing is effectively buying yourself time 
 until you betray your neighbor or your neighbor betrays you. The only diplomatic option you have 
 is to offer alliance treaties. You can't coordinate joint attacks on neighbors, ask for loans, 
 demand tribute, or conduct any other such negotiations - all options you'd expect from an epic 
 strategy game like Shogun. More extensive diplomacy options would have been welcome.   

  The game's espionage aspect is less anemic. You can hire shinobi to spy on your enemies, incite 
 revolt in enemy provinces, or stabilize loyalty in your own provinces. The process isn't as glamorous 
 or involving as it sounds - you just move your shinobi into a province, and the results supposedly 
 happen. You can also recruit ninja, who can assassinate game pieces - such as generals, emissaries, 
 and even daimyo - on the map. Unfortunately, it's very hard to ever get a ninja to complete an 
 assassination successfully. Ninja need experience to stand a good chance of accomplishing their 
 missions, but until they complete several missions in the first place, they'll never get that experience. 
   

  Shogun's technology tree is fairly simple. You need to build a castle to operate the basic military 
 structures. Upgrading your castle opens up options for better military buildings, such as the famous 
 archery dojo and Buddhist temple. Some of the late-game upgrades actually require special conditions, 
 such as the arrival of Dutch traders or the rising of a legendary swordsman in your military ranks. 
 Although you'll want to start conquering territories early, you'll need to carefully balance your 
 desire to throw money into producing the basic units with the necessity to build toward better 
 troops and upgrades. As the game is geared toward offense, there are no defensive structures for 
 you to spend money on.    

 The strategic portion of Shogun's gameplay has a few interface problems. Using the strategic units, 
 such as emissaries and ninja, is initially cumbersome. You have to drag and drop the unit directly 
 over the opposing unit you want to interact with. Providing these options in the bottom toolbar 
 or employing a right-click menu to conduct a mission would have been easier. Also, the delineation 
 of the discreet provinces is too subtle - you can tell who rules a province only by the faint-colored 
 border or by holding your mouse over the province for a few seconds. It would have been better 
 if each province was lightly shaded according to its owner's color, or perhaps even if the lord's 
 clan name appeared under each province. There's also no easy way to tell what each province is 
 building and what units it's training. When you're managing more than a handful of provinces, it 
 gets annoying to have to click on each province to find out what it's doing.   

  When you attack a rival province, you can either resolve the combat automatically or command the 
 battle personally. It's usually better to command the battle personally in order to sustain minimal 
 casualties. When you command the battle yourself, you switch over to the 3D real-time tactical-combat 
 game mode, which is the core of Shogun. The tactical game is a lot of fun. You command your groups 
 of troops (the basic unit is either a 60- or 120-man group) in a fully 3D landscape. You can battle 
 during any season and weather condition, so you could be fighting in the plains on a clear day, 
 in the snowy hills with driving snowfall, or during foggy or rainy days. However, there is no night 
 fighting.   

  The combat is highly realistic. High ground is vitally important, as it confers addition range 
 for your ranged weapons, as well as sight and attack bonuses. Morale and fatigue are also key considerations 
 in combat. Lowly spearmen will break and run if they are hit hard by a charge led by more-seasoned 
 troops, and they'll be more likely to rout if they're tired, after having been driven through forced 
 marches up hilly slopes. Similarly, you get clear advantages for surprising the enemy, such as 
 when you rush out from behind trees to attack the flanks of a passing foe. Ranged units have limited 
 ammunition, although you can disable this feature for less-realistic battles. Also, your units' 
 honor is very important to battles - a unit's honor in Shogun is essentially the unit's experience. 
 Your general has honor ranks, which are added to your units' honor. Higher honor means the units 
 fire faster, fight better, and so forth. Honor increases as a general wins more battles. However, 
 if he loses battles, he also loses honor, and a general with negative honor also confers those 
 penalties upon his troops.   

  The game engine can handle up to 5,000 individual troops per side, which can make for some truly 
 massive battles. The aftermath of these battles is remarkable, as thousands of bodies litter the 
 battlefield. The game does slow down somewhat when lots of units are onscreen at once, but you 
 can turn down graphic details to get better performance. The 3D terrain looks good, but the little 
 units are just 2D sprites. It's a worthwhile trade-off for being able to see such large-scale combat 
 scenarios, but in consequence, Shogun's graphics aren't quite as good as some of the more recent 
 fully 3D real-time strategy games.   

  There are a few small problems with the tactical combat in Shogun. There is no way to quickly change 
 your troops' facing quickly without marching your troops in the direction you want them to face. 
 Also, there should have been a way to scout out provinces to see the details of the battlefield 
 before any invasions commence. This would have helped in deciding what troops to station in the 
 province - lots of high ground would have meant you'd want plenty of archers, while flat plains 
 would have been better suited to cavalry.   

  In general, the production values for the game are excellent. The cutscenes are high quality, and 
 the sound and music are great and well suited. The random events, as well as the 2D strategic map 
 itself, are well drawn. Though the game's intro and victory movies are in English, you can even 
 opt to play the game with Japanese language and English subtitles in the tactical battles and strategic 
 campaign. Though the game was fairly stable on our main review system, we did experience some crash 
 problems on other machines. Updating our video and audio drivers to the latest versions seemed 
 to help.   

  Shogun has a great subject, and a perfect melding of strategic and tactical gameplay. The strategy 
 portion is simple but very engrossing, while the tactical battles are very realistic, challenging, 
 and entertaining exercises in military tactics. Shogun is a difficult game even on the default 
 setting - but what's so great is that the challenge is grounded on the basic, real-world tenets 
 and common wisdom of warfare. Spreading yourself too thin is an invitation for disaster; alliances 
 cannot be trusted for long; feigning weakness is one of the few ways to goad your opponents to 
 overextend themselves; and so on. When you get beaten in battle or outmaneuvered on the strategic 
 map, in hindsight it'll be clear to you why you lost and thus easier for you to figure out how 
 to do better the next time. Shogun is a very enjoyable game, as it keeps you honest by punishing 
 you for your mistakes and richly rewarding you for your well-thought-out successes.   

  Shogun does have a smattering of problems, but it easily makes up for its shortcomings with its 
 great design and engrossing gameplay. Since many recent strategy games have emphasized instantly 
 gratifying tactical battles, it's refreshing to play a game that also rewards more long-term planning 
 and tactical thinking. No matter which type of strategy game you prefer, you owe it to yourself 
 to try Shogun.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: There are usually two types of RTS games, Turn based and Real time (where you have to 
 build a base and send your army out) . Shogun: Total War really is the best of both worlds. It combines 
 a real-time tactical combat system with a turn-based strategic game. The heart of this game is 
 in the tactical battles. With up to 10,000 units on the screen at once, Shogun is everything that 
 Braveheart RTS game should've been -- lots and lots of guys running at each other with pointy things. 
 The sheer sense of mass and chaos is fantastic and rendered better here than in any other game 
 I've ever seen. Your armies will literally crash into each other and you'll begin to see the bodies 
 start piling up. Also the you can accually use the terrian to your advantage and it works in this 
 game. The diversity of the terrain alone is more than enough to start your brain envisioning flanking 
 moves and ambushes. The hills and trees here function like real hills and trees. There are a number 
 of diffrent fractions on the island of Japan which you can choose from. Some more powerful then 
 others when you start off. But over time though carefull planning and diplomacy you can really 
 can become powerful. With that being said this game suffers from a lack of depth in diplomacy. 
 You can't really negotiate specific deals with your rivals. About all you can do is suggest alliances 
 and declare war. Your emissaries do serve some other useful purposes though. They can spy out enemy 
 armies and buildings. The spying is better left to the shinobi. These guys can foment revolt, obtain 
 information of the enemy or act as counter-spies to balance out similar efforts by your enemies. 
 But, like the emissaries, the shinobi have no real control options. You just send them into a province 
 and they start doing the spy thing. Whether you get the result you want or not (i. e. a peasant 
 revolt or information on enemy defenses) is entirely up to chance. Also there is no mulitplayer 
 in this game so if you want to play against somebody there is no chance of that which is not good.
 
  
  Graphics: Well I have to say that the graphics when a first saw them back when this game first 
 came out impressed me. WIth so many troops on the field I was amazed that my computer could run 
 this game. Also the graphics are quite well done at the time. Maps are huge and deiiled and colorful 
 and so are every single individual soldier in the game. 
  
  Sound: The sound is amazing in this game. The soundtrack suits the time period/culture and the 
 sound effects sound really good too. Voice acting.,... not bad. Nothing much to complain about 
 with the sound. 
  
  Value: All in all this is a very enjoyable game to play. This game has a very high replayability 
 to it, allowing you to play diffrent factions and having skirmishes on the battlefild. I would 
 still highly recommend this game to anyone who likes playing RTS games. I give this game 8.5 out 
 of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackhimlin2
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  well this game is good for its age the hole setting the battles the alliances all good .
  
  in battle: wen in battle its overall entertaining with all different types of units nd the rock 
 papeer siccores scheme were archers nock out yari nd yari nock out hourse nd hourse nock out archers 
 but the are some graphcal problems lots off **** but the graphic is good for its time nd not bad 
 3d effect either
  
  out of battle: well bascically its like a board game u mve ur men u build nd u farm all on this 
 screen there not much to say really multiplayer: the mulity player ok not the best do
  
  this is along game u willl want to be playing it for long with the gampagian free battle nd then 
 thhe historical campaign 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GibboViper
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Shogun total war may be one of the older titles but it is certainly a timeless classic. Shogun 
 total war was to hook an unimaginable number of gamers into the total war series for many years 
 to come. Why should be this be? - Because it delivers on every aspect of playability and totally 
 immerses the player into the world of marauding clans all battling to be supreme, to give one person 
 of one clan the chance to become shogun... that player would be you!
  
  Shogun total war combines a real-time tactical combat system with a turn-based strategic game. 
 What makes the tactical combat so fun is the terrain. There is so much to scope to ambush your 
 enemy from behind hills and have a heap of troops laying wait in forests. So many battles have 
 I won with huge sweeping flanking manoeuvres from forests and hills and totally destroyed the enemy. 
 To see huge amounts of enemy troops sweep in to what appears to be your wavering front line and 
 then have them flanked by your best troops and then watch the enemy crumble, flee, only to be mown 
 down by your best cavalry who lay in wait further off leaving sometimes none of your enemy left 
 alive at all. When it goes that well can only be described as Total joy!!.
  
  Shogun total war is the historical war game that will appeal to most gamers and well deserves its 
 place in the classic hall of fame. Well-done creative assemble and electronic arts for delivering 
 us a masterpiece that was to give rise to countless other success. Bravo!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFreak101
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  It's when you get bored, and chess is too bor ing , the only choice is Shogun Total War! No matter 
 how bad life is, this game has enlighten you. So get the heck off that table of gray matter and 
 buy this game!! Why waist your money on the other Total War games when you haven't even heard of 
 the game that started the Total War series? See what I mean? Well any way, the graphics are just 
 plain cool for those days when Windows 2000 was out! The sound are just stunning! They definitely 
 fit in the game in battles and the value was just great! Now, it's probably be like $10 to $15 
 dollars! Over all, this game was Just plain fun ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megabestia
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  I wonder why a game must have incredible graphics or some technical aspect to be considered a legendary 
 game or a part of history.
  
  To make better graphics all you need is more tech, it's easy. The important matter of a game is 
 the CONCEPT. Graphics will come later on any clone or evolution of the game. Now pleople play a 
 lot to Medieval Total war II or Rome TW, enjoying battles and strategy only because it got 3D graphics 
 and not sprites like Shogun or first Medieval. Ok, i agree with that, better image makes gaming 
 easier and all this things, but the concept is the origin of this game and all becoming ones. And 
 the origin is HERE.
  
  Until this game, RTS games, War games wasn't real, you build a factory of soldiers on the battleground 
 and send one by one it to attack the enemy base. The only strategy consists in making units faster 
 than your rival. Yes, this was the strategy concept until Shogun.
  
  Also you have to win all the battles, if you fail on one the war is over (?) . And when you get 
 into a new stage, all the units you made get lost, you have to build a new factory and you know... 
 this games are really funny to play, but not a real war. Right?
  
  Other strategy games like Europa Universalis sagas had a great map and many concepts but you can't 
 fight the battles, it was automatic. They also grants lots of fun, but the battle result consists 
 in numbers and stadistics.
  
  SHOGUN TOTAL WAR is the first game that separate the map from the battle ground, and, finally, 
 you can make some stategy. The units are batallions, not just single-units unable to govern. The 
 batallions can be formed in many ways, single lines, 3 lines, whatever, and this affect the combat. 
 3D Battleground is vital, grounds, hills, trees, all affect the battle, making it a part of the 
 strategy.
  
  Finally you can handle a REAL army, with morale, experience, able to put them in the position you 
 wish for battle proficiency, so with a few units and good strategy you can defeat a larger army. 
 With the correct use of cavalry you can destroy a whole army because finally is not the same attacking 
 by front and the rear of the enemy.
  
  I mean, this is the first real simulation of a battle. Totally real, no flaws here, just the real 
 war.
  
  This game had many IA faults, poor graphics, a few kind of different units... but all this things 
 had become better within time but the game concept remains, is still the same and this is the only 
 important matter:
  
  Shogun total war is the creator of a genre, and this deserves better historical memory. This is 
 a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexyfunkmaster
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 24, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This Game Set the standerds for all Rts games to come it is simply one of the best games of all 
 time. It revolutionized gamplay in turn games and in real time combat situations. It is all historicly 
 acreat. so prepare for a history lesson in japenes 1500's this a masterpeace of the new games to 
 set there standerds. this game is like a role modle of the RTS world if your a real RTS fan you'll 
 love this game. Some say to hard. whell i say there not rea RTS Gammers so get this game and the 
 expansion for like $9.95 in stores. Becuase its easy to learn and fun to play and whach. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game-Pro-com
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I just loved this game, its a great strategy game. The gameplay is great too, I like jow you have 
 to spread your army all across the country and the units that you get are great. They put in all 
 different kinds of units like cavalry and foot soldiers, and there are even gunman. this game is 
 just incredible, the tutorial was good and the editor was great as-well, you get too make your 
 own army and create the other army also. You can have up to 15000 soldiers in your army. If you 
 are looking for a great strategy pc game I would definitly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipodaf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  The Shogun: Total War is a must for any Total War- or Strategy gamer.
  It is cool how many features there are, from this old game and to that time Age of Empires. That 
 you don't train a single man or unit, that you instead train a whole battalion as you do in training 
 camps, the produce battalions not a single soldier.
  The koku, who the valuta in Japan around that time, is only thing you need to develop things, is 
 also kind of good, that you buy the things you need with that koku. A thumb up from me.
  And the battle system is also pretty good, that your men gets tired running up hill, is pretty 
 good for a game from 2000, but still my favorite RTS-game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrackpotGANJ
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say that this game is amazing and if you dont have it then you have to look into 
 buying it. There are many different groups of armies that you can purchase and in order to get 
 money to do that you have to defeat your opossing enemies armies and take over there countires 
 until you have taken over the entire map. There is a limit though to how much you can have in each 
 army which kinda blows, but then again that many people in the right army verse that many people 
 in the opossing army leaves quite a bloody mess. When your in the battle the AI is not stupid by 
 any means. For and example if your attaking there country they will not come after you, they will 
 set up and wait for you which would happen in real life to. There are not that many different maps 
 and thats why i kept the score down to nine instead of higher. But along with not having a lot 
 of maps it doesn't really allow you to do the same strategy for the same maps you have to do different 
 strategies to which men you have and which men they have in order to either win the battle or sustain 
 minimull loses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincrazydj
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  This game is very good, but it's hard, when it says total war it means it, people invade on the 
 first turn. The graphics are excellent, and the research and concept are good, and show us ancient 
 japanese culture. I haven't played on it much because the first time I was eliminated quickly, 
 and it took mea long time to get used to it. It is very good overall, and it's sequels are even 
 better, Medieval: Total War, it is very good practice for these sequels but is still good in it's 
 self. It is worth it's value definitely. I would rate it excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyoma
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best strategies I have played in this game you have to think in your tactics 
 a lot. But first thing is first the game takes place in medieval Japan during the time of wars 
 between the clans. In the game you can play the ordinary battles or a hole campaign were you get 
 to chose your own clan for which you are going to play. There is a pretty big variety to choose 
 from so chose wisely read in which clan specializes in what units. The battle mode is just you 
 choose units and fight in different maps and locations. In those kinds of battles there is a lot 
 of thinking like if you attack you opponent from a top of the hill that will scare them and lower 
 their moral and etc. also chose wisely your units in your army each unit has its properties its 
 strong points and weak points. The campaign mode is way more cool that just battles. You dont 
 only get to fight in battles but also you get to build your castle conquer lad settle rebellion 
 make allies and treaties and a bunch of other stuff. I enjoyed the campaign mode very much (by 
 the way I beat the game more than once) . After you beat the game I recommend playing for a different 
 clan and look how is it to play for them. The game has also an add-on that is called Shogun-total 
 war warlords edition if you liked the first part of the game (the ordinary Shogun) you should defiantly 
 get this part. In this part there are new campaigns, units, and also you can play for the Mongols. 
 If you like strategy games this is the game for you! and the graphics in the game are nice (although 
 some of them are 2D but this game was made in 2000!) Get this game!!
  
  (If you liked the review contact me we could always talk about this or other games!) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Saddler200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  Dissapointing, the character models look like paper things, but the enviroment looks quite good, 
 the camera angles r good to work with and thats it.
  
  Sound:
  Wonderful sound, the voice acting is top notch, the sound effects sound really really good and 
 stuff.
  
  Gameplay:
  Really Really fun lots of great battles, everythings pretty challenging in this game, good stratigic 
 stuff in it ( I lose ALOT) . I think theres multiplayer, i dont remember......
  
  Value: 
  Value is almost top notch, every battles diff, there all very challenging too, the singleplayer 
 is really challenging, and if theres online i bet it would be even more challenging!!!
  
  Overall:
  Get the game, or u can get Rome: Total War or some other junk like 'em. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vezony
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  in this game , all you have to do is to fight , and to choose the right formation , the game gives 
 you many formations fits for many battle fields , and also respect your abilities
  it was Inspired by the war epics of director Japan, 1542 -- a country in turmoil. The last shogunate 
 has collapsed, leaving a nation divided into numerous factions, each led by a daimyo (feudal warlord) . 
 
  and also the samurai slodiers are really great simuated with their moves and there sound ,.. and 
 one of the most cool thing is to hear the troops while taking the order and moving together withing 
 the formation
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crumbly_b
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  This is one strategy game that.... nobody cannot be without. I really want the ROME: Total War. 
 The strategy is very fun, and the intense battles you can have are sweeter than a root beer lollipop 
 dunked into some A & W root beer on a warm summers day. You need a fast computer for the battles 
 to be any fun though. (Windows 98 would be considered slow) . The cinematics are actually very entertaing. 
 The little "hup hup, ho-hup" beats in the music are actually pretty kool! The games you play on 
 it take a LONG time. You cant have a story mode, which is good because it would be so tempting 
 to do, and would take FOREVER to beat the game, and all you really want is to play a fun war game, 
 (not the game its self, but a round of the game, if you understand what im saying) . And not many 
 people have ever heard of this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aniaml4890
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 31, 2005 12:52 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent strategy game. It has a solid map-view aspect as well as a solid battlefield-view 
 aspect.
  
  You start off by choosing a Japanese clan in order to attempt to gain control of all of Japan. 
 Some clans are harder than others to play based on where they start in Japan. Learning how to play 
 this game takes a bit of time. Learning how to play it well takes even longer. This game isn't 
 a simple strategy game. 
  
  Managing one's army, while balancing both your defensive and offensive campaigns can be complex 
 at times. The logistics of this game is a huge factor. If you can't straighten out your military 
 logistics then you won't be able to maintain an offensive or retain a defensive position.
  
  Resource management and technology developement can be a complicated mess because it's partly 
 based on map location. Therefore, if you lose control of a certain province then you might be unable 
 to build a certain level of warrior. It's essential to establish a good province for melee personnel 
 because later on you will want highly developed soldiers.
  
  The batte-field aspect of this game is fun as well. You've a 360 degree rotating/zooming camera. 
 Each battle is timed, but you can pause whenever. Your men are grouped into units. The number of 
 units you can bring onto the field is limited, but reinforcements (if you have them) will aid you 
 when a unit is destroyed or flees. Three major factors in battle are morale, endurance, and speed 
 which are definate signs of a solid strategy game. Your units can also gain or lose honor, which 
 is like experience in other games. The more honor a unit has the better and longer they can fight. 
 As I mentioned, the battles are timed. This gives the defending party an advantage. If the defending 
 party isn't wiped out or routed by the end of the time limit then the defense maintains control 
 of the province.
  
  There are some downsides to this game, most of which deal with the artificial intelligence. Even 
 on the harder levels, the computer controlled clans don't act too wisely. Even after several patches, 
 they still commit suicide by sending their Shogun into the thick of battle. If they Shogun dies 
 and has no heirs then that clan no longer exists and is either enveloped by allies or becomes nuetral. 
 The balance of the game is off as well, which the AI is partly to blame for.
  
  At the end of the game it's just you and one opposing clan. Normally that clan has about 10 times 
 the amount of units you do, which is too unbalanced. If you are good enough to defend against the 
 units then the battles become very repetitive and boring. The most unbalanced part of this game 
 is definately the Geishas. Geishas are female ninjas (or ninjas who pose as hookers) . They are 
 basically elite ninjas who are nearly impossible to kill. Also, they can't die during and attempted 
 assasination (unlike a normal ninja) . This means that they keep trying to assasinate every turn 
 until they suceed.
  ******************** STRATEGY SPOILER *****************
  Although this game is rather challenging and exciting, it can be very simple to win if you want. 
 All you need to do is build and train four or five Geisha. Send two of them to attack each shogun 
 and leave three behind to protect yours. Once this plan is execute the game is over in about 15-20 
 turns. I personally would rather let plain strategy control a victory, but even if you don't use 
 the Geisha this is still hard due to the suicidal enemy Shogun.
  
  Overall, this game is very worthwhile and fun to play. However, you might consider getting a newer 
 generation of the game (like the Rome version) just incase they fixed the cons of this version. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
