-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sid Meier's Gettysburg!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/sidmeiersgettysburg/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 30, 1997
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 9.1, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 447 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Firaxis Games
Genre: Real-Time Wargame
Date:     1997

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Gettysburg! may be the first release from newcomer Firaxis Games, but it has all the polish and 
 appeal of a Meier classic. 

 Sid Meier's Gettysburg! may be the first release from newcomer Firaxis Games, but it has all the 
 polish and appeal of a Meier classic. This outstanding real-time wargame recreates the pivotal, 
 three-day Civil War battle fought on the rolling terrain around Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, in July 
 1863.  

 Playing from either side of the conflict, you can take part in a single scenario or a campaign depicting 
 the entire battle. Campaigns typically comprise seven scenarios and are dynamically strung together 
 according to your performance in battle. For example, if you and the Confederate army can rewrite 
 history and capture the high ground south of Gettysburg on July 1, you can earn the option of launching 
 a fictional evening assault on Culp's Hill. In all, the game includes 25 predesigned scenarios, 
 along with a random scenario option that allows for near-endless replay value. Also contributing 
 to the game's replay value is the fact that no two campaigns unfold in exactly the same way. All 
 of the scenarios are available in both single-player and multiplayer mode, but the game does not 
 include a scenario editor.  

 Right from the start, Gettysburg! draws you in with its elegant interface and rich artwork. A nicely 
 animated briefing prefaces each of the scenarios and adds tremendous atmosphere. Once you transition 
 to the gameplay screen, you get more preliminary information, including a rundown of your objectives, 
 your best troops, and the availability of reserves and reinforcements. In most scenarios, you will 
 command a few brigades of infantry (each made up of three to five regiments) with at least one 
 battery of artillery in support.  

 As a scenario begins, you must very quickly assess your situation and issue orders to redeploy your 
 troops, as the default start positions are rarely effective. The clock is ticking, but the clean 
 interface makes it easy to issue orders. To move a regiment, simply click on it and drag a line 
 to the desired destination. You can move entire brigades this way as well, though the process is 
 not as intuitive as it could be: You must select the brigade's commanding general, drag a line 
 to the destination, then choose a formation for the brigade to assume upon reaching that spot. 

 Each unit's movement and fighting quality is affected by a variety of conditions, including its 
 formation, experience, morale, and location. For example, a regiment with friendly units on either 
 side will fight more effectively than one that is being flanked. Similarly, units ordered to charge 
 a hill bristling with artillery will take a serious morale hit (not to mention several large, round 
 iron hits) and will probably soon retreat in disarray.  

 Each scenario lasts about 30 minutes, but the computer will add some time at the end if one side 
 is within striking distance of an objective. In other words, you don't win when you capture an 
 objective - you win when you capture and hold it.  

 As in the real battle, the high ground is the key to victory and you won't have any trouble finding 
 it on the beautifully rendered battle maps. Capturing that ground is another matter, as the AI 
 can be quite formidable. Fortunately, the computer's style and effectiveness are completely customizable. 
 Looking for a challenge? Try taking on an "aggressive, indirect" Confederate foe on the highest 
 of the game's four difficulty settings.  

 The graphics and animation in Gettysburg! are excellent and show tremendous attention to detail. 
 Best of all, the graphics convey a reasonably accurate sense of scale - these are huge armies we're 
 talking about, after all. The sound effects are also admirable. Shots ring out, rebel yells rise 
 above the din, and your troops will even shout out to indicate that they're being flanked.  

 On top of all this, the game offers excellent and apparently stable multiplayer support over TCP/IP, 
 IPX, modem, and serial links. Simply put, this game is about as solid as the Union line on Cemetery 
 Ridge. It has all the right ingredients to please Civil War buffs, hard-core strategy fans, and 
 maybe even some casual gamers adventurous enough to try something new.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Sid Meier's Gettysburg is a real-time game simulating one of the most dramatic battles 
 in the American Civil War, and possibly one of the most studied battles in wartime history. Right 
 from the start, Gettysburg! draws you in with its elegant interface and rich artwork. So in this 
 game you can either play on the Union side or the Confederate. You control battallons of men accross 
 the map and position them in the right on the terrein to defete the enemy. How the fighting works 
 is you would click on one your battalions and then click on a enemy battalion to attack it. So 
 basicly it's a turn based RTS game, not to meantion quite an attictive one. What is great is that 
 it's easy to control everything and there is even a body count of how many died and how many wounded. 
 Graphics: The graphics in the game are really good for the time. They are colorful, rich and quite 
 detailed. Also the Sound: The sound in this game is very good. Everything from the gun fire to 
 the shouts of men are really well done and sound the way they should. Even the soundracks are well 
 done and suit the game.
  
  Value: The replay value of this game is really good. You can play this game over and over again 
 and not get bord of it. All in all Sid Meier's Gettysburg was a remarkable wargame that managed 
 to balance realism and accuracy with a user-friendly design and stylish visuals. I would say this 
 is one of the best RTS game I have ever played and i'm glad to have it in my collection of games. 
 I give this game 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capt_Galacticus
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  This game is truly magnificent. It offers a historical and interesting look back on one of the 
 ACW's greatest battles. Timing, knowing when to commit troops, setting up ambushes and having your 
 men hold a desperately thin line is what this game is all about. After finishing the game (facing 
 many challenges) I could not resist but move on to the numerous scenarios that help diversify the 
 game which centres around only one event.
  
  The only flaw in this game is the graphics, other than that the game is a hoot . Realistic musketry 
 sounds, cannons, men shouting all the way to bugle calls immerses the player into a mid 19th century 
 battlefield. To not play this game is an insult to the tactical genre. So I say to you, Get the 
 game! Get it now! You are sorely missing out if you have not played this 20th century master piece. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  I have never played this game before. So I gave it a try. Even it is an old game its price is around 
 12 pounds if you try to buy it new which is relatively expensive.
  
  First of all, you need to install a patch to work it in XP. Now, graphics are old-school 256 bit 
 style so dont expect much for todays standards. Keep in mind it is a veeery old game. I assume 
 it was great in its time, but it is not now.
  
  Sounds are great. Truly, they are not obsolete even today.
  
  Game play is easy. It is highly 
 intuitive. However, there is no grand campaign which is the biggest flaw about it. You play scenarios, 
 one after another. No resource management, no units management before battle. It is a 1997 model 
 game, so does imperialism but imperialism lives up today, this game surely not. I compare them 
 because they are games of Same generation, Even 1996 model Master of Orion II is much better by 
 means of graphics, sounds and gameplay. Eventually, i would definitely prefer imperialism or MOO2 
 over gettysburg.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan22
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Imagine being able to control over fifteen brigades of Union soldiers at once in one of the greatest 
 battles in the entire modern history of mankind.
  
  Here you have it: Sid Meier's Gettysburg.
  
  This game is what I consider one of the best games 
 ever created for the PC. Simply, because it offers one of the most addicting and interesting experiences 
 one can ever have.
  
  As your cavalry under Buford hold off Heth's division, Reynolds' corps from the South moves North. 
 But wait! To the North, the Confederates are moving through the woods! Suddenly, things don't look 
 so easy, as you have to carefully balance your soldier strength. Slowly, the Confederates push 
 you back, until you bring up your reinforcements and put up a fight.
  
  I've actually played a game for over six hours straight - and how can you not? With the excitement 
 of controlling your troops like this, countering your opponent and defending Victory Points throughout 
 the map, it's understandable how this game is just 'that addicting'.
  
  I have no problem admitting that I'd rather play this game instead of one of the classic Command 
 &amp; Conquer games. The idea of being able to re-write history normally sounds dull, but this 
 game made it fun.
  
  This is by far one of the best games I have ever played in all my life, and I stick with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heystaw
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2005 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game the first time I laid eyes on it. I previously play Civil War Generals 1&2 and 
 had fun with those games, but eventually got frustrated with the fact that each side would take 
 turns moving around and thats just not right in war, because both sides are moving at the same 
 time in a battle. In Sid Meier's Gettysburg the computer's side and the players side is moving 
 at the same time, and also a player is more involved in the tactics and it is more than moving 
 a unit from one hex to another. What I would like to see from Sid Meier is doing what Civil War 
 Generals 2 did. CW Generals 2 contains campaigns and a persons supplies and situation all depends 
 on what that person did in the previous battle. A possible made up game that comes to my mind is 
 a game lets call "Sid Meier's Civil War," "Sid Meier's Civil War President," or "Sid Meier's Lincoln 
 and Davis." Well anyways a game would be nice where a person could manage a war that contains Sid 
 Meier's battle game play with a military and economy management map and options like on the came 
 "Hearts of Iron." Also an editorial map like CW Generals has would be nice. Another thing I like 
 about SM Gettysburg is that I learned a little more about Gettysburg so it kinda act like a history 
 lesson. Outstanding game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panzerfaust1014
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2005 12:30 pm PT
Review:  My uncle had this game, and when i was 7 i got it and loved it. This game is one of, if not the 
 most accurate and fun portrayal of the largest battle in American history. Every regiment that 
 was at the battle are in the game. The controls are easy to pick up, with simple click and drag 
 movement of units with a control bar at the bottom with info and formation status. You win by capturing 
 speific locations and holding them till the end of the battle. Each location has a certain number 
 of VP (Victory points) points that get added to ur casualty score of the game. The scenarios range 
 in size to a couple thousand men to tens of thousands with dozens of cannon and dead bodies littering 
 the feild. Theres normal mode, where you pick a scenario, pick a side and fight it, and theres 
 the "fight the battle" mode, where you play several scenarios in a row, the result of the first 
 deciding which is next. The voice acting for the generals is good, concidering we dont really kno 
 what they sounded like. Difficulty, enemy stratigy, and historical authentisity of the scenerios 
 can be changed to add or take away difficulty, and there is a random scenerio feture that gives 
 you a random scenerio thats not on the main list. There really are no flaws to this game, if your 
 computer can play this old of a game, get it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
