-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sid Meier's SimGolf
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/sidmeierssimgolf/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 30, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.2, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 591 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Firaxis Games
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jan 23, 2002
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
SimGolf is an incredibly fun game, despite what may seem like a long list of shortcomings. 

 
 Sid Meier's SimGolf is the result of the joint effort of two of the most accomplished PC developers 
 around: Firaxis, the creator of Alpha Centauri and Civilization III, and Maxis, the studio responsible 
 for SimCity and The Sims. So you might expect SimGolf to be an incredibly complex strategy game. 
 It isn't. In fact, you don't have to know anything about Civilization, SimCity, or golf to enjoy 
 it. You don't even need to like golf to enjoy it. SimGolf is actually an extremely accessible strategy 
 game that lets you build your own custom golf resort and create your own custom golf pro at the 
 same time. The better your resort is, the more golfers it will attract, including special golfers 
 who may give you more land or assets to work with. In the meantime, your golfer can improve his 
 or her abilities through practice and can compete in practice rounds, single competition, or full-blown 
 tournaments. The game does have some interface issues and some occasionally show-stopping bugs. 
 But for the most part, you probably won't be thinking too much about any of SimGolf's problems, 
 because you'll be having too much fun.           Create your own golf pro from scratch.    

 Starting a new game in SimGolf is extremely easy. All you need to do is choose a course you'd 
 like to build from the game's 16 prebuilt areas, and get to it. If you like, you can also choose 
 different themes for your game, which influences what kind of characters will appear on your courses 
 and how they'll interact with each other. And as you'd expect from an EA/Maxis game with "Sim" 
 in its title, SimGolf will let you install user-made themes and courses that fans will eventually 
 create. You also create your own golf pro and customize the character's appearance and golfing 
 skills, which will determine his or her different stroke types and putting ability. You'll then 
 start in an empty lot and can begin building holes straightaway. You'll eventually create a course 
 that's densely packed with fairways, vegetation, buildings, ornamental structures, and bustling, 
 chatty golfers.   

  The seemingly simple act of laying down a tee, a hole, and a fairway in between can be as straightforward 
 as laying down a straight line of turf, but it can actually get surprisingly complex. SimGolf lets 
 you create your holes with a green, two kinds of fairways, and lots of different obstacles. You 
 can also raise hills or lower depressions in your course's terrain as you see fit. These options 
 provide you with considerable freedom in making your courses as tough or easy as you want. Well-crafted 
 courses let different golfers with different abilities approach them in different ways, and they 
 also make your golfers happier and more likely to spend money on your country club, so it's in 
 your best interest to make the best courses you can. Fortunately, building courses is remarkably 
 engaging -- it's something of a cross between building your town in SimCity and furnishing a home 
 in The Sims. It involves the same kind of planning and the same kind of rewarding payoff when your 
 delighted golfers play through a course as you designed it. Best of all, SimGolf comes with a sandbox 
 mode that lets you build in any of the game's 16 areas with an unlimited amount of money so you 
 can build exactly the course you want, whenever you want.           Your courses can be colorful... and 
 cluttered.    

 In addition to building new courses, you're going to want to develop your own golf pro by regularly 
 placing him or her in practice matches and, later on, serious competition. The actual golfing in 
 SimGolf is about as simple as it could possibly get. You choose from a few different types of strokes, 
 and then choose the amount of power you want to put behind your swing using an intuitive targeting 
 system that represents the trajectory of your strokes with a single line. There's just enough strategy 
 in it to keep it true to real golfing, but it's easy enough to use to make it enjoyable for anyone. 
   

  What's more, SimGolf lets you develop your golfer's abilities and stroke types using a simple skill 
 system that's reminiscent of a role-playing game. Your golfer has ten different abilities: power 
 hitter, long driver, accurate driver, accurate irons, accurate putter, draw shot, fade shot, backspin 
 shot, recovery, and luck. Having a higher skill level in any of these abilities is better than 
 having a low skill, but you don't need to deal with any of them, because SimGolf will regularly 
 check your skill against the appropriate shot in the appropriate situation. Additionally, if you 
 make an exceptional shot, your golfer's skills may even increase (though your skills can also decrease 
 if you play poorly) , so you'll find yourself constantly playing rounds to try to advance your character's 
 abilities. You'll also find that it's usually best to focus on only a few kinds of skills and shots, 
 and, if you so choose, you can then build an entire course that's best suited to your pro's skills. 
 Or not -- it's entirely up to you. When you're confident enough in your golfer's skills, you can 
 compete in tournaments for considerable amounts of prize money, which you can then reinvest in 
 your ever-growing course or use to buy a new course in another part of the world.    

 On first impression, SimGolf doesn't look like much, presumably because it was intended to run on 
 both low-end and top-of-the-line computers. The game is locked at 800x600 resolution, and though 
 its interface and courses are generally colorful, they're rather plain, and the actual golfers 
 who play on the courses are tiny and look crude. Also, since one of the main goals of SimGolf is 
 to continuously build and expand your golf resort, you'll find that as you continue to make additions, 
 your courses will get very cluttered very quickly. Fortunately, SimGolf's default overhead camera 
 view displays a considerable amount of real estate onscreen at a time, and the game has a few keyboard 
 shortcuts that you can use to navigate your courses quickly.           Competition helps your golfer 
 improve.    

 Unfortunately, SimGolf doesn't have quite enough keyboard shortcuts -- there's no quick, easy way 
 to skip around to different holes or lock your view on a specific golfer (like your own) . Most 
 of SimGolf's keyboard shortcuts are tied to pulling up various menus that are used to change terrain 
 while building or keep you up to date on your course's financial situation. But because SimGolf 
 lets your golf pro participate in exhibitions and tournaments and also has special golfers you'll 
 want to keep track of, you won't be using the menus half as much as you'll be following specific 
 golfers around the course. You'll probably notice that SimGolf's interface looks very similar to 
 that of The Sims, but unfortunately, it inherited the same sluggish camera panning found in Maxis' 
 life-simulator game. You can zoom your view out from the course, but this isn't useful, since you 
 can't actually click on any parts of the map to jump to a different area. About the best you can 
 do is use your mouse to open up the player menu, then click on a golfer to move the camera to him 
 or her. And for some reason, buying items and building your course takes place in real time, rather 
 than in a paused shopping interface, like in The Sims. This means that when you're trying to make 
 last-minute additions to a new course while participating in a competition with your golfer, one 
 errant click may accidentally drive a ball the wrong way or buy a terrain feature you didn't intend 
 to.   

  As you play SimGolf, you'll also run into a few bugs, in both the interface and in other areas. 
 For instance, whenever your golfer makes an exceptional shot or significant event takes place, 
 you may see a special message appear onscreen, a close-up "SimFoto" snapshot, or both. But sometimes 
 when your course is especially busy, two or more events will happen at the same time, and the messages 
 and photos will overlap and neither will be visible. What's worse, SimGolf has a crash bug that 
 may crash a game if you try to hold a tournament on a course that's too large. In the worst possible 
 case, this can make a painstakingly crafted 18-hole course unplayable.           Use the sandbox 
 mode to build any course.    

 In contrast to its sometimes cluttered courses and interface, SimGolf's sound is sparse. Most of 
 the time, the game has no music at all -- on the courses, you'll just hear ambient outdoors sounds 
 and the cries and shouts of your golfers, who speak the now-famous gibberish language of The Sims. 
 And as with The Sims, SimGolf's "simlish" is expressive and often quite funny, though you may find 
 that the dialogue gets somewhat repetitive after many hours of play. You'll also occasionally hear 
 short clips of The Sims' typically upbeat jazzy music when certain events take place, such as when 
 two golfers with similar personalities hit it off. (If two golfers with compatible personalities 
 end up becoming good friends, you'll actually receive a bonus item for your course.)   

  SimGolf is an incredibly fun game, despite what may seem like a long list of shortcomings. In fact, 
 it's such an enjoyable game that you probably won't think about most of its problems until long 
 after you've finished playing a session. Which means that you probably won't be thinking about 
 SimGolf's problems for a long, long time. Though the idea of a game about designing golf courses 
 might not seem like much, SimGolf is actually a terrific idea. It streamlines the sport of golf 
 so that you don't have to deal with any of it except the good stuff: hitting the ball and sinking 
 shots. SimGolf's building and design elements are easy to use and surprisingly open-ended. And 
 playing as both a golfer and a course designer simultaneously is so distinctively enjoyable that 
 it's difficult to even take notice of any of the game's problems other than its bugs. Because aside 
 from its problems, SimGolf is colorful, fun, funny, and addictive, and it can be enjoyed by just 
 about anyone.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: slipknoob
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 10:30 am PT
Review:  I bought this came in 2006 (ten years after it was released) at a computer store sale off. I paid 
 R$10 for it (around U$5) . I got surprised after I installed it, 'cause it's some kinda fun.
  
  The main objective of the game is to build a golf resort and keep everyone happy, hiring employees 
 and putting buildings in certain place. But the game is at the same time, a golf game. You have 
 to win tournaments and beat the challengers to earn money and make your resort even bigger.
  
  Sid Meier's Sim Golf's pretty good for a 96's game and is worth playing. If you like tycoon 
 games, you may want to try it out. Downloading it, of course. You probably won't find it in any 
 store any more.
  
  That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. 
 That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all. That's all.
 
  
  Oh, and that's all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saranis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Sid Meier's is a genious, theres no other way to explain what he can do with games. Here is a game 
 that you would probably not even notice, its a game that I had no real intrest in when I first 
 got it in a bundle. Yet since I started playing it, I havent really stopped. 
  
  You start off with a bit of money and you have to choose where to build your course, different 
 parts of the world offer different perks for your course. Larger tracts of land cost more so for 
 a first course it may be best to buy smaller. 
  
  You're tasked with building a course that can remain profitable but fun for your sims who will 
 come and play on it. Theres 4 levels of sims (club guest through gold member) each paying more 
 per hole as they climb up the membership ladder. 
  
  Each hole is a chance to do something creative and challenging. Once you've completed certain goals 
 you will be able to hold proffesional tournaments on your course and play in them with the club 
 pro (you) to earn more money to spend. However the Pros who play in these tournaments do NOT pay 
 green fees so its possible if you do poorly in the tournament that your course will lose money. 
 
  
  The club professional (again, you) is a character who will get better as you progress in the game 
 by increasing certain skills.
  
  Theres no real multiplayer which is a shame, it would be fun to be able to play against other people 
 on custom courses. There is an exchange though to Download other peoples courses though so its 
 not all lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munger88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  I'm not a huge fan of golf. I'm also not a huge fan of Sim-like games, such as Sim Ant, or Sim 
 Copter, or whatever the heck Sim games are coming out. But this game makes creating a golf course 
 some of the most fun you'll ever have.
  
  GRAPHICS: 7/10
  The graphics aren't very good. The people look like little specks and sometimes you can't tell 
 where the ball landed. But the courses themselves look fine and are fun to build.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9/10
  You get to create an entire golf course, and watch people play on it. You can 
 also play against people such as celebrities. Its funny; celebrities can buy property on your golf 
 course. You can play against Lion Forrest, or have Rose MacDonald buy a house.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: 8/10
  I got this game in 2003 and I still sometimes come back and play it and have 
 a good time. With many features invovled in creating a course, and many places to choose from, 
 if you like this type of game you will keep coming back.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  Sound isn't that impressive, but it does sound like you are playing on an actual golf course. Except 
 for the fact the people talk in Simmish.
  
  OVERALL: 8.5/10
  One of, if not the, best golf sims ever made. Defenitly check it out if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Impostorzim
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan of Sim games. There are so many that I can't count and most of them are garbage 
 in my opinion. But a few have caught my eye and become extremely addictive. This is not an exception. 
 SimGolf is amazingly addictive and its no lie when they say you don't even have to like golf to 
 play it. Its easy to start and hard to stop playing. In fact, at times it almost feels too easy.
 
  
  You start the game selecting a certain available golf course (referring to standard gameplay) and 
 right there, you can start building. You put down the parts using the toolbar which resembles the 
 SimCity toolbar in a way. You will begin receiving visitors who later become Members. They'll only 
 join if they really enjoy your course. You have to be imaginative and make challenging holes for 
 them. You can tell if they find your holes too easy or too hard by their comments which clearly 
 show up over their heads. You can also tell if they're having a good time if the text from their 
 comments comes out in red or green.
  
  Time goes by in sequence of years starting on Year 2000 and going on. At the end of a fiscal year, 
 you recieve a summary of your End of Year stats telling you how many Simoleons you've either lost 
 or earned compared to last year. You have to make sure you're earning more than you're spending 
 or you'll end up in the red and have two years to return to positive amount of cash. You earn money 
 every time a visitor or member gets a ball in the hole. You can also make money by using your custom 
 golfer that starts off with the default name, Gary Golfer, and putting him in tournaments in your 
 course for cash, or challenging proffessional golfers who visit your course as well.
  
  You can hire people to work on the court too. You start off with the choice of hiring a Grounds 
 Keeper to keep the dandilions and weeds under control and keep your course looking its best, a 
 soda vendor to serve your members so they don't get too exhausted, or a greeter like a club member 
 to basically sit around and greet people. Theres alot to do and it all matters on your creativity. 
 People will love your golf course if you give them holes that show off their skills like accuracy 
 and power hits.
  
  There's much more to the game, like how certain people will come visit you and if they enjoy themselves 
 on your course, they'll donate landmarks that help to keep your members happy. Sometimes a player 
 will get angry for getting the ball under a tree, or into a sand trap, but then say "oh nevermind, 
 such a nice landmark.". Also a certain person will give you the option to expand your land which 
 helps for putting more holes on the golf course. The more golf courses you have, the more money 
 you make afterall.
  
  In my opinion, this game is great, and very fun to play. I never thought a golf course simulator 
 could be so creative and fun, Maxis and Firaxis proved that wrong with this amazing game. The gameplay 
 is upbeat and original, the graphics are nice and don't get in the way at all, and the sound while 
 it be not that great and almost reminds you of elevator music, does the job. I say if you like 
 strategy games but find SimCity games just way too complicated, maybe you should try SimGolf, even 
 if you don't essentially like golf... I mean, who actually does?
  
  -Impostorzim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgalvan
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 29, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  So I've been on this kick lately to fire up all the old games that I once played and mostly enjoyed 
 to see if I still enjoy them. I guess this all stems from the news that Starcraft 2 is coming out. 
 Ahh nostalgia...
  
  Anyhow. I remember this game fondly and dusted off the old CD and re-installed it. I'll tell you. 
 Old game or not, this game is still as much fun now as it was then.
  
  As with most Sim games time seems to speed up for me and what I think is about 1 hour of game time 
 usually ends up 4 or 6 hours. So in typical fashion I started playing this and 10 minutes later 
 4 hours went by. Unlike WoW where it feels as if you grinded for 10 hours only to find out it was 
 only an hour. Bah. This game scores big for me on many fronts. First and foremost is gameplay. 
 While building your own golf course may seem, well, as boring as the game itself if you don't play 
 it, it surprisingly isn't. The design aspect and goals you need to reach flow very well. There 
 is something quite satisfying about having a hole that is voted and the most challenging or best 
 designed. Plus the game keeps you going in a forward direction by letting you know when your course 
 is becoming stagnant. The mini game, if you would call it that, of being able to play the course 
 through your avatar or club pro, which you can grow straight RPG style as your course gains points 
 is fun and refreshing. The golfers themselves are interesting enough and the AI is generally good. 
 Not great, but good. On a few of the games where my club pro were in games against the AI, the 
 computer opponent would shoot in a completely different direction and waste a few strokes by using 
 unconventional pathing. If you want a realistic golf game, go play Tiger Woods 2010 or whatever 
 is out now. Even if you aren't into golf this game should appease your inner designer and Sim. 
 And hey, who doesn't want to be a Sim? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basher96
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Well before I played this game I was a bit skeptical. But it grew on me. Just like Roller Coaster 
 Tycoon but you make golf courses. It is a very addicting game. With different types of terrain 
 including; trees, sand traps etc. You can make the course go with the "feel" of your course. Courses 
 in Hawaii, out West, Desert, everything.
  
  Also as you make more profits and the course is better the players sign up for memberships. They 
 bring their friends, they tell their friends etc. The course becomes popular. But you have to keep 
 them happy. By making Garages for carts, Practice putting greens, Driving ranges and other things. 
 But also by fufilling their needs with drink girls with their carts. And people to patrol the course. 
 Also exterminators to kill the weeds.
  
  Not only do you get to build your very own course you also can play it. With your very own player. 
 Your player gets attributes after he plays rounds. Once you're good enough you'll be able to win 
 tournaments on your own course. Just get this game you'll love it. 
  
  Must buy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeW32
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 28, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  I have had SimGolf ever since it originally came out and i still play it quite a bit. Its is just 
 so fun to create your own golf course and play on it. The variety of courses and and different 
 areas in the world you can go to always makes it interesting. You can compete in tournaments and 
 one vs ones against professionals, such a variety of things to do and you will never get bored 
 playing this game. There is a variety of different shots you can do such as high backspin shots, 
 and left to right or right to left hook shots. You can work on your skills and gain points if you 
 play good on your stats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brutalus7
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo of Sim Golf and I really enjoyed it, so I went out and got it. I was impressed 
 with how much fun building a golf course can be. It seemed a little too easy to make a "great" 
 course, but I think it helps you concentrate on other things, like playing in tournaments, or developing 
 real estate. I never played enough to own all the possible courses, but I would have liked to go 
 back and forth between your courses instead of just selling them off.
  
  This game was super-fun for a month or two, until I got bored, but I might go back to it later, 
 and see how it is still. Nothing groundbreaking about it, just a great sim of running a golf course 
 and having boat-loads of fun along the way. If you enjoy golfing, or simulations on businesses, 
 this game is for you, so go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingDisgrace
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Sid Meier's Simgolf is by no means one of the most popular games ever made. It's not even one of 
 the most immersive, and it's not difficult at all. The reason you play SimGolf is because you want 
 to have a bit of fun. Gabe may have obsessed over it in Penny Arcade, and if you bought this game 
 like I did 2 years back, you did too. SimGolf really has 2 main modes, a kind of career mode and 
 a sandbox. Forget the sandbox. You go buy a small golf course, by either inheriting from your uncle, 
 or buying it for cheap because nothing's there. Your only goals are to make good golf holes, andmake 
 money. Make better golf holes, get more money, buy more land, and move onto to other courses once 
 you're done with the other one.
  
  SimGolf, even though addictive, is by no means a graphical marvel. Like other older Sim games, 
 (SimCity 2000 anyone?) the game deatures a type of 3D top-down set-up. And.... that's about it. 
 You can tell that people are people, golfers are golfers, you can tell greens from fairway. That's 
 all you really need, since the game doesn't need you focus on something specifically. I'm just 
 wondering how I. M. Picky can walk across water. That's all.
  
  Well, if you're not looking for a mind-blowing game to look at, what are you looking for? Gameplay. 
 Simgolf has noe of the most addictive setups ever made. From the start, you can make devious holes 
 that will frustrate and challenge golfers, even though you might want to start off easily, since 
 many of your golfers belong the 'weekend duffers' club. The last thing you need to be doing is 
 making the hardest golf hole in the world when the poor guy in the tee box can barely hit it 150. 
 However, as you start to pick up greens fees from the golfers, you can make snack bars, hire staff, 
 and add amenities to your golfer's liking. Most of the amenities have no real awe-inspiring affect, 
 if you add a driving range, it'll help your golfer's driving length, but you'll wonder how it helps. 
 No one ever uses it, as far as you can see. You'll probably place many of your luxurious addons 
 except for the cart garage and snack bars off to the side, happy to let them do their thing for 
 the golfers out of sight. But aside from CREATING your golf course, you can also play on it, with 
 your resident golf pro, who you can customize to your liking. You can play on 3 levels: Just play 
 a round with a regular golfer, play against a pro in a skins format, or have a full-blown tournament, 
 with better conditions and TV towers. To have tournaments, you must meet some conditions to make 
 your golf course noticed by the SGA. (Sim Golf Association) This adds another layer of depth to 
 the game, making you think of how to construct your golf course if you want to bring in the major 
 tournaments the SGA has to offer. Simgolf can be played in any number of ways, and can be picked 
 up off your dusty shelf, a surefire way to have a little fun, or maybe use your brain a little. 
 Just a little.
  
  Sound? While sound is not a major premise in SimGolf, it has it's own gems. Some of the quotes 
 that you hear while watching your golfers are priceless, from excited cries of jubilation to tired 
 moans of golfers who need the 19th hole, you won't care that it's in the usual undecipherable language 
 of the Sims, you'll crack a smile as a golfer celebrates after knocking a 4-iron onto the green 
 from 180 out. 
  
  So, even though SimGolf is aging, it is aging well. A game like this never really needed to be 
 graphically superior or have a mind-blowing effect on anyone. SimGolf is an original premise, that 
 even if you picked it up today, you'd have the same fun with it as if you had picked it up 2 years 
 ago. If you see in the mark-down bin, (if it's even there anymore) pick it up. You just might be 
 glad that you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 21, 2004 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Before i start, dont groan. SimGolf is not your usual Tiger Woods 18 hole borefest 
 that'll drive a bullet thru your skull.. SimGolf is another brainchild of Sid Meier, so you know 
 its gonna rock. In SimGolf, you design an entire golf course, where the holes are, whats in the 
 way, elevation, where buildings are, etc. Then, once you've finished making your course, your custom 
 made player, and dozens more, go out and play in it ( you can control your own ) . Keep in mind, 
 its not like a normal golf game. Insted of the normal realism, you get an overhead view, which 
 actually makes this damn game FUN!
  
  Gameplay: In SimGolf, you start off by chosing an area to make your golf course. The only thing 
 on the course is the club house, where you can send golfers out to play, and maybe a few landmarks 
 and benches. You start off by making your first hole, you chose where it goes, its entirely up 
 to you. After you make your hole and open it, people will start to show up and play, so keep building 
 up. You can get up to 18 holes total on your course. Along with making the holes, and adding in 
 sandtraps, water, tree's, flowers, etc, you can also assign staff. The staff consists of people 
 who can greet the guests, like golf pro's and celebrities, marshals who make sure people dont waste 
 time on the holes, women to pass out food and drink to hungry golfers, and of course, some technicians 
 to take care of pesky dandilions that'll popup on the course every so often. In addition to that, 
 you can also build buildings, which will add extra things, like allowing your golfers to use golf 
 carts, and improving there putting/driving distance. Once you have completed your golf course, 
 you can control the club pro ( named Gary Golf, tho thankfully, hes totally customizable ) and 
 begin to play your own course against some of the other visiting golfers. After you pull of great 
 shots, you can raise your skill levels, for such things as putting, luck, recovery, etc, to improve 
 your golfer. When your tired of your course and golfer, you can save both for tournament play, 
 and play against other computer opponents for the best score.
  
  Story: Um... who said there was a story?
  
  Graphics and Sound: First, sound. The sound is fairly 
 unremarkable, as there isnt much aside from the opening music, and odd sound effect. The Graphics 
 are fairly good and work well with the game. The only problem is that, for example, in the water 
 there are some shapes, which i assume would be coral. Everytime it appears in the water, it is 
 the same shape, and in certain areas, a part of said coral will be off of the map, and we can still 
 see it, which doesnt look very good sometimes. All in all tho, the graphics are fairly good.
  
  Replayability: This game has some good replay value. Ive found myself playing it for a couple 
 months straight, but even if it isnt your kind of game, its great to play when you only wanna shoot 
 off a couple holes out of boredom.
  
  Final Recommendation: I give SimGolf an 8 out of 10. Its a fun and entertaining game that can be 
 enjoyed by most anyone, but it does have some glitches which could have been improved with updates. 
 Unfortunately, it seems Firaxes and EA have mostly given up on Simgolf, so no such luck. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
