-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sid Meier's Civilization IV: Colonization
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/sidmeierscivilizationivcolonization/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Makes producing and trading commodities fun.
 You'll plumb new strategic depths on each playthrough.
 Sweeps you up in revolutionary spirit.
 Stirring musical score.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Narrow focus makes each playthrough feel familiar.
 Diverging from standard course is possible, not practical.
 Trade route interface is not user-friendly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 699 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Firaxis Games
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Sep 22, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Colonization is a more focused and linear Civilization experience that nevertheless offers the depth 
 and rewards of the classic strategy series. 

  Civilization IV is a grand strategy game in which you build an empire that spans every epoch of 
 human society. Civilization IV: Colonization takes a much narrower approach, challenging you to 
 found a city in the New World, grow it into an economically viable colony, and then forge a new 
 nation by declaring independence and defeating the king's armies. However, don't mistake lack of 
 breadth for lack of depth. Though each game of Colonization plays out in a relatively linear fashion, 
 there are myriad facets of your colonial development and military tactics that can be tweaked and 
 refined. As you hone your strategy, you'll discover new ways to make your colony even stronger, 
 which in turn lets you hone your strategy even more. This positive feedback loop, along with sharp 
 visuals and a rousing score, makes Colonization a rewarding, addictive endeavor.  

           Ships and wagon trains are the veins through which your economic lifeblood flows.     

  You are the scion of either the Dutch, English, French, or Spanish empire, and at the beginning 
 of the game you choose which of the eight governors will lead your colony. Each has slightly different 
 bonuses that draw on each civilization's colonial-era strengths: Dutch bonuses emphasize trade, 
 whereas Spanish bonuses augment your military strength. Though these boosts cater to a number of 
 different strategies, a few of them are much weaker than others (like attack bonuses vs. natives) 
 because of the inviability of certain strategies (more on this later) . After your selection, you 
 are given control of a small boat loaded with a couple of units and plopped down in the middle 
 of the ocean. Westward ho!  

  You quickly make landfall and face another important decision: Where do you found your first town? 
 Each tile yields raw materials important to your survival and prosperity, but some regions are 
 more productive than others. There are blue circles highlighting spots that are good candidates 
 for settlement, which, while certainly helpful, takes much of the challenge out of site selection. 
 Your first town must be coastal so you can trade with Europe, but later settlements can extend 
 your colony inland to target valuable resources or occupy more defensible positions. Native settlements 
 dot the landscape and often occupy prime real estate. Setting up shop too close to them isn't very 
 diplomatic, especially if you don't have the gold to buy the land from them, but you can generally 
 get up in their business without immediate repercussions. Though city placement is easier than 
 in other Civilization games, you find more than enough challenge going forward.  

  In the early going you will also send out scouts to explore and map the new world. The scattered 
 ancient ruins and burial grounds can yield sizable treasures, but you may incur the wrath of the 
 locals if you seek these treasures out. Visiting native villages is not nearly as risky, and will 
 often earn you a gift of gold or unit experience. The chief will also tell you what goods his tribe 
 is interested in buying, and will tell you of that village's particular expertise. If you send 
 one of your units to live among the natives, it will emerge a few turns later as an expert harvester 
 and will generate significantly more of a particular resource when assigned to work an appropriate 
 tile. These experts are a boon to your economy, and the fact that local tribes will train them 
 for free is one of the many reasons that warring against natives is an unappealing option.  

           The city screen allows you to easily manages all aspects of your settlement's production. 

  After laying your foundation, you begin to grow your colony's economy. Generating and processing 
 commodities will be your primary concern for most of the game, and that will be eclipsed only by 
 your revolutionary war. There are three basic categories of goods that your colony will create: 
 resources to grow and strengthen your towns (food, lumber, ore, tools, guns) , raw materials that 
 are the foundation of trade (furs, tobacco, sugar, cotton) , and refined goods that fetch high prices 
 on the European market (coats, cigars, rum, cloth) . What you produce in a given city depends on 
 how you put your colonists to work. On the city screen, you can easily drag your citizens to a 
 map of the city's workable tiles to harvest raw materials, or place them in one of your city's 
 buildings to refine goods. The visual interface is initially busy, but ultimately feels clean and 
 intuitive. It's essential to balance your asset production to meet your need for colonial improvement 
 and European gold, but it's nigh impossible to do so within each city. Therefore, as you maximize 
 the output of your individual settlements, you must be mindful of how each piece fits into the 
 whole.  

  Once you get a few settlements up and running, the need to link them together becomes paramount. 
 Whether you're transporting raw materials from the fledgling wilderness towns to the more populated 
 and productive coastal ports, or sending tools to the interior to bolster construction, you'll 
 need to construct wagon-train units to get them there. As your production volume increases, you'll 
 want to access the governor menu in the city screen to help automate trade and streamline production. 
 You can emphasize or deemphasize production of certain materials, and determine what goods the 
 city imports and exports. Figuring out the optimal patterns for transport is a stimulating challenge, 
 one that requires both micro- and macroscopic strategy.     

   

  To automate the flow of goods around your colony, you simply set the appropriate imports and exports, 
 and then assign a wagon train to cover that trade route. Managing these assignments can become 
 confusing because the domestic-advisor screen does not provide an intuitive map of your routes. 
 This becomes more frustrating when you take a wagon train off of a route for a one-time shipment, 
 and then have to reassign it, hoping that you don't miss a pickup or drop-off. You can name your 
 wagon unit to help keep things straight, but it is disappointing that the interface is lacking. 
 Nevertheless, establishing a vibrant trade network and seeing it work like a well-oiled machine 
 is immensely satisfying, and the fact that Colonization makes you feel proud of your glorified 
 number crunching is greatly to its credit.  

  An economy is only as strong as its workers, and managing your units is another opportunity for 
 refined strategy. Unlike in other Civilization games, you don't actively construct most of your 
 units. Aside from the constructible wagon train and cannon, the only way your colony will generate 
 a worker is if you have a large food surplus. As such, you'll rely on Europe to provide much of 
 your workforce, either through free immigrants or purchased experts. Experts, as previously noted, 
 are superproductive, and whereas native villages will train only raw-material experts, Europe offers 
 not only raw- but also refined-goods specialists (for example, master blacksmiths, tobacconists, 
 and weavers) . Much of your gold will go toward purchasing these valuable workers, though you can 
 also increase the emigration of free laborers by assigning your settlement workers to the church 
 building. Some free immigrants will have no particular specialty, and some (such as indentured 
 servants) will actually produce slightly less than a normal colonist. Sending these chaps to school, 
 either in your colony or in a native settlement, will help make them more productive members of 
 society. Educating workers locally takes a while, but the rebel sentiment it bestows on your units 
 will benefit you in the long run. Balancing your ratio of cheap European experts to time-consuming 
 homegrown experts is yet another one of Colonization's pervasive strategic nuances.  

           The Redcoats are coming! The Redcoats are coming!      

  Your entire workforce, from 
 experts to petty criminals, can be mobilized for war if you have enough guns, so as your rebel 
 sentiment grows, so should your arms stockpile. Rebel sentiment (as well as the cultural borders 
 of your settlements) is influenced by liberty bells, which can be generated by assigning workers 
 to your town hall. Colony-born units get production and combat bonuses based on how rebellious 
 your colony is, so it's important to ramp this up as your prepare for independence. Any war you 
 fight before the revolution is likely to cost more than it is worth. Natives do have treasure stockpiles, 
 but the benefits of their expert-worker training and spontaneous gifts are too good to give up, 
 especially in light of their formidable combat strength. Fighting other colonies can yield resources 
 and gold, but they are often too far away to make fighting worth it. The lack of incentive to engage 
 in other conflicts narrows an already linear game, and it would have been fun to have a reason 
 to mix it up. Multiplayer matches spice things up a bit, given that human colonies are feistier 
 than AI colonies, but even if you wipe out your opponents, you still have to take on the empire. 

  When you nail up your declaration of independence in the town square, you'll already be hours deep 
 in the game. Your focus on frantic economic activity will have shifted to militaristic concerns 
 as you prepare to reap the whirlwind. The king's forces will always outnumber you, and they are 
 generally more powerful than your minutemen. Wave after wave of units will land on your shores, 
 ready to get their subjugation on. Combat is a simple matter of moving your unit onto another unit's 
 tile and watching the encounter play out. It's essential to be aware of terrain bonuses and unit 
 upgrades when you plan your attacks, but Colonization helps you out by calculating the odds of 
 the battle before you fight it. In this lopsided conflict, you'll find yourself naturally resorting 
 to guerrilla tactics, striking out at imperial forces and then retreating to the safety of your 
 inland settlements. When you realize these are tactics that were actually used in the American 
 Revolutionary War (the age and conflict that this game was modeled on) , you'll find that each victory 
 is infused with an invigorating jolt of revolutionary zeal.  

  Civilization IV: Colonization is greatly enhanced by its ability to transport you to a specific 
 moment in history. The lush visuals make the land a joy to work, and the mix of indigenous, American, 
 and European music sets the perfect tone. When you are marshaling your troops to send them against 
 the might of a European empire and Aaron Copland's stirring version of "When Johnny Comes Marching 
 Home" begins to play, you'll be swept up in the spirit of the monumental conflict you've spent 
 years preparing for. Preparation and execution are both intricately wrought here, stretched over 
 a campaigns that generally last at least ten hours each. Despite being demanding and time-consuming, 
 Colonization is a great game that benefits from its keen focus, bargain price ($29.99!) , and nuanced 
 strategy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mikelward
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 2, 2009 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I had long been hoping for an updated version of Colonization that provided national borders, better 
 graphics, and streamlining of trade.
  
  This is not that game.
  
  We now have cultural influence, but it ruins the game.
  
  I am an accomplished Civilization 
 IV and Colonization player, but the mechanics in Civilization IV: Colonization seem to work differently.
 
  
  For instance, I founded a colony, then some turns later the French founded a colony near mine.
 
  
  I experienced moderate growth in mine, while they experienced unrealistically rapid growth in theirs.
 
  
  This lead to my colony's resources being slowly but surely taken over to the point my colony was 
 worthless.
  
  Presumably I need to play it much longer to learn the exact rules for culture, but after all the 
 other problems I couldn't be bothered.
  
  Most annoying are the graphics. Everything is brown. So brown you can't tell what's what. Worst 
 are the resource graphics, which are just a dark brown charcoal smudgy outline on a lighter brown 
 paper. Some of the pictures bear no resemblance to the item they're supposed to portray. It takes 
 me out of the zone when I have to stare and squint just to see what I'm looking at. Very stupid.
 
  
  The soundtrack was one of the best aspects of the original. Not so in this one. Very muted and 
 lacking in character. I miss all the old fiddle ditties and American colonial songs.
  
  Lots of little things are now done in the Civilization way, and this detracts from the experience. 
 Presumably the people writing this version didn't have time to get it right and just took some 
 shortcuts.
  
  And to top it all off, it uses SecuROM copy protection, which is known to be invasive and cause 
 problems on some computers.
  
  I ended up wishing I'd never installed the game, and would advise you not to either.
  
  Don't 
 bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkGoo
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 5, 2009 10:29 am PT
Review:  I love playing the game, sort of. the hours spent creating a functioning civilization is enjoyable 
 but tedious. I have been very frustrated with the fact that if I follow the recommended buildings, 
 and a sound thought of constructing a civilization then it is doomed to fail. Most of the hints/guides 
 on how to win this game are all about exploiting the game mechanics. Not about how to build a viable 
 working society and winning a revolution. So, based on that and the fact that I have played it 
 through 3 times now with trying different but logic tactics I have failed to win lets me know this 
 game is not for me. at least not again for a long time. I like the civ building, but it is a real 
 buzz kill to not be able to win with the civ you built. For those who find it too easy and there 
 for no fun, I am truly amazed, because I can't seem to come up with a way to win and keep any kind 
 of realism in content. as far as graphic, sound, interface, ect.. it is a good game, but for me 
 the end product was lacking because of the end result. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Refreshers
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 7:32 am PT
Review:  I absolutely loved the original and I felt like I was going to love this one until I realised it's 
 ridiculously hard and counter-intuitive. 
  
  As soon as you start increasing your settlement's level of independance, (which by the way is the 
 whole idea of the game) , your not so benevolent ruler decided it is time to increase the size of 
 his army. No matter how quickly you create and distribute your own army, his will always be bigger. 
 This means that when you come to the games dramatic finale and declare your nation's independance, 
 you are ridiculously outnumbered and out gunned which ruins everything.
  
  There are some other minor glitches with the game especially running the colonies and assigning 
 job roles but these could be easily sorted with a relatively minor patch.
  
  If the developers release an update for this game to correct the one huge and several minor problems 
 I would be happy to carry on playing as there are solid elements to the gameplay. The micromanagement 
 aspects of the game are absorbing and challenging and the graphics and sound are entertaining. 
 However without an update this game remains too frustrating to be fun, and therefore a huge disappointment.
 
  
  I use gamespot to decide which games I should buy as they are right so often, but they have it 
 very wrong with this one. Having said that almost everybody who reviews it gives it a good rating. 
 I can only assume you didn't play it through to the end or have some magic knowledge that I don't
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cursedskater
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 31, 2009 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Being my first ever Civ game (I have played civ city Rome but that dosn't count) I had heard nothing 
 but good reviews praising Sid Meier so I was confident I had spent my money well. But man was I 
 wrong. I might as well have cut a $20 bill in pieces, put those pieces through a shredding machine 
 then flushed 'em down the toilet.
  This game was a disaster. Firstly there are only 4 different empires to choose from. France, England, 
 Holland, and Spain. Wait a minute. That's it? What about Portugal, Germany, Italy ... etc they were 
 all colonizing empires/countries. And why can't I play as the natives? Secondly there are no campaigns, 
 no goals, no achievements to attain except to revolt and win. On the menu screen it says "play 
 scenario" but that just means to play a map representing part of the western hemisphere. Another 
 HUGE problem is that the only difference between civs is their bonuses. All their eco, troops, 
 ships, people, names are the EXACT same. What fun is it to be the Dutch if they're exactly the 
 same as the English? Anyways after playing the game for 4-5 minutes I got an eco going and ya ok 
 that's pretty fun basically one of the only up sides to this game so at first the gameplay was 
 OK, but then I had to start making an army.... wait a minute. WHERE IS VARIETY? OUT TO LUNCH? There 
 are 4 troops... WTF dosn't matter which civ you are there are only 4 troops and they are extremely 
 unspecific and inaccurate at points in the game. Cannon, Dragoon, Scout (just a bad dragoon) and 
 Soldiers. For inaccuracy you can get Dragoons at any point in the game... There was no such thing 
 as a gun light enough for horseback until the late 1700's which is when the game ends. For unspecific 
 I mean really they could have made the soldiers look different and have different names and abilities 
 for each civ but no they just stuck with brainlessness and did nothing. After I got an army together 
 and both my cities are 100% supporting independence I went to the king to declare... wait a tic, 
 I couldn't. Somehow both my city's support was 100% but the stats screen said I had only 31%????? 
 Huge glitch that takes about 300 turns just to get to 50%.
  In the end Colonization was a pimple on the face of Sid Meier. I don't know what he was thinking 
 about when he decided to make this game. The only up sides of this game was the eco building and 
 the old school soundtrack that actually make you feel like you just came out of the middle ages. 
 In conclusion I think ill take a breather before trying out Civ IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bishopphoto
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 12, 2009 8:12 am PT
Review:  This game is lame. Period.
  
  Take a few good things from previous incarnations, add a few new things (many with potential) and 
 make it impossible to win. Read through many of these reviews below, I wish I had before I got 
 this.
  
  This game has a new system involving bells (similar to culture) , but the usage of this system before 
 the very last second involved the enemy (the motherland) attacking you with an army tenfold the 
 size of yours, with "magical" attack bonuses. IE, unless you play the game one way, and one way 
 alone (dont use the bells/culture system until late in the game to have a better, tho not great, 
 chance at survival) , YOU WILL DIE. Period.
  
  So play any of the other Civs, one, two, three, four, any of the add ons, and you will have more 
 fun replaying these old (in most cases, not 4 and beyond) classics then this current version will 
 provide. I have played each of the previous aforementioned versions over 100 hours each and that 
 is a VERY conservative estimate. And I would be more then happy to log more hours on any civ, EVEN 
 one, rather then play another second of this poorly designed game. Shame on Sid Meier for putting 
 his name on this crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewytripp
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 11, 2009 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Being my first ever Civ game (I have played civ city Rome but that dosn't count) I had heard nothing 
 but good reviews praising Sid Meier so I was confident I had spent my money well. But man was I 
 wrong. I might as well have cut a $20 bill in pieces, put those pieces through a shredding machine 
 then flushed 'em down the toilet. 
  This game was a disaster. Firstly there are only 4 different empires to choose from. France, England, 
 Holland, and Spain. Wait a minute. That's it? What about Portugal, Germany, Italy ... etc they were 
 all colonizing empires/countries. And why can't I play as the natives? Secondly there are no campaigns, 
 no goals, no achievements to attain except to revolt and win. On the menu screen it says "play 
 scenario" but that just means to play a map representing part of the western hemisphere. Another 
 HUGE problem is that the only difference between civs is their bonuses. All their eco, troops, 
 ships, people, names are the EXACT same. What fun is it to be the Dutch if they're exactly the 
 same as the English? Anyways after playing the game for 4-5 minutes I got an eco going and ya ok 
 that's pretty fun basically one of the only up sides to this game so at first the gameplay was 
 OK, but then I had to start making an army.... wait a minute. WHERE IS VARIETY? OUT TO LUNCH? There 
 are 4 troops... WTF dosn't matter which civ you are there are only 4 troops and they are extremely 
 unspecific and inaccurate at points in the game. Cannon, Dragoon, Scout (just a bad dragoon) and 
 Soldiers. For inaccuracy you can get Dragoons at any point in the game... There was no such thing 
 as a gun light enough for horseback until the late 1700's which is when the game ends. For unspecific 
 I mean really they could have made the soldiers look different and have different names and abilities 
 for each civ but no they just stuck with brainlessness and did nothing. After I got an army together 
 and both my cities are 100% supporting independence I went to the king to declare... wait a tic, 
 I couldn't. Somehow both my city's support was 100% but the stats screen said I had only 31%????? 
 Huge glitch that takes about 300 turns just to get to 50%. 
  In the end Colonization was a pimple on the face of Sid Meier. I don't know what he was thinking 
 about when he decided to make this game. The only up sides of this game was the eco building and 
 the old school soundtrack that actually make you feel like you just came out of the middle ages. 
 In conclusion I think ill take a breather before trying out Civ IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuculid
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 9:26 am PT
Review:  Ridiculous victory conditions mean you must either play poorly, or violate the spirit of the game 
 in order to win. The game ends after a maximum of 300 turns. If you have declared independence, 
 but failed to eliminate all the ground forces assembled by the mother country to crush your revolt, 
 you lose. The problem is, you cannot go to them, you must wait for them to come to you. If they 
 cannot, or will not come to you, you lose. If troops remain stranded in Europe because you waited 
 too long to revolt, you deserve to lose. But if they are stranded because you eliminated their 
 transports, you deserve to win (the manual actually suggests doing this) .
  Another way to win is to eliminate all the cities of your European competitors and then NEVER declare 
 independence, but this is contrary to the game's stated intention.
  The game needed to be designed around a system of victory points rather than a single condition. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Margustafson
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  But for right now, I am ashamed to see the 8.0 score! It seems so wrong! This 8.0 is a potential, 
 not the actual product!
  
  The strategies one has to use to win are ridiculous - like having a few settlements and let the 
 King capture them since the Kings army has 150% attack against settlements...
  
  or the "0 bell strategy"
  
  the building buy system has a bug, since if the settlement consumes 
 some tools, you STILL do not complete the building....
  
  ...
  Immigrants pricing is ridiculous...
  
  I mean, a lot of things in this game are ridiculous...
 
  
  I am disappointed of gamespot reviewers to give the buggy game such score!
  
  At this point, without some major patches, the game is not worth at all!
  
  Sometimes the King 
 bugs out and wont become happy when you give him gold that he asks for and will remain annoyed 
 with you although the only modifier is +1 Years of peace.
  
  ...
  European countries:
  They seem more or less incapable of attacking your capitol, i left it unguarded on hardest setting 
 and proceeded to wipe out their towns with a single unit. They had several soldiers in the vicinity 
 of my town but did not attack.
  
  Your settlements:
  Bell production sometimes doesn't increase rebel sentiment properly.
  
  Sometimes when a tile 
 is improved and citizens are assigned to tasks automatically they will attempt to harvest something 
 that cant be harvested. For instance if your pioneer clears a forest the citizen wont stop trying 
 to get lumber in town from that square.
  
  Units:
  Pioneers will sometimes do stupid improvements when set to auto, like remove the last spot of forest 
 near your town making sure you don't get any lumber unless ship it in - and for what? 2 sugar? 
 bah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Corinthian
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  For Civ players, you're looking at a Civ game when you plug into Colonization but believe me, this 
 is a whole new game. Patterned after Civilization, it's quite different in many ways. The most 
 profound difference is, unlike Civilization where you land in one spot and work from there, in 
 Colonization even though you do land in the same manner, you have a Mother country to draw from 
 and mother is a good description.
  
  Civilization players will realize some strangely different aspects of Colonization where the true 
 object isn't to overwhelm opponents and take over the world but rather to break free from the mother 
 country that becomes more and more oppressive even after fattening its coffers. It's your objective 
 to finally defeat her.
  
  Unlike Civilization where one could dominate the game through territorial expansion, that's not 
 exactly how it works in Colonization. In fact, one can find one's self challenging the crown with 
 only a handful of cities, sometimes just three in fact. In this installment it's ever more crucial 
 to locate a founding city and the satellite cities in resource rich plots of land because you will 
 only reap the benefits of whatever is in the eight patches circumnavigating your towns.
  
  For unlike Civilization where a strong military could dominate the world, military strikes have 
 implications across the map. In the New World, your neighbors pay very close attention to who you 
 attack and if you attack their allies you may find them at your doorstep. 
  
  Initially, a strong economy trumps all military excursions save for maybe early evictions of those 
 European countries that encroach on your land. You see with only eight spaces counting around your 
 entire city, it's devastating should some other country's influence overrun your own and capture 
 any of those squares.
  
  It's a curious blend of resources and manufacturing that must be taken into account in Colonization. 
 In order to increase production you need carpenters and carpenters need wood which is gathered 
 by lumberjacks. Fabric houses need cotton, tool makers need ore, gun makers need tool makers. It's 
 all very circular in that higher paying goods are those that require at least some form of processing. 
 Raw materials can be sold to the mother country but eventually the king recognizes a good thing 
 and raises your taxes. If you deny the right, you not only lose the material in the inventory of 
 one of your cities but you are not allowed to trade that with the parent company.
  
  However, players can turn the relationship with their home country around to better benefit them 
 by buying goods from the mother country and selling them directly to the natives who usually are 
 more than willing to pay premiums for guns. But one must remember, even a tribe that is pleased 
 with you can find themselves emboldened with a few guns in its inventory.
  
  A strong economy also contributes to an eventual loosening of ties with your home country because 
 eventually you do not rely on them as much as in the beginning stages where a sound relationship 
 with them allows you rights to purchase specialists in different fields of manufacturing and production. 
 As time goes by you can build your own shops to supply not only to your native country but to the 
 indigenous peoples and even to competing European rivals.
  
  Also with the building of schools and missionaries you can train your own specialists. Gatherers 
 such as farmers, miners and scouts can be trained simply by living with the natives and learning 
 their ways while manufacturing specialists can be trained in your own schools, colleges or even 
 universities.
  
  This all is presented in relatively easy formats but at some point you must strive for independence 
 and in order to do this one must lure 50% of your population to seek independence. This is done 
 through liberty bell production with elder statesmen leading the way in concert with publishing 
 houses and newspapers which spread the word of independence. Nevertheless this must be approached 
 tactfully because as you increase your liberty bells, the mother country increases their military 
 in preparation of the catastrophe independence poses to them.
  
  Eventually a showdown must occur. This is triggered when your rebel sentiment equals or surpasses 
 50% of the population and independence is declared. It is best you brace yourself and hopefully 
 have built up a sufficient military to defend against the upcoming onslaught. 
  This is a tricky proposition because a strong navy usually means a weak army and vice versa and 
 should you not be able to annihilate the forces of oppression you will have lost and losing is 
 not an option. 
  
  Taken as a whole, Colonization is a masterpiece of strategic planning, much more subtle and thought 
 provoking then any Civilization previous and deserves a strong rating. I highly recommend it but 
 only if you are adamant about micromanaging. Micromanaging can be made simpler by employing governors 
 to handle such tasks as trade routes and such but nothing replaces good old American ingenuity.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nailex
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I'm a Civilization fan ever since the first Civ comes out. I have somehow skipped the Colonization 
 though. So i was very existed that i'll be able to play a remake of a game I have missed. Unfortunately, 
 the exisitment quickly went away. The interface is kinda uncomfortable. If you haven't play this 
 game at all you will feel kinda confused what to do. The tutorials aren't helpful at all. The great 
 CIVpedia in Colonization is screwed up too. Many links are missing and it usually take a lot of 
 time to actually find the answer to your question. It is there, you just have to dig up a 5 feet 
 hole to find it. 
  
  Anyway, after a few restarts I've managed to get a hold on this game. I've build a pretty good 
 empire with a few nice prospering cities and a stable economy. I've played my time at the game 
 and it was fun until i had to declare my Independence from my home colony. Then i got swarmed by 
 an army almost 10 times mine, with 45 warships each capable of destroying 2 or 3 of mine (each 
 ship takes 10 turns at least to be build) . I said to myself... I've messed something up this is 
 impossible to beat. And i went to read some forums only to see that I'm not the only one facing 
 this problem. There is like 1 way to manage to win this game - not to gain any liberty bells for 
 a very long period, and then boost up your independence in like 10 turns so the king doesn't get 
 enough army... This only available strategy make pointless almost all of the features of this game. 
 You don't need to get Founding Fathers, nor build a stable and long profiting economy. The more 
 you trade the more you lose... The more units you gain the harder you Independence is... 
  
  I would say - Don't play this game. At least not before a decent patch is released which balances 
 the difficulty and leave the players with more then one option to play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew1969
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  After nearly 50 hours of playing this maddening game, I give up. Hours of setting up a powerful, 
 self-sufficient economy allow you to watch your loyal citizens be utterly obliterated by the European 
 Country from which you came. I have played countless strategy games, and this is the most frustrating 
 one with which I have ever wasted my time.
  
  It just too damn hard. The more successful you are, the more powerful the force which will come 
 and surely destroy you. A few patterns I have noticed include:
  
  1. The Mother Country will always have twice as many military units as you have.
  2. Those units 
 will always be superior to yours.
  3. Even battles between identical units will result in you losing 90% of the time.
  
  To quote 
 "War Games", "The only way to win is not to play." That is, if you do not do anything and wait, 
 your pathetic little colony may just defeat the pathetic force sent to destroy it.
  
  Did they not play test this game? Honestly, I played 4 full games on the easiest setting and never 
 came close to winning. The 5th game I did nothing, just skipping my turn 200 times, and won.
  
  What the ****?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jschenk
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is a pretty good take on the original. The basic mechanics are the same, with some good 
 additions. You have to compete for the founding fathers with the other nations, for example. 
 
  
  The main problem with this game is that the royal forces are designed to increase in number based 
 on the size and success of your colonies. So, if you develop a large, productive colony, then the 
 force you face during revolution is overwhelming. You quickly learn that the only way to win is 
 with a small (2 city) colony that is relatively weak. This makes the game so much less fun. Also, 
 conquering natives is almost completely worthless, since they give little treasure, and they will 
 abandon their cities surrounding your colonies, if they are influential enough. There are some 
 resources, namely silver and furs, that are almost never accessible. Others, namely bananas and 
 deer, aren't worth it, since cutting down the forest and building a farm is just as good. There 
 is not much interaction with the other colonies, and warships and privateers are pretty useless. 
 
  
  Luckily, the community has come up with some good mods that do the designers work for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endovelico
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  It's a remake alright, but a very poor one. No new features whatsoever were added, by the contrary, 
 the game even lost details that we liked on the old game like the myths associated with the new 
 world's exploration, namely the fountain of youth and the cities of Cibola. Another loss was the 
 Customs House which allowed the player to oppose some of the king's abuse. Also trading with the 
 indians is now more difficult and less profitable so you just end up not negotiating with them 
 at all. The game ends up being repetitive and boring with little motives of interest. The frigate 
 now has little or no use at all. No new professions were added, no new products, no new european 
 factions. The list goes on and on. Firaxis went for the no work at all policy. They went straight 
 to the pockets of die hard fans without giving anything in return, simply resting on the fame that 
 the old game obtained. I played the old game for 14 years and I can't like this new version enough 
 to try to win the game at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cleanholio
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  First off, I am stunned that the review of this game did not mention the fact that this is an almost 
 exact copy of Sid Meier's Colonization that came out in the 1990s. Other than the obvious graphical 
 and interface improvements over the original version that ran on Windows 95, this game is identical. 
 The crops (sugar, wheat, tobacco, and cotton) are the same, as are the lowly petty criminals that 
 can be obtained from the European docks. The Spanish still have a military bonus, the English a 
 population one, and the Dutch a trade one. Colonization was a great game (still is despite its 
 age, if you still have a spare PC old enough to drop down into DOS to run it, which I still do) . 
 Instead of improving on it though, this obvious money grab was recycled in content and titled under 
 the Civilization series to help it sell. That fact makes it very disappointing. What could have 
 been a wonderful opportunity to expand a classic and entertaining concept was lost.
  
  As far as the game goes, if you never played the original you won't be disappointed by this version, 
 because the game itself is a treat. The basic concept Sid Meier put together back in the day still 
 makes for an enjoyable game. For that reason I still gave it a 6.5 rating. It would have been higher 
 had I not known the previous history of this game.
  
  While this game is "linear" in some respects as the Gamespot review suggests, it is not as constrained 
 as one might think. The various countries that you can play are unique enough to differ from the 
 others. The interactions with the Natives can also be mixed up quite a bit, depeding on whether 
 you want to trade, educate, or plunder. And dealing with your colonial rivals can be exciting too 
 if you choose to hamper or even destroy their efforts.
  
  Colonization is fun, and I think you will enjoy it. Too bad it could have been even better had 
 someone cared enough to make it so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wljohnso
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Colonization is a game I have tried to love, but I can not.
  
  It would make for a great scenario in a Civ Expansion, but as a game unto itself It misses the 
 mark. It may as well be called Civ Railrods, because that is about the amount of choice a player 
 has in Colonization. 
  
  One of the charms of Civ has always been the options in winning a game. There is basically one 
 sweet spot in strategy to effectively win the Colonization. If you stray out of that, you are probably 
 doomed. Getting under the covers a little more there are ample ways to win the game quick via abusing 
 the game.
  
  Likewise the only change in units is experience from fighting or founding fathers. Three land units 
 and a few naval units. In the scope of the game this is fine as it is mainly until the declaration 
 of independence a trading game. I dislike automation, so I found micromanaging they way I like 
 things to get a bit dull. 
  
  Add to this the AI is very weak, the CPU smothers the player with units not intelligence. Additionally 
 the king is simply there to annoy the player and bleed them of money. Most of the time the King 
 can be ignored.
  
  Founding fathers seems a little disjointed from the game. It would have been better to have the 
 acquisition of them be a bigger part of the game rather than a behind the scenes spreadsheet of 
 requirements.
  
  I never played the original version of this game (despite owning it) so I can not compare then 
 to now. However it is not all bad. It is an interesting snippet of time. The graphics are gorgeous 
 (and should have been used for the base Civ IV) . Once you get a colony going it is interesting 
 to see if you can break away from Europe.
  
  I do not regret the purchase, but on the balance I have not really enjoyed Colonization. I think 
 it could have been far more robust in game play, mechanics and scope. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbrom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  First up, this is a straight (pretty much) remake of the 90's classic follow up to Civilization. 
 It's a whole lot prettier, of course, with the Civ4 engine proving perfect for displaying the differences 
 between the classes of colonist and the land tiles. To be honest, there aren't a lot of innovations 
 (e. g. extra crops, diplomatic options with the homeland) and some things have been left out (e. g. 
 loyalists appearing in your less rebellious colonies, the King requiring you to fight against other 
 European colonies) , but then again, Colonization was such a classic, why muck around with it? The 
 terrible Meier "one more turn" curse is fully embedded in this game (three 3 o'clockers in a week!) 
 so watch out. Others have commented that with just one ending, the game is very samey and hasn't 
 much replayability. You could level a similar accusation at all the Civ games (after all, who actually 
 goes for a diplomatic victory?) . The art is in the subtle variations of the landscape which demand 
 different tactics each time and as you progress up the difficulty levels, new problems emerge. 
 I've been trashed by the Injuns twice now because I didn't pay attention to how they were feeling 
 about me. (n. b. the old alert system of coloured exclamation points is no longer with us) .
  
  In short, this is just what we old time Col fans were waiting for. A full update, as per the 
 Civ series, can wait. Next we want SMAC brought up to date. Please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rclark04
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Civilization is my all time favorite game. I never played Colonization and knew it had a big following. 
 To me, this stripped down version of Civ 4 is too limited in what you can do. The resource management 
 is an interesting addition to the formula and provides some entertainment in the early game. Unfortunately 
 it wasn't enough to keep my attention. The lack of research takes a lot of the strategy out of 
 the game. Most of the other areas of the Civ formula have been stripped of options too (land improvement, 
 units and war, buildings, diplomacy) .
  
  Another thing I didn't like was the victory condition. You must declare independence AND kill all 
 the land forces of the mother country before time runs out. I can deal with the condition of having 
 to declare independence by a certain date, but it doesn't seem reasonable to have to guess how 
 quickly the mother country will send you her troops to kill. You must factor this into when you 
 declare independence. 
  
  I lump this game into other Sid disappointments that lacked long term fun (Pirates and Golf) . On 
 the surface they seem fun but after spending time with them they get boring due to lack of depth.
 
  
  Graphics and sound were both fine for this type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visitor_basic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I think right now, that playing the game more will reveal more ways to better play the game. Myself 
 I would take the turn rate and make it twice as long, right now. A few experts are going to have 
 to come out of training from the school. Although I am spending money right now to buy them before 
 the King wants to be kicked instead of kissing his ring with him wanting money when he wants it, 
 as usual for a computer game he is funny, but in a real life, he needs to be kicked hard off of 
 his throne. Not having played the original game, I still have to learn some things for playing 
 the game and I have no conception of how the game originally was. Every time I start up a new game, 
 I am finding out more on how to play the game. There will be maps that are better to play on and 
 maps that are worse to play on, like always. In the end it is not a real life but only a computer 
 game and it can always be turned off.
  
  I am sure the modding community will want to eagerly respond to this game, and spend time adding 
 all sorts of units and ideas to the game. So far as with playing this game, I find most European 
 Civilizations annoying and the Indian Tribes friendly enough to help out. I have not gone the other 
 route yet and tried to fight them all to increase my military's experience levels, but I am sure 
 that it will be tried out as a strategy in this game. Right now I am thinking that I would be thrown 
 into the ocean and never heard of again in this game.
  
  Fine-tuning of the colonies will help and again in that respect it may be more crucial than in 
 Civilization IV, since this game of Colonization is in that same genre.
  
  I rate the game the way that I do because I am just thinking about sitting at my computer and giving 
 political religious speeches to crank up the moral of my colonies like a Firebrand Preacher. I 
 just like to send an expect silver miner to a silver mining spot to see how much he cranks out 
 by the end of the game.
  
  Rolling, rolling, rolling! Keep those wagons rolling. Keep those wagons rolling, Rawhide! Through 
 all kinds of weather, you better keep those wagons rolling, with something else that's rolling 
 at their sides. Ye Haw! Something to do with the game in the end of that old idea for a TV show 
 that was on a long long time ago in a land that nowadays seem so far far away from the Past.
  
  Fanagle like a King but think like a Revolutionary!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aikman95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Despite being a big fan of this series since 1992, I never played the original, due to a lack of 
 interest in a narrow-focus. I have bee pleasantly surprised by this game, and in 2 weeks have cranked 
 out nearly 40 hours played. I find the level of city-management to be more satisfying in this game 
 than in basic Civ 4. I like the fact that I am not forced to constantly deal with pointless attacks 
 by the AI while I peacefully build up my cities and manage my trade. Like all Civ games, it seems 
 as if I learn something new each time, and continue to refine my skills with it. My only real complaint 
 is that the western hemisphere map starts another Euro faction right next door to me every time, 
 despite the fact that I play on the huge version. Because there is no real incentive to fight the 
 other Euro faction (as would certainly be the case in Civ 4) , this simply results in that Euro 
 faction remaining small the entire game, and generally finding itself in a losing war against the 
 Aztecs, who have countless cities in the area. At 30$ this game is a great bargain for sure. I've 
 already gotten my money's worth out of it. Might we get an Alpha Centauri spinoff soon as well? 
 That is the sequel I have been craving for 8 years now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrednajasobaka
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Civ 4: Colonization is a remake of classic game Colonization, where you establish colonies in the 
 new world and build them into economic and military power. You start as being either Spanish, English, 
 French or Dutch colonist and the goal to eventually grow strong enough to declare independence 
 from your mother country.
  
  I'm not going to go into too much details of the game; that has been pretty well covered by other 
 reviewers. I'd like to warn potential buyers that game's mechanics is essentially broken: declaring 
 revolution is either too easy or too difficult, depending how you play the game. 
  
  If you play the game the "right" way, that is build colonies, produce goods, make your rebel sentiment 
 grow and etc., you are going to get punished: when you declare revolution you mother country is 
 going to send such massive force against you that you won't stand a chance. On the other hand, 
 you can also beat the game rather quickly by almost doing nothing, but that kind of defeats the 
 purpose of playing. If you don't want to take my word for it, visit the game fora; it's pretty 
 well documented there how the balancing is messed up. 
  
  Looking at other reviews you can see that the Civ 4: Colonization got on average 8/10- I think 
 it just shows you how many people write review without playing the game sufficiently long. When 
 balancing of Royal Expeditionary Force is addressed this game can be easily 8 or higher. I have 
 no doubts that eventually this is going to be a great game worthy of its predecessor. I just don't 
 think that you should spend 30$ to be a beta tester. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbazil
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  i am a big fan of civ series being my favorite of all games ever and played since civ 1. i hardly 
 wait for this game but i`m really disappointed because i only see in civ4: colonization only as 
 a cheap add-on that`s is made as a single product. i expected from a remake of an old colonization 
 a full new product, but it`s just a graphic update. i am VERY disappointed, maybe because of big 
 expectation from sid which is a strategy games genius. 
  if i`ll have to take a list of 3 games on an lonely isle i choose civilization for any other 3 
 but sure not colonization. i give a score of 7 only because it must be judged as a stand alone 
 game and not compared with civ4 complexity and improvement.
  on a second taught the game name is colonization and not colonization 2 ... which make sense. judging 
 a 1995 same name with improvements only in graphic with same 1995 features when civ had a less 
 than a quarter of today complexity. colonization is exactly the same as in 1995 except grahic.
 
  before buy this game, rent it or even playing a demo is enough.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sinclare1
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I really, really wanted to enjoy this game. Being a big Civ fan, it seemed a given but the more 
 I played the more bored I got. Something is just missing and I can't put my finger on it; the game 
 just doesn't feel right. Sorry I can't give it a better grade but it just seems like half a game. 
 
  
  First off, the pace of the game just feels wrong. It doesn't feel personalized due to only a couple 
 different possible starting countries to play and none of them play my style. There is also the 
 issue of research and come to think of it.... that's really a big hit. Overall it just doesn't feel 
 like a Civ game.
  
  I've played for over two weeks and all I ever find myself doing is killing even a game where I 
 have the advantage and starting over. I'm to the point now where I'm just going to remove it from 
 the hard drive and chalk it up as a big disappointment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: msportsfan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  It has been a long time since I played the original version of this game in the mid-90s, but I 
 remember spending hours playing it back then. The new version is definitely better in terms of 
 graphics since the old one looked like it worked in DOS. The natives in the new version seem to 
 be much more active and visit your territory quite often without doing anything.
  In the newest version, it seems like it is more difficult to set up automated routes and to stay 
 on top of your resources. I've played through two games now and still have not worked out how to 
 automate my wagon trains the way I want.
  I also remember something about having a school means your petty criminals and indentured servants 
 eventually become free colonists through education. However, they didn't have to sit in the schoolhouse; 
 they were out working. Now, those characters have to sit in the schoolhouse and be non-productive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zimzvm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  over than 10 years ago I spent lots of hours playing and enjoying Sid Meier's Colonization. and 
 as an old Colonization veteran I was really delighted when I spotted the first reviews of the remake 
 of one of my favorite game ever.
  
  first of all... the game is really very close to it's original version. I don't remember very much 
 of the 'first' Colonization, but when I got to the new Colonization I was feeling kinda familiar. 
 though knowing the game and the main mechanics took me some time. the game definitely isn't easy. 
 the learning curve is quite steep but not frustrating.
  
  the main thing in the game is also the most difficult. most of the time one spends dealing with 
 economics --- both micro and macro. I find the part of planning and executing in the right way 
 the most challenging. one must decide in advance what to produce and in which way to develop each 
 town. it's impossible to produce everything in each town. specialization is the key. another thing 
 that makes it even tougher is the time that flows really fast. 300 turns isn't really that much. 
 and one must know the answers for the basic 'what', 'where', 'when' questions ASAP. time is not 
 ones ally. hopefully the natives and European peoples are rather pacifists. on the other hand being 
 in state of war with any of European factions is completely useless and unprofitable.
  
  I really like the enhanced Civ 4 graphics. everything looks fine and I don't have even single reason 
 to complain.
  music is really good and lets one feel the atmosphere much faster. but on the other hand the music 
 is very repetitious and starts to annoy with time. after couple of games I ended up listening to 
 radio while playing Colonization.
  
  imho it's completely unjustified to compare Colonization to Civilization 4. both games are rather 
 different and focus on different aspects.
  the only thing that may be compared is replayability... Civ 4 offers more varied things thereby 
 replayability of Colonization is unequally lower. but still the game offers lots of fun and is 
 difficult enough not to acknowledge all aspects too fast.
  
  there are couple of things that bug me. the import/export menu which I don't find user friendly. 
 and education of citizens in schools is not worth it's price.
  
  overall the game is very good. I don't feel disappointed. I hope that patches fix the things I 
 don't like, and if not I won't complain. there are ways to omit one of them.
  
  I recommend the game to all Civ 4 lovers and old Colonization vets. go and grab the game, it's 
 really worth spending time with that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Fat_Zebra
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 13, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  As the headline says, I've also played the original colonization some 10 years ago. Played is an 
 understatement really, I used to play it until my eyes fell out of their sockets from staring at 
 the screen and my highschool results suffered from it. That is how addicted I was to the game, 
 and hence loved it.
  
  A decade later, with albeit less time to invest in the game, I did kindof look forward to revisiting 
 that old skool feeling. 
  
  Graphics - 
  
  Well, not much to say there, and one could easily consider it an improvement over the original. 
 However, it is the tried and trusted CIV IV look and nothing more. I must admit that - maybe because 
 the original icons are burnt in my soul - I had some difficulty recognizing the tradeable commodities, 
 and even after a while I found it hard to recognize where the cigars are, or which building was 
 the armory/blacksmith shop/etc. So in that sense I found it a step back in that it was not entirely 
 functional.
  
  Sound - 
  
  While still sometimes repetitive, I found the music creating a very nice atmosphere. Whereas in 
 CIV IV I used to turn it off b/c it started to annoy me, here I find myself turning it on exactly 
 because of that nice background setting effect.
  
  Gameplay -
  
  In some ways, the CIV IV merger with colonization has changed the game, sometimes in bad ways, 
 sometimes in good ways, and sometimes it ought to have changed things, but didn't:
  1/ For me it was a missed opportunity that culture was built in through the liberty bells, but 
 that - as in the original game - this did not actually increase the land which your colonists could 
 work. Hence I say no point of introducing the culture-liberty bell link, and found this a missed 
 opportunity.
  2/ They have tweaked the founding father system, which is quite nice, including the working for 
 certain points to get them faster. However, and this links to the following point:
  3/ The game, on normal speed setting, gave me the impression that I had to be in a hurry. I did 
 not really get time to scour the land for treasure, to take over some fellow Europeans' colonists. 
 The game thus felt hurried in that all you should focus on from the start is building units to 
 kick your respective kings' behind. Hence, I lost much of the charm of the original, and while 
 having to build a military machine, found that I could not really use the founding father system 
 much, among other things.
  4/ Civ has some powerful mechanics such as culture, religion, deeper diplomacy. It would have been 
 great if that had been incorporated into the old colonization, so that the shorter timespan and 
 narrower focus had been traded for increased depth.
  
  In short, in the younger years I longed for a Colonization II. This game is not that, it is the 
 original in a fresh jacket. While that certainly does not detract from the original fun, this game 
 does nevertheless precede CIV III and CIV IV. Consequently, at that time I didn't really know better, 
 and having played this game, and all those other games, I find myself preferring things as they 
 were: the original colonization that made me almost fail exams, and the subsequent civilizations 
 that had the same effect.
  
  Still a good game, but a missed opportunity to give the newbies a great new game, and the oldies 
 something new to chew on.
  
  *UPdate*
  
  I have played through the game several times now, and have encountered many more problems. Firstly, 
 I have failed to win the game up to now. Maybe I'm a retard, but I know my way around the old colonization 
 as well as all civs, it just seems that the whole balance is off. The time it takes to build up 
 a satisfying network of well-oiled colonies with the right experts in place, and seeing your coffers 
 grow, is just entirely off. It just doesn't fit with seeking to declare your independence and having 
 to fight for it.
  
  Other things I miss compared to the old game:
  1/ complete loss of the sense of abundance. You used to arrive in the new world and see nice resource 
 spots, try to pick the best ones in south and north america, and load up your ships with silver, 
 tobacco, sugar, etc. etc. and make some serious money. As said, this doesn't fit will with having 
 to destroy 100 units of the king.
  2/ where is the fountain of youth? It used to be in there, but I haven't found it yet.
  3/ Is 
 it even an option to destroy indian villages and loot them??? Doesnt seem so to me.
  4/ the choices of whom you played with used to matter. now it seems useless, as whomever you play 
 with, market prices in europe stay the same if you trade in the good.
  5/ it's a useful glitch I suppose, but a village used to train an expert only once for you. Now 
 you can just keep sending converts in and get them to normal free colonist level immediatly
  
  Im deleting the game. Waste of time. play the old one, it's more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmw1981
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I found the original game for $5 somewhere (like a flea market or garage sale) about 4-5 years 
 ago and got addicted to it. The simplicity made it very fun to just jump in and do what you want! 
 They have changed a few little things, but pretty much is an updated version of the old one... and 
 I finally don't have to go through DOS to open it! ;-)
  
  Obviously, this is a sort of biased review, but I was very pleased when I spotted this on the aisle 
 at Target for a good price. Those complaining that it's a remake..... every Civilization since 1 
 is a remake, just like sports games. They update them with newer technology. Just like pretty much 
 everything in pop culture nowadays. Get over it.
  
  If you have never played the classic, but love the typical Civ games then its a very fun addition 
 to the collection. It's centered on a specific thing, kind of like a scenario. But with the usual 
 option of being an invader or an explorer or just a trader, it adds a lot of fun and replay value 
 to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andante79
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  I have play all the civ-games, call to power, and also enjoyed the original colonization.
  
  I rember the old game quite well because I really enoyed when I was younger. Looking forward 
 to revive old memories and experience the development of the civ-engine I was disappointed.
  
  First of all, the game is almost identical with the original except for improved graphics. 
 Secondly, you just end up trying to getting all the goods shipped in a poor resource system. Thirdly, 
 the game dont introduce anything new compared to CIVIV beside some better graphics and more diversity 
 in units (which was already invented in the 1990s) . The CIV-engine is poor, due to the lack of 
 beauty and flexibility. This is just another MOD combined with an update that should have been 
 free of charge.
  
  The game is for children and not strategy-veterans. It also shows that CIV5 probebly wound be more 
 than a polished version of CIV4. Sid Meier was once known for his revolutionary ideas allowing 
 gamers to sit hours in their own new world. Now the commercialization of the series with a crippled 
 original you have to by add-ons to and with minimal changes and more "Happy-play" attitude makes 
 CIV less and less devoted to the hardcore strategists. CIV REVOLUTION is just an example of how 
 badly this title has been raped in order to extract exstra bucks from people.
  
  Instead of CIV, Total War had managed to provide the combination between micro and macro management, 
 being easy and complex at the same time. CIV just takes away concepts only to add them later.
 
  
  The new CIV5 should by up Microsoft Ensemble Studios allowing superior graphics of AEO into the 
 CIV-series, aided with help from the Total War-team. CIV is fading away form its core. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Civilization has always been one of those true classics and this add-on bring a real twist to the 
 game. For those Civil War buffs you will really enjoy this game. There is a lot of historic reference 
 in the game. The game is tend to be a bit more narrow in scope compared to the other Civ games, 
 and there appear to be very little playability also, considering that the game tries to be as historical 
 then the other game. 
  The graphics are all well done, and are updated; the sound is very periodontal and sounds great. 
 You do have a huge battle at the end of the game against the English, it's hard but for some reason 
 didn't feel that rewarding, I think that the battles just aren't that interesting. There are tons 
 of other things you can do in the game, like trading with England and the Indians, and I found 
 that more fun than the battles. Not a bad add-on, I think I was expecting a bit more, but it is 
 a lot of fun to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10679
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Well i have played all the civilization games on pc on consoles and even the hand held and found 
 the game to be a lot fun but that fun can be easily destroyed due to one major flaw in the series. 
 That major flaw is the battle calculation. The battle calculation for the series is one of the 
 most illogical and BS system ever created. For example when i was playing the game i attacked the 
 enemy troops with a bomber plane, cannon and machine gun people while the enemy only had barbarians 
 for their military. The funny thing was that their barbarians with spears could take down a bomber 
 plane while my bomber plane could do no damage to the enemy troops. That is same when i used the 
 cannon, machine guns or any other troops which had a higher technology level than the enemy. apart 
 from that crap the game can be fun and if that flaw was actually fixed i would say that civilization 
 is one of the best strategy game ever :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knowltz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  I remember those days when we had DOS, and I remember the first game I would play back on my parent's 
 old 386. The difference is that this game will grow on you, with it's much deeper game play. I 
 also enjoy how you do not have to slaughter the native civilizations to receive treasure. Trade 
 is essential in this game, in a lush civilization caravan's should be everywhere, it is enjoyable 
 though, even the city screens look similar. The basic game play is very similar to Civilization 
 IV, but the same options, just much deeper from the original Colonization. The military game play 
 is also fun. I guess I am a sucker for these games. Good job Sid, a solid update of this game ! 
 You will be pleasantly surprised, and if you've played the original Colonization, you will notice 
 the same feel as you did back then. 9/10. Excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdwinBakx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm addicted to the Civ series since the first Civ and Colonization. This new part of the family 
 is a great game, with a perfect game play. The game combines the old Colonization with the new 
 CIV IV series, but the game play is for a big part different.
  Playing the "NEW" Colonization was in the beginning a little bit difficult, Especially working 
 with the "Old World" (sending everything to my colonies) was in the beginning a thing that I forgot 
 but already after a short time I remembered how it was and now it is perfect again.
  You just have to control the ships very good then the rest of the game becomes easy. 
  You can 
 recognize the CIV IV engine that is used, this results in very good graphics ans it makes the game 
 not only enjoyable to play but also enjoyable to look to (very important) I hope the CIV-Colonization 
 community will grow in the same way as the CIV IV community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skigamer
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  This game looks like it should be really good. When you start playing it, it seems extremely difficult 
 to win (on any setting) . However once you discover the winning strategy, the re-playability is 
 fairly limited. Here's a couple of hints if you are finding it frustrating...1) Build a galleon 
 early to trade in large quantities each turn (and to keep all cash from treasures) , 2) Get food 
 skills from the natives, 3) Buy lots of guns and horses, 3) Revolt after about 200 turns and make 
 sure you have more soldiers/dragoons than the king, 4) Attack the king's men guerrilla style one 
 at a time - very important to get your men promoted during battle and focus attack efforts with 
 promoted men. 
  
  All in all, this is a decent game but once you figure how to win, there isn't much to keep your 
 interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Civ type game I've played and owned. Usually I'm into games like Empire Earth 
 series (not EE3 though!) and the Total War series where there is more action gameplay but I thought 
 i would give this a try based on a time period I find interesting. 
  
  Im glad I did. Wonderful graphics, animations, etc. I was really impressed was the game play especially 
 when I took time to learn how to play this game. This is what turned me off before with these type 
 of games is the fact I was not willing to invest the man hours to learn how to play. 
  
  Now with this title out of the way I can move on to games I've passed up for this very reason such 
 as Galactic Civ Gold and the yet to be released Endless Universe where the concept is similar in 
 that you build your civilization from ground up along with your armies, colonies and territory. 
 
  
  With this game you create a colony in the new world and expand on it by founding new settlements 
 and trading with the Indian tribes. You have other European powers that are against you like France 
 or Spain. You must use your ship to trade with the old world, gather supplies and immigrants of 
 various skills. It's all balanced as with any game of this type. The key is to create a medium 
 between food, gold, trade goods, allies and enemies and such. Tip the scale to much either way 
 and your chances for victory decrease. 
  
  Really, the game is beautiful once you learn it and game be very addictive. I can see why I use 
 to see ads for the Civ 4 games where the dad or brother was a Civ 4 nut. Great game and highly 
 recommendable to young or old, Civ 4 vet's or newbies alike such as myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayonaise390
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  For summary, this game feels like a better than average mod of civ 4.. not a $30 game release. 
 One gets the distinct impression that this was half hearted effort to cash in on some nostalgic 
 gamers.
  
  The game starts off promising enough. The graphics are good, all your favorite gameplay elements 
 remain intact. The gameplay even feels familiar... The further you dive in, though, the uglier 
 the details seem. The timing is completely out of whack. You feel rushed the entire game, which 
 is the opposite of what you want in a game of this type. The AI is also quite bad, not that it 
 matters because you will have almost no interaction with it. If you play on a huge map, you will 
 be lucky to run into a single ship of one of the other nations. This removes a huge element of 
 the fun in the old version. Forget about warring with them entirely. You just can't sacrifice the 
 time and manpower. Doing so would immediately cripple any chance of winning the game. 
  
  The tacked on automated trade routes don't work. There are very few map selections. If you settle 
 north america the European border is 10 turns (TEN TURNS!!) further away then if you settle south 
 america. That is just sloppy mapmaking. (to give you an idea, it takes 3 turns to get to europe 
 from south america, it takes 13 from NA. That is a gamebreaking difference)
  
  There is no gold resources. Silver resources are nonexistant on the western hemisphere map (I couldn't 
 find any and i even went into the world builder) . The natives lack character, as do the european 
 colonies. 
  
  I don't know, I enjoyed this game for a play or two, but mostly for nostalgic reasons. I truly 
 would rather play the old version. This game needed more testing and more refinement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epakille
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Ok so why is this worse then the original (from freakin long ago) ? Simply:
  
  The original is more fun to play, more responsive, more focused, more clean.
  
  This DO feel 
 like a mod for civ4 rather then a exiting new version of colonization, and it shouldn't feel that 
 way. Turns are slow, interface and map is unnecissarily messy. Hell, its even hard to see which 
 squares are having hills or not (you have to hoover the mouse over and READ what the tile includes) .
 
  
  AI is even more lame then in the original and if you play on a smaller map only one opponent shows 
 up (wtf?) Gold and economy doesnt feel very rewarding to deep into so it becomes a shore early 
 on. Only good thing is they removed the penalty for high tory in large settlements which was kinda 
 enoying in the orig.
  
  I have to admit that i didnt really like civilization 4 much either (i think civ3 was much more 
 enjoyable) .
  
  Its not a bad game, its ok, but way to messy, slow and frustrating. I play the old one over this 
 one anytime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ilthik
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  You've just spent the last half hour dragging and dropping colonists and goods. And you haven't 
 yet hit enter. I enjoy a good bit of micromanagement more than most people, but this remake of 
 Colonization seems a bit off kilter. I've got three big gripes with it:
  
  1) No difficulty scaling. I'm not sure what exactly the different difficulties are supposed to 
 do in this game. The endgame is just as difficult on all levels, the natives and other colonials 
 are just as pathetic, and the micromanagement is just as overwhelming. 
  
  Furthermore, in any game that wants to claim it can scale difficulty, the first step is to have 
 the low end beatable by anyone - even a newbie to the genre who has never read the manual and is 
 basically just clicking random things on the interface. This couldn't be any further from the case 
 here. Newbies will lose. Veteran Civvers will lose. Veteran Colonists (Colonizers?) will lose. 
 This leads me to...
  
  2) This game is balanced in all the wrong places. There was so much care taken to make a realistic 
 economy, which is pretty nice, that the result is completely unplayable. You will be punished at 
 every turn and every move has a (very steep) opportunity cost. Want to manufacture goods from raw 
 materials? The cheapest specialized harvesters produce more raw goods than the more expensive specialized 
 manufacturers can consume. Good luck striking a balance. Every specialist or colonist you buy from 
 Europe will cost you more. Every recruit you gain naturally will cost you more. Every time you 
 train somebody it will take longer than before. Everything builds hideously slowly and you need 
 lots and lots of colonists to build up a thriving colony very quickly so you can have a revolution 
 before time runs out (which it does very, very quickly) . 
  
  Oh and I should also mention that you have the choice of half a dozen raw materials to try to make 
 some money off of and they're scattered all over the new world, but if you don't specialize your 
 cities they won't be producing enough to be worthwhile and you'll run out of time.
  
  3) I've hit on this already, but the lack of time in the game is a huge annoyance. Or is it the 
 lack of resources? Or the lack of money? Or the lack of colonists? Something ought to give. Each 
 game I've played feels so rushed that I can't even enjoy myself because I'm trying to think 50 
 moves ahead so I don't fall behind in the race toward revolution. If it had taken the first colonists 
 100 years to build a lumber mill nobody would have bothered coming to the new world in the first 
 place. Heck, nobody would have ever left their cave in the first place. 
  
  Bottom line: It's an addicting game, but not because it's fun. It's addicting because it seems 
 like it should be enjoyable and very winnable and because the graphics are nifty and because dragging 
 and dropping colonists into little colonist shaped slots is always good fun. But just like a cute 
 little gremlin, I think I'll be putting this one back in its box and hiding it far, far away so 
 I'm not tempted to play with it again lest it suck the life out of me some more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natria
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Having played the original for hundreds of hours, I was really excited to see a long overdue remake 
 of Colonization.
  
  It's really a mystery why it took so long, but sadly the result was not worth the wait. Veterans 
 of the original will be able to pick up where they left off in the mid 90'ties, because almost 
 nothing has changed but the graphics.
  
  There have been made some very minor improvements to trade routes, the implementation of a new 
 kind of colonist and the addition of governments. Most of these are superficial afterthoughts, 
 and the overall impression is that of a hack copy / paste job with some better graphics.
  
  The UI is terrible, the difficulty completely out of whack, the AI very poor, and there's very 
 little replay value. Colonization is also plagued with lazy bugs, that were forgivable in 1994, 
 but frankly don't belong in a 2008 release. 
  
  It's possible (and you really should) to wipe out the three other nations within 10-20 turns of 
 the game just using your starting soldier. The King will continue to demand higher taxes - even 
 when it's already at the capped 99%. 
  
  The game is also rediculously hard. I've played about 10 games so far on the second easiest setting, 
 and not once have I come close to winning. The Kings expeditionary forces usually outnumber your 
 colonist 4 to 1.
  
  It's certainly not impossible to win, but it requires you amass a force of hundreds of soldiers 
 of your own, which feels like pointless busywork.
  
  The overall impression of Sid Meiers Civilization 4: Colonization is that of a soulless cashgrab 
 much like the remake of Pirates! It's only $30 though, which may be worth it for nostalgic reasons 
 alone. Players unfamiliar with Colonization should stay clear however.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: farizcleo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  If you want to study history by games, this game will the best way to do this. With the easy-understanding 
 system and fine graphic will make you fun. I think this game may help gamers who want to play turn-based 
 game better. About me, I never play turn-based game before. But this game makes me understand and 
 fun a lot.
  
  However, most people often play real-time more thn turn-based. So, they don't understand enough. New 
 player should try to play alone before scenario mode.
  Sometimes, that makes me feel confused. The result is my game spend about 2-4 hours per game. 
 
  
  If you want to study history by games, this game will the best way to do this. With the easy-understanding 
 system and fine graphic will make you fun. I think this game may help gamers who want to play turn-based 
 game better. About me, I never play turn-based game before. But this game makes me understand and 
 fun a lot.
  
  However, most people often play real-time more thn turn-based. So, they don't understand enough. New 
 player should try to play alone before scenario mode.
  Sometimes, that makes me feel confused. The result is my game spend about 2-4 hours per game. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: urchaldean
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 11:36 pm PT
Review:  I put my hand up and say that I loved the first Colonization game and spent many hours befriending 
 natives and beating up the British. 
  Frankly, it's a near perfect upgrade, they have stuck to the things that worked and upgrade or 
 introduced elements that needed changing. 
  You are rewarded for pursuing different strategies, so the gameplay can be nicely varied. The game 
 designers are right when they say the heart of th e game is trading, this is really about grabbing 
 land setting up industries that will turn over a wad of cash which will allow you to outgun the 
 king's army when they turn up.
  The graphics are nicely realized, although some art assets have been taken from Civ IV - they don't 
 detract.
  My only gripe is that the music isn't the same as I remember - which is a shame for me... but irrelevant 
 to everyone else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevlarIllumini
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 4:32 am PT
Review:  When first I heard Firaxis Games was remaking the fantastic classic game Colonization using the 
 Civ IV engine, I thought it was an interesting idea.
  
  Glad it was worth the wait, turned out fantastic.
  
  The classic fundamental game-play of the 
 old colonization with welcome new additions such as unit and ship automation.
  Another is multi-player in simultaneous turn-based, turning an already good game into a highly 
 addictive and time consuming one, so look out.
  
  The new game concept of liberty points split into the four different categories (Political, Trade, 
 Military and Exploration) which allows you to recruit founding fathers is a new twist to the original 
 concept, along with the altered effects makes for an interesting change from the original game-mechanics.
 
  
  Another major change to the original game-play is the abandonment of the penalty for having large 
 towns with low rebel sentiment.
  
  Overall the alterations are generally well done and add a bit off freshness to the old game.
 
  
  The graphics and music well suits the theme of discovery, exploration and colonization of the new 
 world.
  
  An excellent tribute to a favorite classic game.
  
  Well worth checking out if you enjoyed the old classic PC game Colonization. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NomadIIIM
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Civilization IV: Colonization stays true to the fundamentals of the original and has become even 
 more enjoyable the second time around. Beyond the graphics and music, very little has been altered 
 significantly and the game remains an experience that most veteran Colonization fans will recognize 
 and love.
  
  Probably the best non-stylistic modification was the addition of the several Continental Congress 
 progress bars that now present the player with many new goals to strive for. The soundtrack backs 
 up the rich atmosphere of the period with 117 MP3 selections that include colonial, Native American, 
 and classical music. The loyalist/revolutionary penalty that used to slow the growth of the colonies 
 has been removed from the game as well.
  
  Unfortunately, the game shipped with some annoying bugs and accounting problems, but nothing that 
 seems to keep a single player game from lasting over ten hours without crashing. The colony screen 
 doesn't keep track of the buildings that have been completed but are still waiting for a shipment 
 of tools. The adviser screen often loses track of your total horse and musket count.
  
  I also found it quite entertaining to see the new way that the AI handles the Indian units on the 
 war path, as they move unpredictably throughout your countryside, individually attacking, often 
 pillaging, and frequently scattering. Beware of the one more turn phenomenon -- it is alive and 
 well within this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klepel
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  So here it finally is, the official 2008 release of the one-and-only Sid Meier Colonization game. 
 I'll break it down real quick: if you're not a fan of turn-based-strategy then you're gonna hate 
 this game too...
  On the other hand, if you ARE a big fan of the genre then this may be the game worth spending your 
 precious time. For the ones of you that have been keeping themselves busy with Colonization for 
 Windows and opensource versions of Col, here's your final relief... you're gonna love this one.
 
  
  Now about the game, the good:
  -it got all the great stuff from before, plus...
  -it looks great
  -it plays smooth and fast
  -intuitive controls and interface 
  -more build-options 
 in your settlements
  -artillery... ow. ow. ow... the artillery :P
  -much more
  
  The bad:
  -AI sometimes destroys itself by declaring indepence too early
  -there's no beautiful 
 view of the Europe port anymore, it's just a boring load/unload/sail screen now : (
  -encountered a bug while loading a saved game. The game kept asking me if I wanted to upgrade a 
 terrain tile.
  
  Other than that, Colonization is once again my favorite turn-based-strategy game. I believe this 
 one may last just as long as it's predecessor... and that is a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meridianhawk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I didn't think it was possible, but they've taken one of my all-time favorite games as a kid and 
 improved it. If you enjoyed the original, you'll enjoy this one.
  
  The graphics are fantastic and I love the humor. The first time I saw the English king flick his 
 pinkie at me and tell me to kiss his ring, I laughed out loud.
  
  Considering that I usually turn off the music on most games when I play them, the fact that I haven't 
 done so yet at least tells me it's not irritating. Most of the time with a game, music tends to 
 get in the way during game play. You're trying to listen to audible clues to what's happening and 
 all you can hear is some hokey music. So far, I haven't had this problem yet.
  
  I only have a couple of minor issues.... I can't find a way to control my units with arrow keys. 
 I found the original had a good mix of mouse and keyboard that made the game flow nicely. This 
 one is primarily mouse and it takes me a little longer to adjust. I also wasn't able to "unbuild" 
 a town as you can in the original as long as a stockade had not been built. My seasoned scouts 
 would not get back on their saddles and they died of starvation on the next turn forcing me to 
 reload the last auto save. It could be possible and I just don't know exactly how to do it, but 
 it should be more intuitive I think.
  
  Beyond those minor quibbles.... highly recommended for turn-based fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vedek
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I was excited when I heard Sid Meier was revisting the Colonization franchise. I had no doubts 
 it would be good, and I am not disappointed. In many ways, this version is far superior to the 
 original. True the graphics are undoubtedly better, but the functionality of the game is much more 
 intuitive. I was able to pickup on this version within minutes. I usually start in Easy mode so 
 I can get an understanding of the game. I like the looks and sounds, the all around feel of the 
 game. There have been a couple of graphic bugs so far, but I know the next patch will resolve many 
 issue as well as improve the game experience. I think the Trade Route setup could be easier. I 
 also think the Euorpean Screen could be changed a bit. I like the new European look, but I miss 
 the docks and city in the background scene like in the original. My sincere thanks to Sid Meier 
 and the team at Firaxis (and EA too) for giving us back a great game! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
