-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/sidmeiersalphacentauri/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 19, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 9.2, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 1,671 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Firaxis Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Jan 31, 1999 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri is another one of those games that can make hours pass like minutes. 
 

 Ever have one of those conversations about those magic games you decided to boot up before dinner, 
 just to get a look at it, and the next thing you knew was 4 a. m. and you were still hungry? Invariably, 
 in such conversations, Sid Meier's Civilization is cited as one of the worst offenders in creating 
 "bleary-eyed next day at work, but boy was it fun" syndrome. Well, be warned: Sid Meier's Alpha 
 Centauri is another one of those games that can make hours pass like minutes, a game that makes 
 you put a cooler full of sandwiches and sodas next to your computer desk so you don't have to get 
 up all weekend.  

 Created by Brian Reynolds and Sid Meier, the team that brought us Civilization II, Alpha Centauri 
 is clearly the spiritual sequel to that game. Civ II ends with you leaving behind the conflicts 
 of Earth to make a new life on Alpha Centauri. This game picks up with a colony ship reaching that 
 system, but it turns out that moving to the stars doesn't change mankind's basic nature. Before 
 the colony ship lands, the crew splits up into seven factions with different priorities for the 
 new world. Each decides to land on its own and try to remake the planet in its own philosophical 
 image.  

 Thus, it turns out that life on the new planet is going to be much like the life man knew on Earth 
 - exploring new territories, setting up colonies, and using diplomacy and war to deal with the 
 other societies. To this effect, gamers will find that Alpha Centauri's gameplay looks and feels 
 much like Civ II's. The map perspective is similar, the command interface is virtually identical, 
 and there are nearly direct corollaries between some of the historical and science fiction elements 
 of each game. Sure, mindworms may take the place of barbarians, and you may create Planetary Datalinks 
 instead of the Great Library, but gameplay will feel instantly familiar to any Civ II player.  
 

 However, this is true in the same way that Starcraft will feel familiar to any Warcraft II player. 
 While Alpha Centauri shamelessly borrows the elements that made its predecessor magic, the game 
 here is much richer, more sophisticated, and better tailored to individual styles of playing than 
 Civ II.  

 A big concern with moving to a science fiction realm is accessibility. After all, even those of 
 us burdened with a typical American public school education are familiar with the basics of historical 
 civilizations and the progress of technology throughout the centuries. But xenofungus, cyberethics, 
 and polymorphic encryption are new concepts to everyone. To keep from overwhelming you or requiring 
 you to memorize the manual beforehand, Firaxis has created a well-done interactive tutorial which 
 can walk you through each interface window the first time it pops up, and warn you if you're neglecting 
 important game elements. In addition, there's a well-done Datalink help system with detailed information 
 on all the game's controls, technologies, and units. The help system is thorough enough that you 
 may not even need to crack the game's 250-page manual. You should, though, as it includes excellent 
 background information, as well as a number of handy charts.  

 Gameplay is the familiar  model. You'll establish cities, 
 explore the area around it, and build both military and research infrastructures. As in Civ II, 
 you can build farms and roads to make your economy more useful and productive. Be aware, though, 
 that this is an alien planet, and the ecosystem may not react kindly to manipulation. In fact, 
 the planet is in many ways another player to compete with. Handle it properly and it can be an 
 ally, allowing you to tame the dangerous mindworms that roam its surface and use them against your 
 human enemies.  

 Alpha Centauri takes automation to a new height, with features that will be welcome to gamers who 
 don't enjoy management and to anyone who has dozens of units and cities in the latter stages of 
 a game. You can put governors in charge of cities, with a priority to explore, discover, build, 
 or conquer. The governor will then choose which units and improvements to produce (of course, you 
 can jump in at any time and alter the production queue) . Similarly, units can be put on autopilot, 
 allowing formers to automatically terraform, scouts to explore on their own, and so on. Those who 
 enjoy micromanagement can leave everything in manual mode and manage every aspect of their society. 

 The game features a very rich technology tree. While almost all technologies are available to all 
 players, the varying strategies used by each faction helps keep everyone from having the identical 
 endgame forces. Particularly cool is the design workshop, which lets you create custom vehicles 
 using available armor, weapon, power, and chassis combinations. You can create heavily armored 
 defense forces, or go for cheap, speedy, and plentiful troops for massive attacks. The ability 
 to upgrade units (at a cost) keeps you from being saddled with outdated forces. Further, the scenario 
 and map editors, as well as modifiable "rule" text files, will allow you to create a wide variety 
 of custom scenarios.  

 Alpha Centauri's most impressive aspect, though, is the faction AI. The seven factions have very 
 different priorities - economy, religion, peace, environment, knowledge, survivalism, and authoritarianism. 
 These philosophies not only come through in each faction's play styles, but also in how they react 
 to what you do in the game. Warlike behavior won't endear you to the UN, and the Believers aren't 
 thrilled about high technology. Commit atrocities such as nerve stapling to keep your population 
 orderly and nobody will like you. As in real life, though, if you get powerful enough, everyone 
 will want to be your friend.  

 Winning the game can be done in a number of ways. Conquer all the other factions (alone or with 
 allies) , win a diplomatic victory by being elected supreme ruler, corner the global energy market 
 to gain economic victory, or go for the gusto and complete the Ascent to Transcendence secret project. 
 (From the description of this, though, it sounds frighteningly like donning your Nikes and going 
 off to ride a comet.) There are few nits to pick with the game. Some minor bugs exist, such as free 
 armor on air vehicles, but many were fixed with the 2.0 patch and more will be zapped in 3.0. Diplomacy 
 can be annoying at times - you may wonder how Sister Miriam can suddenly break your alliance and 
 join with Colonel Santiago to attack you, when just 30 turns back Santiago was eating into Miriam's 
 territory. However, such inexplicable choices do occasionally happen in real life, and overall 
 diplomacy is better handled here than in any prior strategy game.  

 Alpha Centauri's multiplayer support is well done, with simultaneous movement that keeps you from 
 having to sit around while other players make their moves. Particularly nice is built-in voice 
 chat, very handy for gloating to enemies when you take one of their cities. Of course, turn-based 
 strategy games require a fair time commitment, and getting players together for multiplayer sessions 
 can be difficult. Firaxis has a free matchmaking service at www. alphahq. net. The first patch added 
 play-by-email support, so when a game runs long you can save it at the end of a turn and continue 
 it via email at your leisure, and then pick it up again "live" later.  

 Although it may feel a lot like Civ II on the surface, Alpha Centauri is a much more refined game. 
 As has been the case more often than not, Sid Meier's name in the title signifies quality. With 
 its top-notch diplomacy, civilization building, and wargame elements, Alpha Centauri is the new 
 pinnacle of turn-based strategy games.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Zombie_Phoenix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I just don't know where to begin with this masterpiece of a game! Seriously, I have played this 
 game for hundreds of hours, and as soon as I beat one game I start another. Highly addicting. I 
 recommend this to actually anyone who enjoys strategy. My only qualm is pretty small: after playing 
 it for so long, it is just kinda too easy. Not trying to brag, but I can't remember the last time 
 I lost. And since the game is so old, there is no one else to play with online. The ten year anniversary 
 of this amazing game is on the 31st, so I just thought I had to put this out there. We need a sequel. 
 It took Starcraft forever to get a sequel, but it's coming. So anybody who's anybody needs to play 
 this game. Simply delightful. If I had three hands, I'd give it three thumbs up. If I did not know 
 any better, I would think that Da Vinci designed this. It's executed phenomenally and I can't stop 
 playing it. Okay, I gotta stop because I'm drooling on the keyboard. PLAY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutchi78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  The most addictive game I have ever played. Put simply, if there is a more addictive game, Sid 
 Meier probably wrte it. Following in the footsteps of it's mighty big brother, Civilization, Alpha 
 Centauri stomps all over any thing else thats tried to get into this genre.
  
  The story goes, that a few years after leaving earth, your colony arrives at Alpha Centauri split 
 into seven factions. You pick one and try to beat the rest with the usual, military, economic, 
 and science etc victories. New, futuristic technologies means you'll be blasting with lasers and 
 planet busters before you know it!
  
  Be warned, if you begin playing this game, have plenty of food and drink at hand, because you won't 
 bve moving for a while. Sid Meier has mastered the art of addiction and has you in the palm of 
 his hand from start to finish. Oh, and when you're finished, you'll probably just start again. 
 That is how good this game is. So, comfy seat, plent of munchies and a whole loada time and thats 
 you sorted for a solid 96 hours of gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballisticsfood
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game once at the age of ten, i didnt pick it up again until a few days ago. 
 Well, that was quite possibly the worst decision I've ever made. not because the game is bad, you 
 must understand, but because its so damn good. I'm supposed to be doing coursework and revising 
 for exams, not shouting ineffectually as Colonel Santiago claims yet another city that I cleared 
 all the units out of!
  
  All in all, I can safely say that this is the greatest Turn based strategy I have ever played, 
 in the past or now. It's 'one more turn' factor is unbelievable, and I can quite happily while 
 away an entire night and only realise I should go to bed when the birds start singing outside my 
 window. Even then, it takes me a while to tear myself away from the game.
  
  Now then, features and yummy stuff: Although it's from the year of waaaaay back, the graphics fit 
 perfectly with the gameplay, and it's my opinion that flashy 3d effects would actually detract 
 from the game, putting more focus on the eye candy than the core gameplay. The sounds are also 
 dated, and although they don't detract, none of them actually add anything. Except the voice acting. 
 That is incredible. Every piece of research is read out, and although theres nothing complicated 
 or fancy about it, it adds a certain something to the game, making you feel you've achieved something 
 when a quote from Einstein or The Art of War is read out over a description of what your shiny 
 new research does.
  
  Core gamplay is much the same as it ever was in sid meier games, a template that hasn't changed 
 this much even to this day, which only proves that it's a good template. Many things can be automated, 
 from city management to terraforming and even to scouting out new lands or colonisation. The AI 
 takes over seamlessly, picking up tasks that you don't want to do. Not as well as you might, it's 
 true, but well enough. If, however, you prefer to micromanage every step of the game (which you 
 can quite happily do, given that it's turn based) you can turn the Governors (yes, a trait shared 
 with Civ, this game is full of them) , stop telling all your units to automate themselves, and geti 
 into the nitty gritty heart of the game. Combat follows the rules you'd expect, with more powerful 
 units winning more fights, until someone comes along with a bigger, better unit and wipes it out.
 
  
  Getting bigger, better units is all about research, which you can do honestly, getting the tech 
 by the sweat of your own brow, or you can beg, borrow or steal from your opponents. As stated before, 
 each piece of research has its own spoken piece, it's own description, and a redout of what it 
 does. More research also gives you more shiny stuff, like bigger guns, better armour, or shinier 
 chassis to mount your newfound big guns on.
  
  Which brings me to another part I love, (Hell, i love most of it) , the unit editor. Although it 
 might seem an old idea now, being able to put together your own doom machine is very satisfying. 
 
  
  Now, although I could go on and on for hours, time for the not so good bits:
  It's compatability with newer operating systems is a bit... bad. It took me an hour or so to get 
 all the bits I needed and install them all to get the game to run on a Vista system (including 
 compatibilty mode and run as admin) .
  Multiplayer seems to me to be lacking, although I'm not sure whether that's a product of it being 
 old or a product of my stupidity.
  Another problem is the fact that it's almost impossible to find a hard copy of this awesome game 
 (yes, there's torrents and downloads galore, but half of em don't work and the other half are virus 
 ridden) .
  
  All in all, it's an amazing game, and if you can get it working you will be rewarded with what 
 will seem like half an hour of awesome gameplay, but which is in fact several hours. I heartily 
 reccomend anyone to go and get a copy of this game. If you can find a physical copy, grab it, it 
 shouldn't cost too much because it's a before 2000 game. If you can't, try find a download. Seriously. 
 This game is a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skywryter
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  This is the game every science fiction geek like me dreamed of playing Avalon Hill games in the 
 sixties. Despite the lack of orbital and interplanetary battle, it holds up better than the competition 
 on almost every level. The AI is decisive and consistent, the tech tree is complex and involving, 
 the factions are well balanced, and even the abstruse back story of Alpha Centauri, should you 
 choose to read it, is literate, surprisingly deep, and cleverly thought out. I had hoped for years 
 that Sid Meier would release an update of Alpha Centauri. However, I haven't found Civ 4 as involving 
 as Civ 3, largely due to the lack of clarity in the graphics, and the lumpy uninteresting sameness 
 of the topography. Rather than see the the same happen to this one; units overcomplicated to the 
 point where they're hard to distinguish from one another, needlessly detailed animation you have 
 to zoom in on to appreciate, and any semblance of style sacrificed for bland realism, I think it's 
 just as well they leave Alpha Centari alone, a classic for the ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_the_pipe
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Overall, this game is fun. Any followers of Sid Meiler will pick this game up and instantly know 
 what's what. It's got the same concepts that make Civilization fun: Conquer, Diplomacy, Espionage, 
 Expand, Research, Trade, Make Peace or War. The main difference is you're on an alien world instead 
 of an earth, and the technologies are more advanced. (So, in a regular game you might research 
 Pottery, but in AC you research Alien Fertilization. Later, instead of Space Flight you'll get 
 The Answer to the Universe.)
  
  Unfortunately, I've played Civilization too much, so I disagree with the menu and layout changes 
 AC makes. I find the way the menus are layered within eachother very frustrating. Clicking into 
 2 or 3 menus just to find a simple task like 'Farm' seems annoying and tedious. The horizontal 
 menu was better.
  
  Pros: -This has got to be the only direct sequel to a world dominance game.
  -I like the quotes 
 and how they're read outloud.
  -Finally, there are Settler units and Farmer units! This is very good.
  -Thought-control police-dominated 
 power state. Yea!
  -Convene World council. Awesome!
  
  Neutral: -City governors. I micro-manage so this means nothing to me, but it's an interesting feature.
 
  -The barbarians have been replaced with mushrooms, worms, and locusts.
  
  Cons: -The planet is covered with pink fungus. As a result, you'll be staring at pink A LOT.
 
  -Erratic terraformers wandering into the middle of the ocean to plant seaweed.
  -Planet Buster/Nuclear Bomb costs too much, takes too long to build, and blows a small chunk out 
 of the planet. (I like the old 'Hiroshima effect' more, because it allows you to swoop in and conquer 
 a decimated city.)
  -Glitches.
  -Some messages flash by before you can read them. The white font-over-images doesn't help.
  -Change 
 for changes' sake is no good. (See menu comments.)
  -Some hot keys seem to cross-wires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. I always picked the race of men to be in the game. I hated the red headed religious 
 lady and the nature Gai people. It was my first experience though with strategy based games. I 
 loved positioning military vehicles on the edges and then catching the enemies infultrate with 
 there probes and stuff. It was so very much fun after having been infultrated by a certain race 
 and having had sabotage to my refineries and such AND then getting ultimatum's by that same race. 
 I lived for that part of it plus gaining the nukes and blowing them off the map. That was great 
 gaming. I loved how those same races who had given the ultimatums would then give stronger ones 
 after being hit with a nuke so I would just nuke them again. Best of all would be when they started 
 to beg me not to totally anhilate the race and guess what I did. I totally wiped them off the map 
 for good. That was great gaming. Even though it was turn based, the game did not take too long 
 on an old computer. Because of the trouble makers and the nukes, this game is a 9.5. Cool out man. 
 Cool out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  Alpha Centauri is a stunningly good game, it's a sci-fi turn based strategy (the first of many 
 refreshing changes to the civilization formula) game very similar to the civilization series, only 
 much better- even more so than the latest and supposedly greatest Civilization series game, Civilization 
 IV.
  
  The game is set in the near future, the world is heading for an apocalypse and the UN decide to 
 save mankind by building a star ship 'Unity' and heading for our nearest neighbours star - Alpha 
 Centauri and its main planet 'Chiron' a 40 year journey for this spaceship.
  However before planetfall the ship is sabotaged (waking the majority of the crew up from cryostasis) 
 the captain is assassinated, and its going to crash, the personnel on board mutiny and unlike Civilization 
 series of games, in Alpha Centauri the factions are separate only by ideological thought, not race/culture/history 
 which makes for another refreshing change from the Civ style of games.
  They band together into various factions and jump onto the last remaining life pods - the U. N Peacekeepers 
 seeking to maintain the original U. N charter, The Hive which seeks a totalitarian empire where 
 the community is everything, the individual is nothing., Gaia's StepDaughters who are concerned 
 with the well being of their new planet and to never repeat the same mistakes made on Earth, University 
 of Planet -the Technocrats, which seeks to further research without moral or ethical constraints, 
 The Spartan Federation which is the more militant faction keen on strength, discipline and readiness 
 to fight, Lords Believers - fundamentalist Christians
  
  Morgan Industries - fat cats.
  
  Each of the factions has its own unique bonuses and unlike Civilization having a pitiful one 
 unique unit per faction, the differences in Alpha Centauri are much more pronounced, which ill 
 explain shortly.
  
  The first real difference from the Civ games gameplay wise is that as you progress in a game you 
 can set your factions own agendas aka Social Engineering.
  You can set Politics frontier - which offers no bonuses or penalties (the default politics) concerned 
 with only survival off course, but later there's also Democratic, Fundamentalist and Police State, 
 each with their own benefits and penalties.
  Then there's Economics, simple which is again the default no benefits/penalties, free market system 
 which offers huge financial benefits but conversely huge environmental and policing issues, planned- 
 basically a centralised economy which may improve industrial output but not as beneficial commercially 
 and finally Green economics which is centred around growth whilst preserving/minimising environmental 
 damage.
  Next up there's values, you can choose to be all about survival (default again) , Power values - 
 strength is respected and thus you have a more militant faction, knowledge - pursuit of scientific 
 research is the priority and finally what most of the worlds values are today, wealth.
  And finally there's Future Society, what society would you want your faction to be like in the 
 future, and their suitably sci-fi, none is default off course, cybernetic menial jobs are done 
 by AI leaving the creative side of things to however discontent rises due to discontent towards 
 the machines humans, Eudaimonic - a perfect happiness where everybody wins however everyone being 
 happy means a largely pacifistic populace and the militaries moral suffers and finally there's 
 a Thought Controlled Society which means your units/cities/datalinks cant be infiltrated or subverted 
 but your economy and industry will take a hit in order to maintain this.
  
  Ok now that ive explained the social engineering, ill explain what the differences are with the 
 factions and why its much more better than any 'uniqueness' amongst factions in Civilization series, 
 each of the factions, because they are separated by ideological thought have one choice from each 
 section 'political, economic, values and future society unable to be selected, so if your the Morganites 
 -the ultra capitalist fat cats you cant choose to be Green economically, and furthermore there 
 are unique differences aswell, sticking with the Morganites, because people are so greedy they 
 also need alot of space and luxuries and so their cities cant expand beyond a pop size of 4 without 
 the 'Hab Complex' having been built already- bear in mind the impact this has, as with other factions 
 the default pop limit in a base lacking a hab complex is 7.
  
  Another example is say, the University faction, they are concerned with unmitigated research but 
 unscientific dogma, so they cant choose to be fundamentalist in the politics section of the Social 
 Engineering section. But also since they are such good scientists they have a bonus to their research 
 output, however they are more prone to infiltration and sabotage from rivals probe teams (read 
 as spies/saboteurs) and because of their lack of morals they generate extra 'Drone' citizens (rioters, dissent, strikes 
 etc) .
  
  And it goes without saying all the other factions likewise have their own unique penalties and 
 bonuses, but furthermore each faction also has its own personality, the Hive, Spartans and Believers 
 are much more militant than the other factions, but beyond this, certain factions hate other ones 
 based on their social choices.
  The fundamentalists will hate the people who are godless (the Hive) or those that engage in unethical 
 research (the university) and will be more geared to fighting them, than say the U. N.
  
  And because the factions are unique, each one promises a different style of playing the game, with 
 the morganites you don't need to give a dam about the environment, with the Gains you do and so 
 on it effects who you will bargain with who you'll ignore/destroy etc and how you will go about 
 doing this.
  
  Now Alpha Centauri really is the classic '1 more turn' style of game, and unlike ANY civilization 
 game, the United Nations part is actually done right. Yes its done right, once all factions are 
 met you convene a council to elect a planetary governor, this governor gains not only a better 
 spy network but can make a vote for a specific policy and can try bribe others into voting yay 
 or nay. The reason it works OH so much better than ANY civilization game is that the player actually 
 has the choice (or whoever is planetary governor) on what policy goes up for a vote. So say on 
 CIV IV were a vote goes up saying no one can build nukes and it goes ahead with a majority yes 
 vote - you or I would be pretty dam pissed because it was a random voting policy that came up, 
 and once its passed YOU CANNOT build nukes because you don't even have the dam option to opt out 
 of the U. N.
  At least in Alpha Centauri the player has the option of what policy goes up for considering and 
 it really does make a huge difference to the fun of the game, and you can even defy policies that 
 win and do your own thing.
  
  And as I mentioned earlier, the Civ games have a really impressive one whole unique unit !! per 
 faction, however in Alpha Centauri you can actually design all your own units and upgrade them 
 with new technologies and add abilities to them - say AAA tracking enabling a unit to better fight/defend 
 against Air units. Needless to say, its alot better and the choices are seemingly innumerable.
 
  
  Another gameplay element which is seemingly much more important in Alpha Centauri is terrain, terrain 
 effects food produced, energy gained and minerals acquired, but also thought the game weather effects 
 can change, there can be more rain if land is raised for example, or there can be catastrophic 
 floods which might cause your city to be destroyed (unless you've built a pressure dome!)
  Which leads me to another good aspect of Alpha Centauri, Cities on the Sea, yes cities that are 
 built in the middle of the ocean, they will acquire more energy and probably food but lack the 
 minerals of the land lubbing bases. Big deal you might think? Well it actually means if a player 
 has bases at sea, one needs a navy, so Naval units actually become important, something that Civilization 
 series has failed to do in all these years, make naval units worthwhile.
  
  Also, because Alpha Centauri deals with Sci-Fi, ideology and future societies, the 'wonders' or 
 secret projects in the game are suitably futuristic - each one offers benefits to the society that 
 creates it, the earliest one is Human Genome project (something being mapped out today) , others 
 include Cyborg Factory, Longevity Vaccine, Universal Translator, Hunter Seeker Algorithm (one of 
 the most important ones!!) , Citizens Defence Force (another important one!) , The Planetary Datalinks 
 and so on. Each one as I said confers its own benefits, hunter seeker algorithm makes your faction 
 immune to enemy probe teams (spies) , the citizens defence force creates a perimeter defence at 
 all your cities doubling the defensive capabilities of all units stationed there, and planetary 
 datalinks - discover technology any 3 factions have.
  Not only this each has its own video sequence upon completion and some are pretty deep compared 
 to any other concepts in most computer games - expect alot of this:
  
  ""As the Americans learned so painfully in Earth's final century, free flow of information is the 
 only safeguard against tyranny. The once-chained people whose leaders at last lose their grip on 
 information flow will soon burst with freedom and vitality, but the free nation gradually constricting 
 its grip on public discourse has begun its rapid slide into despotism. Beware of he who would deny 
 you access to information, for in his heart he dreams himself your master."
  -- Commissioner Pravin Lal, "U. N. Declaration of Rights" (more) "
  
  Now I think special mention 
 should be given to the atmosphere the game creates, when you land your faction really is fighting 
 for its survival, your on a alien world, the predominant life form is a pinkish fungus which harbours 
 some rather nasty creatures known as mind worms which are parasites and dangerous, especially in 
 the beginning and late game.
  Furthermore the U. I is great makes you feel like your commanding a futuristic faction with lots 
 of little graphs and rankings on display, the music is more ambient than anything I would say and 
 never gets too much, its not 'the epic' but its certainly fitting and adds to the games overall 
 greatness.
  
  The graphics are crisp 2d images and are absolutely fine for the game, they look much better than 
 the ugly 3D of Civilization 4, and than the slightly grainy 2d graphics of Civ III (funny that 
 civ III came out after alpha centauri but was really a step backwards in terms of gameplay-too 
 few cities, rampant corruption, overpowered government choices - fascism etc) and I really hope 
 if a sequel is ever made it stays well clear of the Civ IV game engine, its too cartoony, ugly 
 and plays slow.
  Also the game has some really detailed pictures and the imagery used is superb - lots of clips 
 have montages of photos and drawings especially in the secret project videos and it just fits together 
 very well.
  
  And on the subject of the games atmosphere, one shouldn't write a review of this game without explaining 
 that, unlike most turn based strategy games, this game actually includes a half decent story!.
 
  Not to spoil the story, but as you progress through the game you make certain discoveries concerning 
 the progress of your faction, the human race and the alien species (mind worms) and the story actually 
 effects the game - their might be a sudden outburst of mind worm activity for example, and depending 
 how you end the game, your not just greeted with statistics and a ranking but also a epilogue. 
 Which leads me onto explain about the victory conditions:
  There's military conquest
  Diplomatic,
  Economic, Transcendence
  and you can also win cooperatively with an allied faction 
 by attaining the necessary prerequisites to achieve one of these victories.
  
  Alpha Centauri also has a fair few levels of difficulty which are all balanced, its a slight progression 
 of challenge with each one) unlike say Civ III were it suddenly goes too difficult with one level 
 too far.) So there's plenty of challenge and longevity to the game.
  Oh and the super weapon in the game, is actually a super weapon, it doesn't eliminate 3 quarters 
 health of all units stationed in a city and produce pollution ala' civ IV, a 'Planet Buster' missile 
 will actually destroy a small country.... oh yea!
  
  Pros:
  Excellent and refreshing setting
  Incredibly addictive
  Interesting factions driven by Ideology
 
  A Super weapon which is actually powerful
  Fitting music and sounds
  It actually has a decent storyline
  Good graphics even after all this time
  Highly customisable 
 - units can be modified any time.
  United Nations is actually done right
  Good art direction
  Secret Project/wonder Videos are actually meaningful
  Difficulty levels 
 are balanced
  Varied gaming experience each time.
  Feels like an Alien World.
  Naval units actually matter due to sea cities.
  
  Cons:
  None really, I just wish the game 
 was even bigger and even longer, everything else is nearer to perfection than any other game created. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TechnologoDoom
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  Alpha Centauri dominates the competition and marks out the stakes for engaging, civilization building. 
 Here's why...
  
  1. Cultural Philosophy is embodied in the different factions. Ridded of the heavy baggage accompanying 
 past factions (egyptians, americans) , factions are boilded town to philosophical embodiments including 
 relgious fundamentalism and scientific anarchism. 2. Tech tree has actually been thought out. From 
 the quotes from famous literary figures to the theoretical nature of the discoveries, the tech 
 tree makes you actually stop and read. That never happens in other games of this genre.
  
  3. Planet is a living breathing player in the game. Not only in the storyline, but also in mindworm 
 opposition, Alpha Centauri gounds civilization in the environment, and forces an amount of eco-friendliness 
 from it's technological business. 4. The graphics and music are wonderous. They effectively immerse 
 your consciousness into the game itself, drawing you in, and bringing you to this planet at the 
 far reaches of space. Absolutely beautiful.
  
  This game makes the Civilization series boring and inconsequential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Alpha Centauri landed in 1999 with an imposing pedigree. The title was crafted by Mr. Meier and 
 Reynolds, who had knocked together the first two Civilization games and who have both subsequently 
 gone on the create titles of particular note and substance. It is, for all intents and purposes, 
 Civilisation in space and it possesses the same engrossing, time consuming and addictive turn-based 
 action of that predecessor. However, space is a complex concept and if there is an issue with game 
 it is its complexity and at times it's too smart and too weird for its own good. But that doesn't 
 stop it from being a quality title.
  
  Alpha Centuari begins where Civilization ends. The shuttle is in space and headed for Alpha Centauri 
 where are new life and colony beckons for the occupants. However, (perhaps due to their being no 
 in flight movies) discussions during the flight on ideology and governance turn into full blown 
 arguments which leads to crew members splitting into factions, and once landing they all go their 
 own way. And it's all pretty familiar from there. You start with a basic settling unit in a small 
 patch of the brave new world and you try and develop your faction into the strongest entity on 
 the planet through the use of development, research, diplomacy and conflict. This requires significant 
 choices which may make or break your faction as the race to a victory point develops.
  
  The graphics are reasonable and functional and will come as no surprise to the early Civilization 
 players. In fact, it's pretty much identical to Civilization to in terms of interface, map design, 
 unit design and icons. It's not advanced, it's not going to stretch any sort of PC in terms of 
 processing, but it's functional and well presented. The world of Alpha Centuari is actually a refreshing 
 changes, it's darker and more austere, perhaps giving an indication of the deeper qualities of 
 the game.
  
  The sound again is functional and appropriate. There is a more otherworldly ambience in the effects 
 and the voice acting that does occur is reasonable. There is a soundtrack should you want it on, 
 but this is a game that is played with minimal sound effects.
  
  It would be easy to say that the gameplay is exactly like Civilisation (I and II) but there is 
 a lot more to it than that. Yes, the core structure of the game is the same. It's a turn based 
 game where you build a colony through settling cities, developing technology and building and army 
 which can be used for diplomacy or war (called vendetta) . As the game develops so does the technological 
 tree as the player aims for one of the three or four victory points. You encounter other factions, 
 who have their own personality and quality AI (there is very little chance of simply crushing opponents) . 
 And before you know it, it's 3am in the morning as you get more involved in the development of 
 the planet, your faction, the other factions and the interweaving relationship between the three. 
 However, without a doubt, Alpha Centuari is a bigger, deeper and more complex game that the Civilization 
 titles and that has both benefits and weaknesses. There is an enormous amount of detail, especially 
 relating to the technological three, the units and the infrastructure and the player really needs 
 some in depth research to develop an idea of what is good and what isn't. But who wants to read 
 a 250 page manual? Sometimes, Alpha Centuari is too smart for its own good. It brings in a mountain 
 of new concepts which will alienate some gamers, whilst others will play it as they play the predecessor, 
 realising they are not getting maximum benefit from the game.
  
  The variety of factions on offer were interesting. All had their own ideals which lead to strengths 
 and weaknesses. Some were conflict prone, others were almost hippy-like in their existence (but 
 don't underestimate them) , some were economic animals and others were just plain weird. But all 
 have got played, there is no doubt about that.
  
  Factions are not the only opponent. The world of Alpha Centauri is testing environment and it will 
 turn on you with a barrage of PSI worms if you dig it up too much. On the contrary, manage it well 
 and there are benefits.
  
  Ultimately though, Alpha Centuari is another time-killer. A huge turn-based strategy game, that 
 once factions are settled and stable (there was always are couple that would fall away, leaving 
 a contest between four to five factions) led to a game that turned into an absorbing contest against 
 quality AI. One major decision could turn a game: complete one project first for significant benefits, 
 allign with an opponent to swap technology, or to go into 'vendetta' with another can turn your 
 fortunes completely. There is a lot to manage and a lot to play and it never, ever gets boring.
 
  
  I played Alpha Centuari steadily between 2000 and 2002, playing as most factions. I purchased both 
 the original and the expansion (Alien Crossfire) for $AUD50 and certainly got value for money, 
 even through I never played the expansion.
  
  Alpha Centuari is an excellent title, and its a no-brainer purchase for those who enjoy the 
 world of Civilisation. Its got the same addictive gameplay elements and the new environment and 
 auxiliaries will keep gamers entertained for many an hour. Its complexity, at times needless, is 
 an issue, but ultimately thats a small complaint. The game provides an austere and at times a 
 brave and weird new world and its an intriguing world to step into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: efit
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  This game is probably my all around favorite game of all time. I put in more hours into Alpha Centauri 
 than any other game. I beat FFX 2 times putting in over 100 hours both times, I have played both 
 EQ and WoW, and over the past 8 years none have had the effect on me as Alpha Centauri has. The 
 thing about the game is that each time you play it can easily take 10 hours to beat, easily. Plus 
 the replay value is unsurpassed. Sid Meiers is a god among designers. He has taken months of my 
 life playing the great games he created, and do you know what, I love him for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EgoMaster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  Sid Meier, one of the best designers in gaming industry in my opinion, has done it again. It's 
 true that Alpha Centauri looks, feels and plays a lot like Civ games and that's the real beauty 
 of it. Assuming you win the Civilization by achieving the space victory, Alpha Centauri tells the 
 tail of your settlers in space. The fractions work much better than Civilization II's (which was 
 the latest Civ game when this title was released) not-so-different nations. Like all other games 
 in the genre, this one is also easy to learn, difficult to master. It may be Civ in Space but the 
 idea behind the games are taken even further and the formula is polished (and it shines with perfection) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havokk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 28, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  It's got the magic of Civilisation with the freshness that comes from being set on an alien planet. 
 Its the same formula as all the 'Civilization type games. Build cities, build units, build buildings 
 (only one at a time- obviously each city only has one bulding company) . Explore the world. Meet 
 your neighbours. Either grind them into dust with superior firepower or convince them to join you 
 through the less violent (but just as cuthroat) tactics of diplomacy.
  
  Replacing all the units and technologies with alien ones may seem like a trivial little change 
 but it gives the game a lot of newness.
  
  I especially like the feature that the planet itself is a plyer in the game. Choosing to join with 
 the planet is an additional victory condition.
  
  As I'm writing this review I'm playing Civ IV, an excellent game, but I'm still thinking fondly 
 of Alpha Centauri and thingking of installing it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  SO COOL!
  
  This is really the best strategy game I have ever played. A game does not impress me with it's 
 graphic. Especialy a game like Alpha Centauri. And if it's not strategy game the story can make 
 me play it. SO as I said Graphic and Sound are not what alpha centauri is proud with. But the Gameplay 
 is Colossal Adictive (I dunno if that term exists but I'm manifesting myself) . So play alpha even 
 if graphic is not so well. But for me alpha centauri is a perfect game so thats why I give 10 to 
 graphic and sound. The other atributes deserve perfection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadelotuz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  In space I trust!
  
  I am somewhat a fan of space exploration, and sci-fi in general. And I like strategy / sim games 
 (like the Sims, Sim City, Civ, ect) . So this caught my attention right away (back then) .
  
  Quick Ref of the game!
  Graphics was crisp then, now they're just old sprites!
  Sound was ... 
 was there any sound? Well the sound was nice but little.
  Gameplay, Turnbased. Need NO reflexes at all. Nice :)
  Value. It is the King of Civ games ... 
 i think!
  Difficulty varies. from Easy to realy hard. Depends on the settings.
  Note: Very very addictive! Makes time fly out the window ... in heaps!
  
  ------
  
  Now 
 back to my own thoughts.
  
  I've just started to play the Civ4, and its a great game, even though I feel like some of the hardcore 
 have been tweaked into omni-user-friendly . But thats OK. I dont have much to say about Alpha Centauri, 
 other then I think its alot more interesting and fun then the historical Civ games. I love the 
 idea to be able to construct a new civilisation on another planet ... out there in the dark void.
 
  
  If I hade the chance to which for a game, then I hope Sid will do a Alpha Centauri 2. It could 
 be a remake (a tuned up version of the old one with nicer graphics and more functions, like other 
 Civ games) . I just hope it will be as good as this was when it hit the shelf.
  
  Now i've tried to play Alpha Centauri again. And it bothers me that the graphics, sound and so 
 on feels old ( anyway when you've just started to play Civ4 ;) . But the game mechanics and gameplay 
 is still intact ( if a turn based strategy game can have anykind of gameplay? ) .
  
  This game is great, but looks old. Just hope for a updated version ( Sid do right now have a flinch 
 for making old hits new again. Civ and Pirates for example) . But till then! in these modern days, 
 I have to many other new great modern games to spend time with, then this. But back then ... I 
 realy loved it.
  
  Give us a new Alpha Centauri ... NOW! 
  // Rc - JadeLoTuZ - 2006 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visitor_basic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 28, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  There is just no place to be like good ol' Planet Earth, well maybe. Soon, you are leaving the 
 vicinity of Planet Earth on that spaceship just to escape Planet Earth. You make it to Alpha Centauri, 
 but along the way the Captain of the Ship, is murdered. Factions from other humans who become Leaders 
 start to happen, and all land on Planet. Nice new home Planet, and all will be well. Not really! 
 Besides putting up with the new Leaders who have now their own Factions, you also have to end up 
 living on this Planet. Now on this God Forssaken Planet, the Planet starts attacking you as the 
 Leader of a Faction. Besides the rest of the humans seeming to be 'nuts', as you thought you left 
 that behind on Planet Earth, now on this new Planet, the planet is attacking, and you have to eat 
 fugus. Can you eat this fugus? Well, it has nutrients in it, and it is growing all over. Besides 
 that, you learn of other things on this Planet and soon everything is seeming to be that there 
 is no God, or how could he do this to you?
  
  Work with the other human Leaders and their type of morals on this Planet?
  Soon, you are living 
 the life, so to speak. And soon, you are having thoughts of throwing this game CD on the floor 
 and stomping on it, and throwing as a frisbee for your dog, if not in the trash bin.
  
  But still, I doubt if anyone will ever find another game like this one, and as Sister Miriam will 
 probably say in the game as one of the human faction Leaders "Aren't you a Believer?" But don't 
 worry, soon you as a human with intelligence will be controlling the Planet, and terraforming it 
 to suit living on it, and dealing with whatever this fungus and mindworm type of creatures really 
 are -- perhaps! In the sequel, you get to find out that this Planet is an spacealien's experiment, 
 and they come back to view their experiment only to find 'humans' on the Planet. But don't worry, 
 there are two spacealien species, and they don't get along either.
  
  Bye, bye, cruel world, or you may want to gouge your eyes out with anything handy in the end. The 
 game is worth having just to look over this Planet Earth once again after being on another Planet 
 in the Alpha Centauri star system, as this game suggests. There is no place to be like good ol' 
 Planet Earth despite some humans on this Planet Earth, because there is no spaceship to dump them 
 all on Planet. The name given to this whatever it is in the Alpha Centauri star system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  The good: Very addicting, good graphics, many different troops, 7 different factions really change 
 strategies.
  
  The bad: Gets a little repetative after a while, take too long to attack it is almost impossible 
 to defeat your enemies, taking turns drives me nuts
  
  I don't know whats so great about it, but this is among the most addicting games I have ever played. 
 The seven different factions can really change someones strategies. Choose the Spartans, you are 
 great at attacking, or choose the Morganties and you get a lot more resources.
  
  This is what I love about the game. I have tried out all the factions, and I really can't choose 
 a favourite.
  
  However, if you play the game for a long time, it starts to get boring. You get tired of pop-ups 
 showing up on your Formers building a road, and when you take a look at your enemies, they are 
 huge, and are very hard to defeat. To be honest, I actually have never beaten a game lasting over 
 an hour. And you'll later get sick of waiting for the turn to end.
  
  I still recommend to get the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Words_of_Ivory
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 24, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  Although the Civilisation series have spawned many of its own sequels over the years, each one 
 has essentially been nothing more than a continual refinement of a system already near flawless. 
 Alpha Centauri stands aside from these in a rather unique fashion; it is not Civilisation, but 
 for all intents and purposes, it is the game's only true sequel.
  
  Once your desired faction is chosen, and planetfall is made on the alien landscape in which the 
 game takes place, the similarities to its spiritual prequel become instantly clear. Movement is 
 made across a grid based map. Colonies are managed through a near identical system of resource 
 farming. Diplomacy between other factions is still a major factor.
  
  This is where most of the similarities end though. Whereas Civilisation was forced to build upon 
 the pre-existing history of the world we live in, with had little freedom to diverge from the broken 
 track, Alpha Centauri has the freedom to set its own path right from the beginning. The result 
 of is a gameworld that is quite alien (befitting it's setting) yet grounded within a surprisingly 
 tangible experience - the capacity of this freedom makes the game a possibly more believable gameworld 
 than it's forefather. A large part of this is not down to the gameplay though, but the identities 
 of the factions leaders who (not always wilfully) share the alien world with you.
  
  The game holds up perfectly through its strategical elements alone, but it is the faction leaders; 
 the bureaucrats, the despots, the zealots, that give the game its sense of consistency. A near 
 inexhaustible amount of narrative context is scattered throughout the game; most of it can be side-tracked 
 if you simply want to concentrate on the core gameplay; but the exceptionally high standard and 
 quality of it all means even the most hard-core of strategists will find it hard to be drawn in 
 by the depth of it's narrative, at least to some degree. Even now, much of it stands strongly as 
 a moral observation on human nature and interaction.
  
  Though this lore makes for a large part of the game's appeal, it falls down slightly in one aspect 
 - the actions of the factions sometimes seem at odds with the narrative driven beliefs system, 
 and this becomes especially noticeable during discussions in the diplomacy screen. The systems 
 largely works from a gameplay point of view (though this diplomacy is often sporadic and needlessly 
 random) , but the monotonous and robotic nature of the discussion is very much at odds with the 
 lore the game tries so strongly to convey. This is hardly enough to destroy the game though, and 
 is possibly the only major flaw the game possesses.
  
  Exploration through the technological tree is a mysterious but compelling endeavour throughout, 
 as you wonder where you next discovery may lead, and what possibly profound effects it might have 
 on you colonies and the world around you. A very solid unit building system also allows for an 
 unparallel degree of customisation for field units, one which even now has very rarely been duplicated 
 with the same degree of customisation and versatility, but this insane attention to detail often 
 stands as a universal staple of Sid Meier's games.
  
  Confidence it it's design, elaborate in its narrative, and extensively complex without ever buckling 
 under its own weight, Alpha Centauri is a rare game that embodies both quality and quantity in 
 equal. Is it a better game than Civilisation, the series that essentially birthed its creation? 
 That's debatable, but whatever the answer, it is unquestionably the more expressive, and, rather 
 ironically, without the constraint of the real world to hinder it, the more human of the two because 
 of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelvinhole
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  Ive never succeeded in writing a review for this game. Ive wanted to for so long, but every time 
 I tried to start, I always had to go back and check up on the game, just to make sure I was getting 
 the details right, and the game ended up sucking me in for onemoreturn. But now that Ive decided 
 not to do any more check-ups (Im resisting the urge you know!) , Im going to write a short review 
 before delving back into that wonderfully engrossing world concocted by the greatest designer of 
 all time, Sid Meier.
  
  Its very simple. It rocks. Right from the start the game drops you onto an alien world, Planet, 
 and forces your little colony to survive (or die horribly by mind worm infestationewww) . It might 
 sound a tad overwhelming, but its not. The game guides you, step by baby step, slowly but surely, 
 on the road to world domination (or Transcendence, if fightings not your cup of tea) . Along the 
 way youll build bases, improvements, facilities a la Civ II, burn those pesky mind worms into 
 charred cinders and subjugate other factions populating Planet (I always loved torturing puny little 
 Santiago... heh heh) . And when youre at last poised to take over the world, your overwhelming military 
 forces parked outside the last rival base in some remote corner of the world, a feeling of pure 
 satisfaction unlike no other takes over you. Its like standing on the summit of a mountain, only 
 better, because youre not getting frostbite.
  
  Ive read somewhere (alright, in PC Gamer) that Alpha Centauri has too steep a learning curve, 
 and that the technologies are too difficult to understand. Thats hogwash. If you can understand 
 the meaning of the words kick-arse technology, then nothing in this game is too difficult for 
 you to comprehend. Plus, dont you think techs with names like Sentient Econometrics or Cyberethics 
 just add to the mystique of colonizing a new world, in a more technologically advanced era? Its 
 Civ II with a futuristic twist, but its also uber-Civ.
  
  Alright, I said I would keep it short, and I will. If you are still deliberating over whether or 
 not to pick this gem up from the bargain bin (yeah, its old, so you wont find it on the new release 
 shelves, big deal) and have even the slightest soft spot for riveting turn-based strategy action, 
 then shame on you. Better yet, find a copy of Alien Crossfire (there might still be a couple on 
 eBay) and find out for yourself why this game remains one of the highest-rated of all time. Thats 
 it from me, Ive still got a couple more bases left to capture!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magirouard
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  First of I am going to say that this game is one of the best TBS games I have ever played. The 
 game will keep you occupied at all times because it requires a whole lot of attention. You must 
 manage your population, your military, your relations with other factions, your economy and you 
 must make sure that you don't destroy the ecology. 
  
  The graphics are very bad by now days standards but they aren't so bad that the game is playable, 
 on the contrary even. I will rate the graphics according to the time of release of the game to 
 be fair.
  
  The sound is ok, however the sound of combat can become irritating after a while, the background 
 music is also ok and blends in to everything pretty well. To put plainly, the sounds are repetitive 
 and hearing turn complete over and over becomes a pain.
  
  Well worth the try despite its age, also to give you the immersion factor turn the difficulty up 
 and turn on all the victory conditions. Overall great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoRocket101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  There it was. A colony pod. Just to have this unit I was excited for what the game would bring. 
 To me the colony pod meant the beginning of either an experience I would love, or love to hate. 
 I started. One, two, three hours passed before I had the ability to pull myself out of a world 
 of Mind-Worms and conquest. Alpha Centauri changed the face of Turn-based strategy gaming. For 
 the first time us gamers were controlling civilizations in the future not in the past like the 
 Civilization series. 
  Although I got to this revolutionary game late (just a month ago today, 7 years after its release) 
 it gave me an in depth experience i will never forget. Because of Alpha Centauri I will never play 
 Civ 1,2 or 3 again.
  Alpha Centauri is truly a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ergo2497
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 2, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  "Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri" is to "Civ 2", as the Gamespot review aptly states, a lot like "Starcraft" 
 is to "Warcraft II". But if you look at the game people are playing so many years later, it isn't 
 Warcraft II.... it isn't even Warcraft III.... it's still Starcraft.
  
  For me, Alpha Centauri was similarly addictive and entertaining. It's probably the only TBS that 
 actually has a plot, and an interesting one to boot (although it only crops up in brief sections 
 triggered by in-game events, and you only see it through if you complete the game in the most difficult 
 way possible) . Furthermore, the concept of the Planet being almost a player in and of itself, which 
 you ally with through tech advances, governing choices and terraforming, is incredibly interesting 
 and makes the gameplay that much richer.
  
  Of course, the basics are still there, and in some ways you can still see the grinding mechanics 
 of Civ 2 underneath. Think about the fact that you begin limited solely to land forces, and gain 
 the ability to create aircraft much later - given that this is supposed to be some time in the 
 23rd century or so, wouldn't they be using airborne units right away? There are some design flaws 
 like this which only really grow to be disturbing after a long time playing the game, and it has 
 a tendency to make up for it in other ways (for instance, if futuristic tech is your thing, wait 
 till you see the top of the tech tree!) .
  
  Ultimately, SMAC is a very gratifying and entertaining experience, absorbing and very well executed. 
 The production values are through the roof, and the gameplay is perfectly calibrated so as to be 
 fun but challenging. If you consider yourself a fan of Turn-Based strategy games, you owe it to 
 yourself to pluck a copy out of the bargain bin and play it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 27, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Alpha Centuari feels and plays just like the old Civilization games, and if you loved those, you'll 
 be sure to love this one too.
  I personally enjoyed this because it had that sci-fi touch to it and all those leaders that you 
 could choose from and their voice-overs were just really great to listen to. The game really feels 
 like your building youre empire from scratch and trying to make history out of it. The graphics 
 aren't too great though and neither is the design, but I guess thats almost a trademark in these 
 games, cant expect too much from them.
  All in all its a great game with hours of playing. Though its quite outdated now I think it beats 
 that new Galactic Civilizations 2 game. Meh that game was a cheap copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoulDigger
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 6, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  The first time i ever played this game it was amazin i was drawn to the game because of what it 
 offered and how it played out. The different factions is one of the most interestin thing ur allowed 
 to customize your fdaction which was great. the gameoverall is must have 4 strategy fans especially 
 the hardcore fans out there, now as for flaws theres only one that this game contains buts its 
 not rlly the fault of the producers and designersits more of a time thing, the graphics seem to 
 be the only let down they're not horrible but when compared 2 the stuff out now a days its a completely 
 different ballpark. the game in itself is revolutionary it was like the turned based counter part 
 2 starcraft this is truley a must have!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Medpilot
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  Alpha Centauri is a perfect continuation for Sid Meier's Civ II and maybe even Civ III fans. The 
 gist of Alpha Centauri is that earth has descended into chaos and the only way out is to send a 
 rocket (The same rocket that wins the game in the Civ series) full of the world's leaders to another 
 star system. When the planet is reached, however, the rocket breaks apart sending several factions 
 scattered across the new planet. 
  
  The big idea is exactly like Civilization in that you colonize and gain power either diplomatically 
 or through force. If a faction does not like your method of government, they will be reluctant 
 to have anything to do with you... so on and etc. The flaw in this game is that it almost always 
 ends in conflict. I believe a cultural or economic victory is impossible without fighting your 
 neighbors at some point. Even if you cater to their every pushy demand, the other factions will 
 eventually turn on you. And they hold grudges like a woman scorned, even if the war was their fault! 
 
  
  The best innovation for the Civ-like games of its kind is that you can engineer your own style 
 of units (within certain limits) . If you need something fast and cheap then just engineer something 
 with no frills, but if you want something to blast your enemy to tiny bits, pack the heat.
  
  A side story accompanies the typical Civ structure and if you enjoy a break every once in awhile 
 from gaming, it is worth the short read. (Although, I still don't get mind worms and planet fungus 
 at all... Huh?)
  
  Overall, a great game because it rides the coat-tails of Civ. If you can get past some cheaper 
 graphics and very inconsistent AI, this is worth a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1337kyosanim
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Alpha Centauri may have come out seven years ago now, but it's still more enjoyable and addicting 
 than 95% of the strategy games that have been released since then.
  
  The game basically takes the formula from Civ II and polishes it to near-perfection. Personally, 
 my favorite aspect of the game is the involved customization of every single unit in the game. 
 Even your terraformers can be gradually enhanced as you research better and better technologies. 
 Sid Meier wisely incorporated (and expanded upon) this concept in Civ IV (which, in my humble opinion, 
 is the best turn-based strategy game to come out since Alpha Centauri) .
  
  There's not much else about this game I can say that hasn't already been said. It's a landmark 
 achievement in gaming that was unfairly cast aside by many. A sequel should definitely be made. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfblademusic
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  When they made this game they allow you to break the mold. What that means is that they have EVERY 
 detail of this game open for alteration. I mean EVERYTHING can be altered with a little help.
 
  
  Graphics- Great, nice, well put together, clear, just great. You can randomize a map, terraform 
 the land, different units with different upgrades are visible and you can change the files to have 
 anythign you want change the appearance of what ever you want and put whoever's picture up that 
 you want. You can change the movies to what you want etc... It looks great and you could make it 
 better if you want. Great. Simply great.
  
  Gameplay- You start off choosing quick or more customized. You choose the size of the map, how 
 much cloud cover, how much water, how you can win, how you can lose, different random aspects, 
 how often hostile native alien worm thingies attack, each faction gives different bonuses and will 
 allow you to play differently, there are so many ways to win, so many ways to lose, you can take 
 out everyone, you can take out some and ally the others, you can get voted the winner, you can 
 get so many bases with such high populations that you can vote yourself the winner. You reasearch 
 technology and create your units and play the game how you want. Everythign about htis game is 
 customizeable. Even the units. Nothing is left untouchable. With some help you can even edit EVERY 
 thing in the game. Every value, every stat, everythign. Also there are different governing bodies 
 you can use to change your market which changes your currnency and effeciency and so much. There 
 are atrocities that people will hate you for. Heck you can also benefit greatly from enemies through 
 trades or beat them so close to the edge of their life that they surrender and give you virutally 
 anything you ask for free. The possibilities are ENDLESS.
  
  Sound- Great and great voices. You hear voices a lot. There are a lot of great things to listen 
 to. It's just a great game all around. You can even change the audio files, you can change what 
 they say and when they say it. Everything can be altered.
  
  Value- Outstanding. You can play this game a 100 times and win by using a different strategy each 
 time. Wheter you explore, build, conquer, research, combine them, etc.... You can bribe people 
 to vote you the winner you can play so many different ways it's mind boggling. The choices are 
 endless.
  
  Tilt- Not only do they give you limitless ways to play the game, change the rules, etc... in game, 
 they allow you to edit EVERYTHING in simple text files. Just get some help and you can change ANYTHING 
 that is in this game. They designed this game to play that way. That's just how it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beardsley
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Alpha Centauri is a simple premise - take the immensely popular Civilisation series, and set it 
 in space. Simple sure fire way to make a good game? Lets see...
  
  You play a commander or leader (or whatever else you choose to name yourself) of a group of people 
 who have fallen onto a far distant planet from a large space craft. Setting up a colony on the 
 planets surface, you must deal with local life forms, other colonies, the weather, and many other 
 micromanagement tasks to become a successful leader and either unite the planet again, or take 
 off in a huge spacecraft.
  
  The game starts out well, with good help features and some nice ideas - such as the Xenofungus 
 which engulfs many of the planets tiles, which can impede movement etc - a nasty thing which must 
 be taken care of early! But, once you start getting more and more units, things start to get quite 
 complicated - unless you are familiar with the Civ style game, you may be in at the deep end to 
 start out with this game first!
  
  The advantage to this game though is its simple minimum specs, and the turn based nature of the 
 game - good for playing in little bursts on the move, such as in lectures or on the train - and 
 equally as good for sitting down and playing in one long go.
  
  Overall, a good attempt at a good idea for a game - but it might be too complicated or in depth 
 for everyone's likings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcticoyote
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2005 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Solid game. Fun and extremely addictive. Loads of replay. Expansion adds tons of new things. Outstanding 
 overall. 
  One of the few games I return to play again. Yes, its old, but that doesn't deplete it game value. 
 Wish they would make an updated version.
  If you like stategy games, this one is great. It does have a bit of a learning curve, but once 
 you get it down, this game will eat up your free time. 
  Choose between different factiosn and explore tons of new technologies. Recommend playing the Spartans 
 for those first learning the game. They have bonuses in combat and war economies (free prototypes) . 
 
  Perfect for the meglomaniac in us all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a8qlsypp
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2005 1:58 am PT
Review:  Originally I was a bit apprehensive about doing a review of Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri. I was afraid 
 that some super hard core fans of Meier's original turn based strat, Civilization, were going to 
 crucify me for missing some tiny detail or something. But then it just hit me at 4:30AM one day. 
 I was in the middle of another marathon Alpha Centauri session (or has it just been one LONG play 
 session since 4 days ago?) when I realized it. The hard core Civ fans aren't going to waste precious 
 minutes reading my review! They preordered the game months ago and are already busy conquering 
 the Planet. They can hardly spare any time to shower, eat, or go to the bathroom, let alone read 
 someone's review of their drug of choice. You're better off asking a pot junkie to pick up a copy 
 of "High Times" and read a review of the latest and greatest crop from Humboldt. Errnot that I'd 
 know anything about that. Really.
  
  Realizing this, I felt a lot better, because then I could concentrate on presenting the game to 
 people who may not be quite as familiar with Civilization, like I was. Yup, there's no use preaching 
 to the converted. If you love Civ, you can stop reading and buy the game now. If you're not familiar 
 with Civilization, keep on reading, and I'll show you how easy it is to get sucked into the most 
 addicting game I have played in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesgelfand
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Alpha Centauri is by far the best game ever made. It's fun and addicting. You can buy it for nine 
 dollars at Wal-Mart and spend hours playing it. Yes you can complain and say it's graphics are 
 bad but the game is nearly six years old! It's like a version of Civilization set in the future 
 on a different planet. It's basically the sequel to all Civ games because at the end of each one 
 you send colonists away in a sleeper ship to Alpha Centauri. It has an interesting storyline, great 
 cinematics and wonders that actually help you and your cities. The factions you can play as each 
 have their own agenda's. For instance the Gaians are concerned with preserving the planet, therfore 
 they can build more envioronmentally friendly buildings and enhancements early on. The Spartans 
 are the Military faction and get a combat bonus and better trained soldiers. Alpha Centauri is 
 cheap, fun and addictive. I've spent two years playing it and over one thousand hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CivroN
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:54 am PT
Review:  This is the game that Sid Meier has been dreaming of all his life, well i am dreaming of. I played 
 it and burned so much hours of fun and donuts that its the most number of hours that i was stuck 
 to an inanimate object in years. This game really sets the bar high on all the civilization games, 
 I hope sid meier will make more games like this. Sid Meier is really a gaming GOD, just like JBL 
 is a wrestling god in his own mind. All people should play this and i think all the members of 
 the united nations should learn from this game to make the world a better place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guy_z
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  This is a good game. The graphics don't measure up to games like Civlisation III but to be honest, 
 once you get engroused in the game it doesn't really matter. There are a couple of different factions 
 which all have different qualities and gives a different feel to game. For instance some of the 
 factions produce units quicker than others but other make better units. This is a very good value 
 for money game and definatley worth getting if you like stratagey games. However I would rent it 
 first as not everyone would like it. The technological options are good but how to get to the different 
 discoveries is not as clear as in the Civlisation games. However the end game opperunities are 
 brilliant, allowing a possible 5 end game senario's, branching from different tecnology arcs. However 
 once specific projects are discovered they enable all players to engage in a mad dash for the end 
 game win for their faction, creating desperate attempts to boost economy, or as in the case of 
 one of my games, force all cities to stockpile energy credits for the final 5 turns before my retirement 
 to enable me to fasttrack my end game strategy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rattlesnake_8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 11, 2004 6:53 am PT
Review:  .. very similar to Civ only with new units, technologies etc.. If you loved Civ, you'll love this. 
 If you never played Civ, then this is a good place to start. Fun, addictive and you can create 
 your own units which offers you a lot in terms of replay value. A Turn based strategy game done 
 very well, although now that CivIII is out, your better off checking that out. As much as i did 
 prefer Alpha Centauri, i played and enjoyed CivII: Test of Time a lot more. Worth getting to add 
 to your collection. It is a classic game which a lot of people rave about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2004 12:10 am PT
Review:  No other TBS ( turn-based startegy ) developer has been able to develop such a compelling socio-political 
 structure as featured in Alpha Cenaturi. A unique interface, very thoughtful government choices, 
 unique tech tree, well implemented factions and units, decent graphics for the genre at the release 
 date, extremly addictive for the TBS hardcore. This civ experience is the equal of its ''mentor'', 
 the Civ series, in global quality - and could have been almost the best TBS ever if not because 
 of the AI.... well, its weak military AI. The good average TBS player has no difficulty at all to 
 beat the hardest setting ( Transcend ) , that's why this game is easy but don't get me wrong, the 
 learning curve is still pretty steep and you have to play several campaigns before achieving that.
 
  
  And those voiceovers...... a perfect ''intellectualish english'', enriching the gameplay in a more 
 epic scale.... never heard something similar since.
  
  Now we see why Brian Reynolds and his team have made a success with Rise of Nations, and we should 
 always remember how that level of polish began with Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri, still widely played 
 by the time of this review, joining the ranks of older siblings also widely playled like Civ II, 
 Master of Orion I & II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacsea
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 11, 2004 7:46 am PT
Review:  While waiting for some of the exciting new games to come out, I decided to pull this old favorite 
 out - just to see if it's still as enjoyable as I remember it....
  
  It's been quite some time since I last played this one (and a computer or two ago as well) but 
 I must say this is still one of my old favs. If you're a fan of the Civilization Series and haven't 
 picket this one up yet, do so, I highly recommend it. It's a got a pretty strong learning curve, 
 but once you understand the basics - you'll be hooked. 
  
  With great replay value (there are a number of different factions with differing agendas) It's 
 an oldie - but still a goodie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tremor27
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 26, 2004 12:54 am PT
Review:  Alpha Centauri is a worthy successor to Civilization. I have played this game a number of times 
 all the way through, and used several of the seven factions that are available. Their distinctive 
 advantages and disadvantages are apparent in the way they are used, from the Spartans use of weapons 
 to the Gaeans ecological friendliness and terraforming abilities. The planet's indigenous species, 
 the mindworms, are a powerful weapon in the right hands, which in my case were the Gaeans. The 
 technologies are familiar enough in their uses to be recognisable to players of Civilization, even 
 with the cosmetic name changes. The greatest difference between the two titles is Alpha Centauri's 
 ability to design every facet of a unit for combat, where the player determines chassis, power 
 plant, weapon, armour and special abilities, based on available technology. The various winning 
 requirements have kept me going back for further goes. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
