-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sid Meier's Alien Crossfire
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/sidmeiersaliencrossfire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 24, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.0, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 377 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Firaxis Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Turn-Based...
Date:     Oct 20, 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While Alien Crossfire's core game is still very much the same as its predecessor's, the new factions, 
 technologies, and projects increase that core game's depth. 

 Alpha Centauri wasn't quite the commercial success that Firaxis hoped for, but it did earn a loyal 
 following. These fans looked past Alpha Centauri's similarity to Civilization II and reveled in 
 its deep turn-based gameplay and strong premise: an interplanetary war for military, economic, 
 cultural, and scientific dominance. But many others shied away from Alpha Centauri because both 
 its alien factions and its technology were too unintuitive. Fortunately, Alpha Centauri's official 
 expansion pack, Alien Crossfire, resolves at least one of those concerns.  

 As with its predecessor, Alien Crossfire has a good background story, which is unusual for turn-based 
 strategy games. The planet Alpha Centauri was apparently seeded with great power by an ancient 
 alien race. Now, the descendants of those aliens have returned to claim that power. However, the 
 aliens are divided. Their two factions, the Caretakers and Usurpers, have opposing views on how 
 to exploit the planet. In addition, they are joined by five new human factions, including the cyborgs, 
 the pirates, the data spies, an ecological cult, and a drone proletariat faction. Although there 
 are many to choose from, it is now much easier to decide which faction you want to play because 
 you can see all pertinent information for each new faction from the selection screen.  

 Each new faction has different specialties. For example, the Cybernetic Consciousness gets better 
 research because they have computer-swift brains, but they have stunted growth because replacing 
 their minds with cold computers weakened their ability to interact with others. The Nautilus Pirates 
 get free shipyards and several early sea bonuses, although they also suffer in growth because their 
 swashbuckler culture shuns family life. The alien factions are particularly potent, for they begin 
 play with a strong alien military unit and also possess scans of the planet's surface. These alien 
 factions share some bonuses but also have a few unique advantages and disadvantages.  

 Alien Crossfire's story hints at the possible devastation of Alpha Centauri if the Usurpers can 
 unleash its power. Throughout the game, fictional book chapters will detail the first meeting of 
 aliens and humans, the unsavory means by which the Usurpers studied their human captives, and the 
 thrill of victory after the Usurper or the Caretaker defeats its hated rival. Because the mind-sets 
 of aliens and humans are so different, you won't be able to communicate with the other race until 
 you research the right psyche technology. It's a nice touch that you actually have to study your 
 alien counterparts before you can even speak to them. However, there are sometimes a few discrepancies 
 in the progression of the story. As the Usurpers, you might eliminate the Caretakers early on, 
 but subsequent entries in the book will keep referring to how you need to befriend or enslave the 
 humans to defeat the already-defeated Caretakers. In addition to adding new factions, Alien Crossfire 
 also introduces several new technologies, new units, new graphics for analogous alien units, and 
 even some new secret research projects. Unfortunately, all the new technologies are as unintuitive 
 as the original ones, although Alpha Centaui fans familiar with this sort of technobabble probably 
 won't mind it the second time around.  

 Usually, expansion packs for such games simply add new scenarios (as with the Civilization II packs) 
 without really expanding the gameplay, but Alien Crossfire adds a great deal to the original game. 
 While Alien Crossfire's core game is still very much the same as its predecessor's, the new factions, 
 technologies, and projects increase that core game's depth. These additions don't make the game 
 fundamentally different - you'll still feel like you're playing the same game, even as the alien 
 factions - but you'll recognize that you have a few more options to explore. The additional victory 
 conditions also heighten the experience because they at least superficially highlight the differences 
 between the humans and aliens. Because it makes no drastic changes, players who didn't like Alpha 
 Centauri in the first place will find nothing in Alien Crossfire that will change their minds. 
 However, fans of the original game will want to get the expansion pack for its interesting alien 
 factions and new technologies.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ollobrains
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  One of hte classic games of all time as far as the planet advanced future turn based strategy goes 
 but ..... u can only find it on amazon for $200 bucks a pop for the original cd.
  
  For those wanting to get it certain illegal sites are the only source though id advise not going 
 that way. They should either realise it as freeware, or strike a deal with some bargin basement 
 digitial distribution outfits like steam or gamers gate to sell this game say at $5 a pop for fans 
 that want it because it cannot be found in any stores or anywhere new online anymore - they could 
 have a small income stream yet firaxis have shelved it.
  
  Ive sent emails to sid mier and firaxis as well as THQ who apparently have distribution rights 
 to it now but to no success met with a wall of silence which seems about right for larger companies 
 like firaxis and EA and so forth
  
  Though the game is balanced im giving it a 10/10 as a lot of new simliiar games still dont quite 
 get it right its all about graphics these days and rapid turnover of sequels which is a shame 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Alien Crossfire expands and polishes up the main game, Alpha Centauri, in this expansion pack the 
 player can now choose to play as the pregenitor alien race (that left the monoliths all over alpha 
 centauri) and in the similar style of Alpha Centauri, the Alien factions are seperated not by race 
 but by ideology.
  
  The 'caretaker' pregenitor faction seeks to prevent Alpha Centauri or Manifold Six being exploited 
 and halting the forcing of transcendent evolution, the 'usurpers' meanwhile seek to exploit manifold 
 six and both are locked in a civil war.
  
  However as shown in the opening cinematic both sides are stalemated and destroy each others main 
 ships but crash land on Chiron like the humans in escape pods and have to rebuild from scratch 
 and rediscover their technology.
  
  Unlike human factions the Pregenitors can choose to research much more precisely what they want 
 than the human factions which under a skilled leader can make them incredibly powerful if they 
 go for the right technologies when they are avaliable. And they tie into the storyline since they 
 were present on Chiron first (having left monoliths around) and when first contact is made neither 
 side can communicate with each other until the techonolgy is researched allowing for communications 
 to take place.
  
  Also if a player meets on alien faction and makes deals with them and then later meets the other 
 alien faction, the latter alien faction will cease diplomatic negotiations with you and dislike 
 your faction but may not necesarrily start a war with you.
  
  One an alien faction is at war with a human one, they are effectively on a war of destruction and 
 each city they take the human populance is killed and most of it escapes leaving a 1 pop city behind. 
 Likewise when a human faction is at war with an alien one and takes a alien city, the same happens.
 
  
  Also both the alien factions are always locked in a war (vendetta state) with each other.
  
 
  Furthermore the Pregenitors have a unique winning condition unavaliable to the human factions, 
 were they build a Resonance communicator and call in massive reinforcements to overwhelm all opposition 
 and achieve total victory.
  
  But its not just alien factions that were added, a few more human factions were too, the nautilus 
 pirates are a faction that actually land in the ocean and are much more suited to life at sea than 
 on land.
  Cult of Planet is a mix of the Gains and believers I feel, a cult obsessed with the preservation 
 of Chirons lifeforms and envrionment. Cybernetic Consciousness is a faction that is actually cybernetic 
 with a lobotomised brain and a harddrive.
  Interestingly the consciousness can download a technology from a rival from every base it captures 
 of theres, and it can be freindly even late game with a faction until it has the option to take 
 cybernetic future society in the social engineering tab and the player refuses to do.
  The Freedrones are those oppressed workers seeking to create a better hardworking and fairer society.
 
  And finally there are the Data Angels, who are a free for all anarchist group which specialises 
 in hacking and seek a freeflow of information.
  
  Other additions to the game included a few fixes to the alpha centauri game play, prototypes actually 
 display the cost correctly in the addon.
  Also there are new unit additions in the form of weapons and abilities for the player to exploit.
 
  And theres a few new buildings and secret projects complete with their own high quality cinematics 
 offcourse.
  
  Those are the differences to the game all of which I thought were quite positive, who doesnt like 
 new factions and buildings in a expansion pack?
  I also thought it was a good idea to keep the play on alpha centauri itself, they created one hell 
 of a good futuristic sci fi and alien setting in the original game why abandon it?
  
  The alien factions though sometimes feel overpowered, they have combat bonuses and research is 
 made easier but they are good additions to the game and help to spice the game up.
  
  Its such a shame though that this had a limited print and all of it was sold out so the game is 
 exceedingly rare these days and fetches a high price on the likes of ebay and what not, so good 
 luck finding it, im so glad i got given the 'planetary' pack which included the original and expansion 
 pack.
  
  Lets hope a second print is made for Alpha Centauri Alien Crossfire.
  The original Alpha Centauri is still widely avaliable at budget price these days so go for that, 
 and then maybe save up the pennies for the expansion pack.
  
  edit: update as of march 2009
  Turns out 'sold out software' a publisher in the UK which sells 
 low pricebudget games has now released a 'Alpha Centuari Complete' Pack for 5 pounds which is fantastic 
 news! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
