-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sid Meier's Antietam!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/sidmeiersantietam/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  6, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.0, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 62 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Firaxis Games
Genre: Strategy
Date:     December 1999
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It offers no dramatic graphics overhaul or drastic redesign - just a new setting, new subject matter, 
 and more of the same great Civil War strategy. 

 Sid Meier's Gettysburg was a remarkable wargame that managed to balance realism and accuracy with 
 a user-friendly design and stylish visuals. Sid Meier's Antietam is also an impressive game that 
 builds upon the foundation established by the original. Available exclusively from Firaxis' web 
 site, it offers no dramatic graphics overhaul or drastic redesign - just a new setting, new subject 
 matter, and more of the same great Civil War strategy, which is nicely refined through a series 
 of subtle enhancements.  

 Antietam is based on the same game engine as Gettysburg and offers the same easy-to-use commands 
 and menus. Moving troops requires a simple drag of the mouse, while facing and formation commands 
 are marked by large, unmistakable buttons along the bottom of the screen. Icons indicate each unit's 
 name, type, strength, experience, and current morale. You can also see if a unit is currently flanked 
 or backed up by nearby supporting troops with a quick glance at the status bar.  

 Though most of the graphics in Antietam are just as they were in Gettysburg, there are a number 
 of minor improvements that give the game a sleeker overall appearance. The battlefield itself is 
 more dynamic because it has several new types of terrain and other features to liven it up. Antietam 
 Creek itself is one natural obstacle you won't soon forget, as troops can only cross it by using 
 one of the few bridges or finding a ford, neither of which is easy to do. This can definitely cause 
 some headaches for the Union commander, as many of the northern troops enter the battle from the 
 far side of the creek. Also, troops move slower through some areas of the map, such as wooded hills, 
 and units get defensive bonuses in covered terrain, such as forests and cornfields.  

 One other notable enhancement is the inclusion of more uniquely uniformed units. If you look closely 
 during a battle, you will notice units on both sides of the battle wearing decidedly different 
 clothes from their comrades. Some of the most recognizable units include the US Sharpshooters and 
 the flamboyantly dressed Zouaves on both sides of the battle. However, regardless of their dress, 
 units still move, fire, charge, and retreat in exquisite detail.  

 Gameplay during the heat of battle is largely unchanged from Gettysburg, which is a good thing. 
 Before each scenario, you are shown where your objective lies and which of your units are the most 
 reliable. After a battle, you get a rundown of the units that fought most effectively. Each scenario 
 is timed, so you have to reach your objectives quickly and hold them until the clock runs out. 
 When one side loses possession of an objective just before time expires, the game length is extended 
 a bit. After completing a scenario, you even have the option of returning to the action to continue 
 fighting. However, this would be a better feature if you could select the amount of time you wanted 
 to add to the game clock. As it stands, you generally fight for another five minutes before the 
 game declares the scenario is complete again. Most of the noticeable gameplay changes are for the 
 better, such as explanations for the game's "Can't do that General" error messages - now you can 
 see why a unit cannot charge when you order it to do so. You can also see how effective your attacks 
 are, as the game indicates how much fire the selected unit is taking and receiving at any given 
 moment.  

 The biggest difference between Antietam and Gettysburg is the subject matter and its effect on the 
 structure of the game. The battle of Gettysburg lasted three days. On the other hand, Antietam 
 ran the course of a single, bloody day. As a result, you don't play through this game in a series 
 of engagements while trying to amass a sufficient total of victory points to win the overall battle. 
 Instead, you fight the entire battle, beginning at 5:50 in the morning and going right through 
 to the early evening. This can be quite a handful, as the entire battle can last up to ten hours 
 of real time (you can save the game at any time) . It also forces you to manage your troops wisely, 
 since not all units are available as the battle opens. In fact, some divisions do not become available 
 until very late in the day, so success depends upon your ability to pace your troop movements and 
 attacks.  

 Fortunately, you do not have to play the entire battle each time you load up Antietam. The game 
 also offers chunks of the battle in more than 20 neatly wrapped scenarios, including both historical 
 and hypothetical variants. In addition, the game's random-scenario generator lets you whip up an 
 "instant action" battle ranging from a small skirmish to a major engagement. However, the random-scenario 
 generator is not all it could be, as it often locks you in a little too close to the realities 
 of the battle. For example, almost all of the small skirmishes end up being fought in and around 
 the East Woods, which tends to get tiresome after a while. It also would have been good to be able 
 to pick the main objectives and the relative troop sizes.  

 Another slight flaw in the game is the graphics engine. Though Antietam looks good and shows remarkable 
 attention to detail even when the camera's zoomed right in on the action, the game can bog down 
 dramatically during large engagements, even on a well-equipped system. Fighting the entire battle 
 is especially taxing, as the action unfolds in near slow motion when the bulk of both armies is 
 fully involved. Unfortunately there is little that can be done to alleviate this, since the game 
 engine uses straightforward 2D graphics and makes no use of hardware acceleration. Multiplayer 
 support in Antietam is excellent, as it was in Gettysburg. Up to eight players can take part in 
 a battle over a LAN or the Internet, while two players can go head-to-head over modem and direct-connect 
 links. The game is also playable on the MSN Gaming Zone. Each player assumes command of one of 
 the various brigades involved in the scenario, which makes for some very memorable online warfare. 

 Though it lacks the originality of its predecessor, Sid Meier's Antietam more than makes up for 
 this in quality. It is essentially more of the same great, approachable wargaming action that Firaxis 
 gave us in Gettysburg but has been refined and enhanced for better gameplay. Future installments 
 of this series would benefit from a more powerful graphics engine, but Antietam is a strong enough 
 game to overcome that minor setback.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Heystaw
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2005 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I'll just start off with the only thing I didn't like about this game. In this game troops can 
 only cross Antietam Creek only at a few spots. Well, who ever designed this game had the same thought 
 presses like the Army of the Potomac Union General McClellan in regards to crossing the Antietam 
 Creek, because three bridges and a few fording spots were only used to attack the enemy that was 
 on the other side of Antietam Creek. Well what they didn't realize was that actually vast portions 
 of the creek was only 1 to 2 feet deep to where it would be easy for infantry regiments and brigades 
 to cross. Those bridges and fords are terrible to cross because they act like a funnel for attacking 
 forces. Anyways I still managed to cross "Burnside's Bridge." It was nice to see different types 
 of uniforms like the Zouaves included in the battle. Also there are a couple more orders the brigade 
 commanders can issue that only regiment commanders could in the Gettysburg Game. Even the "sounds 
 of battle" sounded better. I'm not going to say any more about this game but that there should 
 be more battles in the Sid Meier's Civil War collection such as Bull Run 1 & 2, Fredricksburg, 
 Shilo, Seven days, and many more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panzerfaust1014
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2005 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Antietam is more or less Gettysburg in a differnt box. Graphics are more or les the same, battle 
 mechanics the same, but still same good game. Antietam was another major battle in the American 
 civil war where 17,000 men were killed or wounded in one day. In my oppinion, this game doesnt 
 have the same knock down power of Gettysburg. In histoical correctness, the Rebel units are very 
 small, but have more moral. this in theory is a god trade off, but its not. Youll end up with ur 
 small units getting cut to ribbons by massive union units. Also for some reason the artillery batteries 
 have all been reduced to one cannon on the screen, making them less powerful. Commanders have been 
 upgraded, allowing artillery to congrgate to them and open mass fire. Units cant cross streams 
 anywhere anymore, having to find a ford or bridge to cross some streams. but other than that, this 
 is pretty much Gettysburg, but not quite as good. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
