-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Silent Hunter II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/silenthunter2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.1
Critic Score: 7.1, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 196 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SSI
Developer: Ultimation Inc.
Genre: Submarine Sim
Date:     Nov 5, 2001 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Each mission is tightly scripted and offers almost zero chance for freedom or exploration, which 
 means there's very little replay value. 

 The good news is that Silent Hunter II is the second best sub sim to come out this year. The bad 
 news is that it's only the second sub sim to come out this year, Electronic Arts' Sub Command being 
 the first. On the surface, it looks good and seems to get all the details right. But once you go 
 a little deeper, you'll find the functional equivalent of screen doors on this sub sim. It's not 
 quite all wet, but it's hardly in shipshape, either.           Silent Hunter II lets you command 
 a German U-boat in a linear campaign.    

  Silent Hunter II is set in the German U-boats of World War II, ranging from the coast of Norway 
 all the way down to South America. This is rich subject matter for a simulation. German U-boats 
 prowling the Atlantic were perhaps Germany's best chance to win World War II. Hitler almost succeeded 
 in cutting Europe off from the United States' industrial and military might. Since both the Axis 
 and Allies knew the stakes, the battle was fierce, prolonged, and expensive. Men, steel, and technology 
 were poured into the Atlantic. In the end, Germany traded the lives of nearly 30,000 of her sailors 
 to sink approximately 3,000 enemy merchant ships. This was a struggle of mythic proportion, captured 
 beautifully in movies like Wolfgang Petersen's  Das Boot , books like Herbert Werner's  Iron Coffins 
 , and games like Dynamix's Aces of the Deep, one of the finest sims ever.   

  This is also rich subject matter for a simulation because of the nature of the action. The pace 
 is slow, deliberate, and tense. Submarine warfare is more about stealth than combat. You spend 
 most of your time stalking your prey and waiting for the perfect chance to strike. You get one 
 opportunity to land a blow, and from then on, you're the prey. From hunter to hunted in the launch 
 of a torpedo.   

  On both counts, as a nod to that period of history and that style of warfare, Silent Hunter II 
 does a decent job. The single-player campaign tries to capture the epic nature of the U-boat struggle 
 by following the flow and ebb of Germany's fortune through the course of the war. Rather than playing 
 like a traditional career mode, Silent Hunter II is more of a globe-trotting showcase for the U-boat's 
 greatest hits. You start out heading off the fleeing Polish navy, then you dabble in the Atlantic, 
 then you join the invasion of Norway, then it's a brief jaunt into the Mediterranean (with the 
 obligatory "slip through Gibraltar" mission) , then to the East Coast of the United States and down 
 to the Bahamas, and so on, all the way to Buenos Aires at the end of the war. The campaign begins 
 in the submarine's halcyon days with coordinated wolf pack attacks and frequent reports from Luftwaffe 
 reconnaissance planes. As the war progresses, you get a good sense for the developing technology, 
 Germany's increasing desperation, and the Allied dominance of the seas with their ubiquitous destroyer 
 escorts and air cover. Silent Hunter II takes you through the rise and fall of the Third Reich, 
 as seen through a periscope.           The scripted missions diminish the replay value of this 
 sub sim.    

  While this is an interesting concept, the developers at Ultimation sacrifice any long-term replayability 
 by building Silent Hunter II almost entirely around this historical story arc. Each mission is 
 tightly scripted and offers almost zero chance for freedom or exploration, which means there's 
 very little replay value. Not that you won't be replaying missions, because Silent Hunter II's 
 campaign is a strictly linear affair. Each mission must be completed before you can move on to 
 the next. If you fail the mission's primary objective, you get to replay it -- only this time you'll 
 know exactly what to expect, as well as when and where to expect it. Unlike in Sub Command's missions, 
 there's very little randomness in Silent Hunter II. The tension of uncertainty is replaced by the 
 tedium of repetition.   

  This will also impact the way you play the game. For instance, take the realism setting for dud 
 torpedoes. Torpedoes that failed to go off when they struck their targets were a very real problem 
 in World War II, particularly early in the war. Sometimes subs would return from a patrol with 
 a 100-percent dud rate. But the commander didn't have to go back out and fire over and over at 
 the same ship until he got a live torpedo, because failure was a part of submarine warfare. It 
 is not, however, a part of this sim, which demands you go back and do it over. And over. And over. 
 Who wants to contend with dud torpedoes when you're dealing with a primary goal that must be achieved 
 to unlock the next mission? War might be hell, but Silent Hunter II is the frustration of often 
 having to replay the same mission.    

 There are eight stand-alone missions, and you can set up single encounters by specifying the exact 
 parameters of how many ships, whether they're escorted, where they start, and so on. There won't 
 be any surprises in these encounters, which are little more than training tools. And because the 
 stand-alone missions and single encounters play out in a vacuum (your score isn't even tracked) , 
 they don't have the incentive and higher stakes of the full campaign. There is no scenario generator, 
 so don't expect downloadable third-party scenarios on the Internet. During the development process, 
 Ultimation repeatedly assured concerned fans that Silent Hunter II wouldn't suffer for its lack 
 of a dynamic campaign. On the contrary, what they've created is a pale shadow of the game it could 
 have been. It's worth mentioning that Ultimation does promise multiplayer interconnectivity when 
 it releases Destroyer Command, which might give Silent Hunter II a bit more longevity.         
   It may not look like much, but Silent Hunter II at least sounds excellent.    

  There's no denying that Ultimation did capture the basic dynamics of submarine warfare. It's gratifying 
 to strike at a convoy, creep away before the torpedoes strike, and then listen while the destroyers 
 drop depth charges far away, obviously looking for you in all the wrong places. The missions are 
 generally long enough to duplicate the feel of being away at sea. Although you're usually dropped 
 near your objective area when a mission starts (with your fuel tanks mysteriously topped off) , 
 you have to work your way home after a mission. Later in the war, this involves creeping by day 
 and dashing ahead at full speed by night to escape bomber attacks.   

  If you're looking for realism in your sims (what history buff isn't?) , then you're going to be 
 disappointed by some of Ultimation's choices. All ships are automatically identified well before 
 you come into firing range, so there's no danger of inadvertently sinking friendly or neutral ships. 
 When a ship is tagged by the game as having been destroyed, you can't designate it as a target. 
 Even though it might still be afloat and slowly going through its sinking animation, you know it's 
 already dead. In World War II, this wasn't always so easy to determine, and many ships limped away 
 and lived to tell about torpedo attacks. This often meant multiple coups de grace were administered 
 by sub commanders, but Silent Hunter II makes no provision for this. Although there's a good damage 
 system to track attacks and breakdowns on your sub, many missions end suddenly without putting 
 the player through those final frantic moments of trying to bring a dying sub to the surface. Instead 
 of that sinking feeling of dread as the dial on the meter sweeps past your crush depth, Silent 
 Hunter II snaps you to an outside view and then pops up the debriefing screen. Perhaps worst of 
 all is the atrocious ship artificial intelligence, in which destroyers won't help each other out 
 while chasing you down. Perhaps this is because when they do work together, they're liable to ram 
 into each other and get stuck. We've even seen ships so dumb they've rammed entire continents, 
 washing themselves up on shore and keeling over like beached whales.           Silent Hunter II 
 promises to be compatible with Destroyer Command.    

  The graphics are limited to 800x600 resolution, but they're not as fancy as you might expect with 
 all the processing power freed up by the lower resolution. This is definitely a sim that's been 
 in development so long it's given up all hope of showing off on higher-end systems. Waves roll 
 and ships pitch convincingly, but there's a noticeable lack of embellishment like land features, 
 deck activity, white caps, weather effects, and dynamic lighting. Smoke effects, splashes, and 
 explosions look as if they were tacked on. The sound, which is a crucial element of a sub game, 
 is generally very good, featuring groaning hulls, bass explosions, water flooding through hull 
 breaches, and the ominous churn of screws.   

  Since the pickings are indeed slim for naval simulations, Silent Hunter II will be a welcome addition 
 for a lot of fans. But without a more involving campaign mode, with these glaring gaps in realism, 
 and with this lackluster graphics engine, a lot of these fans are bound to be disappointed. Perhaps 
 with the release of Destroyer Command later this year, more of Silent Hunter II's potential will 
 be realized. But as it is now, this is a sim nearly scuttled by a few bad choices.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SSS383
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 14, 2005 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I've always loved a good U-Boat sim, like the classic Aces of The Deep by Sierra and the original 
 Silent Hunter, so I was waiting for this game with crazy anticipation. After receiving the game 
 I playing it nonstop but like I said before, after about 2 weeks I just lost interest in playing 
 because of the overly static and difficult save game feature.
  First off I will talk about how the gameplay feels. The interfaces and controls in the game are 
 all pretty good, as is the enemy AI and the mission generator. These are all well done and don't 
 bother me at all. The thing that is annoying is how the save game system works and how the campaign 
 is set up. The save game system makes the game pretty hard, especially when playing on realistic 
 settings (but who said captaining a U-Boat in WWII was ever easy) , yes, but its a game and it should 
 be reasonably easy to survive so that I may play the game to its conclusion. The save game system 
 basically stores one saved game which sucks if things dont play out well before or after that saved 
 game. There is a manual way to save more that one instance of your game, but I won't go into that 
 here, all you need to know is that it is annoying. Ok, The other no so great thing about the game 
 is how they have set up the campaign. Each mission is tightly scripted as the gamespot guys have 
 said. This creates a situation where replayability goes way down and mistakes in timing can really 
 mess up your mission. If the savegame system were better and the campaign wasnt so static the game 
 would be pretty great.
  The graphics in this game are cool at times and not so great in others. Ships, water, most aircraft, 
 the U-Boats, and the sky are all modeled pretty well in the game. The fire effects are kinda blaa 
 for their time and sometimes ships and smoke disappear and reappear on the horizon for some unknown 
 reasons. Overall the graphics are good but have some strange things that stand out over time.
 
  The sound in the game is pretty good, nothing that I can think of stood out as being really cool 
 or really bad.
  In the end I would probably recommend this game to hardcore WWII simmers who are itching for a 
 new WWII U-Boat sim until something new comes out. The historical and technical content and the 
 ability to maneuver a U-Boat around and blow things up is always cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 4.1
Date: Feb 11, 2005 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I've always been fascinated with the U-boats of WWII. I've read books, seen every film, I own "Das 
 Boot" on DVD and I played just about every U-Boat sim there's ever been. However for some reason 
 there've never been a lot of U-boat sims produced. The last one I play was the old stalwart "Aces 
 of the Deep" by Sierra/Dynamix. I played that baby till it just plain wore out. From time to time 
 I've looked for a sim to scratch my U-Boat itch and thought I'd found it in SSI's Silent Hunter 
 II. 
  
  Installation:
  A breeze for this game. No hiccups with XP-Pro and SP.1.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics on this game were dated when this game was new. You can't even dial up 
 32 bit screen resolutions with 4 digits in them. My puter doesn't even break into a sweat on this 
 one. Simplistc modeling, no humans, no crews, just ships that tend to all look alike when you're 
 trying to plaster them. Children in grade school now can do better graphics. 
  
  Gameplay:
  SP is "alright" but nothing to write home about. You run around a few limited stations 
 and do what U-Boats do, run on the surface, set up your shot, dive, shoot and run for home. Problem 
 is, there's no "daynamic" campaign mode here. You either accomplish your goals or you're right 
 back out there doing the same mission over, and over again. No replay value at all. Controls are 
 fairly stright forward and not too bad a learning curve for noobs. 
  
  Sound:
  Sound is the ONE area this game got right. The thrum of the deisels, the whine of the batteries, 
 the groan of the boat as depth increases all these things add up to one immersive game sound wise. 
 The score and sound effects are absolutely the best thing about this game.
  
  Conclusion:
  It's the only game in town for submariners looking for a quick fix. Hopefully the 
 boys at Ubisoft will make good on the promises seen on Silent Hunter III due out in a couple of 
 weeks. If so, then this game has proven it's worth to me as a training tool for a superior game 
 to come. 
  
  Da Worfster 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
