-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Silent Hunter III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/silenthunteriii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Beautiful to behold.
 Simulation elements complement gameplay.
 Compelling dynamic campaign.
 Packed with detail.
 More games need a gramophone.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Higher resolutions would be nice.
 Where are the wolf packs?.
 Save-game system is annoying.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 29, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.8, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 2,160 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Submarine Sim
Date:     Mar 15, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is an outstanding WWII submarine simulation in every regard. 

  Few jobs in history were more dangerous and harrowing than being a submarine crewman for the German 
 Kriegsmarine during World War II. Three out of every four men who signed up for U-boat duty never 
 survived the war, but their effect both psychologically and logistically on Allied shipping and 
 the war effort in general was undeniable. Winston Churchill himself claimed that the only thing 
 that truly frightened him during the entire conflict was, as he put it, "the U-boat peril." Many 
 simulations have been created that let you command a sub in the Battle of the Atlantic, but Silent 
 Hunter III sets a new standard both for this particular type of sim and for the genre as a whole. 
 It hearkens back to the days of Aces of the Pacific, Red Storm Rising, and Red Baron II, where 
 the focus was on simulating what it was like to be a pilot or nuclear sub captain instead of on 
 meticulously re-creating every piece of hardware down to the last rivet at the expense of overall 
 gameplay. That's not to say that Silent Hunter III skimps on the hardware modeling -- the attention 
 to detail is fantastic -- but it lets you concentrate on the exciting parts of being a sub captain 
 instead of saddling you with loads of tedious duties in the name of "realism."  

          Too bad that other guy's ship wasn't designed to go underwater.     

  Up to eight players 
 can play out missions cooperatively in multiplayer mode, which we'll talk about later, but the 
 real meat of the game is in the single-player missions and dynamic campaign. From the very first 
 tutorial mission, which involves navigating the sub into open waters, you know your work is cut 
 out for you. Most of the U-boats in the game are slow, unwieldy, and undergunned compared to the 
 surface ships that hunt them, and it's immediately understood that you sit uncomfortably in the 
 middle of the food chain. At the top are the destroyers, aircraft, and other fast and powerful 
 predators that are out to kill you, and at the bottom are the fat, slow transports laden with troops 
 and cargo that you can send to the bottom of the ocean on a whim.  

  Only a few single missions are included, based on both historical and hypothetical battles, but 
 a complete mission editor is provided for creating nearly any scenario you like. Those elements 
 would almost be enough in themselves to make for a great game, but the dynamic campaign really 
 lets this game shine. There are some serious quirks, like the fact that loading a save game erases 
 every save game you created after that within the same campaign, but when the gameplay is this 
 good it's possible to forgive faults like these.  

  The campaign lets you select from various time periods, ranging from the earliest forays in 1939 
 to the bitter end in 1944. U-boats that are available depend on the time period and the fleet you 
 choose, and there are some huge tradeoffs here. Early on, the Type II U-boats are little more than 
 rickety tubs that carry only a few torpedoes, but their job is eased by Allied forces that aren't 
 quite prepared to deal with the threat. Finding large convoys during the early years is very rare, 
 and many merchant ships travel without escorts and are therefore easy pickings. Destroyers and 
 aircraft early in the war are poorly equipped, relatively untrained, and not all that aggressive, 
 which also helps even the odds.  

  In the middle years of the war, the subs improve with Type VII and Type IX models, but escort ships 
 abound and they are much better at their jobs. By 1943 your job becomes nearly impossible, as escorts 
 and aircraft have the equipment they need to find you, the weapons they need to kill you, and the 
 will to hunt you down mercilessly.  

          Successful patrols in the campaign rack up renown points.     

  Once you've accepted 
 command of a sub, you can modify it based on how much renown you've accumulated in the training 
 missions and also in previous patrols. You gain renown from sinking ships, and then you can spend 
 it on sub upgrades like sonar, engine superchargers, and improved torpedoes. Available upgrades 
 vary from sub to sub, and as newer U-boats become available you can cash in large amounts of renown 
 to trade up. It's a simple system that adds a lot of flavor to the game and really helps you get 
 attached to your sub.     

  The first sign that this game is truly special comes when you board the sub for your first patrol. 
 You start docked at a home port, and if you climb out of the command room onto the bridge, you 
 can see people lining the docks to see you off. There are women throwing flowers, other sailors 
 chatting it up, and usually even a band belting out the German national anthem as you head out 
 to sea. Ports are modeled like their real-life counterparts, so while it's possible to head straight 
 out from a place like St. Nazaire (site of the famous 1942 British commando raid) , navigating into 
 open waters from a place like Lorient requires a lot of tricky maneuvering.  

          Deck guns are great as long as there are no escort ships around.     

  Once you hit 
 the Atlantic you are free to plot any course you like to get to your assigned patrol sector, where 
 you generally must remain on station for 24 hours to complete the patrol. The sea is alive with 
 ships that follow dynamically assigned routes, making it possible to track convoys and task forces 
 over long distances to get into optimal attack position. Ships tend to follow historic convoy routes, 
 which are printed on the included paper map, making it easier to position your sub along one of 
 these target-rich (but well-protected) corridors. For a real challenge you can try running through 
 the Strait of Gibraltar, or stalk the coasts of England and Ireland.  

  Contacts are marked on the map and fade over time if they are not stalked. It also is possible 
 to radio the position of contacts and convoys back to headquarters, and occasionally planes or 
 another sub may be dispatched to deal with it. Unfortunately, wolf packs are not implemented in 
 single-player, making it impossible to team up against a large convoy.  

  After maneuvering the sub into kill position, one of the game's best elements -- plotting firing 
 solutions -- comes into play. It is possible to let the computer handle targeting for you, or at 
 least to identify ships, but hardcore players will want to handle everything manually. This is 
 done by identifying targets through the periscope or binoculars using the onscreen ship ID database, 
 which isn't always easy since many attacks are done at night. Once the ship is identified, you 
 send the data to the targeting computer and then measure its range by using the scope to place 
 a line at the top of the ship's mast and another line on the horizon (not easy in choppy seas) . 
 Other tools are used to figure out the target's speed and other information, and all of the data 
 you collect is sent to a targeting computer that calculates how much lead the torpedoes must use 
 to hit the target, assuming the victim doesn't change speed or direction while the torpedo is on 
 its way. Getting in close undetected so that torpedo travel time is reduced is vital for success. 

  Lining up shots manually requires doing some math and making several educated guesses, but the 
 first time you get everything right and slam a torpedo directly into the spot on the ship you wanted 
 to target, the process becomes downright addictive. With so much relying on your own personal skill, 
 it's impossible to not become personally invested in each and every shot, and we found ourselves 
 practically cheering after every direct hit and practically screaming with frustration after every 
 miss or dud. Even if you go the all-automatic route, getting set up so the torpedo is launched 
 in optimal conditions is a rewarding challenge, as is determining what type of torpedo to fire 
 (several models are available, with different strengths and weaknesses) and what settings you want 
 the torpedo to use. It is also possible to use detonators on most torpedoes that sense a target's 
 magnetic field and explode underneath them, using the ship's own mass to ensure its quick demise. 
 These types of shots are devastating when they go off properly, letting you break the back of all 
 but the largest targets with only one or two torpedoes, which is very important in a game where 
 weapon conservation is so vital.  

  Most of the subs modeled in the game have deck guns for shooting up ships and flak guns for taking 
 care of pesky aircraft, and you can either leave these duties up to your crew or strap in and manually 
 fire away. Fighting on the surface is suicide if there are destroyers or other warships around, 
 as they will quickly pummel you with their bigger guns and crush your hull with depth charges and 
 other weapons. Destroyers are practically suicidal, and several of our patrols have ended with 
 a maniacal destroyer captain smashing into the side of our U-boat at 30-plus knots. This makes 
 fighting large convoys tricky, as you have to decide whether or not to take the escorts out first, 
 which requires using up torpedoes that are invaluable when destroying high-tonnage ships like tankers, 
 troop transports, and passenger liners. Deck-gun attacks are an option in the early part of the 
 war, before the Allies get their act together, but by the time the advanced Type XXI sub is available 
 in 1944, it doesn't even have a deck gun, because fighting on the surface is futile.  

          Each one of those red boxes is a potential target. This may take a while.     

  Although 
 there are no holes or other visible evidence that your torpedoes or guns have ripped through an 
 enemy's hull, the damage model is otherwise spectacular. It is possible to target vulnerable portions 
 of the various ships, like ammo magazines and fuel tanks, assuming you know where these soft spots 
 are and are good enough at coming up with firing solutions to hit them. Ships sink based on where 
 they take damage, and the number of ways we've seen targets slip beneath the waves is staggering. 
 Some sink inch by inch as they slowly flood. Others snap violently in half, with each section bobbing 
 straight up briefly before plunging straight back down. We hit a carrier and watched it list badly 
 to starboard, with the right side of the flight deck nearly touching the water. After achieving 
 a direct hit on the engines of a destroyer, we watched it lazily drift away for a few minutes before 
 the back end of the ship flooded, lifting the entire front end of the victim out of the water as 
 the ship sank from stern to bow. Often, especially after deck-gun attacks, ships burst into flames 
 and explode violently, scattering everything from masts to cargo every which way. Morbid as it 
 sounds, after spending vast amounts of time getting into position undetected and working up the 
 firing solution that strikes a killer blow, it is extremely satisfying to watch your prey stumble 
 through its unique dance of death.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (64 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DethisRedeption
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 11:47 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, I am huge FPS player and that is what I play mainly. But lately I got tired 
 of the same old same old. So I shifted around Steam and happened upon the gem. I have never play 
 a sub sim before cept for the one that was 11 years ago. The name eludes me and I was 12. But i 
 was in for something different. Once the game was installed I was ready to take on the whole allied 
 fleet. With all the community add ons, skins and sounds. This game is so immersive. The only way 
 to get it anymore realistic is to stick a refrigerator box over you and your computer. Light a 
 cigar and yell, "Verdammt Britische Schwiene!!!" or whatever quote you can come up with. There 
 is nothing scarier than having 2 or 3 destroyer out for blood and all you can do is be as quiet 
 as possible while your hearing depth charges going off. I highly recommend this game for anyone 
 who wants a change of pace from the ho hum life of an FPS player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YourNo1CR
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  REVIEW
  This game is one of the best sub simulations that has come out in recent years: with 4 types of 
 subs available (with add-ons) , a world that is about as big as morrowind (maybe not that big, but it's 
 big) and a career that lasts for 6 years (WWII) , this is easily the game that represents submarine 
 warfare.
  
  In this game you can travel to New York, see the Statue of Liberty, take down merchant ships at 
 ports, hunt convoys for days and nights, pound enemy fighter planes with your flak gun and dive to 
 150m to evade depth charges from allies destroyers.
  
  This game also has an excellent sound system that will make the game as realistic as possible and 
 a cleverly thought out campiagn (your career) . In your career, which lasts from 1939 to 1945, you 
 start with a U-boat from 1939 to 1943. From there you go out on a mission to patrol a grid (ex-AD35) , 
 but you don't have to do that instead you can go wherever you like and hunt down merchant ships (oil 
 tankers are great) afterwards when you come back you'll be given points in which you can upgrade 
 your U-boat, promotions and medals for your men (only if you do well) .
  
  However there a few bad points about the game as well, my game (currently broken) after saving: sometimes 
 my boat still has men on the tower even when underwater, the sound system sometimes goes crazy with 
 a ear-cracking sound and sometimes you'll hear glass cracking even when nothing's happening. The 
 save and load system is also a bit slow sometimes and you might find hunting down boats a bit repetitive 
 after a while (but I never did) .
  
  Overall I would still say this game as very x8/10 good, as there aren't many good WWII sub games 
 out there (apart from maybe SH4) and gives a different experience from other war-time simulation 
 games (buy on Ebay cost 3 to 5)
  
  HINTS AND TIPS
  *At the beginning of your career (1939-1941) , use your deck gun first to take down merchant ships 
 instead of torpedoes, as they have no guns to fight back.
  *Use 2 torpedoes on merchant and 1 on battleship.
  *Oil tankers have far more tonnage, so always 
 take them down.
  *Don't attack destroyers (just dive to 150m, go slow) , they are fast (45nm) and can evade your torpedoes, only 
 attack them when you have red torpedoes (T5 G7s) (1943-1945) .
  *At the beginning of your career you'll have white torpedoes (T1 G7a) as time pass only use these 
 at night as your enemy can see a trail of water coming and will try to steer away (might succeed) 
 instead use the yellow torpedoes (T2 G7e) at day.
  *Buy types of torpedoes (1943-1945) that can help.
  *Green torpedoes are useful when you fire 
 them blindly into large convoys (convoy will split) .
  
  If you need any more help write a message to YourNo1CR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badkarma77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Wow. I'm an older gamer and I've played a lot of sub sims. In my opinion this is the best one yet. 
 I love how you can manage your crew and give them awards and promotions after a deployment. The 
 sounds are awesome and the graphics are beautiful. I think I can only say 2 bad things. One, the 
 resolution is set at 800x600 and can't be changed. And two, the time for the crew to become fatigued 
 and recover is unrealistic. I've left crew members on watch for days before I have to pull them 
 off and it takes that much time or longer for them to recover. But, there are many options to tailor 
 the game play to your likings and skill level. This game is just plain fun. You won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardykrugen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I had no idea what to expect when I bought this game but was blown away by it. The game sucks you 
 in with great atmosphere and time flies by. While there's a lot to learn it runs smooth and the 
 less realistic settings make the learning curve manageable and enjoyable. You'll find yourself 
 striving to become proficient enough to set it to 100% realism. The graphics are wonderful and 
 really draw you into the game as you stand on deck to finish off a lone merchant ship with the 
 deck gun as to not waste your precious torpedoes. While it's not brand new or the amazing graphically 
 it has a feel to it that's just right.
  
  The sounds play a great deal in submersion and are great. Sitting on the edge of your seat as an 
 enemy destroyer searches for you with active sonar is thrilling. Trying to figure out their distance 
 and heading. Sound plays a lot into a WWII Submarine Sim and this game really brings it to life.
 
  
  Game play can become kind of repetitive as you hunt down a ship, sink it, and return to port just 
 to do it all over again but it takes a while until that point is reached. At least for me anyway 
 a couple months. Overall I think this game is an excellent creation. I feel the submersion of it 
 is much better than the newer Silent Hunter 4 and it'll have you scourging the internet to better 
 your tactics, choose the best armament, and try to gain an advantage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  So, I'm sailing through the North Atlantic on a cold, clear evening. It just so happens to be 1941, 
 and I am a fearless and intrepid Nazi U-boat captain, prepared to strike hard at the Allies. My 
 goal: to sink as many enemy ships as possible, without loosing my own boat. Sounds quite interesting 
 from first principles, doesn't it? It's not often in a computer game that you get to play on the 
 side of what are typically classed as 'the enemy', but Silent Hunter III places you in exactly 
 such a role, and couples in a highly realistic submarine simulation. Although it is not without 
 some minor problems, Silent Hunter is an effective and interesting tactical submariner game.
  
  There is no preset 'story' to Silent Hunter, but instead the main 'Career' mode leads you through 
 the course of the Second World War, from the days of relatively easy pickings in 1939, to running 
 for your life in the highly dangerous waters of 1945. On top of this, there are also a number of 
 real life historical missions to play through. The war follows real historical events, and so naturally 
 leads to the inevitable outcome of Axis defeat. However, your crucial part in the war can be played 
 out to the best of your ability, and will have repercussions to your influence and importance within 
 the Kriegsmarine (Germany Navy) . You can then select which Flotilla to join, and will be allocated 
 a home port and U-boat. This boat can be continually updated and advanced as the war progresses, 
 and you can also make adjustments to the naval staff that operates the vessel.
  
  Each mission is of a relatively similar basic setup. You are allocated a square grid of water to 
 which you must sail, and then patrol that grid for 24 hours before returning to base. Along the 
 way, you can and should attempt to sink as many enemy vessels as you can. It is important to realise 
 from the outset that there will be quite a bit of time spent doing nothing more than twiddling 
 your thumbs if you play this game at real speed all the way, as it can take some inordinate 'realistic' 
 time to cross the Atlantic Ocean. Thankfully, there is a handy time compression device, which can 
 be used to ramp up time as high as 1024 times normal. I must admit, I would have preferred it to 
 go slightly higher, as even at that speed, you still might need a book handy sometimes. You can 
 also try your hand at completing one of the interesting historical missions. Luckily, the excitement 
 always happens when you encounter another vessel.
  
  Depending on whether you are surfaced or submerged, you will receive a message informing you that 
 a vessel has been detected or sighted. Now is the time to act fast. You must quickly determine 
 what the vessel actually is; it's course, speed and likelihood of being able to take it down. Then 
 you have the enviable task of calculating the torpedo solution, so that you may fire and have the 
 torpedo explode at the right time. You can either do this all the easy way, by getting the Weapons 
 Officer to do it for you, or take on the complexity of the Torpedo Data Computer. Either way, the 
 sense of victory you get from seeing a successful torpedoing is truly fantastic. Navigating and 
 general management of your boat is relatively easy; thanks to the assistance you receive from your 
 officers. The Chief Engineer runs the engines, the Navigator can help you plot courses, and the 
 Watch Officer will allow you to move crewmen on deck if an attack is in progress. Everything has 
 an appropriate keyboard shortcut as well, so that you can act quickly and effectively during an 
 attack.
  
  Whilst Silent Hunter III is great when the excitement occurs, you do need quite a bit of patience 
 with it. For example, I was once just cruising along towards a grid of water out past Ireland in 
 1942, and I thought stupidly that I could sneak through the English Channel, and shave loads of 
 time off the journey. I was sadly mistaken. When I was nearby to Dover, a little torpedo boat spotted 
 me. I submerged and went along in Silent Running mode for a bit, but along came a big English cruiser, 
 which nastily started Depth Charging me. Finally, as the interior bulkheads were failing and I 
 was flooding fast, I blew ballast to surface the boat... and collided directly with the English 
 cruiser, instantly destroying my U-Boat and killing all on board, resulting in a similar situation 
 happening on cruiser as well. It was infuriating after travelling all that way to lose. However, 
 it was a great story in getting to that point, and I must admit quite exciting, in a nerve-racking 
 way.
  
  This being a tasteful and high-class submarine simulation that was released both in English and 
 German, all of the flags, logbooks and uniforms have been stripped off all identifying Nazi symbols, 
 to meet German law, so the Swastikas are out. Graphically, the game is quite up to standard, having 
 nicely decorated U-boat interiors and exteriors, very cool looking water effects, and a generally 
 nice variety of character models (although some look too familiar) , who upon gaining medals will 
 proudly wear them. Music is perfectly adequate, although you will mainly only want to hear the 
 'action' themed music, and may want to put on the gramophone in the radio room, from which mp3 
 files can be streamed. General sound effects are very good, with radar pings, shuddering, engine 
 hums and many others. The character voices can be given in both German and English, although it 
 is infinitely better to have them in German, even if you can't understand it (you can have subtitles) , 
 because it really adds to the atmosphere. Having them speak English with American accents makes 
 you forget that you are in command of a German boat.
  
  With Silent Hunter III, it is actually possible to never complete the same mission twice. This 
 adaptive campaign forms the main section of the game, as is easily its strongest asset. The game 
 is still right at the front of the submarine simulation genre. If you are interested in the Second 
 World War, submarines, or have just watched 'Das Boot', then this is most certainly the game for 
 you.
  
  Now, "Tauchen zu fnfundzwanzig Fu Kommandanten!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caemyr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  I am fairly new to simulations of this type, so i wasn't sure what to expect. I love this game. 
 It is a bit difficult at times, I had trouble with the Torpedo Attack part of the Naval Academy, 
 kept running out of torpedos, and the merchant ships kept getting farther away, gotta work on my 
 navigation. Other than that though, I think this game is amazing, and very addictive. I enjoy seeing 
 how the tech changes throughout the course of the war, and having to fight aircraft and not just 
 other ships and subs. The aircraft were the subs biggest threat during the war. All in all though, 
 I really enjoy playing this game, and I plan to get Silent Hunter IV: Wolves of the Pacific. It 
 is really a great Sim game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 211djra
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 1, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  My review about Silent hunter 3, well at first I thought it was a strange that a Romanian company 
 made a game about German u-boats. They where treated pretty poorly by the Germans in WW-2, along 
 with many other countries and people. German U boat Captains where known to be a bunch of drunken 
 n rag tags. They where also quite ruthless, I saw a video on Y-Tube of a U-boat captain destroying 
 a defenses sail boat maybe 30 feet long! They ordered the crew off and then proceeded to blow up 
 the sail boat. WHY?? They where ordered not to take prisoners, and if you where going to reveal 
 there location you where as good as dead. There goal in life was to sink merchants, starve, terrorize 
 the British and allies. My grand father fought against the Germans in WW2 and was almost killed 
 many times over. So at first I was skeptical about playing such a game to say the least. On the 
 other hand they lost 3 out 4 during the war. It was one of the most dangerous jobs during WW2. 
 I visited a historic web site and gained a new respect for them. They where brave, with no dought. 
 Even though they where fighting a losing war, where most would die they had fight. In Nazi Germany 
 you where pretty much forced to fight, no matter what. If you didnt you where sent away. I think 
 this game should be a historic recreation, but not to glorify the U-Boat Flotillas. Its a way 
 for people to get an idea of what it might have been like to be a U-Boat Commander. My impression 
 of the Game, the first thing I did was checked out the Museum. Then I did the Naval Academy and 
 all the classes. Then I started a career in 1939, the first U-Boat I was giving was U-9. Was a 
 small coastal U-Boat with only 5 torpedoes and no deck gun. It had limited fuel. It was small and 
 the waves knocked it around like it was nothing. It seemed vary cramped. I thought to my self man 
 this game is realistic, and that is a huge plus! I have upgraded and progressed through the game 
 and I really enjoy the historical detail. They really did there home work. Each U-Boat really was 
 in service, thats including types and U-Boat numbers. Also on of the things I saw was bad press 
 about the crew management system. People say it is a pain to have to adjust where and what the 
 crew is doing constantly. Well I think it is a great feature. German officers where micromanagers 
 so this is what it was like. In the US Navy the NCOs do most of the crew management, not the officer 
 like it is in SH 4. To keep a long story short, I think it is the best game of its kind hands down. 
 I havent played SH4 yet, but I plan on it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crocko05
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  A fantastic game!! Better write this review before I start playing again (won't be back for hours!) . 
 Highly recommend. Excellent WWII sub simulation. Was playing SH2 before I purchased SH3, thought 
 that was good, this game is 3 times better! (SH2 has now been relegated to the cupboard) . Great 
 graphics and game-play. Keyboard controls and sub handling will take a little while to master, 
 but if played SH2 or other sub games should not be to difficult to learn. Will require a fairly 
 powerful computer to run properly, very taxing on all recources, esp graphics and memory (my comp; 
 Celeron 2.4D, Radeon 9600Pro 256MB, 1GB mem, just on threshold of stable game play!) . If you like 
 WWII sim games this is a must in your collection. And be prepered to sit at the computer for hours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senseless_dj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  now thats game to play. play, play and play if u don't play it. I Am waiting for the next one  
 as as as as as as so so so so as as as as as as as so so so so as as as as as as as so so so so 
 as as as as as as as so so so so as as as as as as as so so so so as as as as as as as so so so 
 so as as as as as as as so so so so as as as as as as as so so so so as as as as as as as so so 
 so so as as as as as as as so so so so as as as as as as as so so so so as as as as as as as so 
 so so so as as as as as as as so so so so as as as as as as as so so so so as as as as as as as 
 so so so so as as as as as as as so so so so as as as as as as as so so so so as as as as as as 
 as so so so so 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spec440
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  quite possibly the best submarine simulator released to date. (yes, its better than SH4. WAY better) .
 
  
  it'll take you a while to get the hang of this game, especially if you've never played any silent 
 hunter games before, but GOD is it worth it...
  
  few things are as satisfiying as stalking your prey, waiting to strike when the time is right, 
 and when it is, and you let loose a full spread of torpedoes on your unsuspecting target/s and 
 hopefully achieve a strike and send your quarry down to davy jones' locker!
  
  make no mistake, however, this game is not for the meek or faint of heart.
  it is a true bona-fide 
 WW2 submarine sim. with all that it implies.
  you WILL be hunted by destroyers, attacked by aircraft, and face the same problematic torpedoes 
 and odds that real u-boat captians faced.
  
  but all of that just goes to make success even more satisfying.
  
  the campaign features a 
 wide open world for you to roam in, and it is solely up to you to decide on how to carry out your 
 mission.
  
  the graphics engine is simply spectacular, and the overall feel of the game is simply unparalleled. 
 the are some sound glitches however, even in the latest version (1.4) , and previous version have 
 several very annoying bugs to them.
  
  but overall, this game is simply a must play for naval game fans, or anyone who ever fancied himself 
 a sub commander. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trebor22031982
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  My first delve into submarine sims came in the form of a demo of Steel Tide. Following an exhaustive 
 search, I bought and played Silent Hunter II. When Silent Hunter III was released, i had enjoyed 
 SH2 so much, that i bought SH3 as soon as it became available.
  You can jump straight into the u-boats and start sinking ships, or take the leisurely route via 
 the tutorials, but either way, the game pulls you in, and it is very, very difficult to stop playing 
 it. With varying difficulty, and a limited modding capability, you can adjust the game to suit 
 you, whether this is your first sub sim, or the latest in a chain of submarine games.
  You sit on the edge of your seat, hoping for the boom from a torpedo hitting its target, or listen 
 carefully for the sound of depth charges being dropped (hopefully far away) . With a large variety 
 of targets and unlimited free roaming of the seas, the only limit, is that you can't be resupplied 
 at sea, and the missions must come to an end, either by death, no targets, or running out of ammo.
 
  No matter which way you play the game, it will engage you for hours at a time, and can still take 
 months to complete just one campaign.
  And the campaign isn't the end, there are many single player missions, based on real events in 
 the battle for the atlantic, and with a mission editor, you can create an unlimited variety of 
 missions, from stationary target practice to co-operation with surface vessels, or escape from 
 the hunter-killers.
  Play how you want, fight how you want, but just remember...
  DON'T FORGET TO STAY ALIVE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mach9_6
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  I remember the first time I played a submarine simulator, Silent Service for the Nintendo Entertainment 
 System. It didn't really impress me all that much because I had trouble identifying my targets, 
 added to the fact that I didnt know much of the way of submarine tactics so I never really learned 
 to have a healthy interest in it.
  
  Then came Silent Service II for DOS/Windows 3.1 and once I began to make a little bit of progress 
 in understanding submarine tactics I played it religiously. The game looked and played great. I 
 was especially impressed with the career mode. Spending all 6 years of the war seeking and destroying 
 Japanese convoys was quite exhilarating. I must say it was a step up from the original Silent Service.
 
  
  So, one day I decided to buy myself a new PC and I discovered that Silent Service II stopped running 
 because my version of DOS was far too advanced to run it. This prompted me to wonder when a submarine 
 simulator for Windows XP would become available so I visited gaming sites daily and then, there 
 it was, SILENT HUNTER III! At first glance I knew that this was going to be a bench marker, the 
 mother of all World War II submarine simulators. I have never seen a game quite like this so I 
 began watching video footage of the game in action. I knew right then and there I had to own it.
 
  
  Upon release, I went to Wal-Mart and I did not hesitate to buy it. When I got home, I immediately 
 installed it and got right into the action. I was blown away!
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Since the early years of World War II submarine simulations, the gameplay hasnt really changed 
 a whole lot. In fact, I found it got easier. Whether youre out on patrol or training to engage 
 the enemy, all the tools you need to control your sub and give orders to your officers and crew 
 is just a click or key away and if youre still unsure, the game comes with a quick reference card 
 containing all your key commands and shortcuts.
  
  Engaging targets isnt an overwhelming task at all. If you want to engage with your deck gun, you 
 have the option to give your watch officer the order to man the deck gun and let your gunners handle 
 it or you can take control of the weapon directly. Torpedo attacks can be handled by simply raising 
 your periscope, locking your target and pushing the fire button or you can enter all the data manually 
 in the TDC (Torpedo Data Computer) to set up your attack exactly the way the veterans did.
  
  What can I say? Kudos to Ubisoft in this department, a job well done!
  
  GRAPHICS
  
 
  This game really gives you the impression that youre actually serving in the Second World War. 
 The ships have been closely rendered to their real life counterparts and the environmental scenery 
 is just wonderful. The weather changes will sometimes affect sea conditions, which will make the 
 hunt a little more challenging. The inside of your submarine has been modeled to perfection. You 
 can actually see your officers at their posts just waiting for you to give orders. Sub hunting 
 is a team effort and Ubisoft has done a wonderful job of making sure the player doesnt feel like 
 he/she is alone. External view is a welcome commodity as well. Any time you want to see whats 
 happening outside your submarine or just how far your torpedo is from the target, click on the 
 eye icon on the left side of your screen and voila! A motion picture view of an unsuspecting and 
 helpless cargo ship about to take a devastating blow from an accurate torpedo attack by yours truly! 
 Of course, youll have to zoom in on the action but the graphics are so captivating that not very 
 many people will seem to care.
  
  SOUND
  
  One thing I really like here is the creaking of the hull of your submarine as youre taking her 
 down. Spooky! Individual dialog of your officers help boost the sense of realism to the game as 
 well. I actually know who Im giving orders to this time. The engine sounds are neat. The pitch 
 of your diesel and electric engines change as you increase and decrease your submarines speed. 
 The sound of an attacking destroyers propellers is highly noticeable too. Nice touch, guys!
  
  BOTTOM LINE
  
  This game is definitely a submarine simulator fans delight! It has all 
 the tools to keep fans of the genre happy and then some. If you dont already have the game and 
 youre really looking to get an explosive experience of intense u-boat action in the North Atlantic 
 then dont pass this up! Youll be sorry if you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanGoomba
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  Silent Hunter 3 is an immersive sub sim set in World War 2. This isn't just another WW2 game where 
 you mow down hundreds of Nazis, though. In fact, YOU are the Nazi As captain of a German U-Boat 
 from 1939 to 1945, your job is to mercilessly hunt down and destroy Allied merchant ships, while 
 avoiding enemy aircraft and destroyers. The part of this game I liked was the fact that you are 
 both hunter and hunted; you're always in the middle of the food chain. Some players may not like 
 the fact that you'll have to run away from engagements more than a few times, though that depends 
 on your playing style, you can go Rambo and die in a fiery blaze of glory, or you can play it safe 
 and have a long, unimpressive career.
  
  The gameplay is the best part: your U-Boat sails the seas in real time (with time compression available, 
 else it would take forever) looking for juicy merchant ships. Once you find them, you can blow 
 them away piece by piece using your deck gun (a spitwad compared to what enemy warships have) or 
 sink them with torpedos. Torpedos are more satisfying, you'll have to use instruments to gather 
 range, speed and angle on your target, then line things up perfectly to hit. You'll miss more often 
 than not. Of course, only the most hardbitten grognards will want to use this regurally, so you 
 can have the computer gather all this for you, you'll still have to decide what depth to fire the 
 torp at, what type to use, how close to get before firing, etc. This all sounds like work, but 
 there's few more satisfying moments I've had in gaming than successfully hitting a tanker, then 
 watching it explode into a massive column of smoke and fire.
  
  Sometimes despite your best efforts, you'll be spotted by the enemy. This makes for some very tense 
 moments as you're changed from the hunter into the hunted, it completely changes the tone of the 
 game. If they find your exact position, they'll drop depth charges onto you, bashing your boat 
 back and forth and steam and water shoot out of damaged vents. If you're hurt bad enough, you'll 
 have to surface, where you'll be blown to pieces by gunfire. Save often.
  
  The meat of the game is the campaign. You're based out a port, and where you'll return to stock 
 up on fuel and torpedos, but most of your time is spent on patrol. Several historical missions 
 are also available where you have to sink a battleship and attack a convoy. Finally, multi player 
 is available, but I never tried it, this is a solitary game a heart anyway.
  
  The graphics overall are excellent: the water effects (waves especially) are amazingly realistic, 
 and ship models are impressively detailed. Damage modeling is excellent, damaged ships sink a thousand 
 different ways, some break in half and explode, others flip over and sink, others will slowly and 
 evenly sink beneath the waves.
  
  The sound is well done, engine, battle, and voices all seem well-modeled and realistic. I do wish 
 there was more variety to the music, however.
  
  That leads into my next point, the unimpressive aspects of Silent Hunter 3. Load times are excessively 
 long (have a magazine or a newspaper nearby, I'm not kidding) , the crew management system is annoying, 
 why aren't they smart enough to go to sleep when they're tired? All your crew members are effectively 
 mindless clones, so even with 50 men aboard I felt somewhat alone, the AI is spotty at times (how 
 nice of you to come to a complete stop so I can sink you easier) , and the save system is cumbersome.
 
  
  Despite all this, Silent Hunter 3 is the best military sim I've ever played. If you're not interested 
 in the subject, this won't change your mind, but if you are, go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenTom
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  Ive always been interested in outer space and underwater, with books and films like 2001 and 20,000 
 Leagues but there have been very few decent simulations that delve into my second area of interest, 
 theyre usually based on traditional and realistic methods for the navigation and control of a 
 submarine. This is all well and good but in the day and age of cutting-edge graphics and affordable 
 personal computers, I have been itching for something to fill this void for a long time, ever since 
 I played Subwar 2050 on my old 486. Its been quite a while coming but I have found a game that 
 really caught my interest and provided a nice mix between historical realism and out and out fun.
 
  
  Ubisofts latest simulation to grace our PCs is set in World War II and follows the career of a 
 promising U-Boat captain (you) as the war progresses. Silent Hunter III is the name of the game 
 and it fuses cutting-edge graphics with solid gameplay and controls.
  
  Story
  
  The story in Silent Hunter III is what you make of it; the player creates their own personal war 
 journal and story as the dynamic campaign progresses against a historically near-accurate model 
 of WWII raging on in the background. So there isnt a cut and dried story flowing to guide you, 
 youre given orders from HQ and its up to you how you fulfil those particular patrol criteria.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Career mode is where its at in SH III and after selecting a few criteria, such as the year you 
 begin your career in and the flotilla plus type of U-boat, youre taken to an office and given 
 the choice of accepting a mission from the map screen or tailoring your crew and U-boat with your 
 500 points of Renown. (1000 points are added if you pass the Naval Academy exams in the tutorial 
 section) .
  
  Successful missions and patrols add up to more Renown and better equipment, U-boats and so on as 
 the campaign progresses. Youre given radio messages from HQ as the war goes on and thats about 
 it regarding the story, youre given free reign to sink as much of the enemies war machine as possible 
 and cripple their supply lines  the more you do means the more toys you get.
  
  Alongside the career mode theres a single mission mode and the cooperative multiplayer where you 
 can team up in wolf-packs, to sink enemy ships and wreak havoc in either single missions or generated 
 ones. Theres also nothing to stop you using the LAN function of the game to set up your own generated 
 missions just for you against any number of enemies and their escorts  one word of warning  the 
 game will fill the oceans with ships based on the time period and the state of the war, so even 
 if you think theres only merchants out there ripe for the plucking, you might still catch the 
 attention of a destroyer or troop ship.
  
  The control of the submarine is done via a fairly intuitive interface and of course there are the 
 numerous keys and keyboard shortcuts, if giving orders via the GUI isnt your thing. Some inventive 
 players have also found voice-activation software works a treat with this game and have configured 
 it so they dont need to touch a key to give orders. For those of us who rely on the traditional 
 keyboard and mouse, this game is a breeze to control, everything is laid out within easy reach 
 and most of the control dials are easy enough to read, apart from the compass which is a bit of 
 a strain on the eyes.
  
  The excellent tutorial videos explain all aspects of controlling the sub and provide some useful 
 examples, especially how to search and track down a convoy from the sonar mans information. Its 
 worth watching all of these as they will teach you far more about Silent Hunter III than the manual 
 to be honest.
  
  Das Boot! I love virtual cockpits and compartments, so I was really pleased when the first thing 
 that greeted me as I got into the first skirmish in Silent Hunter III was a 3d representation of 
 the forward compartment. You can either use the mouse to look around clicking on officers to give 
 orders via little icons that pop up, or right click and enter the station yourself to use the equipment 
 there  this takes some getting used to but really does add to the level of immersion.
  
  With a click of the mouse or a tap of a keyboard button you can take a look through the attack 
 periscope (providing youve bothered to raise it and are at periscope depth)  you can even opt 
 to lock targets and fire torpedoes from this view, allowing you to take a less simulated approach 
 to the whole acquisition and destruction of enemy targets. A small triangle appears and gives you 
 an indication of how likely you are based on various factors, to hit or miss your target.
  
  I note right now before the clamour from the realism crowd grows any louder, the various difficulty 
 levels in the game are fully customisable and you can select from any number of options to tailor 
 your SH III experience to how you want to play it.
  
  100% realism and youll be keeping an eye on fuel, air and so on, with no visual aids to help you 
 target and attack ships, you can set everything manually inputting the gyro-angles and flicking 
 through the ship recognition manual based on various silhouettes  set the depth of your fish and 
 hope you have the target identified correctly.
  
  At 0% realism you can sit back and play a more arcade-style version of the game where youre only 
 worried about firing solutions from your weapons officer and not having to go through the hard 
 work of setting everything up manually.
  
  Silent Hunter III brings the submarine to life with crew management and other features, theyll 
 get tired and exhausted depending on how you treat them, their fatigue grows the more they remain 
 on station and you can have vital members of your crew pass out leaving you without propulsion 
 or worse still no means of piloting your U-boat. The developers seem to have forgotten a crew-rotation 
 button in the game although you can click on things like the submerged attack, cruise and so on 
 (or surface variants) and that will refresh your crew cycling the awake and vibrant members for 
 the ones that are dead on their feet.
  
  Its sadly not one of the options that you can turn off in the realism settings so unless you work 
 out how to mod the game (the good news is that its very moddable as far as settings go) youre 
 pretty much stuck with crew management and fatigue.
  
  For those long days at sea theres the time-compression facility that allows you to go as high 
 as 1024 times when on the main map screen and 32 when in external cameras.
  
  Apart from those minor niggles, finding and eliminating enemy vessels is a pretty simple task once 
 youve worked out how to search for them, the developers have provided a nice set of map tools 
 for the player to plot trajectories and bearings (with fan-sites already providing even more tools 
 and enhancements) , to provide information and create a suitable search corridor, based on the projected 
 sightings (via radar) from the radio man and HQ of convoys, lone merchants and warships.
  
  The navigation screen and the TDC (Torpedo Data Computer) are all nicely modelled and appear like 
 a map, with bearing lines and markers as they might show on a proper representation of the map 
 in a real U-boat. The screens are rarely cluttered and are nice and simple to use/read  giving 
 the player just the right amount of information to help them get a target. To cut a long and potentially 
 boring section short, SH III features some of the best GUI and control systems out there in sim 
 land, its easy and fun to control the U-boat and the payoff from sinking an enemy ship comes in 
 several ways.
  
  Thar she blows!
  
  Not content with modelling the U-boat down to every dial and bolt, the developers have used a next-generation 
 engine to simulate the real world outside of the games cramped interiors. For the first time in 
 any submarine simulation there are external cameras and the gorgeously implemented event camera 
 which triggers based on important proximity events such as torpedo launches, targets being hit 
 or sunk.
  
  If you press V while the tiny window is open you can swap into a letterboxed full screen version 
 of the camera, for that true movie-like experience. The game and graphics engine for SH III is 
 working overtime; it has to model a realistic sea and weather system while working out several 
 factors (day or night, storm or shine) that all influence the shipping moving along trade routes 
 or straying to check out suspected U-boat sightings. Its keeping track of so much its easy to 
 forget theres a competent and complex simulation running under the skin of the gorgeous graphics 
 and stunning models, complete with a layered damage system where vessels can take differing amounts 
 of damage and you can send a mast hurtling into the sea with a well-placed shot from the deck gun 
 (providing youre not in a storm) .
  
  Graphics, Models, Animations
  
  Silent Hunter III is full 3d and its packed with nice graphical touches and suitable texturing, 
 the bubbles from the propellers and the swirl of the water as your U-boat glides silently through 
 the waves. It implements a whole new look for the sub-sims and I hope other developers follow suit 
 in the realisation that while having historically and realistically accurate simulations are all 
 well and good for the sim-crowd, people like me do like their bells and whistles in this respect 
 and watching a nice explosion from the external or event camera gives us a sense on unparalleled 
 pleasure.
  
  The interior graphics are as good as the exterior and when the U-boat is under attack or moving, 
 the camera sways a little. If you take serious damage you can look forwards to seeing water bursting 
 from pipes and dials cracking from the impact and rattle of depth-charges. So SH III has excellent 
 graphics and models coupled with a nice damage system and great lighting, it all helps to bring 
 the game to life especially as the sub runs on red lights at night and the moon glimmers in her 
 various phases as time passes on. (Yes theres day and night cycles along with weather and time 
 as the years roll on. The sea can be as calm as glass one day or toss the U-boat around like a 
 rag doll as a storm rages in the heavens above) .
  
  The character animations in SH III are good, they have animated crew on the deck and in the compartments, 
 they have a number of simple but effective ambient animations that help to bring them to life and 
 they respond to orders often with a lip-synched dialogue, simple again but it does the job.
  
  The vessel animations and those of hostile air-craft are also pretty good, from the spin of 
 the submarine screws to the whirl of the propellers on the various planes. Various parts of the 
 ships like the flags, wave in the wind, radar towers rotate and smoke belches forth from funnels.
 
  
  It reminded me of a Janes Combat Sim but with a graphics engine that far outshines those games, 
 with much more depth and certainly a lot more replay value. (Considering it comes with a full editor 
 allowing you to make MP, SP and Campaign missions) .
  
  Music, Sound and Voice
  
  SH III has some nice atmospheric music that keeps the tension and changes with the various actions, 
 if youre about to go head to head with a ship then youll find that itll switch to something 
 more action orientated and back again if you dive to a safer depth and outrun an enemy vessel. 
 Theres also a Gramophone where you can put your own MP3s and OGG files, filling the directory 
 with WW II mood music or the hardest rock.
  
  The voice acting in SH III isnt going to win any awards and its passable, officer responses to 
 orders are clear and understandable and there really isnt much dialogue apart from that. Theres 
 a nice mix of ambient and spot effects, from the rattle of the engines to the patter of footsteps 
 and the clunk of the hatches as you submerge the boat beneath the crashing waves.
  
  All in all I have no real complaints about the sounds since I dont really know how a real U-boat 
 would have sounded.
  
  Play with friends
  
  SH III can be played multiplayer across either LAN or Online and offers the player a chance to 
 team up with their friends and participate in wolf-pack hunts against a configurable enemy fleet. 
 A number of options can be altered in this case and you can even play with unlimited torpedoes 
 (not accurate but fun) to give the new players a better edge, since getting a good firing solution 
 can be a pain in the neck sometimes.
  
  Das Boot II
  
  Theres no story told with elaborate cut-scenes so this might put some of the players off the game, 
 since it is really all about you and your U-boat. The dynamic campaign world is different every 
 time and some patrols can be un-eventful, thus boring and if youre a fan of instant-gratification 
 and hardcore action then youll want to steer clear of Silent Hunter III since it is a sim regardless 
 of how you look at it.
  
  If you like the thrill of the chase and dont mind sitting for a few minutes working out bearings 
 and angles, plotting a decent interception and waiting patiently for the right AoA (Angle of Attack) 
 so you dont waste a single fish then youre going to love Silent Hunter III because it simulates 
 that whole aspect of the hunt while retaining enough gameplay to make the game actually fun to 
 play.
  
  There are a few bugs and already the hard-core simmers are complaining about the level of realism, 
 the UZO bug is about the worst and the developers released 1.01 to counter it  theres a tendency 
 when youre running at speed on the surface for the particle spray from the front of the boat to 
 become too strong when viewed through the UZO and white-out the screen (In 1.01 you can hit ctrl-p 
 to toggle the particle system off and avoid this bug) .
  
  There is also a 7th Flotilla bug where the submarine will still keep getting orders from HQ even 
 though the war has ended. The community has provided a work-around for this and its thanks to 
 gamers like Beery and company that we can look forwards to extra content and fixes. I recommend 
 if you do get Silent Hunter III then zip on over to Subsim. com and hit their forums.
  
  There are also a few bugs where captains are given land-locked grids for their patrol and again 
 its the community to the rescue.
  
  Subsims patch section
  
  I should really give credit to the developers for making such an open and moddable game as Silent 
 Hunter III but they do lose a few points for these errors in the first place, a case of not quite 
 getting their firing solutions correct and missing the target by a few feet.
  
  Theres probably a load Ive missed in the review, but the main point was to provide a gamers 
 eye view of the game and not baffle everyone with polygon counts or game specifications.
  
  Silent Hunter III is a great addition to the submarine sim genre and allows the player to build 
 their own personal story during WW II. With an upgradeable submarine, crew experience and renown 
 system that allows you to request transfers to different flotillas and earn the right to use new 
 U-boats, including the type 21 (XXI) prototype armed with six torpedo tubes and better engines, 
 SH III provides endless hours of submarine goodness all from the safety of your PC monitor and 
 keyboard.
  
  I look forward to seeing an expansion or a sequel to the game to see where the team can take this 
 engine to next, for me its the perfect sim that I can devote as little or as much time to while 
 enjoying some of the best graphics and modelling from fully moveable cameras, a true first for 
 this genre. Note: Silent Hunter III patch 1.02 is now available that addresses some of the issues, 
 this was discovered after the review went to print - nice to see the dev team are on their toes! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grarap
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 17, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hunter is undoubtedly the greatest sub sim on the market. Its a shame that it ships with 
 a peice of copy-protection software that can only be classified as malware. After a few short hours 
 on the open seas I noticed by PC performing extremely poorly and my game crashing constantly, to 
 the point where everything was just.... black. It wouldn't work. Since SH can only live with this 
 piece of crappy programming I had to uninstall. Value? Non existant. However, I heard that the 
 D2D version of the game doesnt come with the malware. Still, avoid the CD version at all costs, 
 unless you want your PC to hate you for all eternity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mosss4
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 18, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Silent Hunter III has to be one of the best sub sim's ever created. Historically correct from the 
 start its a must for WWII maniacs like me. If the player releases the full potential of the game 
 its stunningly addictive. Newbie's to sub sim's might not find the appeal but I would encourage 
 them to stick at it. If you don't click with the game straight off you will find yourself wandering 
 around never finding a target, not a pleasant experience. The graphics are pleasing inside and 
 out of das boot (pardon the pun!) . The ships are very controllable with all the info you need, 
 you can even improve the sailors! One last tip - go easy with the difficulty levels if you make 
 the game to easy it becomes a tedious duck shoot and if your out for a challenge use realistic 
 fuel load that wil help keep you on your toes !! l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cei13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 16, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  Having played almost every sub sim ever made, from the original Silent Hunter to 688 Attack Sub 
 and Red Storm Rising, I can honestly say that SH3 is the best of the bunch. The graphics are top 
 notch and the sound is dead on. If you are prone to seasickness, do not use the bridge view during 
 a storm! The screen rolls convincingly and is extremely immersive. The battles are realistic and 
 the level of tension is palpable, especially when you are playing career mode and have advanced 
 well into the game. The controls are a bit daunting at first, but easy to navigate once you memorize 
 the key commands. The only complaint I have is that a lot of time is spent, even with time compression, 
 just sailing to your mission zone. This is realistic, but it is boring. However, when you see your 
 torpedo take out that fat tanker, it more than makes up for it. I'm hoping someone does a modern 
 sub sim with this much attention to detail.
  
  To fully enjoy this game, you will need a good system. I have a 2.4 GHz Pentium 4, ATI X800 Pro 
 (256 MB RAM) and 1.5 GB of RAM. I can run it with full detail with very little slowdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason210
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 13, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  This was one of the big releases of 2005, and is a dream come true for lovers of U-boat sims. Even 
 if you arent interested in U-boats or simulators, you can't fail to be impressed by the outstanding 
 graphics of this game, which are undoubtedly the most intense and realistic ever created in this 
 genre. The sea actually looks real, both in the quality of the surface and the complex wave behavior. 
 Wakes, and splashes from the various vessels are all well done, and properly synchronized with 
 excellent sound effects. The weather system is highly advanced, having autonomous weather that 
 is unpredictable. Fog, drizzle, rain can happen at any time and the graphics all have the right 
 atmospheric look and feel. The effect of these graphics takes the player to a new level of immersion, 
 which is very evident when youre riding out a storm in a U-boat on the surface. This is a scary 
 experience, and actually makes you realize how vulnerable you are out in a small vessel in the 
 middle of the Atlantic. It makes you want to dive below the surface to the calmer submarine environment
 
  
  In the calmer, quieter interior, youll find yourself in the control room, a true 3D- Environment, 
 where you can look around from a fixed viewpoint and interact with fully modeled 3D crew, or click 
 to exchange places with a crew member and operate his 3D controls with the mouse. You can also 
 click to enter other compartments interact with the crew and equipment there. The interior modeling 
 is excellent, and the sound and lighting just right.
  
  The external detail of the U-boat is very high, making use of high resolution textures, and this 
 level of detail is also applied every vessel that appears in the game. The ships look real when 
 you look at them through the periscope, and if you manage to hit one with a torpedo or a gun, youll 
 be amazed at how the damage is modeled. Very realistic.
  
  In terms of gameplay, SH III is not a game designed to please those out for quick thrills. You 
 can sit for hours with nothing happening, but with the potential of something happening every second, 
 and not get bored. Theres always things to do. You can browse through the identification book, 
 listen on the hydrophone, stand on the bridge, or go to the navigation table and plot a new course. 
 You can also talk with the crew, requesting them to do certain things, or move them around into 
 different compartments. As you sail across the north sea, youre crew will tire and you will have 
 to relieve them and replace them with new watches. Your crew is personalized, in that each crew 
 member has a name and several attributes, such as rank, skill, awards, endurance and experience, 
 and you can allocate them to various compartments and areas on the sub. The number and quality 
 of crew allocated to a compartment will affect that compartments efficiency, and if it falls below 
 a critical level, the compartment will not function. In the Career (campaign) mode, the same crew 
 are with you throughout your career, and while you are at base you can promote them and give out 
 medals and qualifications if they've done a good job, or dismiss them and reappoint new ones. As 
 you progress through your career, you earn points that you can then use to buy equipment, train 
 your crew or even upgrade your U-boat to a newer model.
  
  When the action comes, though, the long periods of silence and uneventfulness only serve to accentuate 
 the intensity of the experience of an enemy encounter, such as the sinking a cargo vessel, or of 
 an encounter with a destroyer. Trying to dodge a destroyer without using the external camera is 
 difficult, and tense, and your life may depend on that little extra bit of technology your boat 
 may have - that extra knot of speed, or that extra minute on that Bold decoy. It will also depend 
 on your skill, as a Captain, to know when to maneuver the boat under full power to execute a quick 
 turn; and when to be silent, hoping that the enemy active sonar doesn't pick you up.
  
  Damage control is advanced in this game, there being several kinds of damage. Small damage can 
 be fixed automatically by the crew, but for larger damage, you need to assign a repair team to 
 fix it. Parts of the sub may be damaged beyond repair.
  
  Shipping of the axis, allies and neutral countries are operated automatically according to historically 
 accurate shipping routes. The effect of all these autonomous systems (weather also) , combined with 
 the dynamic campaign system means that a campaign is never the same, so you start a new career 
 and play it all again as if for the first time.
  
  The first time you play this game, youll be impressed when you leave the port on the first day 
 of your campaign. It was night when I ordered Ahead Slow and left the pen amidst cheering crowds 
 and a band playing the national anthem. The journey through the harbour took about ten minutes, 
 and I saw people walking around on the walls, soldiers, a motorbike, and then the U-boat broke 
 out into the open sea between two lighthouses, their bright light reflecting intermittently on 
 the black shiny surface of the water. It was like being in a Das Boot .
  
  Several minor updates were released with the game, but it was criticised for not being finished 
 and for being too gamey, rather than a realistic simulator. . Thankfully, the modding community 
 have brought out some excellent free mods, such as SHIII Commmander and Real U-boat, the latter 
 of which makes the U-boat behave as a closely as possible to the real thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laversn
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 12, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Well. I never thought I would like this kind of a game at all... ( I usually like run and fire 
 type games /FPS) . 
  
  But.... I saw this in the bargain bin @ the store last night and said... ok ... I'll give it a 
 go for that kind of money $$$ /cheap right now.
  
  WOW... I wish I had bought this a long time ago ... I'm totally hooked man.... I mean hooked right 
 in!
  
  The graphics are great and the game is very in depth as well. The water looks so real... and the 
 guns sound great too.
  
  It also has a very nice free look feature!.. All the panels/controls are laid out well.
  
 
  It's so much fun to boss everyone around on the boat and tell them... hey fire over there... 
 NOW!
  
  I will write more when I get deeper into the game, as I am just learning the ropes right now.
 
  
  DON'T PASS THIS ONE BY .... IF YOU SEE IT IN THE BARGIN BIN.... Grab It!!!!
  
  ... it may completely surprise you with just how much fun this is!
  
  later,,,
  
  Nels 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaltyMcSushi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay and Playability
  Silent Hunter III is a submarine simulator set in World War II Europe and the Atantic- even reaching 
 into the American eastern coast and the carribean. You play as the capitan on one of eleven German 
 U-Boat types in one of six different submarine flotillas at any time in the war. The main part 
 of the game is your career in the German navy. The game sets you out on war patrol after war patrol 
 where you are ordered to reach and patrol a grid; the map of your operational areas is split up 
 into grid sections. That's basically it. There are no specific missions, no scripted events, just 
 patrolling the random patrol grids, managing your U-boat, and sinking enemy ships as you like it. 
 Patroling your grid only adds to renown, which you use to purchase better crewmen, upgrade your 
 U-boat, or purchase a new U-boat. Sinking enemy ships gives you renown as well based on their importance. 
 Sinking a 30000-ton battleship will give you much more renown than a 30-ton water trawler. Since 
 ships are always sailing around throughout SH3's virtual world, you can completely neglect orders 
 and sink ships wherever you want- so long as you have enough fuel to get there. Throughout your 
 career, you will earn awards for your deeds as a capitan. Getting these awards are not like most 
 games, where getting X amount of kills on a level will give you Y medals. Like real life, getting 
 the medal depends on the circumstances; sinking 50,000 tons of enemy shipping is only expected 
 if you're the capitan of the top-of-the-line submarine, but sinking even 25,000 tons in the smallest 
 submarine would get you Germany's highest honors. Crew medals, however, are awarded just based 
 on tonnage sunk. You can give these medals to your crew, and unlike your own personal medals, they 
 have an affect on the gameplay by improbing your crew.
  
  The game is outstandingly realistic. The only part of the submarine you can directly move or activate 
 is the periscope, hydrophone, and radar. Everything else- moving the submarine, changing course, 
 firing torpedoes, etc.- is done by ordering the crew to do it or through a series of actions. On 
 full realism, you even need to find the torpedo solution (aiming the torpedo) yourself by finding 
 a mess of information about the target's speed, direction, and distance through mathematics and 
 geometry. Even after all this, you may not want to fire, because if a torpedo hits an enemy ship 
 at too steep an angle, it'll harmlessly deflect off the side and will only reveal your presence 
 to the enemy. Where you it matters as well; hitting certain points on the ship's side may destroy 
 their engines, destroy the propeller, leak the ship's fuel, or on warships, ignite the ammo bunkers. 
 Limited fuel means you need to sail at the lowest speed or risk not having enough fuel to get home. 
 Limited batteries and oxygen will limit your time underwater, and going too deep will put too much 
 pressure on your submarine and literally crush it. Also highly realistic is the progression of 
 technology throughout the game. In the beginning of the war, convoys are lightly guarded, so you 
 can take out most of the 20 ships or so, even the escorts, with relative ease. Nearing the end 
 of the war, convoys are a dreaded sight, as they are guarded by many very smart and dangerous escorts. 
 The always strengthening enemy airpower is also a serious threat. If your crew spots an enemy naval 
 bomber too late, you can just kiss your U-boat goodbye. Eventualy, it comes to the point where 
 even the area around your home port can be dangerous to be in. Chances are, you're going to be 
 sunk before the war is over.
  
  So you may think, "Why play this game if I'm just going to get sunk?" Silent Hunter 3 is not a 
 game that you play to beat. Sure, you can turn all realism options off and sink a hundred thousand 
 tons in one patrol, but I guarantee you that it will be very boring. While other games can boast 
 hours of gameplay, rich stroylines, or good multiplayer, SH3 is a fun game simply because you are 
 the capitan of a submarine in a realistic atomosphere. Realism settings and mods further your immersion 
 into this virtual world, and make the game far more enjoyable. There is a rich community of very 
 devoted fans who create more and more mods that add to the game. People even create virtual submarine 
 flotillas. More than any other game made, the object of Silent Hunter 3 is not to achieve a high 
 score or beat the game how-many-times, but to just have fun.
  
  Graphics
  Some of the grapics in SH3 seem a bit bizarre. Your crewmen look really freaky. I know that making 
 virtual people can be difficult, but in a simulator game, making people look like cartoons really 
 breaks the realism. And the land is also very poorly created. All the land you see is the same 
 shade of green. The only buildings or trees you ever see are around ports. There are no beaches 
 anywhere, or any substantial effects of water hitting land or anything else.
  
  However, everything else is awesome. The measure of detail given to ships and harbors is maticulous. 
 Ships have accurately placed cargoes, masts, hulls, sizes, command centers, and even details as 
 small as foghorns and lifeboats. Your U-boat is very detailed as well and they look great. Boats 
 leave a nice wake as they move through the water. Unlike your crewmen, everything about the ships 
 look natural and smooth. Light shimmers through the water and onto your submerged submarine. The 
 sea not only reflects the lighting, but it also reflects the ships on its surface.
  
  Sound
  The makers of SH3 did a very good job with the sound effects. Firing a deck gun emits 
 a very loud shot so that you can almost feel the power. Shots from enemy vessels whizz by your 
 head and then splash into the water. When you hit with one of your shots, you hear an echoing explosion. 
 When diving, you hear the sound of the portals to the bridge being closed and your ship creaks 
 when you go really deep. Your crewmen respond when you give them orders, report important information 
 such as flooding or a ship spotted. When running in silent mode, they whisper, and when you are 
 under attack, you can sense urgence in their voice. The sounds have been very well done and add 
 a lot to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilly
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  WOW! Like old Red Baron with subs!
  
  Graphics are great, as well as the sounds. I bought it when it came out, but only played a couple 
 times, lightly. reciently though, I got board and tried it again and man, this game is the best! 
 Been playing 2 days straight! Like those old addictive games I used to play waaay back in the 90's! 
 ... just one more mission... I know I can do better! Cool subs, and upgrades. Crew receive experience, 
 and get tired. So you need to swap them out for rested guys during the missions. Sometimes though, 
 it gets pretty rough, and you get allot of wore out men trying to perform there duties. Can get 
 dramatic! 
  
  Best sim I've played in a looong time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  I wont describe the game, what it is about and how it is played. But consider this; this is not 
 a chlid's play. It is for real players. As always i will get down to the pros &amp; cons rightaway:
 
  
  Pros:
  + Increadibly well managed interface
  + Super highly addictive gameplay.
  + Crew management and fatigue factor adds flavor to the game. Promotions and experience increase 
 of crew after missions adds to the value.
  + it makes you feel the very ambition of hunting and thrill of being hunted very well
  + Torpedo 
 solutions are very realistic and hitting a target very satisfactory (If you dont cheat and make 
 the calculations by yourself) .
  + Saving and loading system is very well organized despite some reviewers complained about it. 
 (prevents you to load for getting better results)
  + Configuration and upgrading your boat adds to addiction. And the best part is it is historically 
 accurate. + Depth charges causes flikering of lights in command room, shakes and bolts burst out 
 water and steam. Damage is very realistically created. Watching your boat externally is magnificent 
 as it is shook by close depth charges.
  + Easily moddable structure which lets you to download new graphics and change the sounds provided 
 by people. And there are lots of sites and modders providing such improvements. (I wonder why gamespot 
 doesnt offer these links here as they do in Starwars: empire at war? or Rome: Total War?)
  + event camera shows the important situations like an aircraft starts a bombrun on your boat or 
 your torpedo about to hit the designated target. Or most thrillingly depth charges falling on your 
 boat!!! Cons:
  - Medals doesnt seem to improve anything among crew. Besides there are no explanations of the effects 
 of them.
  - High levels of time compression pushes hard on Cpu, as frame rate is severely effected. when 
 crowded convoys, fleets are around.
  - Sadly There is no wide variety of choices when equipping your boat .
  - You are not listed 
 among the U-boat aces list, just noted in the bottom.
  - Damages to the boat (Such as destroyed conning tower) not modeled when externally viewing. just 
 a black texture paint shows the damage?
  - Some aircraft sounds are non-realistic. (Most new mods corrected these) - some sounds are not 
 available in compressed time mods.
  - There is no verbal warning when you are about to hit the bottom nor you hit the bottom actually. 
 And no one tries to act and raise the nose of the boat but you?
  - The weakest part of the game is lack of mission varieties. It becomes quite repetetive after 
 a while. Only mission given is patrol area sector... bla bla.
  
  What would have been good:
  ? An animation showing your boat is being repaired in dock (welding 
 processes, cranes moving parts) in background when you are in base. (preferably choosing equipment 
 or crew for your boat) ? An animation of crew actually moving external torpedos inside would be 
 nice.
  ? An option to stay longer in base for increasing the morale of the crew. In the other hand, the 
 longer you wait, the more renown points you would loose.
  ? It would have been nice if it let you a change the course of the history , Playing with knowing 
 that the allies will win at the end, brakes ambition. knowing what your successes and achievements 
 leads to would be a nice feature.
  ? It would be very nice to see the Damages to hull from external camera and crewman trying to repair 
 it. ? ? Ship reference book to be more specific about the armaments of the ships. So that we can 
 act accordingly. (to mess with him or not :) )
  ? More verbal suggestions from the commanding officer would add to the realism and atmosphere.
 
  ? Wide variety of missions or incoming radio messages during missions such as rescue downed pilots, 
 landing spy to enemy territory, port strikes, ambush enemy admiral etc. would have surely been 
 a kill for the monotony. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 24, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  I honestly have not had this much fun playing a sub simulator since I played Red Storm Rising on 
 my C64 back in the 80s.
  
  First, the ambience of the game is up to the standards of any WWII game out there. The graphics 
 are fantastic. And while most of the time you won't be dealing directly with the 3D engine in the 
 game, it doesn't feel like the 3D elements were added in to make the game feel modern. No -- the 
 3D stuff looks fantastic. The models are detailed and look beautiful. Best, however, are the water 
 and water effects, which are absolutely stunning.
  
  I was hooked when I launched my first torpedo only to have a window pop up and follow my torp in 
 (in 3D) to, ahem, *miss* my first target. My second torpedo hit, and blew the ship sky high. It 
 was incredibly satisfying to watch.
  
  Amazing and immersive as the visuals are, the gameplay is what matters. And my God, this game is 
 fun. While you can have the computer do the solution plotting for your torpedoes for you, it is 
 a blast to fine tune everything yourself. It's tough at first, but after awhile you get used to 
 the necessary estimates you need to make for your torpedo to connect with your target.
  
  Stalking prey is also a blast. And you *do* need skill, because one the target knows you're there 
 they will do everything they can to evade your torpedoes -- and they are good at it. The game is 
 quite challenging, and as the game goes on you'll be faced with some truly brilliant enemies and 
 overwhelming odds.
  
  The game's renown system also draws you in. You'll be pushing yourself after every patrol to sink 
 just one more ship to increase your renown. Renown allows you access to better crew members, and 
 more importantly, better weapons and systems for your sub.
  
  Replay is excellent. With a very flexible "realism" system, you can adjust the game's difficulty 
 to suit your style, making it as easy or as difficult as you like by turning on or off things such 
 as dud torpedoes and limited oxygen. It works wonderfully in the context of the game.
  
  Overall, I would highly recommend this game if you're into naval warfare sims. With its highly 
 flexible difficulty settings and options, it will suit the die hard I-want-to-do-everything-myself 
 gamer as well as the more casual gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: automobile
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I remember Silent Service a Nintendo Nes submarine game one of my favorites. Silent Hunter III 
 is now growing to be my favorite, when you first start the game you kinda get overwhelmed by the 
 detail of the commands you have to give to the crew of the Sub, this game has a long learning curve, 
 and is hard to load and start action at first. But if you like sailing around patrolling like me 
 you will like this game, but if you like easy start action this is not the game. A simulator this 
 game is and sailing is in real time but speeding the clock is very easy. So going from Germany 
 to Spain can be fast if one wants so. I've had Flight Simulator games but this game beats all simulator 
 of 2005, and the best is that Silent Hunter III grows on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostmag
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  Silent Hunter 3 (SH3) is one of the most intense and realistic sim games there is on the market. 
 I have suggested this game to many of my friends, and all of them got hooked on it. The ability 
 to hunt the allied ships with the German U-Boats in wolf-packs is amazing. Especially when you 
 get to see an American Battle Ship being blown to bits with a fireball explosion. The graphics 
 in this game are jaw dropping. But the sounds put into this game are also great. You can hear the 
 ping of a destroyer trying to lock onto ur posistion, the depthcharges being launched into the 
 water, then the explosions around your U-Boat, and finally one of your crewmen says there is a 
 breach in the hull. This game is one of the best sim games in the world, if not then it is the 
 best. I dont know about you, but i can't wait for Silent Hunter 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artcwolf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  So the game started out slow, but once I went through the tutorials the stations made sense and 
 the game picked up. The first several missions until you get the renown to upgrade your u-boat 
 were a bit sluggish and hard to do. You had 4 torpedos and that made you pick and choose what 
 you went after, since the bigger ships took 2 or 3 hits to sink you were pretty much forced to 
 pick off tug boats and small merchants, but once you were able to get the renown and upgrade the 
 game picked up. The missions can be a little long as Ive spent a lot of time cruising around England 
 to get to the patrol location, but thankfully there is a time compression up to 1024.
  
  The only major issue Im having is Im 13 patrols into the game and I have yet to earn a promotion 
 for myself or my crew. Ive gotten plenty of medals, just no promotions and the crew experience 
 is 90% above the cap at the moment.
  
  Id suggest picking up the game, and giving it a shot, Im not a big simulation game player, but 
 its kept my attention for the last month or so.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnprezioso
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 3:34 am PT
Review:  Wow. I've played my share of sims before, but I have never been so quickly and completely absorbed 
 into a simulation's universe as I have with SH3. I've been glued to my monitor for the last 3 nights, 
 forgetting the time or that I'm even playing a PC game. Hell, I feel like Jurgen Prochnow from 
 Das Boot every time I surface the boat and man the bridge with my watch officer, scanning the horizon 
 for allied tonnage while keeping a close watch out for enemy destroyers and planes. The little 
 things this sim does to enhance the atmosphere, taken as a whole, make this the most gripping experience 
 I have ever had playing a simulation.
  I have played with both relaxed realism, and now have moved onto more realistic endeavors like 
 manual targeting and allowing duds. The tension you feel while waiting to hear (or see, if your 
 brave enough to hang around) your torpedo hit your target's hull and explode is palpable and delicious. 
 The feeling you get when you've calculated a proper firing solution and sunk your target is sublime.
 
  The learning curve is as steep as you want it to be, as the sim allows for casual as well as hardcore 
 settings. I'm betting that you'll eventually want to move into more realistic settings before too 
 long, even if you have never played a simulation before.
  This game may very well change the way you look at the PC simulation game genre. It is a perfect 
 example of why I still love my PC.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: posterboy81
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 7, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  I have had hours of fun playing SH3. I can honestly say that it was worth every penny. The only 
 downside? Starforce copy protection, which slows down both of my DVD drives, one of them to the 
 point where it can't run other copy protection schemes correctly.
  
  Especially nice in the game is the sound, hearing your crew whisper around you and yelling when 
 under attack can really draw you into the game. The graphics aren't that great, but they aren't 
 terrible either. Call me crazy but I'll take ok graphics with wicked gameplay oveer kick ass graphics 
 alone any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnysarge01
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  This game is very impressive. Smart AI and wonderful graphics. If you purchase this game, read 
 the book! It will help you in naval terminology. Right out of the box, graphics are impressive 
 and just when you think you can win all.. a Frigate nails you with a depth charge! You will have 
 to change your strategy to play well. It's a Cat and Mouse game with you being the Mouse. With 
 all of the add-ons available, you can tweak your Uboat in graphics and sound quality for that extra 
 reality feature. Better smoke and fireballs as well as needed better massive explosions and pieces 
 of cargo and ship decks flying in the air. Thought though... You will need atleast 512 megs of "free 
 ram" to play without your system being too slow or having crash problems.... Don't forget to add 
 the latest patch. If you really enjoy military sims and love the challenge of the hunt, grab SH3. 
 Can't wait for SH4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egyptianprince
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  The visual are pretty good, but the game is very frustrating if you want to play it at its normal 
 pace.
  
  Often, the normal rate is much too slow. If you speed it up a little bit, you will chasing ghost 
 ships. 
  
  It is a CPU-Killer game, but has some very serious problems.
  
  And even if you do successfully complete the objectives, you don't know how to end it the level. 
 You can dock at teh base, same spot you departed from, and the game doesn't end. If you choose 
 to end the patrol manually, it will deem the mission incomplete.
  
  It is not worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooDoo1144
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 2, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Janes 688 (I) hunter/Killer came out I was really interesting in subsims... to bad 688 
 was such a boring game to play... there was no feeling of tension or really any connection to your 
 boat or your crew.
  
  Silent Hunter 3 is my first foray into the world of WWII naval sims... I love the flight sims set 
 in that era because it is all guts and intincts and no complex radar systems, missles and such. 
 Silent Hunter 3 is that kind of game... it gives you control of all the things you need and none 
 of the stuff you don't.
  
  The gameplay is top notch... I love the feeling of going along and then I suddenly get a warning 
 from the watch crew that a ship was spotted then rushing to see what it is... the feeling of sitting 
 below the surface and being pinged buy destroyers is priceless and one of the highlights... it really 
 makes you admire the men who really did that for a living. I do have to say that the game sometimes 
 seems like it has a lot of bugs... Ubi is known for releasing faulty games and I come to expect 
 that from them.
  
  the graphics are wonderfull... some purists would say that graphic quality has to come second to 
 gameplay in sims but I really think that it adds to the feel... when you see the rolling waves and 
 wonderfull explosions you will understand what I mean.
  
  the sound is good but not really vibrant and bassy... I would like to really feel the depth charges 
 more and I would love to hear more going on in the boat... it would make running silent more intense. 
 Also there is a annoying sound glitch that makes a loud static sound and that is a big deal when 
 I use headphones.
  
  The replay value is the best... the singleplayer is very detailed and very random so you never get 
 the same game twice... the options that you are given are great and upgrading your sub makes you 
 really connect with it... plus you can go the whole game in one sub type... so there is no pressure 
 to change... you can keep your favorite boat from the start to finish and not really lose anything 
 in the process.
  
  Overall I love this game and I think that anyone who loves "das boot" or is even casually interesting 
 in WWII naval history will find a lot to like... a great game all around.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 24, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  
  Silent Hunter 3 is the name that strikes fear in claustrophobic people. If you think about it, 
 theres really a lot to explore in the submarine business, especially in the times of World War 
 2. Releasing the third game in the submarine simulator series, Ubisoft does its job very well, 
 delivering a detailed simulator just like before, but this time its a lot prettier. 
  
  Starting as a novice captain, you choose the time to enter the war. First you might want to complete 
 the naval academy tutorial. The key-binds in this game are endless and the geometry of different 
 systems will drive you crazy. According to the period of war, you will then choose out of the available 
 submarines. Sailing from a port, as women and sailors are cheering your departure, you will be 
 the hope and the pride of the Third Reich, sent to make stealthy and much needed kills along the 
 allied naval supply routes. Just like in the real life, the allied forces arent ready for whats 
 about to hit them. However, later in the war, they will be, and your job will become significantly 
 more difficult. On the other hand, as times grow desperate, a lot fancier technology will be available 
 to you like better torpedoes or faster and bigger submarines. The available subs will vary, not 
 only depending on the time, but also depending on the docking base you choose. The missions of 
 some bases concentrate on a small area; therefore they do not have to drag as much fuel and torpedoes 
 with them as the long-range subs.
  
  SH 3 is a game that pushes the boundaries of your patience. On the highest difficulty level, you 
 will be doing the job of each member of your crew, calculating many parameters, while cautiously 
 sneaking pass the convoy ships and gradually bringing your sub into the striking position for that 
 one critical shot. One shot because there might be four or five more cargo ships following, and 
 reloading is realistically time-consuming. Everything is realistic in this sim or at least can 
 be, since the amount of realism can be adjusted in the game options. Realism gives birth to an 
 enormous amount of detail in SH 3. You can interact with so many things like the maps, gauges and 
 you can even rest in the captains bed. Because of this level of realistic detail, theres a huge 
 amount of things to think about, like for example, calculating the fuel consumption for your trip 
 and the angle of attack on an enemy ship. 
  
  Many things can be earned in this game. As you sink more and bigger enemy ships, your men gain 
 experience. Their moral also improves or worsens depending on your success. You will have to manage 
 the crew seriously as many of them can specialize in specific functions. When they get tired during 
 the trip, they have to be replaced if the performance of their functions is to be kept. Its like 
 a big family that you can grow attached to in a small cozy sub (don't take me wrong) . A known crew, 
 a bed to sleep in, sausages hanging in the command room... the sub is like a second home. At times 
 you forget youre looking at a screen on dry land which makes SH 3 a nice way to forget the revolting 
 reality. In addition, you can earn medals for yourself and receive medals which you can assign 
 to the crew. For sunken enemy ships you also receive renown with which you can hire better officers, 
 request upgrades for your sub or a better sub. If you want to move on to the new grounds, you can 
 also ask for a transfer to a different base. Also, depending on the sunken tonnage, your name gets 
 a place on the list of submarine aces of that time. 
  
  If youre looking for a hardcore firefight then walk away from this game. A wrong move in some 
 areas and a whole enemy fleet is soon hunting you like a pack of hungry dogs, throwing depth charges 
 all over the place. You will have to deal with ships of all sizes as well as airplanes. To your 
 surface defenses are available: the antiaircraft gun as well as an 80 mm cannon. The cannon is 
 good for finishing off undefended cargo ships but trying to take on a large battleship with the 
 subs weapons is like throwing stones at a tank, and for defense the best strategy still is hiding. 
 Later in the campaign the submarines dont even have guns anymore due to their uselessness. Enemy 
 ships can also be reported to the base and airplanes or other subs might take care of them, although 
 often thats not to be counted on.
  
  One bad thing about the game is that it might be a little too long and a little too boring, even 
 for a simulation fan. During traveling a player can speed up time, but even when you speed it up 
 to maximum, it still takes quite a while real-time to get around a continent. There isnt an option 
 that allows you to just skip the trip, probably for the sake of realism. Although the missions 
 are never really the same, you arent doing anything else but taking down enemy cargo ships. The 
 games difficulty options can play a large part in keeping the game exciting. You will want to 
 keep the simulation detail at maximum. However, increasing difficulty by taking out some things 
 like the outside view (so you can no longer see how far below you the bottom is) will cause the 
 game to loose some of its visual fun. If single-player bores you, theres also a multi-player for 
 up to 4 people, although single player is still the center of the gameplay.
  
  VISUALS
  
  Silent Hunter has some fancy graphics. Since there was barely any land involved, Ubisoft could 
 focus on the water and the ships. Theres a lot of next-gen shadowing implicated, especially inside 
 the sub. Here another thing can be admired: the detail of things. Every pipe, valve, gage, button 
 and lamp is well modeled. As we climb outside, we see a dynamic environment that changes significantly 
 depending on time of day and the weather. In the calm you wont be hunting ships, youll be too 
 busy checking your hair in the mirror of the sea, and in storm youll be too scared to stand outside, 
 as the top is battered by the dark-grey masses. The sky is also weather dependant and has some 
 really soft colors involved with a sun that can make you forget the one outside your window. The 
 surface ships, although couldve been more detailed, still look well, especially when they go down. 
 They do so in different ways, depending on how you hit them. Some take hours to sink after a hit 
 to the tip of their kiel and some are blown to smithereens after their fuel tanks are struck. When 
 your own sub gets hit, the damage is not just on paper. Pipes realistically let off steam and the 
 sub shakes violently. 
  
  SH3 allows the player to take all of the beauty in by giving him a close up camera view on launched 
 torpedoes, sinking ships and own sub. It usually appears in a small window in the corner, not to 
 bother the player too much, and can be expanded. The fire and smoke of destruction can, by the 
 way, strain your system. Generally however, I hadnt much of a problem with the rest of SH3 graphics 
 on my low-end P 2GHz machine. 
  
  SOUND
  
  When youre listening to the enemys sonar and the hull of your sub is squeaking as you dive deeper 
 into the abyss, while your officer nervously whispers different information, it can feel pretty 
 tense. The detailed sound of SH 3 certainly deserves attention. Voices are done well in both German 
 and English. In particular, they are good because they are loud and clear. Officers whisper or 
 shout depending on your orders. The orchestral music is very atmospheric and changes according 
 to the situation. The sound is in superb harmony with the visuals and helps provide a breathtaking 
 experience.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Of course it takes a special breed to like a game like SH 3. A load of patience and some interest 
 in math are highly desirable requirements. If you are not to take the manual tasks of each crew 
 member, the continuity of sinking same cargo ships over and over again, can cover the otherwise 
 exciting action of the hunt. Nevertheless, the game looks awesome, sounds awesome, and for a simulator 
 fan this game is an absolute must, even if you've never thought about submarines.
  
  Personal thoughts
  
  There's no hiding that I like simulators, but this one went a little too 
 far for me. The thing is that a simulator of a submarine captain's work would consist of receiving 
 important info, giving a few orders and pushing the red button. The navigation and the weapons 
 control are jobs of other officers, and being a ghost that enters each of their bodies to do their 
 work is not really realistic to me. Therefore I often played with settings set on auto and after 
 a while, of course, I got bored. If you eliminate the whole calculation stuff, then you're just 
 left with the same models of cargo ships that you have to sink in different parts of the ocean 
 over and over again.
  
  The cozy atmosphere in the radio room where your little warm bed is at and the dynamic crew really 
 gives a sense of a second home. I liked that. I think they should've gone further and added history 
 to the officers' lives and some personal dialog or even characters. Make it really personal!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bueller
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of some of the details behind Silent Hunter III, I must say, my interest was 
 definitely piqued. With fond memories of Dynamix's "Aces of the Deep", and a reasonably well equipped 
 PC, I anxiously awaited the chance to play this game. And I have to say, SH3 definitely lived up 
 to my expectations.
  
  First thing I will mention, this isn't necessarily a simulation for the faint of heart. It can 
 be a challenge, and time is required. Even with unlimited ammo and an invulnerable sub, for those 
 who choose to play that way, the time spent sailing to and from patrol areas requires a fairly 
 significant investment. This is definitely the type of game where you sit down to play for a morning 
 on the weekend, or more. So for those of you looking for some quick U-boat fixes (if such a thing 
 exists) , this might not be the best choice in its entirety.
  
  Now, into the game itself. Graphically, SH3 is a beautiful game, with realistic weather, ocean, 
 crew, and ships. Being able to look at a ship through the periscope, and actually recognize it 
 from the ships present in the game is a wonder to behold. With realtime weather, daylight that 
 changes with the seasons, and many other environmental affects, SH3 does anything it can to bring 
 you right into the game. Combine that with a solid score, and realistic effects from the creaking 
 and crew of your sub to the sound of a destroyer hunting you, you can find yourself whisked away 
 to a different time.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, when starting the campaign, you enter a name, choose a fleet, and a type 
 of U-boat, depending on the era and your fleet choice. From small Type IIs, to the workhorse Type 
 VIIs and beyond, they're modeled with a great deal of detail, including weapons, upgrades, and 
 even crew.
  
  That's right, crew. From the moment you take command of your U-boat, you'll be responsible for 
 your crew, including moving them to different stations in your ship, making sure they're well rested, 
 and handing out qualifications, commendations, and promotions after a patrol. Building an experienced 
 crew will definitely benefit you in the long run, as they have greater endurance, and a better 
 effect on statistics on board.
  
  As far as actually playing the game, SH3 is hard to beat. From plotting your course and intercepting 
 a few ships early on, to stalking large convoys later in the war, the suspense can be palpable, 
 wondering whether you'll live or die on the next patrol, the next convoy, the next torpedo or depth 
 charge. Planning the attack to gain the highest tonnages possible, while still surviving to fight 
 another day, are a challenge that is both intellectual and visceral, and is definitely recommended.
 
  
  To fans of the genre, or people willing to invest the time to learn this game, I'd highly recommend 
 it. A great looking and sounding environment, with the gameplay to back it up, and a level of simulation 
 that has been more scarce of late in the gaming world, will lead to a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nai205
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game is a true masterpiece of WWII submarine simulation, unfortunately, that makes it 
 difficult to recommend for people who may have only a passing interest in submarine simulation. 
 The controls, while easy to figure out, are extremely difficult to master, and it will take you 
 a long time to become a submariner that can effectively hunt Allied shipping. If you don't take 
 the time to understand how everything works and proper submarine tactics, you will not enjoy this 
 game. This is the category I fall into. Yes, it was interesting and immersive, however, even good 
 gameplay could not hold my interest for very long. On the other hand, I can recognize a remarkably 
 well designed and executed game, even if I don't find it to be great for me. If you see this game 
 in your bargain bin, it may be worth picking up, because even if you don't enjoy it, you will be 
 able to experience a game that is the best in the simulation genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faam
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 26, 2005 9:36 am PT
Review:  i didn't like very, instead i think it's a little difficult and i didn't had the pacience to play 
 for a long time, but it's a really good submarine simulator...
  the graphics are really great, and the animations...
  
  if you like the simulators game you'll 
 like this one... 
  
  i think that you should rent it first to try it...
  
  the sound is good to... it takes a long in charching i don't know if it's my computer but i don't 
 think so....
  
  i think you should try it because is one of those games that some people like it and some people 
 don't it's wierd to explain, i'm just writing this because i need to get to the 100 words :S.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeroRathe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Rock solid game, for really a first time naval sim, or sub-sim player. Last time I tried a naval 
 sim/sub-sim was years ago, and it was incredibly complex that I felt lost just trying to get my 
 boat moving. It was a less than good experience that I was worried Silent Hunter III would repeat, 
 and I could not be more wrong !
  
  From the start, the graphics grabbed me as being outstanding, which was not what I was expecting. 
 The point and click interface made moving about the ship easy, and appreciating the detail of the 
 U-boat. 
  
  The tutorials do a nice job of pointing a first timer in the right direction, and helping you get 
 the feel of basic navigation, gunnery, and combat. Of course they just give you the feel, once 
 you set foot into an actual scenario, or the fantastic campaign mode, you'll realize while you 
 have a idea where to start, you have a lot to learn.
  
  I never felt overwhelmed, and as I spent some more time, I felt comfortable turning off some of 
 the assists, and doing more and more myself, making the game more challenging as I felt my own 
 skill improving.
  
  On the whole, a great experience, despite the Mission Editor/Creator, I felt that there was a distinct 
 lack of missions for multiplayer, which is a big reason why I picked up the game. I have already 
 found sites where mission downloads are available, but I do wish the game included more.
  
  Quick thought... it's quite a moment when you surface, thinking you are alone, and all of a sudden 
 thru a dense fog you begin to make out a ship, and before you realize it, a large warship is headed 
 your way. It looks, and feels fabulous ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Augie64
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2005 3:25 am PT
Review:  Honestly this is one of the best games I've ever played. Hands down this is it. Playing this the 
 only thing missing is the salt in the air. As a Submariner I was astonished by the attention to 
 detail.
  
  The only bad thing is the Starforce copy protection. You cannot play this game in XP-64 or Vista 
 64bit. Starforce will not work in a 64 bit enviroment with this game.
  
  That is the only thing keeping this from the perfect game.
  
  The modding community has been 
 amazing at www. subsim. com. And plans for a Silent hunter 4 in the works. UbiSoft has outdone itself 
 with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strg8t
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2005 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This is one terrific Sub Sim. The graphics are truly amazing. There is just so much you can do 
 with this game. Be prepared to spend some time on the learning curve. If you are a true WW2 naval 
 buff this is one game you HAVE to have. 
  The tech people really tried to keep the game as authentic as possible. Although my computer is 
 new (2005) you really have to have a good video and sound card to appreciate the game in it's full 
 potential. 
  I did have a few problems downloading patches but there are lots of info on the SH3 site and great 
 forums for help. This game is a 10+ all the way. Enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2005 6:51 am PT
Review:  This game Simply blew my mind out when I first saw the trailers on Game spots. I was even more 
 surprised when I actualy started playing.
  
  Having been a fan of the old Silent Hunter games on the old Atari, I was really looking forwad 
 to this game. The attention to detail gone into this game is worth the weight of the game in gold.
 
  
  The game guides some one from who has never had played this type of game before into a capable 
 navel Submarinar Captain. For those such as my self who has played this type before and knew a 
 little bit of what I was doing this was the welcome reward I've been waiting for.
  
  The tention you experiance when you having to crash dive your ship just only having fired 2 torpedos 
 at the enemy, Sitting and waiting to see if they will hit. Then having to worry about the punishment 
 from the Destroyers.
  
  This game is simply superb theres nothing I can say against it. I really felt like I was in the 
 film DAS Boot film
  
  However I think I should just point out the German Language is incorrect for the time period, The 
 person doing the German languaged use the newer form of German- English speaking, Where as during 
 the time, You would never hear the German captains saying fire, they would use full German.
  
  This one glitch did nothing to dimishing a simply superb game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acepace
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 7:23 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a WW2 game out of the norm and intrested in submarine warfare, this is for 
 you. 
  Warning: Impatient people need not apply.
  
  Before getting down into the nitty gritty of Silent Hunter 3, let me repeat: while this is another 
 one of those games where you start off at 5PM and next thing you know it's 3AM, there are boring 
 stretches; actully, lets lay it on the table:
  
  If you're crazy enough to go for zero time compression (more on that later) or very low, you will 
 go insane.
  
  Now, what is Silent Hunter? It's a WW2 game, set in the German U-boat fleet, where you start off 
 a lowly captain of a U-boat, ordered to go to a patrol grid (a pretty poster sized map included 
 in box) and hunt down all enemy ships.
  
  Sounds simple, yes? You have to set course, manage your crew, find the enemy (no easy task in a 
 dynamically created ocean) and sink it, not to mention surviving the destroyers that will hunt 
 for you.
  
  Realism scales from the default 37% -- which does most of the math for you -- to hardcore, where 
 you break out pen and paper and use the tools in-game, in order to set up every precious torpedo 
 shot. 
  
  The game starts off simple: it's 1939, you're in a II-A U-boat fresh on the first days of the war 
 (the game actully starts a few hours before the war) , sent to patrol England. At that early stage, 
 there aren't too many enemies, but as the war continues, destroyers start hunting for you, with 
 more and more advanced tools, until by 1943 you're just happy to run away, rather then stay and 
 fight a multi-hour survival epic.
  
  That is not to say the gameplay is without flaws; even patched 4 times, it still has its share 
 of small bugs, and a rather annoying crew fatigue problem (easily fixed by a mod) .
  
  Graphically, this game is stunning. You spend your time between the navigation map, plotting your 
 course, and the bridge/periscope, tracking your target; on to the combat plotter, where you can 
 set up your attack, watch it happen, and then quickly switch (unless you're one of the hard core) 
 to the external camera to watch that torpedo hit. Waves are stunning; so are explosions. However, 
 models are rather simplistic, and while the interior of the boat is pretty, you'll rarely be actually 
 looking around.
  
  Sound is where the game shines, with a solid soundtrack, good listening options of vintage german 
 songs (all customizable) , and magnificent combat. Listen to pings, depth charges exploding, propellors 
 swirling; it all comes to life as you dodge destroyers thinking that spot of ocean you're trying 
 to dive down in is their training zone.
  
  To be honest, you can nitpick the game, find endless faults or lack of realisim, but in the end, 
 its a damn fun game to play with some solid co-op only multiplayer (sorry, no defending shipping 
 here) .
  
  With thanks to Surlethe for grammer correction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genpic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Having served on submarines for eight years, I didnt thinks I would find much to interest me in 
 this game. Boy was I wrong. I played the original Sub Hunter and found it OK, but not great. I 
 would spend a lot of time recovering from a crashed system after playing, so finally gave up. So 
 it was with mixed feelings that I purchased this one. I have now played through an entire career 
 and have started into the second one. The game play is good, the realism is surprisingly good, 
 the physics are above average and the graphics are very well done. I would have liked to see a 
 method of controlling your crew that was a bit easier to follow, but that was minor and easy to 
 get use to. The one thing that was missing from the original versions was the ability to get below 
 a thermal layer when trying to avoid detection. I dont know why they cut it out, since it is a 
 very real factor in protecting the submarine from being heard. 
  
  Over all I found the game to be worth the cost and time. If you like Sims and are not too claustrophobic 
 this is the one for you. Smooth sailing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafarsadik
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 18, 2005 5:56 am PT
Review:  Well to be honest this is a game from the top drawer of the genre.
  If you're more into blasting into a building guns blazing shooting everything out, then this is 
 definitely not for you. On the other if ur more of a strategist then this is the game you've been 
 looking for.
  
  The game kinda grow on you them more you play it, and believe me the more you play it the more 
 you're gonna love it.
  In a nutshell, you start off as a junior officer on a German U-boat in 1939 and you would have 
 to work yourself up the ranks by sinking allied ships.
  the experience points you get from your kills will allow you to upgrade you boat and your crewmembers 
 as well making them more efficient.
  
  Well personally, I enjoyed this game very much and I've been playing it for quite some time now 
 so I would definitely recommend it to any strategy games fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worf101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 28, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard they were doing "Silent Hunter 3" I was pretty torn. I love sub sims. I fondly 
 remember playing "Aces of the Deep" for hours and hours. I must have seen "Das Boot" about one 
 hundred times. The problem with this Silent Hunter three though was "Silent Hunter II". In my review 
 for that game you can see that it has/had some serious gameplay issues. Twitchy and buggy out the 
 start, playing SH 2 was a nightmare. So much so , it quickly left my harddrive. The latest iteration 
 however, will be on my Harddrive for many a month to come. 
  
  Installation - Game was easy to install but hard to update. There are numerous bugs with Patch 
 1.4. I had to do a lot of tap dancing but finally got the game installed and patched up.
  
  Graphics - Wow, what a difference a graphics engine makes. This is one pretty game. For the first 
 time when I'm on deck there are people there with me, and for goodness sake I can intereact with 
 some of them as well. With all the eye candy turned up and the graphics maxed out, this is one 
 visually stunning game. A surface attack in heavy weather, you can almost feel the sting of the 
 salt spray. Explosions are phenomenal as well. Instead of the stock two three explosions in the 
 last game this one gives you distinct damage modeling and effects. You hit a ship in the rudder, 
 it slows to halt. Hit a tanker a midship and it goes up in gush of flame and thunder. Hit a ship 
 twice below the water line and watch it slowly fill with water till it dies. Amazing stuff.
  
  Sound - Sound in S. H.2 was the only decent thing in that game. Here the sounds just as amazing 
 and the game also boasts one of the best soundtracks I've ever heard. It really adds to the whole 
 game experience to hear them drums and horns pumping. 
  
  Gameplay - Outstanding interface allows you to easily navigate inside the ship and get done what 
 you need done. The game also boasts surprising levels of complexity. It's far more than a point 
 and shoot arcade game. You have sink ships, gain "renown", outfit your ship, choose your crew, 
 get them experience and improve their expertise. You have to watch out for planes, mines, destroyers, 
 shallows and all other manner of danger in boats that can't stay down more than 10 hours at a time. 
 You can make shooting torps as simple as point and kill or spend you time doing firing solutions 
 in your head. You can man the guns or let your crew do it. In other words, you can be a passenger 
 or get your fingers good and dirtry if you want. I loved it. 
  
  Enemy A. I. could stand some tweaking however. While ships zig zag and destroyers hunt you down, 
 they do so in a semi preditctable manner. Also you gain tonnage and kills at a rate that has you 
 outstripping real U-boat captains with ease and at an alarming rate. 
  
  Conclusion - Silent Hunter 3 is the beneficiary of improved graphics cards and more powerful processors. 
 What could only be sniffed at in "Aces of the Deep" is fully realised in this game. While not perfect, 
 it's certainly the best sub sim ever made. Bar none.
  
  Da Worfster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2005 12:45 am PT
Review:  Silent Hunter III is a game whose novelty wears off after so long. The graphics are tremendous, 
 and the atmosphere is immersive, but not enough. Your bread and butter is sinking vulnerable merchant 
 ships which at first is enthralling, but soon becomes a monotonous turkey shoot. The game boasts 
 a dynamic campaign, but no matter how many ships you sink you will not make a difference in the 
 war. The Allies win no matter what. So why bother? This alone makes the campaign feel as though 
 everything you do lacks purpose. In my opinion this is the game killer, if the dynamic engine allowed 
 you to actually see the results of your success it would be much more rewarding. Realistic? No, 
 no one boat is going to win the war, but this is a game afterall. 
  In the end the game is entertaining, but after awhile I found myself doing silly things to improve 
 the fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean4566
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 20, 2005 3:27 am PT
Review:  SH3 is one of the best games Ive ever played. A very hard game though. SH3 is too hard for beginners 
 playing this genre for the first time. If you want to succeed you need to complete Naval Academy. 
 The graphics are awesome, ships, water, explosions, this game looks great. Some of my favourites 
 include Battlefield 2, Midnight Club 3, and battlefield 1942 and this game even better than them. 
 My only complaints are, the voice acting is very weird, and the difficulty is too hard for 0% difficulty. 
 Silent Hunter 3 is awesome. Not just a awesome naval simulation, an awesome, awesome, game. If 
 you like sub simulations, buy it, if you like naval simulations, buy it, if you like simulations, 
 buy it, if you like games, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isoplus
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 25, 2005 10:45 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I'm not a sub-sim fan. This is my first sub-sim ever tried...
  Having said that, this game is just awesome!!!
  
  I'm more of a flight sim enthusiast (currently 
 playing IL-2: FB and Pacific Fighter) .
  After reading several outstanding reviews about this game, I decided to go for it.
  And I'm so 
 glad I did. 
  
  SH3 is a very adjustable game. It can be authentic to a point you have to math calculations to 
 line a single torpedo shot, or it can also be played casually having your officers do many of those 
 tasks for you. I was at first very intimidated at first this being my first sub sim, but found 
 the manu and gameplay very noob friendly as well. 
  
  The game does require some patience from its player, it can be 10-15 realtime mins before you see 
 any interesting actions. But when the action comes, it is definitely very exciting.
  
  Graphics and sounds are quite convincing as well. And they can even be improved by using popular 
 user created mods.
  
  Gameplay is very immersive. It can really have you hooked for hours before you notice the time. 
 The missions can be somewhat repeating at times, but thats how the WWII U-Boat missions were. Patrol 
 and hunt.
  
  If you are a sim veteran, you'll love this game. Even if you are new to sims, you'll find this 
 one to be very friendly and enjoyble game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdogghenrikson
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 8, 2005 8:13 am PT
Review:  This is a great war game for sub-sim fans. The inside of the sub is very well done right down to 
 the guages and valves and crew working at stations like the hydrophones and such. The water and 
 sky are well designed like moving clouds and water waves. The corrier mode is excellent and it 
 gets more challenging as the years progress to 1945. After each patroll you can give your crew 
 medals you have earned and you can earn medals your self. You can also upgrade your sub (when available) 
 if you have enough renown. You can also play single missions if you want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiger_tim_b
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2005 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Quite simply, if you like the idea of commanding a U-Boat - with all the searching and waiting, 
 as well as the thrill and the fear - then you will find SH3 utterly, utterly addictive. Easy to 
 jump into, challenging to master. Impossible to leave (without serious withdrawal symptoms) .
  
  You will dream SH3. You will hunger for SH3 when you are unable to play it. It will invade 
 your thoughts at work and almost certainly get you into trouble with your better half.
  
  There are still a few minor issues and glitches which are being resolved with each new patch and 
 a fast-growing range of excellent mods to enhance the experience. I believe that most of the complaints 
 you'll find regarding SH3 arise from the fact that we have been given so much reality by the developers 
 that we thirst for even more. 
  
  Do not hesitate if you are even *close* to buying SH3. You will be absolutely hooked.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjdoss
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this is a great sub sim even for someone with only a passing interest. 
  
  While the graphics (particularly the water effects) and game play are outstanding (standing on 
 the bridge of your submarine in the middle of the night, in the middle of a raging storm in the 
 North Atlantic with waves and rain washing over the bridge with lightning flashing across the sky 
 is remarkable) I think the best thing that this sim does is to provide the user with the ability 
 to truly scale difficulty to the level that they are comfortable with and the level that will make 
 the game enjoyable for them. In the past, too many sims have been overly simplistic or difficult 
 to the point of being playable by only the most diehard enthusiast.
  
  The attention to detail and historical aspect of the sim are astounding.
  
  My only complaint 
 - dud torpedoes! Nothing like taking thirty minutes to set up a shot on a big fat T3 tanker only 
 to have the torpedo hit right on the sweet spot (amidship right at the keel) and then bounce off 
 and drift slowly downward into the depths as the tanker steams away on a zig-zag course. 
  
  It's enough to make you want to transfer to the Luftwaffe! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coreyb42
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 18, 2005 5:15 pm PT
Review:  There's nothing quite like the thrill of the hunt. Especially when 'hunt' means commanding a WWII 
 German submarine. This game is packed with exciting battles. It is also packed with long, boring 
 waits to get to those battles. Luckily, you can speed up time immensely, so the game cuts down 
 on boring commute time.
  
  The graphics of the game are excellent. The real gem is the fluid dynamics of the waves. These 
 are the best done waves I've ever seen in a video game, hands down. They make it really difficult 
 to use the periscope with inclement weather. This is actually kind of fun, because the periscope 
 will pop up above the waves for a few seconds at a time, allowing for a short peek at what's going 
 on topside.
  
  The game play is also excellent. It is very challenging to actually hit a ship with a torpedo. 
 There are many factors to take into account, including dud torpedoes, which seem to be very common 
 early on in the war.
  
  Which leads me to the vast technical problems I've had with the game, or more specifically Star 
 Force. The game would not run out of the box. I would install it, it would ask me to reboot, and 
 Windows would not load up. I would have to revert to a system restore point to make it work again. 
 Then, when I would finally get Windows to work again, the game would ask me to restart again. Finally, 
 I resolved the problem by disabling my optical drives (CD/DVD) . For some reason Star Force is incompatible 
 with one of my optical drives. I could not re-enable my HL CD-RW GCE-8400B. Keep in mind, now, 
 I couldn't re-enable my CD drive. This is a DVD game. So my DVD game that runs from a separate 
 drive is somehow incompatible with my CD-RW being installed on my system. Good work, Star Force. 
 Anyway, the only way I can burn CD's is to uninstall Star Force (not the game itself, mind you) . 
 This has angered me very greatly, and I will never buy any Star Force products again (although 
 they do have great customer service, their software is incompatible with certain optical drives) .
 
  
  In short, buy the game if you don't have the aforementioned optical drive; it's an excellent game 
 with endless hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigglesbear
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2005 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Is a great game and is worth the money. Involves a bit of waiting for targets and some brains of 
 where to be to fire on your target. Has a bit of a learning curb because it is a simulation but 
 once you get into the action and figure out how to use the sub it is amazing. The learning curve 
 is 10-40 minutes depending on if you read the manuel and do the tutorials or not. I jus read the 
 manuel and it took me 15-20 minutes on how to work the sub. THe graphics are great and the explosions 
 and sinking of the ships amazing. It is the most satisfiying experience to see a ship going down 
 after you sink it. The waves are the best i have seen in any navy sim yet. Overall this is a great 
 game if you don't mind some waiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTA-VC
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2005 4:32 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game. No better Simulators i haven't played like this.... Yet. This game have 
 very great sound, graphics & gameplay. In this game has a realest water. Thank you ubisoft this 
 game is perfect game. Just best simulator i'v ever played. I like video tutorials and like tutorial 
 all...... I recommend it for all who like simulators but not for those who like Action games :) 
 But i like Action games too.... This is bes simulator i only these words to say about this game. 
 There is one minus that only Germans has submarines =/ Good game Good game Good game Good game 
 Good game Good game Good game Good Good game Good game Good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alichino
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Unbelievable. Are you familiar with simulations? Are simulations new? That is one of the beauties 
 of this game. There is enough free spirit in the game to give the uninitiated a fully accessible 
 hands on experience. The boat controls are simlple, from just clicking on the directional compass 
 to setting way points in the map. The difficulty levels are also simple enough that if you feel 
 you're getting stuck, that is, unable to sink anything, you can turn down the difficulty and get 
 some real practice in.
  For some they need more complex simulation, thus the concept. For those the boat systems can be 
 set up in the difficultly settings to force the player to review the targets, plot the torpedo 
 course and pray... well, that's what I do with the complex difficulties on... pray and pray a lot, 
 thanking Hanuman doesn't listen to silly prayers.
  Luckily, this game, remains just that, almost (see complaint no.1 below) . It allows the player, 
 who like me, probably doesn't know much about submarines, to jump in, captain the boat, and sink 
 a few merchants without much serious prodding. The level of submersion is one of the very best 
 parts of this game. From the inside of the boats, to the calm seas, to the knuckle crunching hope 
 of surviving after you've been depth charged and are sinking fast. AHEAD FULL, PLANES at 40 degrees... keep 
 this tub from heading straight down!!!!
  There are two issues that might keep you away. Both of which have been addressed by gamespot. Number 
 1. the crew management system. It is just too much micromanaging to be interesting. Moving tired 
 crew members around gets distracting. What's worse is that the player ends up putting sailors into 
 different jobs simply because they are rested. This might end up biting you in the rear when you 
 finally zero in on a target only to have your torpedo-man tired from running the radio for the 
 last three days. This is the sort of thing that should be handled at the docks, before you get 
 in the boat, by your command, not you. But I'm sure without it the game would probably lack the 
 reasons to even have a crew... so, it's 50 / 50. I would like a different system, but still have 
 the crew. I know, cake = eat it. Number 2. Constant Crashing to desktop. I originally purchased 
 the electronic version of the game. A few hard drive mishaps and Windows reinstalls later I was 
 forced to purchase the game again (too many installs apparently) this time opting for the DVD, 
 hoping that the disk version wouldn't crash as much on the off chance there was some kind of difference. 
 Alas, neither one runs for that long. I find I have to save the game every few minutes to insure 
 the integrity of my game. It gets old. Maybe it's my system, sure, why not. Most things are my 
 fault anyway, just ask my ex, but this is really the only game I own that crashes so often.
  Even after the patches it still crashes. Be warned.
  That said, I find this game engrossing, 
 although I would bet that many would find this game boring (capital B) . I like the detail of the 
 game: The targeting computer, the vessel recognition books, the crew, and the general sense of 
 time and confinement made available to us land lovers. Others may look at this game and run it 
 at accelerated time only for the long boring rides from th docks to the patrol quadrant, especially 
 if you have an issue with the game crashing. Because of this I had to take off score for the value: 
 5 is all I can give it.
  Either way, Silent Hunter III is a good solid advancement in the SH series. Good hunting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0deZer0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2005 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing 688 Attack sub a few years back, and really enjoying playing that. The excitement 
 of planning out an attack, and having it pay off in the end. Well I haven't seen a good game in 
 this genre since then. Sierra tried with Aces of the Deep, and although it was a sub sim, it still 
 lacked to make it a solid game. Now Ubisoft has produced Silent Hunter 3. Of course it takes place 
 in WWII, and you take command of a German U-boat. 
  
  To put things simply, everything in this game is gorgeous. The gameplay is so solid, that once 
 you are done with this game, you get the sense that you could command a U-boat, and be damn good 
 at it. The submarines you start with in 1939 do lack quite a bit, but once you continue through 
 the campaign, you will be introduced to bigger and better U-boats. Also as you start in the campaign, 
 you will have the upper hand on the enemy warships and so forth, but as you progress, you will 
 have a more cunning enemy and a lot more in numbers as well. There are different difficulty settings 
 that you can choose from, and really do affect the gameplay. If you play it on easy, all you will 
 have to do to take out a warship is lock on to it with your periscope, and fire a torpedo, and 
 most often you will hit what you aimed for, but if you are a person who wants a challenge and have 
 a realistic challenge, you will want to play this on hard. 
  
  The graphics make this game so memorable. Everything is done in beautiful detail! You can look 
 around your command room and see everyone in your crew at their posts, moving around, when you 
 move your cursor over them, they will look to you as if you have tapped them on the shoulder. As 
 you move along in the waters you can go out onto the bridge, and look all around. The water moves 
 realistically, and will splash against your boat. The weather is also another part of some great 
 graphics here. It will change at random, so it can be overcast, sunny, or even when a storm comes 
 around, it will pour down rain and you will catch glimpses of lightning bolts in the distance. 
 One of my favorite features has to be the free look option, when you hit this button, you have 
 total freedom at what you are looking at outside your boat. If you are under the water, you can 
 free look and see your boat stealthily under the water, or better yet, when you manage to sink 
 a boat, you can watch that in all its splendor. Ships will sink in many different ways, and it 
 is very amusing to watch the disappear underneath the water. You can even follow the sinking ship 
 under the water, and if the water is shallow enough watch it hit the floor with a nasty grind.
 
  
  Another part of this game that makes it so great is the sound. You will hear everything from your 
 crew yelling that there is noise contact on a warship heading in your direction to the scary sound 
 of water compressing your boat's hull as you dive deeper into the black water. One sound that really 
 set the mood for me, and made this seem so real was when I was being tracked by a warship for the 
 first time, and I was about 200 meters under the water. I was waiting silently to make my move, 
 and I heard the ship above my start pinging the waters. As you sit in the command room, you can 
 hear the pinging, and as your enemy gets closer, it gets louder and faster. Also another praise 
 I have to give, is explosions. If you are playing this game on a 7.1 surround sound, with a good 
 sound card, have this game turned up! The depth charges will rattle your eardrums, and deck guns 
 being fired at you will make your heart skip a beat. Every sound is very well done in this game.
 
  
  When I first heard about this game, I was very skeptical, but I took a risk and purchased it. If 
 you are looking for a game that takes a little patience, and you like planning out your attacks, 
 so you can't just run in and get slaughtered, try out SH3 You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reindeer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 29, 2005 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - Sets a new standard with beautiful graphics. Water graphics is the best iv seen in any 
 game. Inside the sub you really get the feel of how cramped it really was.
  
  Sound - Accurate and realistic.
  
  Gameplay - there is alot to do as the sub commander and 
 the interface makes it very easy to go from the different compartments. You can play the game with 
 100% realism or you can just concentrate on the things you enjoy.
  
  Value - Campaign is dynamic you can do whatever you like. You truly are a commander in the German 
 navy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean_2
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Having spent the last three nights playing SH3 I can only tell you one thing: It's AWESOME. I started 
 out with some sound and video problems and after making some improvements all is well. I will say 
 that the computer minimums are required, so don't try to make it work without the mins. Game play 
 is fantastic. SH2 was a bear because once a destroyer had you locked you were dead. SH3 actually 
 allows you a chance to evade and even if you suffer depth charges you still have a chance although 
 it can be slim. The new torpedo targeting sytem is great and really makes the game more realistic 
 because targeting ships is very challenging. The video is awesome. I have only played the single 
 missions thus far sharpening my skills before taking on the career missions. One thing I liked 
 about the single missions is that when they start you are immediately in the battle position with 
 the enemy ships right there. You don't have to search for half an hour, which I really like. Overall, 
 for anyone that likes sims this will give you hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanker
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2005 2:19 am PT
Review:  Silent Hunter III is simply the best WW2 sub sim yet. Silent Hunter III covers German U-Boat operations 
 in the Atlantic from 1939 until the end of the war. There are more than a dozen individual scenarios 
 as well as a dynamic campaign where you can pick the starting year and theatre of operations. I 
 should mention that the game is on DVD (not sure if there is a CD version or not) . It says this 
 online and on the box but I didn't even notice because I've simply never seen a DVD game before. 
 So if you don't have a DVD drive you may be out of luck. Also the game takes 2.5GB of disk space 
 so be sure you have the room. 
  
  The game comes with a nice campaign map as well as a full-color keyboard guide. The small instruction 
 manual is excellent for explaining the basics but completely lacks information on more advanced 
 features or operational matters (like what is the ideal firing distance for the various torpedoes, 
 etc) . The game also includes a number of well done video tutorials that will teach you the basic 
 functions quickly. After you've watched these you can delete the files from your hard drive and 
 reclaim about 500MB of space. Unfortunately, again, there are no tutorials on more advanced features 
 or operations/tactics of the boat. Realism settings let the real sim diehards turn off external 
 cameras and other aides. In general these are just too much fun to watch even if they are not realistic.
 
  
  Overall the graphics and sound are excellent. There are 3D views of many of the sub stations. You 
 can freely rotate and look around at these stations but you can only jump from spot to spot not 
 actually move through the sub like you would with a FPS game. There does seem to be a few issues 
 with nVidia graphics cards (at least) where looking through the deck scope and binoculars causes 
 major video slow downs through sea spray and fog. This is not a major problem because you can jump 
 stations with keys and do the same functions from the periscopes but it would be nice to have the 
 issues fixed. Sitting on the bridge and watching the waves, weather, sun sets, etc is simply gorgeous 
 and adds tremendously to the immersion of the game. The various 3D crew members are rendered well 
 but are stiff and have no facial emotions and little movement. One small quibble is that crewmen's 
 beards don't grow over time nor do they don different attire for rainy/snowy days. Ship and aircraft 
 models and explosions are very well done. Ships sink and aircraft crash in various ways commensurate 
 with the way they were sunk/hit. In addition to your boat views there are torpedo/target cameras 
 and even a free view where you can fly around and look at whatever you want. Again, not realistic 
 but great fun and with the great graphics it enhances the experience considerably. Such view options 
 are also of great use while learning the game and proper boat handling.
  
  You move about your boat either in the 3D mode or simply hitting keys to take you from spot to 
 spot. You can run all the major stations yourself (radio, sonar, periscopes, deck guns, navigation, 
 weapons plot) or let your crew handle them and just give orders. Crew management is a major task 
 and you can freely assign crewman to the various positions (and the crew accrue experience and 
 you can give them awards, promotions, and additional ratings between campaign missions) . Unfortunately 
 crew management is also one of the confusing areas of the game. Some crew seem to tire very quickly 
 whereas others will go for days. It would be nice if the computer handled crew rotations and let 
 you intervene only when necessary. It is also not explained what the various crew ratings do for 
 you. For example, is a torpedoman good just for reloading torpedoes or useful as a weapons office 
 as well or both? You don't know. Also confusing is the orders interface. You can click on various 
 hotlinks or officers to access various game/ship functions. This works well for the most part but 
 the problem is that functions that are not supported by your current boat still show up. Thus on 
 the early boats you will try to do things such as radar sweeps, etc that you can't do. Worse the 
 interface doesn't say the function isn't available it just doesn't do anything. It would be nice 
 if these options changed appropriately from boat to boat.
  
  Individual scenarios (missions) usually begin right at the moment the action is going to start. 
 Campaign missions start in port. For campaign missions you'll need to navigate to your assigned 
 zone and patrol for 24 hours. After that you are free to do what you want (within the limits of 
 your fuel and ammo) . This has some advantages but isn't the most interesting way to run the campaigns 
 either. Time compression up to 1,024 times real-time is available so you can move through the outbound 
 and returning cruise portions quickly. The game automatically goes to 8x speed upon contact (I 
 wish it would just go to real-time) . It also doesn't seem to let you do anything silly like run 
 into an island with time compression on, which is nice.
  
  You can man any of the major stations on the sub (radio, sonar, periscopes, deck guns, navigation, 
 weapons plotting) or let your crew do it and just get reports. For best results you'll need to 
 take some direct command on certain occasions. You have free reign to run the sub as you wish within 
 realistic limits. The only complaint with gameplay is you actually have to know how a U-Boat works 
 to play the game well. For example early torpedoes need to hit targets at close to 90 degrees to 
 explode (mostly) , etc. When spotting targets with the periscopes how do you use the stad lines 
 to determine range, etc.? It is in areas such as these that the game does a poor job explaining. 
 But those who know their U-Boats, or take the time to learn through trial and error, will have 
 their knowledge/time rewarded with some rich gaming experiences.
  
  Missions (especially campaign missions) are overall slow affairs. The shortest is probably around 
 one and a half hours and you can easily find three or four hours going by. Even with time compression 
 there is considerable patience required to arrive on station, find targets, properly stalk your 
 prey, attack, and most importantly, successfully evade attack. You'll also find yourself doing 
 some of your own sonar work for best results. Often times you can spend hours on a mission without 
 firing a shot or, worse, spend the time setting up a shot only to miss or have a dud torpedo. But 
 this is what being a U-Boat commander was all about. If this sort of thing fits your temperament 
 you will find Silent Hunter III an extremely enjoyable game. The game does a wonderful job of letting 
 you run the boat and feel like a real U-Boat captain with all of the highs and lows that position 
 experienced.
  
  The computer AI seems to be well done. Merchant ships will start to zigzag if they spot you. Escort 
 ships will attack intelligently and even coordinate attacks. Your computer-run shipmates range 
 from acceptable to poor. It is hard to tell if this is an AI problem or a result of their inexperience 
 or lack of a rating. This is one area where the game could use some better explanation. If a close 
 enemy contact shows up on the plot table why can't my sonarman hear it? Also, when spotting targets 
 the ship can be identified for you but the nationality is not listed. So if you dont know that 
 a Type 45 Destroyer is German you'll be committing some fratricide. There is a great ID book available 
 in-game organized by nationality but you'd have to flip through the half-dozen nations manually 
 to find the target type. Most ships fly national flags but you have to be pretty close to see them 
 even through the scope.
  
  Overall Silent Hunter III is a very well done game with a few rough edges that will hopefully get 
 fixed in follow-up patches. It will definitely be worth your time to know your U-Boat history or 
 do some reading to get the best results from the game as well allow you to appreciate what the 
 game does provide. If you've always wanted to command a U-Boat Silent Hunter III is a must get.
 
  
  There are a ton of great books about U-Boats and their crews. I'd also recommend 'The U Boat Commanders 
 Handbook' by The High Command of the German Navy, High Command of the German Army, Kriegsmarine, 
 Wehrmacht, which is a reprint of the actual 1943 U-Boat handbook. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spike2071
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 25, 2005 5:12 am PT
Review:  Silent Hunter III is a mixed bag, showing immense potential but eventually falling short of being 
 a truly great game. It has so much going for it that even with all the faults, it's still addictive 
 and very enjoyable. The graphics are good, and half the fun is watching all the action from the 
 external, "free-look" camera angle. Although in my mind it's akin to cheating, it's just too much 
 fun to watch the overhead destroyer as it drops 6-7 depth charges right on your position.
  
  Other positives include smart enemy AI. Attacking a lone merchant near the enemy coast is almost 
 inviting planes to attack you if you don't finish quickly and leave. Once you've been spotted, 
 enemy merchants will zig-zag, increasing the difficulty of landing a torpedo in their belly, while 
 warships will race over to your position and begin to actively search for you. It once took me 
 about an hour and a half (real time) of quiet piloting and maneuvering to shake two destroyers 
 off the coast of Ireland. It was nerve racking, and the destroyers seemed to work together, with 
 usually one pinging me while other dropped the depth charges. I emerged safely but very battered 
 and with a creaky sub.
  
  Some of the more notable downsides include stability issues, graphics bugs, network bugs, incompetent 
 crewmen, a manual that is almost worthless, and a dynamic campaign that seems very weak. Your sonarman, 
 arguably the most important person on the boat, can be immensely dense and downright stupid. Nothing 
 like asking him for an exact range on a boat that you can clearly see an is no more than 1000m 
 away, and he says "No sonar contact!", forcing you to man the hydrophone and do it yourself. Also, 
 trying to map contacts yourself (on the tougher settings) is a little unrealistic because you have 
 no protractor or any other means of measuring angles. So if your sonarman happens to actually hear 
 something (*gasp*) bearing 110 degrees, you have to make a guess as to the actual placement of 
 the ship.
  
  The dynamic campaign is, technically, very dynamic. You'll never have the same mission twice, but 
 unfortunately, all the missions are the same. All you do is head to a grid and patrol it for 24hours. 
 You're then free to go wherever you want and hunt whatever you want. A little variety would have 
 been nice, even an escort mission, or if there were no contacts in your original grid, then receiving 
 coordinates for a new grid with more activity. 
  
  Despite being delayed for several months, it seems that SH3 is an unfinished product. Even considering 
 that, this game is just fun to play. It's not, however, something for those with ADD or lacking 
 patience. It usually takes me several hours to complete one mission, and that's with time compression. 
 Plotting a course and then stalking a merchant for an hour to have it culminate in a dud torpedo 
 is frustrating but makes the ones that sink all the more enjoyable. Like I said before, it's not 
 perfect, but it sure is fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: overload1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Your on the top, salt spray hitting your face from the bow as you watch for any contact. When a 
 voice belows saids ,I have a contact moveing fast 3,000 yard off the bow when a shell hits the 
 water 20 feet left of the bow .dive dive ,take us to periscope deep yes, ser ,up scope you take 
 a look tarket is now 800 yard and moveing fast ,fire tube 1 ,down scope ,dive, sonar picks up splashes 
 in the water. This is what the game is all about only you can control the out come of the u-boat 
 Happy huntting . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiken
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2005 1:56 am PT
Review:  I run a upper middle machine its an Ath 32k with 1gig mem and a Radeon 9700 Pro, and this game 
 runs ok. 
  The Graphics on this are the best on any simulator I have ever seen. The realism is outstanding, 
 as is the campaign its self. The problem I have is that they eliminated the heading to view and 
 the set course to heading buttons which made it a lot easier to track targets in SH2. On easy level 
 its a bit too hard. SH 1 was the best Sub game ever and this one takes its place no doubt but you 
 are going to have to do some of the tutorials you cannot just jump in and run with this puppy. 
 The crew management is outstanding and the animated figures for the crew are great looking. The 
 campaigns are much better than SH2 which were way too linear. We need an add on or a new game for 
 the Pacific 
  theatre as SH1 will not run on modern machines anymore. Do the academy thing first and you will 
 find this an instant classic, wing it and you will burn up a lot of unnecessary time. This game 
 is a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 18, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I apologize for any glaring errors of the grammatical nature throughout this review. I have not 
 slept in 2 days, and have been playing this amazing new creation that came out of Romania for the 
 entire two day period. This phenominon is known as Silent Hunter 3. 
  
  The developers, for the first time in gaming history, really sat down and listened to the opinions 
 of their community. Silent Hunter 2 was poorly recieved, touting features that never measured up, 
 and the presentation itself was completely mediocre. So this team wasn't going to take that reputation 
 hit sitting down. Initially they were taking the "scripted" campaign route, their promise of a 
 dynamic campaign was floating away faster than you could shout "Alarrm!". 
  
  But after a near forum revolution by the community, they went back to the drawing board, and you 
 will be beyond thrilled that they did. 
  
  So lets start with the gameplay: Even fans of the previous installments would be wise to take the 
 Naval Academy course. SH3 goes above and beyond, and gives you almost every aspect of controlling 
 a U-Boat to painstaking detail. Everything from managing the crew and morale, to plotting your 
 course on the map using rulers and protractors, its all here. 
  
  The best part is, you can make it as 'real' or 'sim' as you like. By flicking a few feature switches, 
 you can give it a more arcade feel, leaving the sim stuff for the real sub nuts, while you go and 
 sink ships to your hearts content. The more sim you go, the more learning you have to do, and it 
 will be very difficult to master, thats for sure.
  
  I can't describe the gameplay any better than to say everything you've wanted is all here. A 3D 
 interior that is beautifully rendered, and being a person that has toured the inside of a U-Boat, 
 i was impressed to see how well the development team recreated the environment. 
  
  Everything factors into your game. I was patrolling the seas around Norway last night, when I got 
 caught in a terrible storm. I ordered my navigator, Pascilli, to surface the boat as CO2 levels 
 were getting high and the oxygen reserves needed to be refilled. Upon reaching the surface, we 
 realized how bad the storm really was, the seas were beyond choppy, lighting was flashing almost 
 nonstop, it appeared we were caught in a monster of a storm to be sure. Once the air levels were 
 at acceptable levels, i ordered Pascilli to dive back down to 60 feet. The best part was, you could 
 still hear the storm raging above the water.
  
  
  On to other factors, as Gameplay gets a clear 10/10.
  
  Graphics: Whats not to like here. This 
 is easily the best looking subsim ever created to date. The fully 3D rendered interior, your crew 
 going nuts during a depth charge attack, its so beautifully presented you won't know that you're 
 not there and sitting in front of your screen. Easily a 10 compared to the rest of its competition.
 
  
  Sound: Immersive, excellent music score, and all the effects are authentic to boot. Everything 
 from the sonar and hydrophone, to the creaking of your ship as you start heading to max safe depth. 
 Everything helps to add to your experience, even the crew is all vocalized, and for an extra layer 
 of realism, you can have them speak in German as well.
  
  The replay value here is infinte. The developers came through on a truly dynamic campaign, you 
 will never play the same game twice. This game will be a long lasting edition to your collection, 
 and i'm sure you'll be playing it for years to come if you're a real sub nut.
  
  Overall, if you even remotely enjoyed a subsim of the past, subsim fans, it does not get any better 
 than this! It has everything you've longed and asked for, and more. You will not be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guapsrocks
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2005 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Well After three tries Ubisoft has turned out the best WWII sub sim on the market. This by far 
 sets the bar for Sub sims if not setting the bar for all War Sims! 
  
  The action is as real as you can get viewing from a computer screen. The sounds of the shells going 
 over your head, torps travelling through the water, or water pressure on the sub is just amazing!
 
  
  I'll share my experiance to date. I started in the naval acadamy where I learned basic operations 
 of the various stations. There is a video you can watch for each training segment which will really 
 help you pass the final exam in each section.
  You dont have to do the acadamy before you start a career but you are rewarded for finishing it 
 first, and I found it a good way to learn the controls. 
  
  Im still amazed as I watch explosions on ships from the deck gun or secondary explosions on the 
 ship after a torp strike. Its really very very detailed and pure eye candy to watch.
  
  You have total control over your ship. You can move men around to various stations to gain experiance. 
 Thier mood and training effects the way they preform for you. Oh and if they do a good job promote 
 and reward them. They earned it. Im serious you even gain promotions and awards you can pass out 
 after missions as you see fit.
  
  Build out your sub with various equipment allowed for each model of sub you command.
  
  The 
 3d cabin is also a nice change as you get a nice 3D perspective on the ship as you move from station 
 to station. Very nice effect if you ask me.
  
  Anyway If your a fan of Sub sims then you must get this one. It might just be the last one we'll 
 need to buy!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -BC-Soldier91
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2005 2:13 am PT
Review:  Its 1941 on the cold Atlantic. Your crew has been dispatched from a German U-Boat port called Benux. 
 After several days at sea your watch officer drops down the hatch ladder and yells Alarm!!!!! The 
 hatch is sealed and locked while the chief officer tells the men the required depth. Your watch 
 officer catchs breath and tells you that a British Capitol ship is to the east bearing 170 at 15 
 knots. So all you Submarine fans prepare for the most intense game off your life. This game has 
 so much depth is unbelievable. Ships are blown up with the coolest explosions and physics. Waves 
 trample your boat during storms and it is sometimes hard to imagine your just playing a video game. 
 
  
  You have control of everything in your u-boat. Some areas such as the forward torpedo rooms are 
 not accessible since Captains would never enter those rooms. Most of the ship you can see and its 
 breathtaking. Pieces of hanging meat to the red lighting at night. Getting hit by depth charges 
 almost seems like something in the movie Das Boot. Lights flicker on and off and leaks spring up 
 all around. Its very intresting. Though the game is not entirely based inside of the ship. The 
 observation deck and mounted guns are avalible to use aswell. Ubi has created some of the worlds 
 best sea graphics in this game. Every explosion has a reflection on the water which makes from 
 some awesome graphics. Massive waves to small waves pound your boat through out the worlds oceans 
 and seas. Overall the Graphics have got to be a 10!
  
  Gameplay plays a big role in this game and trust me its gonna take an hour or 2 to learn everything. 
 I'd recommend going to the Naval Academy and getting your basics down. There are several boats 
 you can command with in the game. Each spanning the technology from 1940 to 1944. Even the late 
 prototype in 1944. The A. I is really good in this game. They will do enavise manuverses to get 
 past your torpedoes. Trust me they will find you and when they do they will kill you. Watch for 
 Enemy aircraft aswell. They will radio other ships nearby with your postion. So don't let them 
 get away. The A. I will use depth Charges, Sonar, Radar, and any means nessessary to find you. Even 
 at night they have spotlights mounted on their boats. If Spotted at night near a port you should 
 not be seen. The slightest explosion on one of the allied ships will cause absolute chaos. Star 
 Rounds will light up the sky and sub nets will be deployed. Sometimes even mines. Trust me you'll 
 know Gameplay is a 10 when you play it. 
  
  As mentioned before the sound is absolutely incredible. So you 5.1 Surround Sound users should 
 be in for a major treat. From the water pressure crumpling your boat to the sound of metal from 
 your enemy ships crunching and whining as it hits the ocean floor. You'll defiantly think your 
 there.
  
  Overall I really enjoy this game. There are no flaws and knowing Ubi they will have patchs for 
 any within days. In fact v.1.1 was released today. I hope this reviews helps in your purchase of 
 Silent Hunter 3.
  
  Thanks,
  Soldier91 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baddogjmh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2005 3:38 am PT
Review:  I had bought this game and I was like yea another submarine game gonne be crap...... but the graphics 
 look great the gameplay is nice the game is just THE greatest. But one problem with the nivida 
 cards when you use ur binoculars they fuzz out slowly but a patch will be out soon. Sound is also 
 really nice and it just makes the game feel more realistic, the free look camera is also SWEET! 
 I can follow my torpedo from under water and just watch it hit that ship BOOM!. This game if for 
 those people who have patience for a game and like the blow things up and have NEAT effects when 
 they blow it up. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
