-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Silent Heroes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/silentheroes/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Acceptably generic WWII squad-based RTS.
 authentic, gritty-looking visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Extremely difficult.
 missions need to be learned, not simply played and beaten.
 no multiplayer.
 crashes are fairly common when loading saves.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 19, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 5.2, 7.0 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 99 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Paradox Interactive
Developer: Dark Fox
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date:     September 2006 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Brutal difficulty makes Silent Heroes suitable solely for the squad-based real-time strategy experts. 
 

  Only gamers who need to play a WWII real-time strategy every other week will want to bother with 
 Silent Heroes: Elite Troops of WWII. This production of Russia's Dark Fox, available online via 
 Paradox Interactive's Gamer's Gate, is being billed as a stand-alone expansion to 2004's highly 
 regarded Soldiers: Heroes of World War II; however, it plays like more of a quickie knockoff. Extremely 
 hard difficulty, the complete absence of any multiplayer modes, some artificial intelligence problems, 
 and a few bugs mean that it doesn't come close to living up to its predecessor.  

          You know it's time to reach for the load button when the Panzer shows up.     

  Essentially, 
 this game follows a WWII RTS by-the-numbers design. It perfectly follows the template established 
 by Pyro Studios' Commandos series back in 1998. The only difference is that instead of guiding 
 a small force of plucky Yanks and Brits against carefully placed Axis guards, here you guide a 
 small force of plucky Russian soldiers against enemy forces that at times seem to encompass the 
 entire German army. The gameplay leans more toward Rambo than realism. This fact is emphasized 
 from the very first mission, when you send just three of your "elite troops" to blow up a Nazi 
 ammo depot guarded by about 100 of Hitler's finest, a few half-tracks with machine guns mounted 
 on their roofs, an antitank gun, and a bunch of Panzer tanks. You later get to control as many 
 as five and six soldiers per assignment, but both enemy numbers and firepower scale dramatically 
 upward so that you are always facing impossible, Hollywood-style odds. Every mission seems loaded 
 with enemy armor. Don't even consider taking this one on unless you have an extraordinarily high 
 tolerance for loading saves or have a lot of experience with WWII squad-combat games (a recommendation 
 further underlined by the absence of a tutorial in both the game and the PDF manual) .  

  However, there are some amenities that ease the challenge somewhat, at least after you've gone 
 through maps and memorized enemy locations. Enemy AI is about as astute as a sack of hammers, so 
 once you learn a map from an initial run-through, you can establish ambush points and lure the 
 bad guys into slaughters. If you use one soldier as bait and hide the rest of the squad in the 
 trees set on fire at will, you can just sit back and watch enemies sprint into the crosshairs. 
 Even then, the enemies are often so numerous that they'll soon overrun your position. You usually 
 have to adopt hit-and-run tactics and continually fade back into the woods to hide for a while 
 when the heat is on (you're so silent and heroic that you can almost immediately lose yourself 
 in the trees) .  

  Also, as in Soldiers, every vehicle in the game can be captured at least partially intact if you're 
 careful about the amount of damage you deal out. Still, this isn't easy, particularly when it comes 
 to tanks. Your accuracy when tossing grenades is woeful, even from point-blank range. So you often 
 need a sack full of grenades to disable tank treads and do enough damage to force the crew to flee. 
 Occasionally, though, you toss one in the perfect location and blow the tank you were desperately 
 trying to capture to smithereens.  

  Some quirky control issues make it tough to beat a mission even after you've committed it to memory. 
 A combination of quick game pace once the shooting begins and fidgety icons for targeting enemies 
 and for taking cover make it hard to lock on to enemies in combat and smartly hide in the brush. 
 It's easy to get caught up in battles and accidentally click beside foes, which of course just 
 triggers a movement command and makes your soldier a sitting duck. Soldiers also seem to change 
 posture on a whim, abruptly standing up to toss a grenade or squeeze off a couple of rounds, which 
 makes them easy targets. You can pause and issue orders, slow the speed down when needed, and take 
 full control of an individual soldier with the direct control option, but you have to adjust all 
 of these functions so much during battles that it sometimes feels like you're playing with the 
 interface rather than with the actual game.  

  That interface is also pretty rough and ready. While Silent Heroes features the role-playing-game 
 style interface common to squad-based WWII games, it quickly becomes irritating because you have 
 to use it constantly. Ammo and supplies, such as bandages and grenades, are very scarce in your 
 default troop loadouts, so you have to eternally scrounge supplies from dead Germans to avoid running 
 dry during firefights. As a result, you can spend more time managing your inventories than killing 
 the enemy.  

          Silent no more!     

  Other features are about what you would expect from such a budget game. There are no multiplayer 
 modes at all. Once you've wrapped up the 10-mission solo campaign, you're done. The game frequently 
 crashes to the desktop while loading a save. The look and sound are fairly average. Graphics are 
 quite nice for the most part, featuring realistic vehicles and buildings that look like they've 
 really been through a war. But the maps are somewhat jaggy, and all rely on repetitive Western 
 European terrain (farms, copses, muddy dirt roads, and so on) that has been featured in dozens 
 of WWII games. Audio is similarly limited. Just a single voice actor seems to provide all the lines 
 for your troops, which means that your lone female Russian sniper is voiced by a man. All of these 
 lines are also shouted at full volume, so apparently these heroes don't have to be too silent. 
 However, battle effects themselves are suitably bombastic. When you wrap up a tank battle, you 
 really feel like you've wrapped up a tank battle.  

  Even with its good points and price tag of just $20, Silent Heroes exudes such a "been there, done 
 that" vibe that it's hard to get interested in it. The excruciating difficulty, limited map design, 
 poor AI, and lack of multiplayer make it a tough sell. Even if you are one of the few gamers out 
 there still craving to take on the Nazis in an RTS, there are much better options available.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I would call Silent Heroes an "extension" of Soldiers: Heroes of World War II. It reminds me, in 
 a way, of Hammer & Sickle which was a follow-up to the absolutely excellent Silent Storm. Both 
 Silent Heroes and Hammer & Sickle are less polished and different than their predecessors, but 
 misunderstood and very good games. Hammer & Sickle, in fact, offers one of the most unique role-playing 
 and strategy gaming experiences ever. Anyway, Silent Heroes has a feel of a very large mod for 
 HOWWII. 
  
  All the other reviews, including Gamespot's, tend to hype up how difficult this game is. And yes, 
 while the game is challenging, it's not quite as hard as it's made out to be if the appropriate 
 strategies are used. I enjoyed Soldiers tremendously and had that experience coming into this game, 
 so that helps. However, this game like it's title suggests is much more reliant on stealth and 
 covert operations. Even though Soldiers is often compared to the Commando series, Silent Heroes 
 is much closer in comparison. You really can't run into a firefight with guns ablazin'. What really 
 works is a more methodical approach by using the various options to hide in cover and sneak up 
 on the enemy. In fact, I often use just one of the available heroes and load his inventory with 
 ammo from the other units, then use him to take out enemy units and tanks. This proved very effect 
 and fun. I also used my knife and melee much more in this game than I did in Soldiers. You'd really 
 be surprised what you can do with just one or two units, even though you are given usually 5 or 
 6 units. One unit hiding in the bushes can take out hoards of the enemy by using a combo of grenades 
 to set things up and then the smg using direct control.
  
  As stated before, this game is less polished. The graphic engine is basically the same as Soldiers 
 with no upgrade. Fine with me because I thought Soldiers graphics were excellent for the time and 
 this type of game. Basically the game is made up of one campaign of ten missions. The overall time 
 to play varies, I guess, by how fast you want to go and how methodical one is. I like to play slowly 
 and methodically and try different approaches to wiping out the enemy. I'd say the game is fairly 
 short overall. The story is fairly thin. You play as Russian saboteurs conducting covert sabotage 
 missions behind Nazi lines. Each mission has one or two main objectives and possible additional 
 secondary missions. A couple of the missions are not thought out that well and the endings are 
 a little strange. For instance, one mission you are required to rescue a Russian officer held in 
 a Nazi camp. However, you can complete the mission by raiding a German village and driving some 
 vehicle to point X. I reaching on this, but I think part of the problem is translation in cases 
 like this, because this game is clearly marketed to Russians and not a lot went into translating 
 for other gamers. In fact, your units constantly shout out exclamations in Russian. This did not 
 bother me very much because the subtitles were in English.
  
  Overall, I found the game to be quite enjoyable and not has brutally hard as it's made out to be. 
 Again, this game is about hiding and sneaking. Even in the first mission, your first objective 
 should be to get our units in cover. Also, important to remember the firing controls - Fire at 
 Will, Hold Fire, and Retaliate . Often, you will want to set your units to Hold Fire until you 
 are ready to attack, as they will begin firing before you want them to and all hell will break 
 loose. 
  
  A must play for Soldiers: HOWWII fans but I think it's a good game for other strategy fans that 
 like a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: normal_man
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  Silent Heroes is a sequel of Soldiers: Heroes of WWII. I like that game but sequel is totaly dissapointing 
 and waste of time and cash. Whole story is maybe nice but it's only a addon for main game. One 
 word to audio-video - engine is old, nothing good. It's bad. We can see better in Faces of War 
 fo example. Player have 10 missions to beat where he must complete tasks with really small squad 
 (like Commandos) . I think the programmers watch to much Mission Impossible, 'cos this game can 
 have that title. Most of players will stop at first mission where we need to destroy a ammo magazines 
 guarded by two Panzers and division of infranty. This is total crazy... So at the end, stay away 
 from this. Try CoH or FoW, these games are a way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dozzpot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  For me this game was worth getting because:
  
  (1) I loved (eventually...) Soldiers: Heroes of WWII
  (2) I was bitterly disappointed by Company 
 of Heroes
  (3) I find Faces of War rather annoying
  
  So if you loved Soldiers, this is worth a punt although the missions are much more difficult. This 
 is because of your paltry starting equipment and the numbers of enemies you have to deal with. 
 I also found it difficult to raid enemy supplies for anything useful; in Soldiers the mission stories 
 made more sense as there was often an objective to find or capture some useful equipment to help 
 the rest of the mission. Here, most of the enemy supply crates and lorries are empty but on the 
 occasions when you do find a repair kit or batch of mines or a downed soldier with a panzerschreck 
 it does make the search worthwhile.
  
  Like Soldiers, you also need a decent PC to run at reasonable graphics and frame rate. One thing 
 I don't like is the long (ish) load times (as you end up saving and loading MANY times until you 
 get the mission right.
  
  I would not really class this (or Soldiers) as RTS, more like fun sandbox battles than serious 
 war games but for me the key word there is FUN but don't tackle it unless you are familiar with 
 Soldiers. 
  
  I am playing this for a second time and would like to add the following (also in response to the 
 other reviewer) :
  It is true, this game is very hard with near impossible odds in each mission that can make it tedious. 
 However, it also makes you THINK about each objective which is very refreshing and challenging. 
 It forces you to break down the map into bite size pieces and learn new strategies. For example, 
 as I say I am on the second outing with this (and have played Soldiers and all its mods to death) 
 but just learnt a neat trick: How to disable an enemy tank with basic equipment: I knew enemy armour 
 can drive over its own mine field without getting damaged (unrealistic I know...) but if you lob 
 a grenade onto the field near its tracks it will detonate mines that will damage them. Clever eh? 
 Okay I guess all you knew that but I only just discovered it and it is handy when there are assorted 
 Panzers and Hummels to deal with and you have 3-4 soldiers and that's it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
