-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Silent Hill 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/silenthill3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  9, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.1, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 1,047 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: KCET
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Dec 2, 2003
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Silent Hill 3 isn't so much about gameplay as it is about creating a disturbing look and feel and 
 immersing you in it, which is something it does very well. 

  Konami's Silent Hill series is known for two things: loads of creepy atmosphere and awkward, underdeveloped 
 stories. Silent Hill 3, released on the PlayStation 2 earlier this fall, continues both these traditions 
 by offering up a survival horror adventure that's long on eeriness and short on sense. Silent Hill 
 3 isn't so much about gameplay as it is about creating a disturbing world and immersing you in 
 it, which is something it does very well.  

          Silent Hill 3 fully earns its Mature rating, as this game isn't for the faint of heart -- or 
 stomach.     

  First things first. Silent Hill 3 is enough to make you vomit -- not because of the blood and gore, 
 of which there's plenty, but because of the clunky controls and wild camera system. They're so 
 awkward, disorienting, and motion sickness-inducing that there are many times when you'll want 
 to quit the game in disgust. You get two basic camera/movement options. With one system, character 
 movement is relative to the camera. In the other, movement is relative to the character's view. 
 To further confuse matters, you can also look around rapidly, in a small arc, while holding down 
 a particular key. Additionally, the game sometimes switches your view to draw your attention to 
 something or to merely create a dramatic visual. What this all boils down to is that the camera 
 is frequently pointing away from where you want to look. Oftentimes, an attacking creature -- and 
 sometimes even your character -- is hidden from view. You can theoretically reorient the camera, 
 but it's usually sluggish, or it simply won't move around properly in tight areas.  

  The movement controls were clearly designed with a gamepad in mind, though you  can  use the keyboard, 
 albeit awkwardly. For added frustration, you have to engage a special "caution" mode before attacking 
 enemies. When other third-person console games, like Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell, get ported to 
 the PC with smooth, easy controls and camera views, there's really no excuse for Silent Hill 3's 
 problems to exist.  

  If you can get past the clunky camera and controls, Silent Hill 3 has some cool things to offer. 
 The heroine is interesting. She's just an ordinary teenage girl named Heather who means well but 
 also has a bit of an attitude. After an introductory sequence with a surprise twist, we find Heather 
 in a burger joint in a shopping mall. She heads off to call her dad to let him know that she's 
 coming home soon, but then she meets up with a supposed detective who wants to talk to her about 
 her birth. Heather doesn't want anything to do with the guy, so she heads into the ladies' room 
 and then bolts through a window that leads into a back alley.  

  When you lead Heather back into the mall through a service entrance, things start to go very wrong. 
 The halls are now empty, most of the shops are barred shut, and suddenly you come face-to-face 
 with some kind of hellhound who's sloppily munching on a corpse. Fortunately, you also find a pistol 
 for dealing with just such an eventuality. One of the neatest things about this whole opening segment 
 is the way the game shifts between cutscenes and in-game action. The graphics are all so good that 
 you may not even notice, at first, that a cutscene has ended, and you're now suddenly in control. 
 Konami obviously wanted to create a lot of cinematic atmosphere, and they sure succeeded.  

          Be glad you're not her. Heather faces countless nightmarish scenarios.     

  Really, 
 atmosphere is what Silent Hill 3 is all about -- not story or logic. (Logic has little to do with 
 real horror, anyway.) Heather seems to be an average girl, yet she amazingly doesn't seem particularly 
 frightened when she spots all sorts of gibbering, shambling, blood-soaked creatures who are feasting 
 on corpses -- or trying to feast on her. Even Rambo would run like hell from that. Early on, she 
 meets a pale, frail-looking woman named Claudia, who starts rambling on about rebirth and paradise. 
 This upsets Heather a bit, but then it's back to business as usual, which means casually roaming 
 through a big mall that insidiously grows ever creepier.     

  Throughout the game, you revisit many areas that used to be relatively clean and well lit. Later, 
 however, you find them to be dilapidated and cloaked in shadow. Blood now stains the walls, grit 
 covers the rotten frames of smashed windows, and once-shiny doors are now rusted. Even though you 
 go for extremely long stretches with no story or character progression and no understanding of 
 what the heck is going on, the transformations of the mall and other areas (like an office building 
 and a sanitarium) into truly nightmarish realms is handled with admirable skill.  

          Mother and child? Better not ask. Just keep running.     

  Konami understands that 
 what you don't see is usually more frightening than what you do see, so the developers let your 
 imagination do a lot of the work in building up scares. Most of the time, you'll wander quiet, 
 deserted halls (illuminated only by the weak beam of your flashlight) , with no signs of life. Suddenly 
 a tortured moan will echo down a hall, or your portable radio will produce a blast of static to 
 indicate a monster is nearby -- a Silent Hill trademark. In fact, you'll encounter your fair share 
 of monsters, but the real scares come a bit too infrequently, so the eerie atmosphere loses some 
 of its impact during the middle of the game when you start to get used to it all. Fortunately, 
 there are some very creepy moments near the end -- not to mention a disturbing and disgusting finale. 

  When you encounter creatures, you can run like mad, distract some of them with beef jerky (seriously) , 
 or fight them off with a knife, lead pipe, shotgun, or other weapon. Combat is pretty rudimentary, 
 with aiming mostly handled for you, so fights will probably seem pretty lame to anyone used to 
 PC shooters and/or action games. Practically needless to say, your toughest adversary in the game -- the 
 camera -- often makes combat feel more like work than play.  

  During the slow, tension-building stretches between battles and expository cutscenes, you'll solve 
 a handful of puzzles, mostly about how to unlock doors. Silent Hill 3 offers something lots of 
 PC adventure games could learn from: At the beginning of the game, you choose the difficulty of 
 the puzzles. The game even offers hints on the easiest puzzle difficulty setting. Furthermore, 
 there's a separate setting for combat difficulty, and the PC version lets you save whenever you 
 want, so Silent Hill 3 is as easy or hard as you want it to be.  

          One of the few people you'll meet -- and you'll probably wish you hadn't.     

  It's 
 not the combat or puzzles but the presentation that steals the show. The game overuses a lot of 
 visual motifs, but the graphics are still wonderful and reflect a masterful use of light and shadow, 
 in addition to some stomach-turning, hair-raising visual effects that will make you do a double 
 take. Meticulously detailed textures and a special visual filter tend to give everything a grainy, 
 brittle, antique look. The creatures are well crafted, too. There are hellish dogs with their faces 
 riven in two, walking tumors, giant alien mannequins, undead nurses, and more. What really makes 
 the monsters stand out are their odd movements -- like how a creature's body might lope along while 
 its head quivers about spastically. It just feels totally wrong, which is a great thing for a horror 
 game. Aside from very uneven voice-overs, the audio works wonders too, with subtle sound effects 
 and a soundtrack of industrial noise that kicks in at just the right moments.  

  Silent Hill 3's awkward story suffers from some serious pacing problems, as all the interesting 
 stuff is saved for near the end. The combat and puzzles could have been better, too. The game doesn't 
 even have that many true scares in it, but if you want to lose yourself in a really disturbing 
 world that really digs under your skin, Silent Hill 3 is hard to beat.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (43 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Arete_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I had the pleasure of finding this forgotten gem earlier this year, and I absolutely cannot be 
 more satisfied in terms of story, gameplay, and suspense. 
  
  Heather is one of those characters you can truly become intertwined with throughout the entire 
 Silent Hill experience. The third installment to the series does well to show what a true sequel 
 should be and seamlessly picks up from the previous story featuring Harry.
  
  As far as story goes, by far Silent Hill 3 satisfies my appetite for engrossing details more than 
 any other game in the series has done.
  
  Once the story ends, you won't be left to feel fully accomplished until you have opened up many 
 extra features this game has in store. The replay ability of this game is the best I've seen in 
 a long time. Also, there are just some moments that make one shudder and provide new perspective 
 on the absurd. 
  
  This game will leave you with a few unforgettable scars and some lovely dreams to accompany your 
 newly disturbed mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: froseph
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  The replay ability of the third installment in the series is remarkable. Silent Hill 3 accomplishes 
 merits which many people could never have even imagined possible.
  
  The game play should keep you fairly entertained while the story will grab you and not let you 
 go until the credits finish rolling. 
  
  Puzzles on hard in Silent Hill 3 are the most obscure and easily the most challenging of any game 
 I have come across thus far. 
  
  The voice acting is a bit odd from Douglas in the beginning, but Heather does a wonderful job of 
 being captivating, and she does a great job of taking the gamer on quite the roller coaster ride 
 of emotions.
  
  I am thrilled that the Silent Hill games have kept me entertained for years (even to this day) . 
 
  
  So when I need a temporal escape from reality, Silent Hill 3 more than satisfies my appetite for 
 the strange and unknown.
  
  And, of course, with the xbox 360 controller and today's current hardware, this game should be 
 celebrated as much as, if not more than, the PS 2 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roris0A
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  In this new entry Konami improves upon what they've been know for which is the series's absolutely 
 creepy atmosphere, great graphics and psychological scares.
  
  You role as heather: A wickedly cute blonde haired girl that seems to be a mix between Japanese/American 
 descent. Psychologically: she's not doing too well. Depression and a poor attitude on life right 
 now poison her and things are going to get much worse sadly.. What cruelness..
  
  Let me start by saying if you can't stomach, blood, ripped entrails everywhere, or watching a girl 
 having to battle through depression along with fighting demons in a truly evil screwed up world 
 that just doesn't make sense then this game isn't for you. But if you can then read on =)
  
  Lets begin with the controls. On the pc I highly recommend a good gamepad because playing with 
 a mouse and keyboard just doesn't feel right. Controlling heather is basically like moving a tank 
 around in the first place. And a mouse/keyboard just makes it worse. You may be turned off by this 
 already. But in a survival horror game it helps to build the tension and anxiety for you and of 
 course Heather's. =) If you're familiar with the old school resident evil series then you'll be 
 right at home here. But if you don't have a gamepad and no option of getting one or playing the 
 ps2 version then all is fine in the end. The standard WASD controls will work but are not as immersive.
 
  
  In order to shoot you first have to draw and aim the gun by holding down your right mouse button, 
 this builds up tension at some points so fast you'll be looking away from the screen. Well I was 
 at least. Don't think that will be the only thing you'll have to do in order to defeat the bizarre 
 monsters roaming around. Portioning is just as important, as all the monsters have different strats. 
 Some you may or may not need to backtrack in order to get way far from.
  
  But you won't do much shooting because conserving your ammo and health packs the best you can is 
 far more important. This is a survival horror game after all. So instead of blowing off monsters 
 heads you'll end up running away from them mainly as you progress through the game's creepy world. 
 And creepy just doesn't quiet do the environment justice.
  
  Blood is splattered on the walls and just everywhere in the dark atmosphere along with dead humans. 
 Walking down a hallway of this world and seeing a dog from hell chewing on some leftover piece 
 of meat from a poor victim just sends chills down your spine. Much of the creepiness and immerisiveness 
 is achieved by a layer of static that covers the screen as you explore.
  
  It's like watching an old VCR movie in bad condition. This effect has been a trademark feature 
 to the Silent Hill series and def sets it apart from the pack.
  
  Speaking of exploring - that it's double edge sword. The good things are you'll end up seeing a 
 wide variety of twisted environments crawling with monsters that match it but you'll also find 
 a lot and I mean a lot of un-interactive, dull, broken/rusted doors.. "This door's lock is broken 
 and I cannot get in" "this door has been rusted shut" etc is what you'll read from poor Heather 
 in every new area you explore because you just never know which one can be opened. They all look 
 the same and clutter areas just as much as the layer of static.
  
  In the end though, there isn't much real exploring to be had - it's all about progression at the 
 pace the developers intended for you.
  
  Going from that, I spent a good 30 minutes backtracking through a subway because I kept passing 
 this one area that look identical to the rest but I found out it was the one I need to use my plyers 
 on. So the world is drawn greatly but it could've used a little more 3d interaction and not having 
 to pixel hunt. It seems like they added it as a feature for tension when you're running from monsters 
 but it immediately gets old after the first 10 mins of the game.
  
  Also in order to solve puzzles items will magically appear in places you've already searched so 
 backtracking is a must. And since you'll be doing it a lot this is what really hurts the game. 
 This is my main complaint.
  
  Graphic wise this game still holds up extremely well even today of the next generation. All the 
 characters are extremely well animated and are detailed nicely. They all seem to have a good number 
 of polygons - especially Heather herself. She just looks so real that at times you'll wish you 
 could give this poor virtual girl a hug.
  
  The static warning device is still in this Silent Hill and nothing has changed about it. It will 
 still send tingles down your spine as you creep along a corridor in a new area. Much of the game 
 is spent listening to this device so you can get ready to dodge monsters that are hidden behind 
 the next corner. This along with your flashlight really bring out the atmosphere.
  
  "Do I really want to turn on my flashlight now? I don't really like the sound that my static device 
 is giving me.." That reminds me I need to get onto the sound department..
  
  Hearing a faint distant wail but not distant enough is haunting and really adds to the atmosphere. 
 All of the monsters themselves have their own individual sounds that you can recognize them by. 
 From the crazy dog's pat of paws on the rusty surface of the deranged world to a even weirder monster 
 that spins around on bloody long metal needles - you'll know what you're up against and when to 
 avoid them.
  
  This combined with the unique cinematic camera work well together. Because you can't see in front 
 of you at times, the great sounds really help to add another gameplay element to it.
  
  In the end the game is incredibly simple because it's not so much about killing monsters, solving 
 puzzles but much more about its atmosphere and that's where this game really shines. Imagine this 
 as an Alice in wonderland tale mixed with Japanese Horror. Things that happen or happened don't 
 quiet make sense but yet they do. Conventional logic and sense has no place here.
  
  Overall this a great game for what it sets out to do and any pc gamer with a craving for a console 
 eccentric survival-horror-adventure (whew) should check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmanisfat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill 3 is easily the scariest game ive played, i also found it 2 be scarier than any movie. 
 But what makes it so scary? Possibly cuz everything is abandoned and almost everyone turns into 
 these messed up monsters (at least thats what i think happened) . And what separates it from other 
 horror games like Doom and Fear is the person you control. In Doom and Fear you're a skilled soldier 
 with the latest weaponry, well not here. In Silent Hill 3, you play as a normal teenage girl with 
 simple weapons, like a knife and pistol, sorry but there is no BFG 9000 in here to kill all those 
 scary demons, which allows for the game to be much scarier than Fear and Doom.
  
  Aside from the scaryness, let's look at the other elements of the game. The graphics, are amazing, 
 especially for its time (2003) . The character design is outstanding and only a few recent games 
 have achieved quality so great. And there is so much attention to detail, which is important in 
 a game like this. The sound is similar with very creepy sound effects that won't let you down.
 
  
  Next is the gameplay. It's from the third-person view, like the GTA games, and is actually really 
 fun to play. There are various weapons to choose from and you can explore so much and you get a 
 comment for almost every item you see, which is neat. I did find it hard to know where to go, since 
 there was no waypoint marker like in Halo : (. I read on many forums that the combat system is flawed, 
 and i respectfully disagree, i find it to be really fun to fight the monsters, and the way its 
 set up seems great for me. Oh, and the game does not get repeatative, the environments get more 
 and more wacked, and you also learn more about what's happening.
  
  The story is the next part. It's simply the most **** up story i've ever heard. lol. But its still 
 is a very good story, and sucks you in and creeps you out more and more. Heres a non-spoiler summary. 
 A girl named Heather wakes up in an empty mall with monsters everywhere and sees this cultist who 
 says gibberish and wants her 2 go to Silent Hill and then she does and then it gets weird lol. 
 Good story though, very entertaining. This is also one of two games (the other is GTA 4) where 
 the game is so realistic that you actually feel sympathetic towards the main character.
  
  I sure had a lot to say about this game, thats cuz theres a lot about it lol. With all this said, 
 its a great game and there is so much to unlock afterwards that will make the game even better 
 (espiecially if you like Star Wars) . And I dont think any other game will ever be as scary for 
 me as this one was, enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViperCanel
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  After that header I do not think I need to say more, but Silent Hill series is really different 
 from other survival horror games. In fact, real survival horror games are too few. Because most 
 of them make you play as playing a regular fps or tps. You know, there are blasting shotguns, flying 
 bullets, martial arts... Sometimes you wonder who is trying to survive, you or so called monsters?
 
  
  But Silent Hill really makes you feel the survival instinct. Especially Silent Hill 3. You are 
 just a teenage girl who is really helpless instead of being a special agent who has been training 
 for decades, or being some guy who has unbelievable talents and whose nickname is really cool. 
 As I told, you are just a helpless girl. You get tired just because you have run a few meters or 
 you have swung your rusty pipe a few times. Monsters are really hard to kill and they sometimes 
 gain new abilities which negates their weaknesses while you are progressing. (For example; you can 
 kill first few closers just by circling around them and swinging your knife, but later in the game (not 
 much later) they gain a counter-attack!) .
  
  And when it comes to items they are really too scarce. Yes you have a sub-machine gun in SH3 too, 
 but don't think you can use it whenever you want because there are only few clips. And it isn't 
 as powerful as you think. And there aren't any headshots too. Because of these reasons firearms 
 aren't much reliable. "Then lets rely on melee?" Unfortunately, no. As I told, you get tired easily, 
 and sometimes even if you knock down your opponent you don't have strength left to do the finishing 
 move (smashing their skull or torso) and they get up again?!
  
  But don't get disappointed, these aspects make the game more a survival horror game than a fps. 
 If you blast every monster like in Painkiller (which was excellent in its genre, graphics and animations, 
 I don't blame it) where is the survival thing?
  
  Yet, it has "different" difficulty options both for battles and puzzles, so you don't have to worry 
 if you are not a hardcore gamer or if you think you can't solve complex riddles.
  
  And there is something I forgot, the character representation. It is excellent! Everyone has their 
 own personality, for example, our heroine is a cute young girl and she behaves like how she would 
 in real world. Only exception is that she is too brave; she doesn't feel scared when she sees corpses; 
 which I thought at first was "very illogical" but that is later explained in the story (I already 
 spoiled gameplay enough, I don't want to spoil the story, which is excellent and very immersive, 
 too) . I must admit I had fallen in love with her while I was playing the game.
  
  If you love not to play but live, you should try this game because it really sucks you in.
  
 
  Note: I don't suggest children playing this game because it contains some sexual and violent material, 
 but more importantly it affects you psychologically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  In many ways Silent Hill 3 isn't what one would call a pleasant gaming experience. After all, one 
 usually boots up a game to relax and loose oneself in a fictitious game world set out to make the 
 player feel good and have a great time. Ok, as far loosing yourself in a gameworld, Silent Hill 
 3 hits a home run, as this is easily one of the most immersive games ever created. But it's that 
 very fact that makes Silent Hill 3 anything but relaxing. This is by far the most disturbing game 
 ever made and strangely enough, that's what makes the game work so well. Silent Hill 3's definition 
 of horror gameplay isn't so much about deliberately scaring you, but rather about slowly getting 
 under your skin to the point were you will legitimately feel uncomforted by your surroundings. 
 Between a cryptic but memorable story, and environments that go from ordinary to completely twisted, 
 Silent Hill 3 succeeds brilliantly at delivering a horrific experience.
  
  Because Silent Hill 3 gets so many aspects done right, it's better to get the bad out of the way 
 first. Silent Hill 3 features a completely awkward camera and movement system, one that neither 
 a gamepad or keyboard and mouse combo can save. In fact, this is one element that could instantly 
 kill the experience for many people. The game features two camera/movement options: a 2D setting 
 where movement will be determined by where the camera is facing, and a 3D setting where the movement 
 is relative to where the character is facing. On paper the 3D setting sounds much better, but the 
 problem is that since the game is set in third person mode, your character will constantly be turning 
 her back to or away from you (as well as to the sides) . What this means is that sometimes you'll 
 want to move left, but because the character is facing left, you actually have to press forward. 
 If the game was set in first person view (or if the camera was always set on the back of the character) , 
 this movement system would be ideal, but in practice it's just incredibly disorienting. The 2D 
 setting is clunky too, since rather than strafe, you can only turn left or right. Still, this setting 
 is the one I personally recommend since it's much less disorienting.
  
  The other flaw in the Silent Hill 3 experience is that the game's story takes a long while to pick 
 up. Basically, for the first half of the game story advancement will be kept at a minimum. While 
 this works in favor of elevating the spooky atmosphere, it also leaves you without a sense of purpose, 
 and there will be moments where you will feel as if you're accomplishing nothing. Fortunately, 
 once the story picks up, it REALLY picks up, but you will be forced to play the first half of the 
 game solely on the premise that the story will eventually get going.
  
  If you can look past both these flaws (and trust me, the first one in particular isn't easy to 
 overlook, even if you may eventually get used to the awkward controls) , Silent Hill 3 is an experience 
 like no other. You play the role of Heather, a 17 year old girl who wakes up in a mall after having 
 a bizarre nightmare. Initially everything seems alright and Heather just wants to head home, but 
 after meeting a strange man who claims to have information important to her, everything turns upside 
 down. Soon Heather starts seeing strange things and eventually she has to fight devilish creatures. 
 And what moments ago looked like a lonely mall, is now a hellish sight, as the walls are covered 
 in blood or burnt out, and horrible, disturbing sights (such as a cooked dog, the corpse of a woman 
 holding her dead baby, a dead body hanging from the ceiling dripping blood into a bucket...) pop 
 out with more frequency. Silent Hill 3 includes a disclaimer at the begginning of the game, warning 
 people that the game contains scenes that can be considered cruel or violent, and this is most 
 certainly true. Needless to say, this isn't a game for the squeamish or faint of heart.
  
  And it's all those disturbing and creepy details that make Silent HIll 3 a success. Here's a game 
 where you will be scared, all the time. As previously mentioned, the creepy atmosphere makes for 
 an unnerving experience, rather than a relaxing one. There were moments in the game when I was 
 literally checking my real surroundings to know that I wasn't trapped in a living hell. It may 
 sound strange to say this, but for the sake of your mental health, I don't recommend a marathon 
 session of Silent Hill 3. The game is fairly short though, clocking at around 6 to 7 hours of gameplay 
 (though that doesn't include cutscenes) , but given the nature of the game, that's a good length 
 for it.
  
  While the story takes a long while to start unfolding, it packs a lot of memorable moments, chief 
 among them a scene towards the middle of the game (which is actually the scene that kicks the story 
 into high gear) . I won't spoil anything here, but while the recurring events of this particular 
 scene aren't too surprising, the execution is flawless. This is the moment where Heather starts 
 showing true emotion, and though it could've been real easy for the game to mess this sequence 
 up by delivering the surprise and just move on, that's not the case, as the game builds everything 
 else upon it. As the story keeps unfolding you'll learn everything about Heather's past, her true 
 identity, and her true role in this whole mess. Best of all, unlike other games, every loose end 
 is tied up and you will get a sense of closure by the time the game wraps everything up. It's a 
 truly superb story.
  
  As far as the gameplay is concerned, Silent Hill 3 avoids shooting itself in the foot by implementing 
 a feature that I believe every other game (regardless of genre) should imitate. First of all, the 
 gameplay here consists mostly of puzzle solving and close quarters combat, which is what you'd 
 expect from a survival horror game, but as previous games have proved, it can lead to an occasionally 
 thrilling, occasionally frustrating experience. However, at the start of the game you're given 
 the option to select the difficulty level of both the combat and the puzzle sections. This is such 
 a well thought concept that it ends up making up for virtually all of the game's faults. Silent 
 Hill 3 is as easy or as hard as you want, and believe me, the difference between the difficulty 
 levels is night and day. Combat on easy is a breeze, while on hard it's a nail biting experience. 
 On the riddle side, some puzzles don't even show up on "easy riddle" difficulty, while others feature 
 simple solutions on easy, and outrageous, convoluted solutions on hard. Silent Hill 3 earns a gold 
 medal award for being such a user friendly game (ignoring the controls of course) .
  
  The audiovisual setup of Silent HIll 3 is amazing. Even by today's standards, the graphics are 
 top notch. The character models look spectacular; they are so realistic and detailed that you can 
 feel their emotions leaking out of their pores. The same goes for the meticulously detailed environments, 
 which feature every nook and cranny necessary to immerse you in the gameworld, as well as deliciously 
 rich textures. The lighting effects are also great, and given that long sections of the game are 
 played in almost complete darkness, it only adds to the experience. All the same compliments apply 
 to the sound. The effects applied here make up for a believable experience and the soundtrack adds 
 to it. The voice acting is great for the most part, though there are a few scenes where it feels 
 a bit wrong. It's not a major issue though. The presentation on the other hand is a bit on the 
 dry side. Not the graphics or sound mind you, but rather the in-game menus. They look like they 
 were taken from a budget 1998 title. Given the otherwise spectacular look of the game, it's jarring 
 to be stuck with blurry, hard to navigate, low-res menus that just look cheap and feel completely 
 out of place.
  
  Whatever minor flaws the game may have, Silent Hill 3 is a disturbingly amazing experience, that 
 fans of the genre will surely enjoy. Were it not for the clunky controls, this would be a masterpiece. 
 As it is, it's a flawed masterpiece, one filled with a riveting story and a world so spooky and 
 horrific, you'll be easily sucked into the experience. And that's when you'll start praying the 
 game isn't real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -THA-hamst3r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  To view this review in it's original formatting with images and video, go here:
  http://www. hamst3r. com/article/55/thoughts-on-silent-hill-3
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  I just completed Silent Hill 3. It took me about 5 1/2 hours according to a chart at the end of 
 the game. I was hoping for a bit more game than that but perhaps spending 5 to 6 hours in the town 
 of Silent Hill is all that's really necessary. Lingering around in that kind of environment could 
 have an adverse effect on one's health.
  
  Silent Hill 3 is part of a survival horror series which focuses more on psychological horror and 
 disturbing imagery than other series in the horror genre. It's very good at this too. Silent Hill 
 3 wants to get in to your head so it can rub sandpaper on your brain and whittle away your sanity. 
 This is one of those games that can get to you're not used to this sort of thing. There's actually 
 a disclaimer at the start of the Silent Hill 3 stating that:
  
  "Some parts of this game may be
  considered violent or cruel"
  
  Gee, I think they might 
 be on to something there.
  
  Silent Hill 3 has gore and cruelty in large quantities. Not-quite-dead bodies dangle from chains 
 and corpses occupy nearly every corridor. It's the only game I know of that has a carousel  like 
 the kind you find at any carnival  but with living horses on meat hooks. For some this could all 
 be a little much. For me, it's both hilarious and disturbing at the same time.
  
  Still though, Silent Hill 3 actually doesn't have as much, "disturbing imagery" as Silent Hill 
 2 or the 4th installment in the series. But that's not to say it's lacking in any way. What's there 
 is great. Except for the voice acting. That's one thing in Silent Hill 3 that I don't consider 
 great. Aside from Heather, the lead character, the rest of the voice acting is pretty bad. Though 
 the voice acting in the Silent Hill series have never really been that good. It would be nice if 
 the voice acting got better with each installment though. Maybe Silent Hill 5 will change that.
 
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  In Silent Hill 3 you play as a teenage girl named Heather. There's nothing remarkable about her 
 for most of the game and she seems very hot tempered and bratty, but about half-way through the 
 game her past starts bubbling up to the surface. This is hinted at almost annoyingly by a detective 
 Heather meets very early on in the game. "What? You don't remember your past?" he questions more 
 than once. As your past unravels the game makes a lot of big connections back to Silent Hill 1, 
 so I hope you've played it. Overall the story is very interesting and a bit confusing.
  
  On the visual front, the graphics in Silent Hill 3 are very good, at least as far as the character 
 models and environment designs go. Textures look blurry up closebut due to the fact that everything 
 in Silent Hill is covered in rust, blood and other things that are far worse, you'll probably never 
 notice. The long shadows caused by Heather's flashlight is a great effect and adds a lot to the 
 atmosphere.
  
  The monsters in Silent Hill 3 are all very good with the exception of one very lame lump-with-legs 
 that makes a honking sound. The game could have done without those stupid things, but all of the 
 other enemies are fantastic and many are quite unique and disturbing.
  
  The sound design is Silent Hill 3 is exceptional. The ambient sounds in the environments are unsettling 
 and well placed. The static from your pocket radio and the grinding sounds of industrial machinery, 
 that grow louder as enemies get closer to you, do their job of heightening the tension in the game. 
 Not all of the creepy sounds are linked to enemies though. In some places you'll hear howling in 
 the distance, a sudden growl or the sounds of something close-by breathing heavilyyet there's 
 no actual danger from these sounds  they're just there to freak you out. Lots of horror games 
 do this, but for the most part Silent Hill 3 does it better. The only game I think can compete 
 with Silent Hill 3 in this regard is Condemned: Criminal Origins.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  The gameplay in Silent Hill 3 is great overall. There are some things that I wish they would fix, 
 but I know that they're holding on to them for the sake of nostalgia. For instance, the horrendous 
 camera. The way you can be in control of your camera one moment, only to have it switch to a fixed 
 camera angle facing away from the direction you're trying to goso you just have to run forward, 
 blindly, until the camera gives the control back to you. Some times the camera changes are at the 
 most inopportune times. When these camera changes are used for cinematic effect, that's great  
 but when they're used to simply make navigation or combat difficult, that's a bad thing.
  
  Another gripe with the game overall is the inventory system. Due to it's console beginnings, Silent 
 Hill 3 does not make use of any hotkeys for switching weapons or using items. To do any of that 
 you have to go in to your inventory screen, which pauses the game, so that you can hunt around 
 for the item you want. It's not so bad if you're used to this sort of thing but a hotkey to switch 
 between a ranged and a melee weapon would have been appreciated. I would have also liked a way 
 to reload a gun without going in to the inventory.
  
  Ammo deprivation is a huge part of Silent Hill 3. While it may not go as far as not allowing you 
 carry extra ammunition like Condemned: Criminal Origins or the complete lack of firearms in the 
 Penumbra series, there's still very little ammunition in the game. I barely shot anything the entire 
 game, found what I thought to be lots of bullets throughout the game and still ran out of ammo 
 during the final boss fight.
  
  I've read though that the amount of ammo the game gives you is completely dependent on how much 
 you use it. The same thing applying to health packs. When you find health packs, depending on the 
 status of your health and how many health packs you already have the game decides what kind and 
 how many of the health pack you should get.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  Just like in previous Silent Hill installments and even the Silent Hill movie, sudden shifts from 
 the real world to an alternate dimension play a big roll in the game. These shifts are done very 
 well and I do not feel that they were overdone in any way.
  
  Puzzles also play a big role in Silent Hill 3 and thankfully the developers were very smart with 
 the difficulty levels in the game. When you start a new game you're actually given the choice of 
 "Riddle Level" which is a separate value from, "Action Level". I played the game with both set 
 to Normal. After playing the game went online to read the riddles for the Hard difficulty and my 
 head exploded. I'm glad I chose normal difficulty as the hard riddles seemed extremely frustrating.
 
  
  One big thing to note about Silent Hill 3 is that some aspects of the game intentionally defy all 
 rational thoughts. While navigating through the game, rooms that did not exist previously will 
 suddenly appear on your map. In one area of the game, as you step in to an elevator you realize 
 that there are now twice as many floors available than there were just a few minutes ago  a three 
 story building has miraculously become a six story building.
  
  Lastly, the map system in Silent Hill 3 is both useful and utterly useless all at the same time. 
 The map is almost laughably inaccurate in every area, especially in the alternate dimension versions 
 of those areas. What redeems the map though is that you just so happen to be carrying a red pen 
 and will automatically correct the inaccuracies of the layout. You will also mark down all of the 
 doors and items of importance. To have the most accurate map though you have to try opening every 
 single door in the game. This can prove very difficult in the alternate reality levels as the bizarre 
 effects on the walls make it very difficult to tell what's actually a door.
  
  Overall Silent Hill 3 is a great game with a lot of goodness for survival horror junkies. I highly 
 recommend purchasing it if you're in to these kinds of excursions in to hell. If hell is what you 
 want, Silent Hill 3 can take you there.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  I recorded some footage during my stay in Silent Hill. Here's a video of Silent Hill 3 gameplay 
 synced up to one of the music pieces from the soundtrack: 
  
  [VIDEO AVAILABLE IN ORIGINAL REVIEW] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill 3 has some really cool things to offer. The heroine is great, just an ordinary teenage 
 girl named Heather, who takes on the eerie world that's Silent Hill. The creatures are detailed 
 with dogs that have their heads split in two, walking tumors, mannequins that come to life, undead 
 nurses, and much more. Silent Hill has a unique and disturbing atmosphere that will leave your 
 skin crawling, but will totally immerse you into the game play and leave you always wanting more.
 
  
  Personally, I found this game to be the best of the series. The game play was well thought out 
 so that you had time to explore the environments and engross yourself into the atmosphere that 
 is Silent Hill without the constant running and shooting you find in so many other games. There 
 are puzzles to solve that have user adjustable difficulty . The cut scenes are great and build 
 hair raising tension for what will come next. Konami has always done a great job with the Silent 
 Hill series; this game was the best. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  With the survival-horror genre, you sort of know what to expect. Cinematic camera angles, clunky 
 combat, obscure puzzles, a dose of scares and a nonsensical story to warp it all up. Silent Hill 
 3 carries on that tradition, and in many ways, Silent Hill 3 represents the best the series has 
 yet to offer. The story is much more coherent this time around, the puzzles are just a tad more 
 logical and genuine creepiness is present in nearly every facet of the game. If you enjoy this 
 unique genre or the Silent Hill series, there's a lot to like here, but if this sort of slow, deliberate 
 game didn't grip you before, then you're better off playing something else.
  
  Unlike previous Silent Hills, Silent Hill 3 doesn't start at the quaint, demonic town. You do start 
 the game in it in a sense, in a nightmare, but the game physically starts in an undisclosed mall. 
 Here, you assume the role of Heather -- a 17-year-old teenager that's like any other teenager. 
 It's quite refreshing to see a female lead, compared to the middle-aged men from previous Silent 
 Hills. She starts off as a very fragile character, but by the end of the game, she turns out to 
 be the quite the badass, handing out smug looks to anything that tries to kill her. This is handled 
 very well throughout the game, it never seems forced, she gradually grows into a person that can 
 support herself. As far as Silent Hill characters go, Heather is simply the most developed out 
 of all the previous leads.
  
  The story's also well-developed and surprisingly coherent, compared to past Silent Hills. In essence, 
 a woman named Claudia wants her god to be reborn, and she needs Heather to do it. Heather doesn't 
 like that idea one bit, so she's thrust into a conflict that ultimately winds her up in the infamous 
 town of Silent Hill. Unlike the weird, psychological roots of Silent Hill 2's story, Silent Hill 
 3 takes a much more straight-forward form of storytelling. You'll run into a lot of journals and 
 documents throughout the game, giving you information that clarifies the story. The cutscenes are 
 usually long and unlike, Silent Hill 2, usually informative. Silent Hill 3's story also directly 
 links to Silent Hill 1, but saying anything more would certainly spoil some key moments. However, 
 if you liked Silent Hill 2's story and the way it told it, you might not like what Silent Hill 
 3 offers in terms of narrative, but at the very least, things will be less incomprehensible. Still 
 be prepared to be confused though, as some scenes seem to be surreal and weird just for the sake 
 of weirding you out.
  
  On the other hand, the gameplay continues to age terribly. Acceptable 4 years ago, it's hard to 
 like what Silent Hill 3 has to offer in terms of gameplay. The controls for the PC version initially 
 makes it nearly unplayable, but serious remapping will make it tolerable. If you've played any 
 survivor-horror game in the past 5 years, you should know what to expect. Lots of wandering around, 
 finding keys in the most obscure locations, solving obscure puzzles and clunky fighting. Silent 
 Hill games are much more about getting sucked into the world rather than presenting you with phenomenal 
 gameplay, but it's still hard to overlook its problems. Combat is still just bad, none of the hits 
 carry any impact and it's just pathetic to see a bunch of stilted and awkward animations on the 
 screen. The camera's good about presenting cinematic angles, but it almost never presents a smart 
 one. Enemies are almost always out of the screen, forcing you to manually take control of the camera, 
 which doesn't respond well, almost all the time. Puzzles are slightly easier this time around and 
 backtracking is much less of a common occurrence, so the pacing is better. Still, the gameplay's 
 never satisfying and it's never been Silent Hill's strong point.
  
  What it has succeeded in is presenting you with a atmospheric and genuinely creepy world. Nearly 
 all the places you'll explore are genuinely unsettling and creepy. Every once in awhile, the game 
 presents you with a straight-forward shock scare, but for the most part, Silent Hill 3 leaves it 
 to your imagination as to what that distant groan was. The environments are grimy, creepy, gross 
 and disturbing. Piles of stacked bodies, ominous wheelchairs and grotesque imagery are a constant, 
 keeping you on the edge for the most part. The new monster designs are are up to par with previous 
 monster designs, but they're disturbing looks will wear off quickly, just like from past Silent 
 Hills. However, Silent Hill 3's biggest improvement atmospheric-wise comes from the sound. Unlike 
 Silent Hill 2, Silent Hill 3 takes advantage of long stretches of total silence. Sometimes it's 
 a woman's whimper and sometimes it's footsteps you hear from the floor above. Whatever it is, it's 
 always unsettling and gets your blood pumping. The creepiness starts to fade out during the middle-portion 
 of the game, when you've gotten used to it all, but it gets right back on track towards the last 
 third of the game.
  
  What won't disappoint in any measure however, are the graphics. The game looks outstanding and 
 rivals Resident Evil 4 in some occasions. Textures aren't quite as sharp by today's standards, 
 but the lighting, shadows and level design impresses almost all the time. Character models have 
 received the biggest face lift compared to Silent Hill 2; they're incredibly detailed with every 
 single freckle, wrinkle and pore presented in exquisite detail. Their lip-synching does look a 
 bit goofy during the cutscenes, but on the whole, this is one fantastic-looking game. On the other 
 hand, the sound remains inconsistent. The music still continues to uphold the standards set by 
 previous games. The industrial clings and clangs can evoke moments of panic and the sound effects 
 are sharp and distinct. The voice-acting is still hit-and-miss. While Heather sounds natural, most 
 of the side characters sound too hokey and not genuine, which really does sap much of the dramatic 
 impact in a lot of cutscenes.
  
  Silent Hill 3 isn't going to last long. Playing on normal difficulty should take around 5-6 hours. 
 There are multiple endings, costumes and weird collectibles, but it's tough to go back to play 
 for a second time even with all the extras. Silent Hill 3 represents some of the best the survival-horror 
 genre has to offer. It's a bit rough around the edges, but it presents an atmosphere and feel like 
 no other survival-horror game before it; other than the other Silent Hill games, of course. If 
 you've never liked the genre or the Silent Hill series, you won't find much to like here, but for 
 the rest of you who enjoy this type of game, Silent Hill 3's right up your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geminidevine
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  I played this game on my Pentium 3, 1ghz with 384MB of RAM over 2 &amp; and half years ago then 
 i sold it due to my ex having money issues how stupid i was at the time. Silent Hill on the PC 
 rocks despite it being on Playstation 2. Plus it came with a free soundtrack from the music in 
 the game. Darn it and if i get if off of Amazon or Ebay who know what condition the game will be 
 in when you get it probably modded or in some mockup jewel case that the game never came in. I 
 like the original factory sealed box nothing more or less. I am going to get my hand on this classic 
 as well. (Attention gamers) add this game to your collection. PC gaming is far superior than consoles 
 not to say that console gaming is horrible but you have to go all out and buy a HDTV for the current 
 generation of gaming. Silent Hill 3 on the PC you will get better resolution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AhmedYehia86
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 12, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  silent hill 3 is from the best games i have ever play with perfect graphic and sound .... and new 
 ideas with make the game very intersting.
  i think it is perfect without any mistakes and it is the best part of the all parts
  of silent 
 .
  but the gameplay as usual isnot very good but i think this is normal because this game is made 
 primary for playstation not for pc this game is typical to silent hill to i was felling i am playing 
 the same part but with higher graphic
  the games which are related to it are call of cthulhu dark corner of the earth
  resident evil 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valon34
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 3, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill 3 has to be up their with Resident Evil as a great horror game. The Storyline is easy 
 to understand and you can't stop playing without knowing what happens next. The puzzles can be hard 
 but, we all need to use our brains once in awhile that's why we have them. The graphics of this 
 game are better then Silent Hill 2 making the character come to live. The blood, and gore in this 
 game is insane you can't even imagine! If, you really want to be scared try playing this game in 
 the dark and say how afraid you are after you played the game. Game play-wise, its the same as 
 Silent Hill 2. You wander mostly indoors this time rather than the foggy streets of Silent Hill. As 
 the girl Heather, you hunt for keys to unlock new rooms, solve puzzles on three different riddle 
 modes, and either run away from, or kill the assortment of evil, demonic monsters out to get Heather. it 
 hasn't changed much from Silent Hill 2.
  Sound wise, the soundtracks better this time with lyrics. Other than that, the same spooky, moody, 
 ambient sounds are here. If you heard a lot of the first two Silent Hill games soundtracks, then 
 youll immediately feel at home with the style in this game. Its hard to describe exactly what 
 the music is like, but its very guitar-like, not to mention loud.
  This game is the work of a genius that knows what the fans wants. This game did deliver as a great 
 Horror Action Adventure.
  If, you like Horror Action Adventure games you should get this one it will leave with an odd feeling 
 in the end. Silent Hill 3 can really make time fly because their are a lot of unlocks you can get 
 by playing the game over and over.
  Remember don't fever the horror let the horror fear you ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triple_H90
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 15, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy the Silent Hill series a lot. And Silent Hill 3 is one awesome game. The story is great 
 once again and the graphics are also very good. This game has nothing to do with the previous game, 
 apart that it takes place in the same town. This game is more of a sequel to the first Silent Hill 
 game. I am not going to give it away, but you have to play it to understand. And of course if you 
 like the Silent Hill series you are just going to love this one. So go and get it. Konami did it 
 again, they made a great horror game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 1:56 am PT
Review:  For those who played the first Silent Hill release, Silent Hill 3 is a relief because it continues 
 the story and removes any question marks remained.
  
  The story in Silent Hill 3 is becoming more complex, and while playing i was concerned that it 
 wouldn't end neither in this one, but i was wrong. After i finished Silent Hill 3 i finally understood 
 the story line regarding Silent Hill and Silent Hill 3, and i must say that is outstanding, the 
 concept, the feelings that brings , that depressing world in which you are dragged in, it feels 
 like you live two different lives and you suddenly prefer the one in Silent Hill.
  
  After i finished Silent Hill 3 it took me about a month to recover from that experience and whatever 
 spear time i had i start thinking about it, could be compared to a book, a good book indeed.
  
  Words can not describe the feelings so i'll just live it as it is... play the game and you'll 
 see what i am trying to say.
  
  All in one , this is a stunning experience, with great graphics and if i think about it - the best 
 graphics in Silent Hill series, the soundtrack (as usual) ... sublime.
  
  This is a serious game, it will not make you laugh, it is not entertaining... and make sure while 
 playing to have a pack of cigarettes right next to you... it will come in handy , believe me...
 
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon_is_Dynamic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  Claudia eats the baby -Anonymous
  
  I was a little wary of playing Silent Hill 3 when I first heard about it, thinking it would be 
 just another survival horror game with the same old tricks as all the others out there. After actually 
 playing the game however, I realized that while some of the action and miscellaneous elements of 
 the game are the same, it is the story that sets this game apart from all the rest. The story is 
 a continuation of the original Silent Hill for PS, but you don't necessarily need to play the original 
 to understand the story. The game starts with Heather, who all of a sudden has weird dreams and 
 occurrences that happen to her on a daily basis. Silent Hill 3 is the story of her searching for 
 the truth behind her past, and where else is she going to find her answers but the town of Silent 
 Hill.
  
  The graphics in Silent Hill 3 stay true to the franchise, grungy and rough. While some gamers find 
 this unappealing, I tend to enjoy the horror factor this provides. Of course the game is dark, 
 and brightening the screen doesn't really help. It makes the resolution better, but the darkness 
 is still dark. The graphics are not up to par with modern PS2 games, but the game is still good 
 for it's time.
  
  As with most Silent Hill games the replay value is fairly high due to the alternate endings and 
 un-lockable weapons and costumes. The game is somewhat short, but if you get lost, it could take 
 awhile to get back on the right track, due to the multitude of doors. The game is easy to navigate 
 while in one place, because most doors will be locked, leaving only one option; however, a lot 
 of buildings have multiple floors, and knowing which floor to go to can get confusing.
  
  In the end I would recommend Silent Hill 3 to anyone who was looking for a stimulating, high adventure, 
 scare filled game. If your a survival horror fan, you will definitely enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 27, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  This is my first silent hill game and it does take some getting use to but it is overall a great 
 game. The game is pretty creepy with a very dark atmosphere that burns into your mind after playing 
 it for awhile and i think a few times i had dreams about walking down dark hallways. The games 
 ambience and sound effects add to it with sometimes all u hear is the sound of your footsteps and 
 breathing. At other times oppressive dark music plays with pounding rhythyms that just make you 
 want to get the hell out of there. The voice acting is pretty average with the detective guy sounding 
 pretty dumb. The game does have some really good music to tho which i think was made just for the 
 game. I found myself watching the intro movie everytime i played to hear the song n everything. 
 The games graphics are very good for the time it was released at being at first 99 i think then 
 for pc 2003. I think the character models in this game may be some of the best ever in a video 
 game. The enviroments are all very dark but the rooms are very detailed and seem realistic. The 
 game does have a pretty deep storyline but i didnt get some of it and there are alot of symbolism 
 in the game. The problem with the game are the controls which can take alot of getting use to and 
 may make some ppl give up on the game before they give it a chance. I also had to refer to a walkthrough 
 several times throughout the game for help on some of the puzzles because i had missed an item 
 i needed. The combat in the game is very basic as well with just an attack being pretty much it. 
 But the problems with the game are outweighed with its originality and atmosphere. well original 
 since its my first silent hill :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Money_Fist
Rating: 4.2
Date: Aug 17, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  Desperately waiting for the arrival of RE:4 for the PC I thought I'd wet my taste with a RE type 
 game. Did a few internet searches for games in the same genre as RE, Silent Hill often popped up. 
 Looking at the screenshots I thought "ah perfect".
  Time to tell what this game is really about
  
  Gameplay: For the most of the game you are running 
 around corridors dodging numerous monsters (because ammo is rare) & frantically trying door handles. 
 The doors in this game are REALLY annoying, why? Because there is so many of them and 90% of them 
 give you the message "the lock is broken"
  
  Graphics: Really nice and crisp on the highest settings
  
  Sound: All right, I suppose. The 
 radio that detect nearby monsters was quite annoying, making loud static noises while you are being 
 attacked.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brodigity
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:28 am PT
Review:  well if everones gotten used to me writing good reviews, heres one for the books. rent the game 
 if your going to play it. the controls are the worst i have experinced in the serise, tap a button 
 and you turn so sharply away from one enemy into another. the visual aspect on this title is good 
 but not up to par with silent hill games. if your a fan of the series you'll probly enjoy it. if 
 this is your first silent hill experience dont let that stop you from trying the first two. all 
 i can say is you get it right the first time get lucky the second time and try the same idea with 
 new characters in the same place with a similar situation and your doomed to fail, change it up 
 a little konami if you want the game to contiue with its success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrxdemix
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 2, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  By now you have probably played one of the games in the Silent Hill series. If not, it is known 
 as one of, if not the best horror genre game series out there. It's hard to really even call it 
 a horror game, since it is mostly a psychological thriller, like that of psycho and other movies 
 that are known to be works of art in the movie industry. This game has that look and feel to it. 
 It absorbs you in and gives you the ride of your life.
  
  Before playing this game, I had already beaten one, then four and then two. So by now I have played 
 all of the games in the series and been a big fan of Konami's work of art. Although I can consider 
 myself a Silent Hill fan, I will be as honest as possible. If you have played the first Silent 
 Hill then this one will most likely be your first or second favorite in the series. I firmly believe 
 this is actually the scariest one of the series. Unlike the second installment, this game has lots 
 of moments from beginning to end that make you squeal in horror. It is a definite step for the 
 advancement of psychological terror in games.
  
  The game-play hasn't changed much since the last game in the series. It still has the basic inventory. 
 However, they did refine it and gave it three different slots; your items, weapons and supplies. 
 It helps keep your stuff organized and since this game has by far more items you will pick up throughout 
 the game, it is a definite help. The combat also has remained the same, besides the fact that they 
 have made it a bit easier and tweaked a few things. At this point I believe they have made the 
 game-play about as good as it can be in a game such as this.
  
  The graphics took me back quite a bit. Even if you're playing this game three years after the release 
 of it like I did, you will still be taken back. They have really polished the look of the environments, 
 and the enemies/friends that you meet along the way. Even the CG videos in the game are very well 
 done. The entire look of the game is flawless for it's genre and mood. You will see effects in 
 this game that are probably better than anything you have seen in a movie. The way the dynamic 
 lighting collaborates with the areas and monsters of the game is a work of genius. I am still in 
 awe at how perfect and fleshed out this installment became.
  
  The audio of the third Silent Hill is typical for the series. You can tell they took a lot of time 
 making noises and ambiance that fits perfectly into the mood. The sound of the little things like 
 the double-heads lunging at you, the sound of you firing your pistol into the double-head to the 
 ambiance played while in a dark empty hospital is top-notch. To date I have not seen a horror game 
 pull off this perfection that has been displayed here. The audio you will hear in SH3 will probably 
 be the best you're going to hear coming from a horror game for a long time.
  
  While some people just can't stand being scared, if you are in the mood to be scared, this is the 
 perfect game for you. All of the things that are important to making a terrifying experience have 
 been coherently fitted together in this installment. For those of you who have played SH1, you 
 are in for a big treat. The story grasps you from beginning to end and you will be begging for 
 answers till the end. Also, the fact that there are four different endings gives you a reason to 
 come back and play again, as well as the fact that you get new weapons and some abilities just 
 by simply beating it once. Do yourself a favor, if you like horror games, look no further. Go out 
 right now and get Silent Hill 3 or a package with it included. You wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rennik_l
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill is for some reason, aside from Resident Evil 4, the only survival horror series/games 
 I can play. I'm a coward at heart yet Silent Hill is a great experience.
  
  Silent Hill 3 in my opinion is the best so far. The animation is smooth, the graphics are crisp, 
 and the lighting is some of the best even today. The story is deep, and keeps the SH idea alive 
 by referencing things from the first two titles. The music and sound effects help greatly to create 
 the disturbing and creepy atmosphere of the Silent Hill experience. The game-play could have been 
 improved for keyboard users, (I use a PS2 controller to play it, so it's responsive and works well 
 for me) but those with a good game pad should be fine. Overall this game is a thrill to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heborress
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 19, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I've heard a lot of great things about the Silent Hill series, so i decided to buy one and check 
 it out.
  So i ordered the third Silent Hill game.
  After the intro, the main character "Heather" is walking through an creepy looking theme park without 
 not knowing how she got there.
  Things do of course get out of control and after a while she wakes up in a coffee house.
  It 
 was all a bad dream.... she thought.
  
  Once she leaves the coffee house, she run into creepy looking monsters and things get out of control 
 once again.... but this time it is not a dream.
  
  Visually, this game is terrific. You get loads of really scary places to explore.
  The sound 
 is also awesome, and some scenes was extremly creepy thanks to the sound\music.
  
  The voice acting is good, but far from perfect.
  But one thing that this game seriously lacks 
 is good gameplay.
  The controls are simply awful, and it is pretty hard to get used to the keyboard controls, so i 
 recommend to play this game with a gamepad.
  
  But this game is pretty good if you get used to the controls.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsd02_
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 27, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I played this after beating first two, which i liked very, very much. As second one have a different 
 story from original Silent Hill, 3rd game returns to the story of Harry and his lost and reborn 
 daughter.
  
  The popularity of this game amongst some people may be because of the main character is a GIRL. 
 You know with a skirt and all. Personally for me it was a bit of turn-down, as her actions, speech 
 and jokes were somehow if not funny in girlish way, then definitely not serious.
  
  The graphics and sound is ideal and caries the mark the franchise gained from second game.
  
 
  However the story is written poorly and is dosed quite dry in game. The first part of game passed 
 with you killing bunch of monsters and solving some riddles with no good reason. And after that 
 it is quite clear that whats left of cult from girl's past is coming back to take her and you got 
 to kill the cult leader before it's too late. That's all to the story.
  
  So this game is pretty quick to finish, tho it could have been even faster if not some story elements 
 that, to my opinion, was unnecessary. You can finish it within 6-7 hours without being rushed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheN00binator
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 26, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this review short and get to the point, because I didn't play the game for too long, 
 so there isnt too much to say. Only the reason why I stopped playing:
  
  This game made me feel depressed : (
  
  Ive played a lot of horror games before (and reviewed 
 a lot on various sites, including this one) but this game is the only game (except silent hill 
 2) that I actually uninstalled because it totally inflicted on my mood.
  
  I like to be happy, thats all ;) . Other horror games shock me, make me gasp... and some even make 
 me stop playing for a while to help me un-freak. And a gloomy, gritty atmosphere is good - it freaks 
 me out, makes me jump at small noises, etc. But afterward, I can return to my normal life/play 
 something else/whatever, and feel normal and happy again. But after playing Silent Hill 3, I feel 
 bad, I feel depressed. I cant fully explain why, I suppose its simply because of how bloody and 
 gritty everything is.
  
  Thats it. I'm aware that my review wont mean anything to the masses. But if there is anyone out 
 there who, like me, can only take these sort of games in small doses - then I urge you not to play 
 this game, because you wont feel good afterwards.
  
  And yes, im fully aware of how lame this all is, but I dont really care :P. Im also aware that 
 this review isnt short like I promised at the start... Its shorter than all my other reviews though 
 ;) )
  
  (Btw, for some reason, I enjoyed Silent Hill 4... But then, it isnt quite as depressing as 3, and 
 you do get breaks from the horror (ie when you go back to your apartment) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lompir
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  I really like this game cause of the quiet corridors and **** and the isolation. 
  this game is (in my opinion) a very scary and creepy game, and it is one of my favorite games.
 
  (this is just to get the review done.) 
  good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good 
 game good game good good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good 
 game v good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game 
 good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good 
 game good game good game good game good game v good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e-mat
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 9, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big SH series fan. I already had finished SH1 and SH2 before I got SH3. I loved the original 
 and the sequel was ok. But I must say - Silent Hill 3 is better, much better. 
  
  The game's keyboard control scheme can really frustrate though. But you should really like SH3 
 if you have a gamepad. If you do then the gameplay's quality shouldn't bother you although the 
 camera sometimes makes things tough. For example sometimes when you enter a room or a hallway, 
 the camera is focusing on Heather and you can't change it unless you advance in the room or the 
 hallway. And if there are monsters, you can't see them because of the camera. So you have to go 
 further knowing that there are monsters ahead which you can't see. And if you have a gamepad this 
 is actually the only problem.
  
  Maybe that's because I'm just a Silent Hill veteran but I found the riddles pretty easy on the 
 "normal" difficulty setting. Action difficulty is a bit too easy for a "normal" as well. I used 
 melee weapons for the most part throughout the game and I even killed every monster I found. Haven't 
 tried the "hard" difficulty setting yet.
  
  The graphics are amazing. And you don't have to own a "beast" to play the game at maximum detail. 
 Just great.
  
  Sound is great for the most part. The game does a good job startling you with disturbing sounds 
 like groans, growls, roars, cries and so on even when there's nobody around. However the dialogues 
 in the cut-scenes are sometimes a bit awkward.
  
  This game is a sequel to the original Silent Hill and has nothing to do with the second one (although 
 you'll visit some places from the Silent Hill 2 during the game) . The story is the original's continuation.
 
  
  It took about 12 hours to complete the game and the game time was about 9 hours so the game could 
 have been longer. But... it was great nine hours. This game is certainly worth playing. Even with 
 a keyboard. And you have to give Silent Hill another chance if SH2 somewhat disappointed you because 
 this game is better in every aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hacer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  When I was playing SH3 i was already amazed SH2. I would never realized that something could be 
 batter than SH2... 
  1. Storyline : Konami started to work on SH3 just after releasing SH2 and sometimes you can see 
 it. Some of plots are does not fit to main story clearly, sometimes you feel a little bit dizzy 
 but in negative meaning. Although, story is interesting maybe it is not as good as in SH or SH2 
 but it has it's own spirit.
  I really liked it.
  2. Gameplay : Hmmm first i was a little bit frustrated about steering (in SH2 too) but in couple 
 of minutes i got used to it, even more i liked it. :) In few moment game is really boring luckily 
 not for a long time.
  3. Graphics : Much better than in SH2. Characters looks great (especially Douglas :) ) has great 
 facial expression, gestures, voices. Backgrounds, locations, monsters, etc. looks good too. They 
 are creating great atmosphere of fear. 
  4. Sound : My favourite thing in SH3. What can I say... Akira made awesome sounds and music. Music 
 is biggest advantage of SH3.
  To sum up, playing SH3 isn't wasting time. Everyoe who likes horrors should try it. You won't be 
 disappointed, trust me :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grablinux4000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  To start off I have to make out two unfortunate things:
  1. I suck at puzzles so I can't actually complain about them being hard or not.
  2. Most of the 
 bosses were pathetically easy (except the split worm who I somehow managed to beat) .
  
  However setting these things asside I really liked the game, its cutscenes voice acting, and all 
 the other great production values that make games good. However just because it was great doesn't 
 mean it wasn't challenging. No matter what people say about the game its still hard to get past 
 the very confusing storyline that seems to be holding back key elements you never get to find out 
 about in the game. Like in the hospital on floor B1 who was in the elevator? I mean you could put 
 together some clues and pick a few individual characters in the game ( who you hardly see) and 
 perhaps pin point exactly whats going on. Though sadly you'll find yourself roaming for a long 
 time (literally unless you've played through the whole game before) puzzles ( for me atleast) can 
 take long periods of time. On hardest difficulty you'll almost always be running unless your brave 
 enough to challenge the riddiculously powerful monsters. I liked this game a lot and it creeped 
 me out plenty, but it was somewhat vague, but interesting overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soulreavercross
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Silent Hill 3 is different from the other two in the series because this one is more about survival 
 than the others in the series, much like Resident Evil, and if you are not careful you would quickly 
 run out of ammo and health. Most of this game I used melee weapons rather than guns because of 
 the scarcity of ammo.
  
  The games controls are severely flawed. It was designed with the game pad in mind. You can use 
 the keyboard however the controls are really awkward. When attacking enemies, you go into a caution 
 mode which only adds to the flawed controls.
  
  Graphically this game kicks ass. It is amazing on the PC and it seems as if it was made to impress 
 in graphics and presentation rather than game play. Everything is superb to look at, a lot of details 
 were added to the environments and the light effects were simply breathtaking and it all adds to 
 the overall horror effect. Heather, the main character, as well as all the other characters and 
 monsters were well done and very detailed. This game unlike the two before it has no cinematic 
 sequences, the story line is played out in properly rendered cut-scenes, but when a game looks 
 this good cinematic sequences arent really missed. All you could do is dream about how good one 
 would be if they had any.
  
  You dont really have to play Silent Hill 2 to fully understand the storyline in Silent Hill 3. 
 However you have to play the original Silent Hill released for the Playstation in 1999 to understand 
 the storyline because Silent Hill 3 is like a direct continuation of the original Silent Hill. 
 I will not disclose any information about the storyline because it would be spoilers for those 
 who havent played the game as yet; however you do re-visit some familiar places. 
  
  In terms of sound, the voice acting were done to the very best, some of the best I would say. The 
 game does not contain much in game music and as usual you have the infamous radio that gives off 
 a frightening static when a monster is near or approaching you. Monster groans and some atmospheric 
 sound effect add to the overall fear factor in the game. Those with weak hearts should not be playing 
 this game.
  
  The game overall was fun despite the horrible controls and the excellent graphics added to the 
 overall presentation of Silent Hill 3, but as usual survival horror games are short. The game does 
 have some unlockables like new weapons, infinite ammo and tones of alternate costumes. For those 
 who love this series and survival horrors on a whole this game is a must buy and for those who 
 are now getting into the genre this game is a good one to start with however I would not recommend 
 the PC version, the Playstation 2 version is better because it has better controls and the graphics 
 are almost as good as the PCs. However if you dont own a Playstation 2, the PC version of this 
 game is recommended.
  
  Strengths
  Superb Graphics and Presentation
  Great Audio
  Very Frightening Experience
  
  Weakness
  Severely Flawed Controls
  Awkward Combat
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:46 pm PT
Review:  The Silent Hill series has been pretty nasty from the outset - that old PS1 game (that now looks 
 so comparatively crunchy) still has some baaaad moments even in the first few minutes of gameplay.
 
  This time ,however, our protagonist is an unwilling participant who could hardly be less like 
 her two game- hero predecessors: Instead of being a male (and somewhat bland) and thirtysomething 
 entering the haunted town of Silent Hill of his own free will to address a real or perceived wrong, 
 our" hero" is instead s moody girl named Heather who (A) doesn't live anywhere near Silent Hill, (B) 
 only begins to suspet something is out of whack when a middle-aged stranger in a trenchcoat accosts 
 her in the corridor to a public restroom, and (C) only wants to hang out at the local shopping 
 mall, like any other good teenager."By-God." Yes, that's a recurring problem here....... particularly 
 when the mall in question goes suddenly and inexplicably straight to Hell, taking Heather - and 
 the player - with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jan_tate
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 1, 2005 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Just like a nightmare but 10 times beta it was soooo scary i think i pissed myself like once an 
 hour i play that game. All the darkness and all the surprises a horror gamers heaven. At the start 
 it was alright but you would know what is coming but then bam it just changes and then u just start 
 and you must know what is happening. This game is just like a good book you play the game and you 
 cant stop because u MUST know what has happened and of course the ending of the game. The action 
 is a bit slow and the puzzles are quite annoying the first time unless u are playing on easy. Overall, 
 great work konami and i cant wait to get my hands on Silent Hill 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 12, 2005 2:58 am PT
Review:  Silent hill has been up there with Resident evil in the best survival horror game. Heck, I think 
 Silent hill's better. The story is always pretty sick and the the enemies and evnrionments you 
 encounter is equally bizarre. Silent hill 3 is just the same as the previous entries. It's got 
 to be the scariest game I've ever played simply because of the great graphics and music. The atmosphere 
 is intense and keeps you on the edge of your seat from start to finish.
  
  The game starts off very strong. There's 2 worlds to this game. The world we know and then the 
 world that Heather, the main character has to travel through. Picture, if you will, that the real 
 world is this standard mall with stores and signs. The otherworld would have those signs and stores 
 written in blood with dead bodies dangling instead of items to purchase. Hellish monsters all around 
 with the floor and celeing enveloped in fire and flames. These kind of grisly sights is what makes 
 Silent hill 3 so great. The game is at a best when you in the otherworld and that's how the game 
 starts off, that's why it starts off so strong and stays that way because even in the "normal" 
 world (if there is one) , hellish monsters can still be found.
  
  The gameplay is pretty poor. Moving around is tough and frustrating at times. Luckily, you can 
 catch on pretty quick, but it can have a tough learning curve for some. Moving around with the 
 keys is way easier than the mouse, but you have to aim with the mouse, so there's some akwardness 
 to be had with this game. 
  
  Still, the atmosphere and creepiness outdoes this. You play as Heather, this troubled girl who 
 tries to find out basically who the hell she is. The game's story is very interesting but does 
 leave a few loose ends. Like most survival horror games, you have to think about it after you finish 
 it. But basically Heather finds lots of unusual characters and travels back to Silent hill, that 
 same foggy and town gone to hell. The whole premise works great but there's a lot of long times 
 when nothing happens. There is a big payoff at the end though, it really hits off with a bang.
 
  
  Now, I'm all for the scariness of games, I love to have that tense, "whats around the corner"? 
 kind of gameplay, but when a game leaves you like this without telling you what's going on for 
 almost hours at a time without one cutscene, you just have to ask yourself: "Why am I doing this"? 
 That will turn off quite a few people.
  
  The puzzles are also pretty simplistic. They are pretty well done, but could have been better. 
 Most of your time will be just wondering around solving puzzles and then solving bigger puzzles 
 that finially leads to the big payoff where you can exit the level. The bosses are all pretty sick 
 and cool looking. A giant worm, a dual wielding axe "thing", and even a replica of yourself can 
 all be found here.
  
  The game ties in pretty well with the first Silent hill, Silent hill 2 for some reason, had nothing 
 to do with the first one, but this one has everything to do with the first one, just not the 2nd 
 one. 
  
  The length of the game isn't insanely long, depending on how well you are with puzzles and survival 
 horror games in general, but the replay value isn't that great. The extra costumes just doesn't 
 cut it, but this thing called "extra game", basically you get extra stuff like a chainsaw and such 
 your second time around. 
  
  The game itself has lots of different weapons. Items and health packs/drinks can't be found as 
 easily as in Silent hill 2, so don't think you can just go around like a god. The monsters are 
 also equally aggressive, unlike Silent hill 2. The game is really tough because of this, but you 
 can save whenever you want, so the difficulty isn't to bad. But yeah, the camera and controls can 
 get in the way and make it more difficult. 
  
  The game is for people who really enjoy to get the crap scared out of them. Those faint of heart 
 shouldn't bother with this game. It's got tons of sadistic violence and I guess that's why I enjoyed 
 it so much. Not that I'm a sadist (because I'm far from violence in real life) but because a game 
 could do this to me and make me feel for the character and what happened so much that I can get 
 scared from it and remember it. The game is pretty memorable and many people will come back to 
 this just to get spooked.
  
  The graphics are outstanding. This is the perfect game for graphics of this degree and when you 
 cross into the otherworld and everything turns upside down, that is when you'll appreciate the 
 graphics and the game. Character models are great and they animate well too. Some small graphical 
 glitches can be found but nothing to big. Seriously though, this is an amazing looking game.
  
  The music is spot on. It always kicks in at the right time and stays there. The voice acting 
 is actually pretty poor. Heather sounds like a 12 year old desite being 17 and some of the other 
 character like Douglas the detective sounds so gruff and boring to listen too. Still the music 
 kicks in and you'll forget all about it. 
  
  Have I said how creepy Silent hill 3 is? No the great thing about this game is that it's creepy 
 at all angles. The puzzles even revolve around this sickness. For instance, one puzzle requires 
 you to solve this puzzle where a guy wants to eat a women's face off and you have to figure it 
 out. The whole puzzle is a number combination for a locked door. This is my favorite puzzle and 
 I really thought was worth saying. Things like this flood the game start to finish.
  
  Silent hill 3 comes recommended overall. The story does leave a few loose ends, but you gotta love 
 the atmosphere. The gameplay could use some work along with the camera angles but the graphics 
 and music really work and in the end I'm satisfied to have played the scariest video game ever 
 made in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasonHarry22
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 21, 2005 9:41 am PT
Review:  
  Silent HIll 3 is faaar better if you have played and luv the original since it ties directly into 
 part 1 as a stand alone game its still good but if you include it with part 1 (wich even the SH 
 team said that part 3 was both an extension and conclusion too) it excels over even the casual 
 gamer favored Part 2.
  
  I have to add that the music in part 3 is most likely the best in the series and fits the story 
 of Heather perfectly.
  
  If SH3 has any negatives it is the lack of overall characters in the game much fewer than those 
 in previous installments other than that its a perfect addition to the series and completes the 
 story from part 1 in a very dignified way. 
  
  A MUST PLAY FOR ANY FAN OF THE SILENT HILL GAMES and anyone that luved the original on PSX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: concealedview
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 17, 2005 12:22 am PT
Review:  Of course there are a couple of things wrong with this game, but then again the only resident evil 
 i've ever actually beaten was the gamecube remake =/ ..... anyways.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay in this game is similar to that of 'Resident Evil' games. You survive in 
 a scary place with a limited amount of amunition, and if you're skilled you'll spend alot of time 
 running away in the game. If you like that (like i do) this game is a lovely game to drive you 
 crazy. When the game starts out the gameplay seems a lot like a 'Resident Evil' game, but as you 
 progress you begin to see that this game has its own style of exploration. Some people might complain 
 that there were too many broken doors. At first I was a little confused by the whole broken door 
 situation, and then I realized it was a design choice. The game has a light/dark world almost like 
 in 'Zelda: A Link To The Past.' And instead of confusing you and changing the whole structure of 
 the buildings you're in, some of the doors will be locked, and some will be unlocked. I didn't 
 find this to be a problem because whenever you tried to open one of these doors it wouldn't say 
 it was locked, it would say it was broken and it would be marked that way on the map forever. Also 
 trying to open one of the broken doors requires no loading time and is very quick. I'll admit there 
 are alot of broken doors, but I can't complain because of the awesome map. 
  The game is pretty light on combat in the sense that you have to run away almost all the time to 
 conserve your bullets. There are melee weapons unlike in most 'Resident Evil' games so you can 
 duke it out if you have to while still trying to conserve bullets. Also I'm glad that the melee 
 weapons aren't useless in this game, you WILL use them. 
  
  All in all I played this game to have fun being scared and nervous. Which is exactly what it did. 
 By the time I finished playing I literally felt like I need to see a therapist. I have to give 
 HUGE props to konami for that one.
  
  Graphics- The graphics in this game are what caused me to be scared 85% of the time. They're just 
 damn right crazy. The lighting effects are just luscious. And the monsters really do just want 
 to make you run away and not fight. And watching them die is even more fun.
  
  Sound- The sound in this game is amazing because it's meant to drive you insane. It is almost annoying 
 and I think that helps get you jittery and nervous. Playing this game loud is a must.
  
  Value- I can see myself playing this game every year or two. It's very memorable..
  
  This 
 is a great survival-horror game, if you're a fan of the genre, you have to at least give this game 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hektor8
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Creo que Silent Hill se posiciona en un gran lugar en el Genero de Horror al tal grado que puede 
 compararse con su Saga Homologa y rivar del genero Horror, Resident Evil.
  
  A diferencia de Resident Evil Silent Hill muestra una alta variedad de "Puzzles" y acertijos muy 
 dificiles. 
  
  En este caso Silent Hill 3 se consagra como una de las mas dificil pero, mejor entrega de la saga, 
 donde la historia es envolvente, junto con una revolucin total en Graficos y apartados tecnicos. 
 
  
  En Silent Hill 3 podemos ver una mayor variedad de enemigos a diferencia de sus dos precuelas, 
 ademas de que el arcenal de items es mayor. Otro factor que se incluye es que las municiones llegan 
 a ser algo escasas ("estan contadas") cosa que te llevar a recurrir a las arnas blancas (espada, 
 cuchillos, Barrotes ect.) .
  
  Por ultimo otro punto que hace de Silent Hill 3 mas dificil es la gran cantidad de acertijos y 
 claves para resorver, cosa que vulve loco hasta a los mismo programadores de la misma. XDD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpiel91
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 29, 2005 1:00 am PT
Review:  This game has the best playability of the whole series better cameras, number and variety of monsters, 
 etc...
  
  The graphics are quite terrific, but the movements of the characters aren't very good, not natural 
 at all, specially the movements of the mouth, but is ok, still a good game.
  
  The History of this game isn't so cool as the history of SH4 or SH1 but is the perfect ending for 
 the SH1/SH3 saga (something is weird about that cause the SH1 hasn't got anything related to Silent 
 Hill 2) I love that of the jumpy headed mosters, it gives some macaver tone to the game, the unique 
 thing about the monsters that i don't loke too much is that they're too un-human, the monsters 
 of SH4 for example are like diformed and cracked humans (that scare me more tha a half headed dog 
 or a thing that looks like a finger goin to shop) . Textures, always a problem for Silent Hill, 
 they are too compressed and too tiny that makes the things loog ugly like the telephone cabinet 
 of the begining of the game (SH3) .
  
  The effect of noise is what gives to the game terror effect, cause if you dont use it, it'll not 
 look to terrorific and scarying.
  
  What can i say, is the first step before a masterpiece (I hope Silent Hill 5 Would be the masterpiece) , 
 but still if it isnt - it is not that you should play it... YOU MUST PLAY IT, IT IS AN OBLIGATION 
 FOR ALL SH FUN OR EVEN WHO'S SEARCHING FOR A AMAZING PSYCHOPATH SICK AND MACAVER GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: servadac42
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 25, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Survival horror is interesting since it is considered a genre of games, but there are very few 
 ones that actually fit in it, and even fewer game series. Never the less, Silent Hill and its third 
 part is in there. It's a cool casual game, but it never feels like anything to call home to your 
 parents about. Game play-wise it's basically running away from monsters, since you for the most 
 time have too little ammunition to deal with them in a more, pardon the expression; USA-oriented 
 way. Also you solve puzzles and so on. Graphics are not exciting by today's standards but fairly 
 nice-looking. The music is great and raises my score for the sound a lot.
  
  Like other Silent Hill-games the story is very strange and hopeless to understand. Add to this 
 so-so voice-acting and silly, engrish-smelling, often unintentionally funny, dialogue. Not one 
 second did I find this game scary. Konami fails miserably there. The monsters are funny-looking 
 and strange when they're not ripped off from zombie-movies (Return of the Living Dead; the split 
 dogs) . The game only manages to be vaguely creepy and has a sort of sad blues-like atmosphere. 
 The main character Heather is a cardboard cut-out of a person, as deep as a teaspoon. She rivals 
 Gordon Freeman when it comes to bland main characters. The idea of playing as a 17-year old innocent 
 teenage girl with all her frailness and vulnerability is great, but unfortunately she lacks the 
 charisma and interesting characteristics of say Resident Evil-characters like Jill Valentine and 
 Leon S. Kennedy. The only upside i can find of having Heather so unmotivated is that you can read 
 a lot into her, but that's all.
  
  What actually makes the game good and what makes you want to come back for more is extremely hard 
 to explain. You more or less have to experience it for yourself in order to find out. There is 
 a sense of casual coolness that permeates the experience and just walking around exploring day-to-day 
 vistas is in a weird way just plain fun provided you are a fan of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8wnec
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2004 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill 3 doesnt leave off where any of the others ended. It more likes starts a new senario. 
 The PC gets great graphics, great sounds, and decent gameplay. Although the controls are close 
 to unbearable.
  
  You immediately start off in an amusment park that looks like it is at the gates of hell. Shredded 
 clown suits, blood smeared on the walls, and erie sounds remind you that this is not Six Flags. 
 
  
  The weapons and ammunition aren't as unattainable as some were in the 1st and 2nd one. Before long 
 you can wield a shotgun, UZI, lead pipe, pistol to name a few. 
  
  The PC platform brings a lot to the graphics and sound department the consoles are not capable 
 of handling. The game can be maxed out at 1920 x 1440 resolution with crisp textures. You can adjust 
 dynamic lighting and shadows to your likiing, to go along with very high quality character models. The 
 controls are what I can't stand. Buying a controller is a must; especially a PS2 imitation one 
 for the PC. 
  
  So all in all, it is a great horror film that can still scare the crap outta you when it wants 
 too. I'd say it is definitely worth it if you do not own any consoles and wish to play Silent Hill 
 3 before you play SIlent Hill 4.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zahpod42
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 19, 2004 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. Of course, I love to have the sh** scared out of me too. I would say that you 
 will enjoy this game a lot more if you get yourself a copy of the original Silent Hill for the 
 Play Station One and play it before you play this game, or if you aren't willing to do that, then 
 at least read a plot synopsis of the first game online, as this game is a direct continuation of 
 that game. Silent Hill 2 is also a game that I greatly enjoyed, but it is not directly inside the 
 continuity of the first and third game, it basically only takes place in the same town. The musical 
 score and sound effects were perfect for this game. I only wish that the sound for this game had 
 been done in 5.1 instead of stereo (Silent Hill 2 for the Xbox was in 5.1) , but other than that 
 I can say nothing bad about the sound. This game isn't as scary if you play it with other people 
 around, but I challenge you to play this game at night, alone, with the lights off (let me know 
 how that works out for ya, heh!) . One final note, when it comes to consumable items in the game 
 like health packs, health drinks, and the like: Conserve, conserve, conserve... You will definitely 
 need all the healing items you can get your blood-stained hands on in order to beat the final boss. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a1454
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2003 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill 3 is turly a great game. Overall every aspect of the game is very well done. Especially 
 the atmosphere, it's better than Silent Hill 2 thanks to the better graphic and effects (ex. bleeding 
 wall) . 
  
  The graphic is amazing, and so the lighting effects. All the in-game cut sence are done by real-time 
 acting, and it still look very real. Control is just like the standard set by Resident Evil series, 
 if you have a gamepad and adjust the setting right. Sound is overall good, the mood music comes 
 up at the right time and therefore create a creppy/sorrow/etc atmosphere as the plot required.
 
  
  The gameplay involves many actions compared to the previous game, also added a lot of fun due to 
 the newly designed weapon hitting system (close weapon usually have more than three attacks.) .
 
  
  I strongly felt that the reviewer should set his/her control like PS2 and play with a gamepad. 
 From what I am seeing, I don't think he even know there is a key that will rotate camera instanly 
 to the character's back.
  
  I recommand this game to anyone looking for some good scares, and also the interesting plot line 
 and extra feature. This is a must-buy for the fan of the Silent Hill series. And lastly, don't 
 forget to buy a gamepad with the game, it plays a lot better with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineComedy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2003 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunatelly, another review of a game in Gamespot which simply let's you wonder whether the 
 reviewer understands the game he is playing, or understands the horror genre. I don't think SH3's 
 camera or controls got anybody 'vomit' as Mr. Osborne writes. While they are not perfect, they 
 are big inprovement over other 3rd person games. THe only REAL annoyance I found with the controls 
 is the slow turning of the heroine when a monster is attacking from behind. 
  
  The graphics are very good, the sound is nice and creepy but the voice acting is only average. 
 The story is great although it unfolds very slowly in the beginning, and in MY opinion, SH2's story 
 was a little better (it had one of the best stories ever in a game, actually) .
  
  All in all, I enjoyed SH3 VERY much and wholehartedly recommend it to adventure game and horror 
 game lovers. I can't wait for Silent Hill 4. Pitty to see how a great game gets an average review, 
 not score-wise but average comparing to the standards GS set. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spiffae
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 10, 2003 11:18 am PT
Review:  Way to not understand the game you're reviewing, Scott Osborne. Pre-rendered cutscenes cutting 
 back and forth to gameplay? Nope, they are all realtime. Clunky camera and controls? These are 
 a BIG improvement over the controls in the Silent Hill 2 port of a few months ago. Can't see the 
 monsters? Hit the key that lets you "look around rapidly, in a small arc" that's not all it does. 
 It also orients the camera the way the character is looking.
  
  I have some advice for you. Next time you don't understand an interface, don't write some negative 
 review just because you can't grip the concepts that thousands of PS2 gamers have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sys14
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 6, 2003 11:33 am PT
Review:  Great game!!! yes, this game doesn't have a great gameplay, but the graphics and sound are really 
 excellent! they built the incredible enviornment makes the game No.1 of this year for me, even 
 better than Call of Duty (oh yeah, they are not the same type, but i really love this more than 
 COD) . The whole game grab my heart every second, totally freak me out, that's why i love it. Well, 
 i can't continuously play it longer than 4 hours :S i can't stand on being so afraid :S haha. And, 
 even i know it's unfair to compare, but i still think this one is much much better than Resident 
 Evil (Biohazard) 3.
  
  And, if you wanna buy this game, i recommend you the PC version rather than PS2. cos the graphics 
 on PC is 10 times better!!! on my pc screen, I can't tell if it's a game or a movie!
  
  I can't wait to see Silent Hill 4!~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2003 10:15 am PT
Review:  Silent Hill 3 is simply a fascinating adventure that many people who love the genre will appreciate.
 
  
  I really love this game! I just became absorbed by it, something always drawing me to it. The Graphics 
 are stellar. If you have a good set up with some power, throw SH3 into high res and you will see 
 one beautiful looking/playing game. I have a P4 3 gig CPU and a Radeon 9700 pro, and this game 
 looks amazing!!
  
  The sound track is wonderful too. I play it with surround sound and it scares the heck out of me. 
 The ambient sounds and creepy effects immerse you into the game. If you have a good stereo set 
 up, by all means put up the volume to get the full effect!! :) 
  
  The game play is great too. The puzzles are extremely hard and so are the monsters. This game makes 
 you pick your fights, you run out of ammo pretty quickly, but thats what makes it fun and scary 
 at the same time. I love the Silent Hill series, this game does the name justice and then some.
 
  
  If you love action/adventure games, pick this up today, you wont be sorry!!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
