-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Silent Hunter: Wolves of the Pacific
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/silenthunter4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Highly scalable gameplay that lets you be a submariner in the Pacific.
 single-player career mode offers tons of challenging and changing gameplay.
 multiplayer support lets you team up with others or play as the escort.
 excellent production values make it seem as if you're really at sea.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Stability issues and other bugs, though an initial patch has addressed some of these issues.
 artificial intelligence is a bit uneven.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.8, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 971 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Romania
Genre: Submarine Sim
Date:     Mar 20, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Silent Hunter 4 is an excellent simulation of World War II submarine warfare in the Pacific. 
 

  Famed designer Sid Meier established and defined the submarine simulation 22 years ago with the 
 classic Silent Service. Although the genre has seen better days, it continues to plug along thanks 
 to Ubisoft's solid Silent Hunter series. 2005's Silent Hunter III was the last release in the series 
 and let you captain a German U-boat in the Atlantic during World War II. Now with Silent Hunter 
 4: Wolves of the Pacific, you play as an American submarine skipper battling against Japan. In 
 many ways, Silent Hunter 4 doesn't veer too far from the formula found in Silent Service and is 
 a faithful successor to that seminal game.  

          According to submariners, there are only two types of vessels: submarines and targets. 
     

  Though it doesn't get as much coverage or attention in the popular media as the German U-boat campaign 
 in World War II, the US submarine campaign against Japan was extensive and devastating. Japan, 
 being an island nation, imported much of its food, fuel, and resources from abroad, and US submarines 
 were tasked with cutting that lifeline off. What followed was unrestricted submarine warfare as 
 the US sank more than 5 million tons of Japanese shipping, though at a loss of almost 50 submarines 
 and their crews.  

  In Silent Hunter 4, you can experience the war in the Pacific a number of ways. There are stand-alone 
 missions that put you in the middle of battles if you just want to dive into the action. Then there 
 are war patrols that let you cruise around looking for trouble. The lengthiest of all the gameplay 
 modes is the career mode, which lets you begin in any year of the war and go out on numerous war 
 patrols. A career can easily occupy days, if not weeks, of evening play time.  

  Like Silent Hunter III, Wolves of the Pacific puts you in a 3D submarine, surrounded by virtual 
 crewmembers that follow your commands. There are numerous stations that you can go to, such as 
 the conning tower when the submarine is running on the surface, the periscope, the navigation chart, 
 the antiaircraft gun, the deck gun, and more. The amount of control that you're given over your 
 boat (submariner slang for vessels) is impressive and in line with the features found in Silent 
 Hunter III. Each sailor on your submarine is tracked and accounted for, so you can assign your 
 sailors to different compartments and watches. This way, you can optimize the performance of your 
 crew, though it can add a cumbersome amount of micromanagement for common tasks. For example, when 
 under attack, you can assign crewmen from a nonvital compartment to a damage control party and 
 then reassign them once that's done.  

          You can go wherever you want while on patrol, though the best hunting can be found in shipping 
 lanes.     

  However, most of your attention will be taken up with the task of navigating your sub around the 
 Pacific and taking part in battle. You can chart a course on the Pacific and then compress time 
 so that you don't have to spend hours or days getting from one point to another. When your ship 
 encounters unknown or hostile contacts, time automatically reverts to normal, so you can investigate 
 or take action. It's a fairly elegant system, one that hearkens back to the patrol system in Silent 
 Service and lets you conduct a months-long patrol in a fraction of the time. But this isn't a fully 
 dynamic campaign because the game doesn't model a full-scale war all the time. Instead, it has 
 the illusion of a dynamic campaign as it places enemy vessels in logical places, such as shipping 
 lanes or coming in and out of major ports. But it's not perfect, and there are quirks. For example, 
 enemy convoys may appear in places you'd least expect them, such as steaming out of Manila Bay, 
 even though at that point in the campaign, Manila is still in American hands.  

  All of this is in support of the actual combat part of the simulation, which is very scalable. 
 There's also something here for both diehard and casual fans. For instance, at the most realistic 
 simulation level, targeting a torpedo attack is a meticulous process where you must gather and 
 input various data into the torpedo data computer (a mechanical device, no fancy electronics here) 
 and then cross your fingers. If that takes too much effort, then at the easiest simulation levels, 
 targeting a torpedo is as simple as locking on to the target in the periscope. However, don't expect 
 Silent Hunter 4 to be a fast-paced action game. This is a game where you still have to worry about 
 maneuvering into a good position to attack, evading detection from escorts, and figuring out how 
 to escape and survive after you've announced your presence by sinking a vessel. After all, this 
 is a simulation; a fair amount of patience and thought are required to reap the fruits of your 
 labor. The artificial intelligence is uneven because sometimes enemy vessels don't zigzag when 
 under attack to throw off your firing solution or escorts don't react to your presence. At other 
 times, the AI seems to have an eerie ability to locate you even if you're running silent.  

  You can only play as an American submarine captain in the game, choosing from a wide variety 
 of historical submarine types throughout the campaign. That's not really much of a loss because 
 the Japanese submarine force played a fairly minimal role during the war. The multiplayer modes 
 in Silent Hunter 4 reinforce this because you can play cooperatively with up to three others on 
 the Internet or seven others on a LAN, working together to sink enemy ships. Then there's the adversarial 
 mode, which has one player control the Japanese surface vessels while the other players control 
 submarines.  

  Unfortunately, Silent Hunter 4 slipped out of development with more than a few bugs, and there 
 are some significant stability issues that cause the game to crash regularly. There's nothing more 
 frustrating than to spend 30 minutes getting into position to sink a high-value target only to 
 have the game crash on you. Ubisoft has already issued a rather hefty patch that addresses a number 
 of bugs and crash issues, though it's disappointing that the game isn't more stable out of the 
 box.  

          The graphics look great, and there's nothing like watching a Yamato-class battleship burn 
 courtesy of your torpedoes.     

  Silent Hunter 4 looks better than its predecessor thanks mainly to the addition of numerous postprocessing 
 and lighting effects that add grit to the visuals. The best way to describe it is that there's 
 an "oil painting" look to the game now, one that really helps immerse you in the setting. There's 
 nothing quite like watching a sunset in the Pacific. Everything else looks as good as in Silent 
 Hunter III. In particular, it's captivating to watch the way ocean swells wash over your periscope, 
 blurring everything temporarily. The sound effects are also very good, though they'd have to be 
 because submarines rely on sound so much. In the game, you can hear the creaking of your sub's 
 hull under pressure, the thrum of propellers in the distance, the hushed whisperings of your crew 
 relaying your orders, and more. Meanwhile, a bombastic score helps add drama and tension to the 
 many slow moments in the game, though if it's a bit too much, you can shut it off.  

  Considering that Silent Hunter 4 is a fairly direct sequel to Silent Hunter III, it does an excellent 
 job of building on its predecessor while offering something different. This is a submarine game 
 that both casual and serious fans can enjoy. It also offers plenty of gameplay as you cruise around 
 a virtual Pacific that's brimming with enemy traffic and beautiful vistas.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (58 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ghiby
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 3:26 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a well designed strategy naval submarine battle, this is maybe the best game 
 out there in this category. After you pass the learning curve - it will take you a while to figure 
 out all the controls and the navigation tricks - you will love it for sure.
  You'll spend hours chasing and hunting down warships and commercial ships, avoiding attacks from 
 destroyers but same time sending powerful torpedoes to your targets according with your missions 
 orders.
  It is not a "clicking fest" it is more mastering full control of your submarine and crew and how 
 to silent but deadly destroy your enemy.
  It is very entertaining and rewarding, money and time well spend...
  Because of this game Ubisoft 
 is now on top of my favorite list...
  If you still wondering if you should buy it, if is worth the money, or your time, don't waist time 
 no more... find this game, install it, learn the controls and I am sure you will not be sorry... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deaconmon
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 8, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I was unable to get past my only problem with the game. The manual is lacking, there is no in-game 
 help, there is no training mission (even though the game says there is, you still have to do everything 
 with no guidance to even complete the training mission) . There is no tutorial, and the controls 
 are not intuitive, in even the slightest way. Perhaps this would be an immersive game if you had 
 played the earlier versions and knew how to work the game. But, after about 75 minutes of stabbing 
 at the screens and reading what I could from the "manual" and training mission, I still really 
 have little better idea how to play the game than I had when I started. The learning curve is ungodly 
 steep - to the point where it is prohibitive for a new user to learn. 
  
  Even to the point where plotting courses - after 75 minutes, I still don't know what the compass 
 dial "heading" thing is, since it doesn't seem to have anything to do with where I am heading - 
 I click on the right side of the wheel, about 15 degrees down the right side, and suddenly find 
 myself turning sharply to the left. I found myself unable to keep a constant and predictable heading. 
 The first training mission is, I believe, a navigation training mission, but it gives you no information 
 about where you are in relationship to your "target", where you are going, how to get there, how 
 to steer - it is all just "trial and error". I expected so much more than an exercise in sheer 
 frustration.
  
  So, I bought the game, based on user and GS reviews, and now uninstall it and put it on my shelf 
 - it would be nice if you all considered something like _playability_ in your reviews... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthKing93
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hunter IV: Wolves of the Pacific is the best American submarine game I have ever played! 
 It has awesome graphics, and along with it I can put completely awesome mods in this game since 
 it is so popular, there is alot of work into it as Silent Hunter III. Although, I was expecting 
 to have the commands/controls like it is in Silent Hunter III. But no, so it is a bit harder! Other 
 then that is is super realistic, good graphics, no storyline but a long time of playing the game! 
 Highly addictive, it is fun to play with friends online but even more fun playing single-player 
 mode no matter what. The SUBSIM community put alot of work into this gam, they are a MOD community 
 and forum.. there are awesome mods out for this game! There should be a bit more realism options 
 available in the screen, but I am sure a MOD will come up sometime for that. A bit more complicated 
 than SH3, if you are a sub fan like me, you will buy and enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fighterpiliot
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  I had high expectations when I first got this game and they were all met or exceded. The variety 
 of submarines will not let even the biggest WW2 sub fan down. It has all the classics like Gato 
 and Gar but also includes Porpose and Salmon classes. I don't realy have the patience for a mission 
 so I start a campaign (which can take weeks) and insted of doing the assigned mission I run around 
 Pearl Harbor distroying battleships and aircraft carriers. Trust me it is a lot quicker than a 
 "quick mission" and your ships won't fire at you so you can blow them up without getting a scratch.
 
  The graphics are so good I didn't believe it at first. The damage mideling is so good that when 
 the side of the sub is bluwn off you can see the compartment inside! The game allows you to man 
 each station on the sub from sonar to the conning tower to to torpedo control. At port on a campaign 
 you can even outfit your sub the way you want it. ( I outfitted it with the biggest deck gun avaiable 
 in addition to torpedoes.) You can even assign your crew to different stations and awrd them promotions. 
 Note: I don't think you can make a member of your crew captain and just sit back while the ships 
 go down. All in all it is a great game for the aspiring sub captain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesehead456
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I picked this games up on a wim thinking to myself I hope this is good. Since it is the middle 
 of summer and hardly any new games come out for the PC this time of year and it is a little over 
 a month till Spore comes out, I really needed something new to play. I got home, installed it, 
 then downloaded the 1.4 patch and installed it, then loaded up the game, watched the intro movie, 
 then nothing but a large black screen with music. I went online to find a solution and within 5 
 min. found one. All I had to go was go to my nVidia control screen and change the slider from quality 
 to performance. Once I did that The came came up just fine. I put the video setting on high and 
 watched the magicunfold before me.... The game really doesn't have a tutoral to speek of. There 
 is a sub school but with no instrucions to help guide you. You just have to figure things out on 
 your own but it is a good place to practice. 
  
  Missions in the campaign take forever!!!! Even when time is set to + 8165 normal time it takes 
 a while to go from Hawaii to Japan. But despite all of this, it is worth watching you torpedo swim 
 through the water at strike its target. I am so addicted to this game andI can't figure out why?? 
 It is a good game overall and a great pickup if you have nothing else to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  The game is the best of the genre and with patch 1.4 a lot have been fixed and improved 
  
  PROS
  - Good Graphics with nice explosions and realistic destructions
  - You can choose how 
 realistic you want the game to be
  - Detailed gameplay as a good simulator must be
  - Some great sounds 
  - Great Music that match excellent with a game like this -------------------------------------------
 
  -------------------------------------------
  CONS
  - Some insignificant little bugs (most serious have been fixed with 1.4)
  - Gameplay and GUI 
 can be hard to learn at first
  
  Well after playing for hours the game is addicting
  Its a little difficult to learn at first but when you get use to it you do not want to stop
  
 
  Best WW2 submarine simulator out there
  If you are fan of these kind of games do not miss it
  
  Score 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuclear_Scion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hunter is one of those games that everyone wont get into. If you dont like Submarine Sims, 
 Naval games, or just in general, time consuming games, then you probably wont like Silent Hunter 
 IV. 
  
  The game sets you as an American submarine commander in WWII fighting the Japanese for control 
 of the pacific. Just like the games before it, you can join the fight at any point during the way, 
 and are assigned patrols to go out and sink enemy ships. Sounds the same as its previous games, 
 but it differs in the fact that this is an American Naval force, and you're spending most of your 
 time sinking ships rather than hunting for them. One of the problems with Silent Hunter III was 
 that you could go out on a patrol almost across the atlantic and never see a single ship. You wont 
 have this problem in SH4 and more than likely, you will run out of torpedoes before you even reach 
 your destination.
  
  The game also delivers high quality graphics that imerse the player in the game environment. Where 
 some games can get away without this, it really adds to the magic of this game, and without it, 
 it would be missing a huge part of the franchise. Silent Hunter has always used cutting edge graphics, 
 and they spared no expense. While this can bog down the slower machines, take heart that even at 
 the lowest settings, the game still runs smoothly and beautiful.
  
  Silent Hunter is a great game franchise, and this latest addition spared no expense in pushing 
 its way to the forefront of that lineup, arguably being the strongest yet seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roach2112
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  I love alot of the visual effects! The attention to detail is wonderful and the difficutly playing 
 realistically gives you a great feeling about how difficult it was to command a submarine. There 
 are some bug issues that I find are annoying. The sound system tends to mess up a bit and the game 
 mysteriously crashes occasionally. But get through that and you have a great game! An immersive 
 experience, I especially love watching the enemy ships go down, hehehehe....
  
  Anyway, I found the AI to be a little stupid and the use of thermal layers way too easy. However, 
 there's a certain satisfaction to putting a couple of torps in an aircraft carrier or a battleship. 
 If you want fast paced action, dont bother with this game. This game takes ALOT of patience. Now 
 back to my games becasue I pretty well suck at writing reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenakakhan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  The Silent Hunter series has long been one that commands a faithful, nay, almost fanatical following 
 amongst this most niched of gaming genres. Largely understandable, then, that Silent Hunter 4 was 
 one of the most anticipated releases among the community; promising historically accurate campaigns, 
 WW2 battles and everything else relevant to a submarine simulation that an aspiring sailor could 
 hope for.
  
  At release, SH4 was all these, but plagued by more bugs than "Starship Troopers". Crash to Desktop 
 (CTD's) issues were common, largely random, and conspired to make a game with so much promise almost 
 unplayable. Ubisoft, to their credit, released several patches (the latest being 1.4) to address 
 these issues; though not all have been fixed, the stock version of the game is now far more stable, 
 and good job too as what a game it is.
  
  The game is essentially split into two modes; Career and Quick MIssion. To date, multiplayer is 
 still plagued by bugs. Choose career to take on the entire WW2 campaign in the Pacific as a newly 
 promoted submarine captain, or participate in realistically simulated WW2 missions for that quick 
 rush. Multiple options for realism are available, allowing you to tailor your experience between 
 realism and a more gameplay oriented setting; you can even select a manual system for torpedo aiming, 
 requiring manual entry of variables such as target speed and angle on bow.
  
  Yes indeed, this is a realism fest, a fact compounded by some glorious graphics, ship models and 
 special effects. Sound is immersive (although you may want to turn off the music) and controls, 
 though difficult to pick up very quickly, are intuitive and functional. 
  
  One major complaint is the lack of instruction in what was intended to be an instruction manual. 
 Players are almost forced into seeking out the game forums for pointers in the right direction, 
 as essential information like how to operate the hydrophones and RADAR is ommited. However help 
 is available easily, and this shouldn't be a deterrent for people looking for an immersive experience.
 
  
  The SH4 community is one bent on improving the game, and such supermods as Trigger Maru, Reflections 
 on the Water and many many more have combined to push the game into epic status. The scope for 
 these modifications is huge, as you can literally tailor the game to your own specific desires. 
 Want more natural sinking mechanics? No problem. Deadlier aircraft? You got it. A complete campaign 
 and ship overhaul? Easy. Massive AI revamp? Right here.
  
  Quite simply, with the original potential of the stock game, realised fully by the mods available, 
 there is no excuse for not buying this game. It will drag you in, keep you in your seat, and have 
 you applying to join the Navy in short order. You will require some patience; this is not a duck 
 shoot, and you must work for your kills. But the sheer satisfaction when you do, combined with 
 the intense atmosphere and realism in this package, makes this a title worthy of anybody's attention.
 
  
  TK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strider1979
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  Graphics have been enhanced significantly over those of the prequel, Character models are greatly 
 improved water is now transparent and smoke and flames extend further the terrain and terrain features 
 such as trees have been greatly improved. Harbors feature eye-candy such as animated cranes and 
 awsome landscape. 
  
  I think this game is ace and gets a 9/10 for game play as well as eye candy,
  Minor point of 
 criticism at the point of release is its relative historical inaccuracy in some areas Lancaster 
 bombers, for instance, are used by American forces. The United States never purchased or leased 
 Lancasters, let alone used them in combat. This is minor and if your just into game play and not 
 into a history lesson then this game is for you.
  
  I enjoyed it and will continue to have many a late night/morning destroying battle ships....
 
  
  Ace. com
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cei13
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Having played submarine simulations since the first Silent Hunter, this is definitely the best 
 of the bunch. I have only one complaint, so I'll get that out of the way now. Even with time compression, 
 it takes too long to get from one place to another. I've spent hours just watching the clock turn 
 waiting to get to a waypoint with nothing going on. If it wasn't for that, this game would be 10. 
 The graphics are absolutely top-notch and the sound is incredibly realistic. The way ships will 
 eventually sink if damaged enough is a very cool touch and I think it's better here than in SH3. 
 When you are actually engaging the enemy, this game gets tense very fast. Trying to get a good 
 firing angle without getting spotted by the destroyers, getting off your torpedoes, then trying 
 to escape makes for some very tense (and satisfying!) gaming. The controls are complicated, but 
 with practice they become second nature. That was kind of unavoidable in a sim this detailed, but 
 the execution is excellent. I highly recommend this game if you have any interest in submarine 
 sims at all. However, to see this game in all it's glory, you better have a pretty good system, 
 at least a dual core. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r-azar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I've been playing this one off and on since it's release. Why finally write a review now? 
 I dunno, I'm bored today..... so why not.
  
  I must say I've always liked the SH series. I'm not huge fan of ALL subsims but more so a fan of 
 the period and just about any sim related to WWII. When I first loaded this game (before the first 
 patch) my initial reaction was I bought a broken/unfinished game, albeit a pretty one. So quite 
 honestly I shelved it until the first patch came out. That did make it playable for me but not 
 for very long. Unless your a serious Hardcore Submarine Sim'er then this game Will get old. I can't 
 say that it'll get old fast since you'll spend a lot of time sailing and dodging aircraft but after 
 a mission or two my bet is the average joe will toss this one into the trash can. Ok, so why the 
 7.5 you may ask? I'll I've done is seemingly bash the game so far. Well, to it's credit the developers 
 pulled off what they intended. A beautiful WWII subsim from the American point of view. They took 
 Silent Hunter 3, updated the graphics engine, changed the theatre of war to the pacific and tweaked 
 some of the inner workings such as crew management and so forth. The game plays the pac theatre 
 as expected and leaves little to surprise. While I played this sim *cough* I wasn't really drawn 
 in. Given the games context, to me it would be really hard for any dev team to draw in any player 
 and give them a sense of urgency when playing. Afterall, the allies won the war and IMHO the romanticism 
 of WWII does not speak american submarine warfare to me. To me I'd rather be playing SH3 with all 
 it's community contributed updates (and I do) . The graphics are gorgeous, if it's in the bargain 
 bins now, then it's worth a look-see for those interested in genre, otherwise your better off sticking 
 with your own personal favorite at the moment what ever that may be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gijas
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  First of all I just want to say I have owned this game since its initial release (before the patches 
 1.1 - 1.4) so lets get that strait. You might think why has it took me so long to review this then? 
 Well simply I didn't know what to say that could contribute to anyone in general but now I have 
 some ideas that might be of help to a potential buyer of this game. This review is very short but 
 to the point so if you hate reading a book your in luck.
  
  Graphics: At first everyone hated the fact you could not change the antileasing in this game. Personally 
 I could care less. Graphics don't make the gameplay and those that think they do missing the whole 
 point. From what I've seen they are awesome especially sunsets, sunrises just like in SH 3 but 
 better. Waves and ocean effects could not be any better bu you have heard all this before so I 
 will move on.
  
  Gamplay: Before the patches very buggy and things did not work but the core gp elements mostly 
 did work so that did not bother me. Combat is good but here is weree I found the game under par. 
 See bottom for why:
  
  Sound: All great sounding. 
  
  Replay: Endless with all the missions and campaigns as well as multiplayer.
  
  Overall: Here's 
 where I think SH 4 falls short. There does not seem to be the trill of the chase like in SH 3. 
 German acents are replaced by American and quit frakely I rather see a battleship/destroyer or 
 torpedo boat sim on the pacific than a sub sim. It feels out of place even though it was history. 
 I know i partial to the Atalntic theater but that's were the great WWII sub and ship battles were. 
 I highly recommend this game though.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simtim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft "Silent Hunter Wolves of the Pacific" is a highly-realistic submarine simulation in which 
 the player takes control of an individual submarine during World War 2. The game begins the day 
 after the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor, Hawaii in 1941. The career mode takes the player on numerous 
 missions throughout the war, all while the skipper must build renown which can be used to purchase 
 upgrades for the submarine and crew. The home base for your submersible warship can be either Pearl 
 Harbor or within the Asianic fleet (the Philippines or Jawa) . There are also several support bases 
 which can be utilized for fuel and supply replenishment, such as Midway or Dutch Harbor, Alaska.
 
  
  The virtual skipper of the sub must use all the tools available to successfully accomplish their 
 mission. Missions mostly are patrolling a certain area of water, seeking out enemy ships to destroy. 
 It is very satisfying to sink an enemy merchant vessel, but the real challenge comes when the ship 
 under fire can fight back. From time to time the player will run into destroyers, cruisers, sub 
 chasers, and even carriers. Many times the warships will be grouped together in a task force, which 
 makes it difficult to destroy more than one of the enemy ships at a time, since the others will 
 attempt to locate and destroy you with guns and depth charges. Threats will also come from the 
 sky, since search aircraft and coastal patrol bombers will engage you. Be prepared to man the anti-aircraft 
 gun!
  
  There are numerous levels of complexity, ranging from easy to realistic. In easy mode, the skipper 
 simply acts as the captain of the boat, giving orders to their crew and watching them carry them 
 out. In the harder modes the skipper must take complete control by actually taking control of the 
 guns (similar to a first-person shooter) or more commonly computing firing solutions for torpedo 
 attacks with no assistance from the crew. A good balance between easy and hard can be accomplished 
 by customizing precisely what is assigned to the crew or the player. Your sub can also be given 
 unlimited fuel and compressed air if you so desire, making it unnecessary to refuel at ports on 
 the way to your assigned mission.
  
  A number of US submarines have been modeled for the user of the game to enjoy. These include the 
 S-class subs, P-class, Salmon, Tambor, Gato, and Balao class submarines. Each has their own individual 
 characteristics, weapon arrangements, and crew makeup. The included game manual gives a good description 
 of each of these including their performance.
  
  There is a crew awaiting your commands! Each compartment within the submarine must be manned in 
 order for the boat to function properly. Individual crew members have a rank and specialty. For 
 instance, the skipper may assign a Chief with a specialty of torpedoes to lead a few young Petty 
 Officers and Seaman in the forward torpedo room. Officers and Petty Officers are also equipped 
 with specialties. If you do not have enough of a certain type of specialty, you can always transfer 
 a crewman off the boat while in port and select an appropriate replacement. There are enough crewmen 
 to support a three-shift rotation for a 24-hour day, and the watches will rotate based on the time 
 of day while the off-going crew hits their racks. General Quarters (Battle Stations) can be sounded 
 by the skipper, which will awake the sleeping crew and put everyone on duty, maximizing efficiency 
 throughout the vessel.
  
  The graphics within the simulation is simply stunning. One often gets the impression they are watching 
 a movie, and not playing a game. The ship models are complex and lifelike. While peering through 
 your periscope, you will see sailors walking around the decks of the ships carrying out their assigned 
 tasks. During battles, explosions are immersive and very colorful. Actual ship damage can be seen, 
 giving the captain a good estimate at how badly they have dealt the enemy a blow. Sound is equally 
 incredible, which is extremely important for submarines, since their main method of detecting enemy 
 ships is with acoustics.
  
  This game is not for the faint of heart or impatient! Each mission, if left in real time, would 
 take several weeks to complete. Fortunately, Ubisoft has given us the ability to advance time rapidly 
 cutting down the actual mission time (depending on your tasking) anywhere from an hour to several 
 hours. Even so, attacking with a submarine is very tricky business. The skipper must use stealth 
 and surprise to effectively destroy a target. Many times the surface vessel will be able to outrun 
 your sub while submerged, so the attack must be carefully planned. This truly is an accurate simulation, 
 so the user must not rush to war.
  
  Initially, the game was released with numerous bugs which gave many users a bad impression. However, 
 since then there have been several update patches which have cleared up nearly all the problems 
 and game crashes. In addition, Ubisoft has announced an add-on pack for "Wolves of the Pacific" 
 to be released in the Spring of 2008 which will give users the ability to command German submarines 
 in the Indian Ocean.
  
  What could be improved upon: some users will have difficulty to run the simulation on their computer. 
 An up-to-date system with a good graphics card should be utilized in order to run the game at a 
 playable level. There is no doubt the graphics are immersive, but the level of complexity may give 
 some a hard time. In addition, the multiplayer mode in fairly unstable and could use some improvement.
 
  
  The "Silent Hunter" series has come a long way from the early days of the initial "Silent Hunter," 
 and the manufacturer can be proud at how much they have helped to improve on naval simulations. 
 "Silent Hunter Wolves of the Pacific" is recommended for those who have a serious interest in realistic 
 combat or naval simulations. This is not a blood-thirsty, first-person shooter. Tactics must be 
 employed for successful engagements. Anchors aweigh!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlgrey23
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  beautiful, completely unplayable, even with the patches my enjoyment died after crashes, and career 
 weirdness. I really have never been more pissed at a company. This game was not playable out of 
 the box. For instance, the depths were in meters.... for US boats... wtf. anyway I will never be 
 buying a ubisoft product again.
  
  beautiful, completely unplayable, even with the patches my enjoyment died after crashes, and career 
 weirdness. I really have never been more pissed at a company. This game was not playable out of 
 the box. For instance, the depths were in meters.... for US boats... wtf. anyway I will never be 
 buying a ubisoft product again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mudbug1950
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  After 3 patches and hours later the program stil crashes. When is Ubisoft going to fix the problem? 
 They have my money .... don't let them get yours! It looked great on the trailers, but that's about 
 the only thing that works in this game. It seems that this game was rushed out without any concern 
 to the buyer other that making a fast buck. Why would Ubisoft have to publish three patches if 
 the game was playable out of the box? I t reminds me of the early days of home computing when a 
 software publisher would send out bug-sheets to fix the problems in their software. Until the problems 
 with SH4 are fixed I would wait until version 2 or 3 comes out before buying this sorry piece of 
 software. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPatrick
Rating: 3.7
Date: Aug 12, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Visuals are excellent. The gameplay is great when the game runs, but the game doesn't run for very 
 long. I'm using the latest patch, 1.3, and this game is still the most buggy piece of software 
 that I've ever encountered. The game will require you to invest a lot of time in navigating to 
 your target patrol area, and hunting your prey. The rewards are few, as I've encountered entire 
 enemy task forces that will suddenly disappear into thin air, after having painstakingly positioned 
 myself for a strike. It's just an incredible waste of time to have all of that effort wasted. I 
 put the game away, weeks ago, but stumbled upon the fact that there was a new patch. I installed 
 the latest patch, and my latest session lasted 45 minutes, before a crash-to-desktop ruined a strike 
 against a Japanese task force. I can't sell this thing, knowing that I'll be wasting someone elses 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggaulke
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Finally after over a decade, Silent Hunter returns to it's roots. And a very good update it is. 
 Though somewhat infirior to it's predecessor, the game improves in other ways.
  As suggested on the game box, the system requrements are somewhat steep. The suggested minimum 
 of 1 Gig of memory is realistic and you will need a good video card to run it. Those with integrated 
 video or no means of adding a video card are out of luck. First the pros: The graphics are somewhat 
 improved, ships show realistic damage from torpedo and gun hits. Crew members man lifeboats and 
 rafts when thier ship sinks. The effect is striking and goes a long way towards justifying the 
 recommended system requirements. The crew no longer needs to be micromanaged, as there is a battlestation 
 command in the game. When this option is off, the crew is automatically rotated out of stations
 
  Cons: The sound meter is missing, so there's no way to tell how audible your sub is to enemy ASW 
 ships. The water effect doesn't quite look right, with too much reflectivity. The manual, though 
 informative, seems incomplete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lzblind
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I was here trying to imagine... Who was the genius that thought that a sub sim game would be fun? 
 I can't believe it... But trying to be humble I got the game and played myself. There's no fun 
 about it. Controlling a slow underwater trash can with complex controls in a huge world full of 
 nothing. Controls: they are complex, hundreds of buttons and functions. Just the controls can make 
 you throw the game in the trash in 5 minutes. But be patient, once you learn how to control de 
 sub, it's actually good that the controls are this complex, because it means freedom of control 
 and because there's nothing more to do in the game. Graphics: I see a lot of ppl saying that the 
 graphics are good, but they forget that there are few graphic elements in the game. The land elements 
 are ugly, the sky is limited, the damage effects aren't that nice. You can't forget that beyond 
 sea, sky and a few units, there is nothing more in the game. Take Titan Quest for example, there 
 are tons of different textures, items, enemies, spells and ambients and they are actually beautiful. 
 Now, SH4... Gameplay: Once you test your patience and learn to control the sub, you may actually 
 have some fun sinking other ships. But do not make one mistake against a battleship, cuz it will 
 make dust of you in a second. And it's hard not to make a mistake, because the controls are slow 
 and the sub take some time to answer to your commands. Ok, you got a couple of enemy ships to the 
 bottom of the ocean and now what? There's nothing much to do, this is the game. Boring. Sound: 
 the sound is a crap. There's nothing exciting here... I was watching SW Rep Commando's trailer 
 about the sound effects and they were saying well, I know that they'll never say -wow, this is 
 a wonderful step sound- but making this kinda sound natural improves the game experience and I 
 think they are right. Another reviewer was complaining that the crew member's voices were to low 
 and he is right, I can't believe they let these things go to a final release. The game is full 
 of bugs, looks unfinished, the tutorial sucks and is too slow to load for a game with a sea and 
 few elements. Don't waste your time unless you are a fan of sub sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddylee4222
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 15, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Too buggy. Not much realism. Planes hang around your submerged position for days. Multiple torpedo 
 hits on ships with no effect. I put four direct hits on the bow of a jap destroyer and it didnt 
 even slow it down or make it list! You can blow the wheel house off of a destroyer with your deck 
 gun and it will still operate like nothing happend. Less control over your crew than the previous 
 silent hunter. Even after I downloaded the patch it still had problems. Not worth the money for 
 me. But I HAVE to play it now to try to get some of my moneys worth out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EinsteinEP
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hunter IV is a game of fanastic potential that is ruined by shoddy programming and lack-luster 
 quality assurance. From the visuals to the copy-protection scheme, the only thing that isn't broken 
 about this game is the fact that the DVD does in fact fit into standard DVD drives. The defects 
 in the game hamper everything from the basic skills (target solutions, navigation, radar detection, 
 etc) to the details that UBI Sof t sold to the hard core simmers (the dynamic campaign, realism, 
 visuals) . Even WITH automatic targeting it is nigh impossible to play a single mission without 
 some sort of lame workaround or external tool. It basically becomes a board game as you have to 
 pause the game to manually work out the details that don't work in the game. Then your crew will 
 all suddenly die, your ship unexpectedly and underservedly sink, or you'll be retired without any 
 sane reason or say in the matter. What a crock!
  
  Ubi Soft has finally cashed in on all those user-community hand-outs they've given us in the past 
 and dumped a terrible excuse for a game on an all too-forgiving sub sim community. I know I'll 
 be thinking twice before I buy Ubi Soft again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mfkgraufalke
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 29, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  After having waited some time for patches I have decided to drop my two cents on this game. I feel 
 that the game should never have been released in the state it was in and even now still deserves 
 further patching.
  
  Silent Hunter IV truly is a beautiful (looking) game. The detail that has been put into ships, 
 people, weather, explosions and the sea will awe you. When I first started playing, much of my 
 time was spent without any time acceleration just so I could admire the interior of the submarine 
 itself and how it is modeled.
  
  Additional features have been added to the game to streamline the day to day operations of the 
 ship. One in particular that I like is the use of watches to allow for your men to rest on their 
 own without the tireless juggling found in stock SHIII to keep them from collapsing from exhaustion.
 
  
  Regardless of these good points, nothing good can come out of the bugs and questionable setup for 
 some of the game design. Without belaboring the issue I will simply recommend to future buyers 
 that you wait for another patch (1.3 has been sighted at least  see this link http://www. subsim. com/radioroom/showthread. php? t=115309 
 ) and take a view at subsim. org to see what they are doing to fix it.
  
  Until this tuna can receives some further support though, it is being mothballed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodigalhun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  i have played this game's first version in the MS-DOS. Silent hunter 2 was very good that you could 
 feel the real tension of the WWII submarine experience. the coordination and fighting is darn too 
 realistic that it requires some experience and knowledge to actually lead you to some success. 
 especially with manually configured torpedo launching. look and sound biut boring for some gamers 
 but once you have played it and understood the core purpose you'll stuck with it. each new installment 
 become much more realistic and much more graphical improvements. i bet this edition is going to 
 be like actually watching WWII movie in your PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiquidKingCobra
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 22, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  Before purchasing this game I looked over a number of reviews by professionals and players and 
 was unsure as to whether this game would be worth my time and money. The descriptions sounded good 
 but many players seemed very unhappy. Here's my take... Its a great game, but there are drawbacks. 
 It seems to have been rushed onto the market. Even with the newest 1.02 patch installed the game 
 can be jerky and slow loading (Could be just my comp but I've run a number of high level games recently 
 which almost no technical issues.) The game can also be overwhelming. There isn't alot of solid 
 documentation explaining the nuances of submarining. I initially attempted to play with almost 
 exclusively realistic settings and found it next to impossible to jump right in. The booklets did 
 shed some light on how to plot a firing solution and other technical aspects but were sadly not 
 quite up to snuff. However, after ramping things down a bit and letting the computer automatically 
 compute my firing solutions the game became quite addicting and fun. It does take a while to get 
 used to the game play and I still haven't got everything figured out but am slowly learning. Overall 
 I think this game is a good one but I wouldn't recommend it for a casual gamer. I am able to look 
 past some of the glitches and jerky aspects (Save often) because I'm a big fan of realistic war 
 simulators and had been looking for a good sub game. I got my copy off ebay, brand new and sealed 
 for 33 bucks after shipping. For me it has been money well spent. LKC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ev1ldeath
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 18, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Too many problems. Game has been out for while now and has had 2 major patches already and still 
 has a lot to be fixed. Hopefully near future will provide patch that fixes bugs better and has 
 stabilized game play. Silent Hunter III has many working things as for example weapons, crew, damage 
 management that would have had worked fine with with SH4 but they have been changed to worse. This 
 is good example why games should be made without any rush and tight schedule. SH4 has its good 
 things like improved graphics and damage modeling but it doesn't save the game from being letdown. 
 If we will see SH5 someday i hope they don't repeat same mistakes again. In overall the game is 
 fun to play when it works and doesn't crash to desktop. I recommend those who have not bought this 
 game yet to wait until working patch has come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trebor22031982
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 13, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  When i was playing Silent Hunter III and saw screen shots for Silent Hunter IV, i thought it would 
 be a brilliant step up. How wrong i was!
  There is limited modding ability, and unlike SH 3, there appear to be no acoustic torpedos, so 
 killing is harder.
  True, it is good to be using submarines from a different country rather than concentrating on the 
 German Kriegsmarine, but there are still problems with the American subs.
  Deck guns are located on the back by default, so killing on the surface is harder when the target 
 is ahead of you.
  The American subs are also painfully slow, meaning that getting to the target is harder than in 
 previous titles in the series.
  Here, it isn't about fighting to stay alive, its more about trying to live with the let down in 
 the series.
  I only hope that Silent Hunter 5 (if there is going to be one) brings back the best bits from SH 
 3, while retaining the glossy bits from SH 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidcommons
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 10, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  having spent many hours with SH3 I have to say that SH$ is totally useless... sorry but any game 
 that continually crashes to the desktop needs to be scored very low, after all its just basic. 
 MY pc is well above even the recommended spec and still it fails to operate at any kind of stable 
 level, the bugs are endless... sound, graphics, and just basic commands, every time you are on 
 the surface and the time compression is above 1 if you double click to go to the tower it ALWAYS 
 crashes to the desktop... and I mean every time. I wait a few months before buying any other Ubisoft 
 products that way they should be A fixed, B cheaper as well... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdas_sbl
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 9, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  For Silent Hunter addicts this should be a new experience. So was it for me although I haven't 
 played SH previously. From the very first step into water I have been thrilled by the immersing 
 experience and ablity to handle an entire submarine. The visuals were just real-world with water 
 splatting on cameras, sunlights and ocean glares and of course ship movement in storms!
  
  You could move from any part of the world to any other, cover thousands of miles in minutes and 
 bring the 'Titanic' to sink on your terms! Even there are easy-handy interfaces to launch torpedoes 
 (in case you dont wish to become a naval officer) .
  
  But there is a real lack of traning sessions in the game. Whatever there are, focus on practice 
 rather than learning. There is handy Manual after installation which can give you some idea anyways. 
 The map is quite useful. You can lay out your own routes and follow them. But what i couldn't figure 
 out was why ships disappeared from the map when I stealthily approached them underwater!
  
  Theme music and radio chatter is apt with the environment, its really very real! As you come near 
 harbours you'll find the radio streaming local channels. But what is strange is that you cannot 
 interact with the world or even get out of the sub. Neither can you talk with your juniors (apart 
 from orders) . The game played quite smooth at 1024x768 with most settings on, in my P4+ 6600GT. 
 But when you turn on the time-shift option (that speeds u thru miles) , i gets stuck at times. There 
 are lots of options and you've to play with them to figure out something decent. Overall the game 
 eats a lot of memory - make sure you have at least 1GB ram + enough Video memory. Do write to me 
 what you feel about this.
  HAPPY GAMING!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 8, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  I dont really know what any one is talking about errors or bugs, be honest i havent run into anything 
 of the sort.
  
  game plays smooth, runs smooth, gfxs would been better with some AA
  
  subs work fine, ordeders work fine, the boats do what they do, AI dose what it dose, I havent ran 
 into any GFX problems no bugs no nothing.
  
  Little confused on how the recon stuff works i went to mark and i am not sure what to do now little 
 more, instructions on how to play the game and to do the missions would been nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tooreal
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 1, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  Playing this game is very hard for new players . When i dive sometimes u-boat diving verticaly 
 deep in ocean and the mission is finishing. Commmand menu is very foolish , unplayable. The deck 
 men's is 2 dimensional, like paper. Sometimes misson finishing suddenly crash with no answer. &amp;#304; n 
 forums somebody says the problem is occured when the bulkheads damaged. But I have no damage. We 
 can't see the percent for hull damage. &amp;#304; t's a problem for reliance . &amp;#304; t's have 
 so many bugs, torpidos unvisible with patch 1.2, sometimes my u boat crash when I diving periscope 
 depth in missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timwheatley79
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 18, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  Im going to be blunt. Development studios have got to stop releasing unfinished products just 
 so they can meet their release date. Ubisoft have released an unfinished product here and just 
 days after release, they had a patch ready to go that still didnt sort the problems. Ubisoft were 
 obviously not prepared to wait for another month so the development team could get this patch into 
 the release version and Ubisoft have released what in my opinion is a beta product not in any way 
 ready for release. Before playing Silent Hunter 4 you must install the 1.1 patch or it is not worth 
 buying (even with the 1.1 patch it is not a more immersive and comprehensive simulator than Silent 
 Hunter 3 was) , this review is of the 1.1 version.
  
  Read my full review at http://www. timwheatley. org/2007/03/23/silent-hunter-iv-wolves-of-the-pacific-review/ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cardinalhayes
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Silent Hunter IV has many desirable improvements from a graphics standpoint over the previous games 
 in the Silent Hunter series. However, it was released with a number of bugs only some of which 
 has been corrected by the 1.1 patch. One of the most frustrating is the incomplete instructions 
 for completing some of the missions, photo re-con missions in particular. I have yet to complete 
 one successfully even though I have received some advice on the forums. The game manual does NOT 
 say anything about the fact that you must be submerged, locked on your target ship and within eight 
 nautical miles of the target ship. I got that off the forums, however, you can click your mouse 
 till your blue in the face and you will still not get a mission completed indication. Also, the 
 voice sound is considerably lower than the music and background to the extent I had to turn it 
 almost off in order to hear the voice of the crew members. The above problems are inexcusable in 
 this game from a manufacturer that's had this much experience. Oh, don't bother to call Ubisoft 
 tech support; chances are the technician has NOT played the game , will tell you that this is a 
 game play issue and not their problem. He will recommend you contact www. gamefaqs. com which is 
 a totally useless site for solving these problems. Strangely enough, the first game is this series, 
 Silent Hunter, a DOS game over 10 years old DID NOT have these problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aubar
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  I've been playing naval &amp; submarine games since good ol' Microprose opus back in the early 
 90s. You can imagine I've been waiting for SH4 ! There's nothing like having that deathly destroyer 
 right in your reticle, finger on the torpedo trigger ! Oh boy what a thrill !
  That's what propose SH4.
  It's hard if you want it so, never boring. The graphics are too good, 
 really immersive. Don't forget your seasick pills...
  But
  But
  But...
  Big But actually: Why are there so many bugs in that damned game !!! I could have waited a month 
 or 2 to have them finish the game ! Those nasty bugs are crashing the game every now and then, 
 forcing me to save game too often...
  I can't believe a great studio like Ubi could release something like that. Really disapointed on 
 this part... but don't be fooled: Once those main issues are corrected (wait 2 or 3 patches) it 
 will be a real kick ass game.
  For sure ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellequin85
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  Take one of, if not the, best subsim games of all time, change theatres of war, make it look sexier 
 and hit harder... then release it approx three months before it's ready and watch the bugs total 
 up. That's basically what Ubisoft have done, taking the brilliance that was silent hunter three 
 and rushing silent hunter four into production rather than taking the time needed to perfect the 
 the gameplay and material. Dont' get me wrong, this game looks good and feels good for the majority 
 of the time. However, and it's a pretty big however, the amount of glitches almost make the game 
 unplayerable as well as the amount of Lag even when played on a pretty serious gaming machine. 
 The main glitch I have found is the enemy's un-nerving ability to find my sub when I'm outside 
 of their field of view/sensors/sound sensing equipment, it just doesn't make sense. Couple this 
 with the frustration of having to infiltrate Yokohama harbour about four times in a row for photo 
 rocon and being told to patrol and sink shipping in a certain area only to find no time period 
 defined for the length of patrol and no response when shipping has been sunk in the area, the game 
 can get very annoying very quickly. Don't even get me started on the lack of help in the manual 
 or the repetitive sound effects or the fact you can spend hours stalking into a harbour only to 
 take one mild hit on the casing and promptly sink to the bottom of the sea. I'm sure, once the 
 modding community get to work, this game will improve, hopefully we'll see a steady flow of patches, 
 but until then this game is sitting on my shelf waiting for the day when I can cruise the pacific 
 and blow the hell out of some shipping. It's good, one day it could be great. (and yes this review 
 is of the game after it's been patched once!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogaty
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 16, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  I respect UbiSoft for still being willing to publish niche market games that aren't going to be 
 blockbusters. Silent Hunter III turned out to be a fantastic game despite a pretty rocky beginning 
 with a very buggy initial release. You'd have thought that they would have learnt their lesson 
 with SHIII and spent more time polishing SHIV before release, but the opposite is the case. SHIV 
 is even buggier than SHIII was upon its initial release. Thankfully, the patches have gone a long 
 way in improving the game and bringing it closer to what the developers had originally envisioned. 
 There are still problems, but nothing like there were with the initial release. Further, the game 
 has a very active and knowledgeable fan base and the various 3rd party mods really make the game 
 shine.
  
  The interface in SHIII was very well designed and intuitive. One could select a station within 
 the sub either by pressing a function key or clicking on the appropriate on-screen icon. Once this 
 task was accomplished, a new sub-menu of commands would become available to the player and these 
 could also be accessed by pressing the appropriate number key or clicking on the on-screen icon. 
 For some reason (one assumes some idiot bean counter at Ubi read a middle management report touting 
 the value of "streamlining the interface for greater ease of play" and demanded a dumbing down 
 of the game to appeal to the mouth breathers out there) , the new interface in SHIV has less options 
 for stations, but the interface is more cumbersome. You can still select a specific station by 
 pressing a function key or by mouse clicking (you can no longer get to most stations by walking 
 around the virtual sub as you could in SHIII) but the sub menus are no longer mapped to keys. In 
 fact, should you select a station via function key rather than by mouse click, the sub menu does 
 not even update so you cannot choose any of the station specific commands as the on screen menu 
 does not refresh. Even with the patches, this is still the case. I highly recommend downloading 
 and installing the Trigger Maru 3rd party mod. ONe of the many improvments it offers includes returning 
 to the SHIII interface. It makes the game much more user friendly despite the addition of new controls 
 and stations.
  
  Graphically, the game looks much, much nicer than SHIII now that the patches allow for FSAA and 
 AF. The resolution is still locked at 1024 x 768 but with AA enabled, the game looks very nice 
 indeed.. These graphics come at a price and if you enable volumetric weather effects, expect a 
 big hit in frame rates.. 
  
  Almost all sounds have been copied directly from SHIII which is fine as they were qutie well done. 
 I recommend downloading some of the radio mods. Hearing actual WWII radio broadcasts really adds 
 to the immersion factor and there are some excellent mods out there with hours and hours of news 
 broadcasts, entertainment programs and music. 
  
  The game still offers up a dynamic campaign, much like in SHIII but throws a lot of time specific 
 scripted events at you in an attempt to make it feel more historic. That's a nice idea, but it 
 feels more like an over the top Hollywood action movie. Zeros and Bettys appear out of nowhere 
 with far too much frequency and spot you automatically, no matter what the time of day or the weather. 
 Getting strafed 40+ per patrol is not fun, it's annoying. The Trigger Maru mod does what it can 
 to fix the number of planes, but there's only so much it can do.
  
  The AI was totally broken in the initial release, but it's much better for things like convoys. 
 Harbour AI is still wrecked. It's far too easy to sneak into a harbour and pick off docked ships. 
 .
  
  The game, once a bug ridden mess with missing features and poor optimization is now a much more 
 polished game and I now rescind my initial score of 3.9. I say pick it up, install the Trigger 
 Maru mod and some radio stations and join the Silent Service. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Husko
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  It's a shame they slapped the silent hunter name on this one. The graphics have changed so much 
 that boats are now just a blurred blob on the horizon. Smaller boats are just blurred blobs 500 
 meters away. You can even tell if what kind of boat is in the water unless its right up close to 
 you, or you use your binos. It used to be you could interact with some parts of your sub. Now y 
 ou just click a tool bar. The developers seemed to have played too many mmorpg games in thier spare 
 time.
  
  I played and joined Silent hunter 1 &amp; 2 and enjoyed them both very much. This version is trash, 
 and to my trash it goes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmb34
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Well i am new to this series so cant really compare to the predecessors of this game. I must say 
 though this is not really a game you can just jump into without reading up on subs and strategies. 
 At first I was kinda overwhelmed but after doing some reading on forums and tinkering around the 
 game I am discovering that this is really a great game. Patients is a must! There are times you 
 have warships raining depth charges on top of you and other times you are trying to hunt down enemy 
 ships. There is a certain amount of satisfaction to watch a ship that got in the way of your torpedo 
 go down in flames, even more so when you have the difficulty turned up :) The game has alot of 
 depth and detail so some people not familiar with sims may be turned off by the realism. Graphically 
 the game looks awesome! I have all the settings maxed out and the water and ship must be seen to 
 be believed! I believe this is a game that could be enjoyed for years to come by someone interested 
 in naval warfare, IMO a must buy. One warning though, right now the game is bugged.... no doubt 
 that they will be fixed though as there has already been one patch put out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trooper72
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 4, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Having had SH 1 through to SH3, I was eagerly awaiting the release of SH 4. Now I have it I don't 
 know why I bothered.
  
  Ive already patched it and its still no great advance on SH3.
  
  Faults Ive found in 2 days ownership include:
  
  Whilst diving, gunners stay at their posts 
 and get drowned
  
  the deck gun stops for no apparent reason
  
  STUPID pop up tools get in the way of everything, orders you need to give are hidden away behind 
 these bloody things so that you have to close one or manually move it to get to the underlying 
 control
  
  STUPID STOPWATCH, why the hell does it insist on popping up every time I accelerate time above 
 256 X ? It then takes up space and gets in the way of everything
  
  Scrolling with the mouse happens only when the program bothers to let you. Sometimes ok, mostly 
 not
  
  The automatic Zooming function gets in the way of speedy control. Lets say a 10 degree port turn, 
 you point to the turn you want, then because the bloody thing automatically zooms in, your 10 degree 
 turn becomes a 20 degree turn
  
  I watched in amazement when I sank a destroyer, watched it sink only to pop up out of the sea again 
 some seconds later. it must have leapt 30 ft out of the sea. (just like those fishy type submarines 
 in the old Stingray movies!)
  
  What is the use/function of the so called Tool Helper on the map screen. Its simply a representation 
 of an old British Army Prismatic compass. The lid animates open and then thats it!!!!!
  
  Why do I keep getting told that my oxygen level is low and I must surface when it isnt the case?
 
  
  I have an Alienware Aurora with 2 megs of mem and and yet I wait ages to access any messages that 
 have been drawn to my attention.
  
  Why are the warnings of ship sightings given in Lat/Long. I aint Ranulph Fiennes and therefore 
 I cant see which sighting they are referring to? Why not just have a simple grid/letter index like 
 they did in SH 3? You can only take realism so far without screwing up the gameplay.
  
  Ill give it a week of perseverance and then probaly get rid of this garbage and stick with SH3 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MacUserUK
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Old players of Silent Hunter 3 (SH3) might be happy to know that Silent Hunter 4 (SH4) has finally 
 hit the shops. SH3 was a massive leap from Silent Hunter 2, so there was high expectation with 
 SH4. SH3 was very good, but not perfect, and we were hoping that SH4 would be something special, 
 unfortunately this is not the case. The game has a huge amount of bugs and old skool users of SH3 
 will not like the subtle differences between the games control system.
  
  OK, so what's good about SH4? Well, from the little time that I played on it, it gets right in 
 to the action, no more 'hunting' those convey's down. Many of times in SH3 we have gone on patrol 
 and not saw a single ship. This is not the case in SH4. In next to no time, I had hit a convey 
 and doing my worst. It also seems that there are other mission scenarios that you can take on, 
 rescue pilots, recon enemy habours etc. The graphics engine is completely different, and when you 
 are in External view mode, it does seem very real. Unfortunately, so what? You spend most of your 
 time underwater, or in Map view for Time Compression, so you don't really get to experience the 
 reflections in the water, the realistic wakes created by the ships. The downside that this hinders 
 performance. I myself have turned all this off and the game both looks impressive but also performs 
 well.
  
  The sound is a hit and miss affair. The voices of the saliors is very low, and you have to adjust 
 the sound effect volume to hear it. The music gets repeative, you just end up turning it off.
 
  
  The big problems with this games are i) it's still very buggy and ii) the key commands are different 
 in SH4 to SH3.
  
  1. Yes, the game is extermely buggy, so expect those patchs from Ubisoft. Patch 1.1 has already 
 been release! 2. Why or why did the developers can the key commands in this version of the game? 
 Old skool users of SH3 will be constantly pressing the wrong key and unfortunately, you can't reprogramme 
 them. For example, External view is F11 in SH3 and F12 in SH4. Other problems:
  
  a) Very poorly written manual. In fact, there are a few errors and it's very out of date; also 
 it doesn't really explain anything of use like torpedo ranges etc. Also, the tutorials are crap. 
 There should be a nice walk through tutorials, but there ain't, massive shame.
  
  b) You need a high res display! Things get very cluttered with a res of 1024x768. Ideal res is 
 1600x1200 or 1920x1200. Luckily for me, I have 1920x1200 and things are great on this res.
  
  I could go on all day with the list of faults, but I just hope that Ubisoft sort this little 
 problems so that Sh4 could turn into a very good game.
  
  The game has massive potential to be very good, but the lack of beta testing and quality control 
 has given this game and the Silent Hunter brand a bad reputation.
  
  3rd April 2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverBloo
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately, SH4 is just another victim of a game publisher who only cares about their bottom 
 line. This game should not have been released yet.
  
  Graphically, the game is initially fairly impressive &amp;#8211; most notably the water effects 
 looks incredible. The submarine modelling is also very well done, as are the ships and planes. 
 This is totally ruined however by the fact that only a 1024 X 768 resolution is used (it's simply 
 stretched in higher resolutions) and no AA options are available. On my widescreen monitor this 
 game looks pretty awful to be honest.
  
  When the game is working, the campaigns can be fun however the crazy amount of show-stopping bugs 
 in this game is a disgrace &amp;#8211; simply pressing 'a' to maintain depth will crash you to 
 desktop - you'll find other CTD's all over the place. Also, your crewmates sometimes take damage 
 for no reason, there are targetting bugs, missing features.. . I could go on. Seems like I've paid 
 &pound;30 to be a beta-tester.
  
  My advice is not to touch this game until it's been heavily patched, if at all. Ubisoft and other 
 publishers will eventually ruin the PC Gaming market with shoddy releases like this.
  
  Oh, and the manual is worthless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_razorback
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  My Pentium 4 3.2 Ghz system has an Nvidia 7800 GT, and 3 Gigs of RAM, fully optimized for gaming, 
 yet this game runs as if I were trying to play it on a 3 year old celeron laptop! I know my box 
 is not a top of the line machine by todays standards. However I play Oblivion at maximum resolution 
 with EVERYTHING turned up to the max, no frame-rate issues, no lag, no jumps or hiccups.
  
  I LOVE-HATE SILENT HUNTER IV
  
  GRAPHICS:
  When I first saw the ships that are in the museum 
 included, my jaw literally dropped. Possibly the best rendered ships to date... Now as soon as 
 you actually take your sub into action, things start to slow down, progressively.
  
  SOUND:
  Cool music, nice 3d sound.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The micro management required in the previous 
 release has been practically done away with altogether. You can actually play this game and forget 
 about the crew entirely. After all, why should a Captain tell seamen when to go to bed anyhow?
 
  
  THEATER:
  Naturally now you have to put up with very long trips from Hawaii to the action-areas. If the graphics 
 issues were fixed and time-lapse actually worked without the very bad studder, the long trip wouldnt 
 be such a pain.
  
  BUGS:
  One that is truly annoying. The AA gun camera in the first subs is poorly located. When manning 
 it part of the walls corresponding to the conning-tower block your view. So basically you need 
 to depend on your NPC gunner... and no matter how good he is... you never get the same number of 
 downed planes. If you want to do it right, you do it yourself! And that annoying wall WILL NOT 
 LET YOU! Very frustrating.
  
  Another annoyance. Seemingly interminable planes, that come out of nowhere, have seemingly unlimited 
 range, no base or origin ship. They come at you, straight at you, even if youre submerged at night! 
 One after another, after another, after another!! I had to tweak the cfg file to work around this 
 problem. So if you feel like chasing a carrier... forget following the planes... they have no base 
 at all!
  
  Silent Hunter IV has many issues that still need patching. In spite of the recent patch, the game 
 is far under par. The incredibly slow graphic throughput is more than enough to make you want to 
 sink your OWN sub, uninstall and wait for a year for Ubisoft to get their act together, live up 
 to their standards and PATCH THIS up and down the board!
  
  For now, I am disappointed, but have high hopes that this game will be fixed soon. It will be definitely 
 the closest I would ever get to the real thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Where do i start?
  
  Well, to make it short and snappy but interesting i'll start with a short comparison to SH3. ( 
 Silent Hunter 3 )
  
  SH3 if you know is based on a Ger. Sub Commander where you set out on missions to do your objective. 
 But, whilst doing this you can explore anywhere you want and take which ever route you choose.
 
  
  So is SH4 a totally new gameplay? No
  
  So then, is SH4 the same as SH3 ? Maybe. - So Why Maybe?
  
  Well, to answer your question - 
 SH4 has 90% the exact same gameplay and 100% same control keys. Only its based in the Pacific Campaign 
 against IJN.
  
  The huge change ? Well it hast to be the graphics. SH4 needs an amazing computer if you want to 
 play it to the full.
  
  And really, its nice to enjoy something different after playing SH3. So you should really play 
 SH4 on full graphics.
  
  = Great PC + Graphics Card
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  To summerise 
 it up;
  
  SH4 compared to SH3 - 5/10
  
  SH4 on its own - 8/10
  
  New to the world of Silent Hunter?
  
  If great PC, get SH4
  
  If not, you'll enjoy SH3 
 more than SH4 since its easier and just as fun.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Initially, it seems just like Silent Hunter III. After a few hours of playing, I've come to realize 
 that Wolves of the Pacific is an improvement over Sh3 in many ways.
  
  There are improvement to the interface. It is easier to issue commands now, although I never found 
 it difficult in SH3. The one thing missing from Wolves is the ability to issue a command directly 
 to your crew. Now it must be done at one of the stations or with a hotkey - easier, but not quite 
 as immersive. It gives me less reason to hit F2 and get down into the belly of the boat.
  
  The map features are easy to use. Thanks to an easrly patch, timescale is increase, making travel 
 times shorter. It is sometimes frustrating when you want to advance time but it keeps getting bumped 
 back because of a contact. Even the same contact updated will take you out of high speed time, 
 and I find myself spamming the + key just to get my sub our of the harbor and into the ocean. Documentation 
 is lacking, especially about the submarines. I have no idea the differences between the Americans 
 subs, but the game comes with a bonus documentary DVD which I haven't gotten to watch yet. It may 
 offer some insight.
  
  The graphics are amazing. There is a noticeable difference between SH3 and Wolves of the Pacific. 
 While SH3 looked very realistic, Wolves takes it a step further, adding so much detail and presenting 
 a bit of a different graphical representation that is hard for me to explain, but it looks great. 
 I like to just watch the submarine move through the water as sunlight refracts into the depths, 
 bubbles rise to the surface, and waves crash on the surface. Inside the sub, there is a lot of 
 detail. I would have liked there to be more to do inside, but that's a minor detail. The action 
 is out on the waves, and although it can sometimes be difficult to find it, when you do, it looks 
 awesome, with great smoke, explosions, etc.
  
  Sound is awesome. The wind, waves, propellers, enigines, crew - almost everything you can think 
 of at sea can be heard . . . except for the marine life. I miss the whale sounds from 688i Hunter/Killer. 
 It's nice that there is now an ocean bottem represented in Wolves, though.
  
  The gameplay is a mix of planning, travel, hunting, hiding, battle, and escape. It can seem quite 
 boring at times, but when the action starts, there's nothing like it. It's a game that I like to 
 play at anytime, no matter what I am doing or what's going on, because it's easy to get up and 
 walk away - chances are nothings going to happen in the game if you leave it on realtime (assuming 
 you are not already engaged with the enemy, in which case, I would recommend using pause!) . I sometime 
 get up for dinner and return to the game, reading my crews messages to inform me of anything I 
 may have missed.
  
  I've been a fan of Sub Sims since Silent Serice way back when. Silent Hunter III was among my favorite 
 all-time PC games. Wolves of the Pacific picks up the franchise a little bit more, and it's a fine 
 simulations that casual and hardcore players will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hunter: Wolves of the Pacific is a great addition to the SH series. It covers the Pacific 
 Theater of World War 2 which for whatever reason seems to be ignored too often. But, I don't understand 
 something about this sequel. Why didn't they just upgrade SHIII's game engine? Reason I say this 
 is because there are a number of graphics glitches that weren't in the SHIII engine. For example, 
 aircraft look like paper cutout rather then 3D models. Even their flight seems a bit odd. Also, 
 the graphics while good in detail just aren't as crisp as in the last game. One minor issue I had 
 was the sound volumes. For some reason, most of the in game sounds were somewhat muted. I could 
 fix this by uping the volume but was had to crank it rather higher then any other game I currently 
 run. Other then these issues, I think SH4 is a pretty good game. Especially if you download and 
 patch to version 1.1. While this patch does not address the graphics issues, it does address a 
 number of bugs. I am sure that future patches will continue to improve upon what is a solid foudation. 
 I recommend anyone that is interested in a change of pace pick up a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHeMoX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  First off I'd like to make clear to people that the lack of FSAA is not disturbing at all. If your 
 PC can run this game with post-processing effects on, you won't even notice any jaggies or whatever, 
 it's all smooth. Perhaps it's more noticable on the lowest resolution, but this game is even worth 
 upgrading your PC!
  
  Okey, so I've talked a bit about graphics, let's continue with that. The graphics are truly amazing, 
 when it comes to flightsimulators or subsimulators this is unlike anything I've ever seen. Better 
 than Battlestations: Midway and 100% accurate at the same time. The water distortion effects, the 
 transparency, the huge hollywood-like explosions (based on real footage btw.) are jaw dropping!
 
  
  The minimum specs demand quite modern hardware already, but it's worth having mid to high-end hardware 
 and run this game, anything less will be able to run it, but with toned down settings, Silent Hunter 
 III will probably beat it on your very low-end PC. For comparison I'm running this game on a Intel 
 Core 2 Duo 3Ghz, 1Gb Ram and a ATI X1600XT 256mb and it's running all smooth and great great graphics.
 
  
  Like any game, what's a game that looks good, but doesn't play well. This game scores on it's gameplay 
 too, most of the time the action gets pretty intense and the almost 'empty' seas of Silent Hunter 
 III are filled with much more enemy vessels. Something I really really appreciate. Figuring out 
 how to control the submarines will take some time, but is not really that different from Silent 
 Hunter III. You'll get the hang of it before you know it and the micromanagement was actually toned 
 down a bit, and this is a good thing. The game difficulty is flexible, you can play it as a real 
 sim up to a slightly easier arcade like way. It stays a sim though, you won't get 'homing torpedoes' 
 hehehe.
  
  The soundeffects, voices and music are topnotch, it totally fits this game and you can tell they 
 have done everything to make it close to perfect. If you remember Silent Hunter III, well this 
 time it's even better.
  (btw. low quality sounds are the effect of a copy protection system, just like 2D crew and weird 
 eyes -&gt; remember this when people complain about sound or 2D crew 'bugs', those guys simply 
 have a warez version..)
  
  Missions are sweet, they've actually added missions like 'save a pilot', 'deliver cargo' and some 
 more of those random generated missions. Really cool addition to the game. All in all this, together 
 with the very good campaign give you plenty value for money and it'll take a while before you've 
 got tired of playing this game, that's for sure.
  
  As for actually playing, again like it's predecessor this game really delivers intense and exciting 
 moments and it really gives a kick sinking destroyers, shooting down aircraft and accomplish difficult 
 missions. It's simply put the best looking and best playable subsim at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tpicciani
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  Before the patch this game was pure ugly. There were reported crashes and all sorts of problems. 
 Ubi should have never released the game in this condition.
  After patch 1.1 things are much improved. It's much more stable and it's actually somewhat fun.
 
  The graphics are supposed to be better than SH3 but I'm not sure. The ocean looks really good 
 though. The crew management is better and less tedious. The interface is kind of dumb.. The missions 
 are tough but doable for an old clumsy idiot like myself.
  
  The things I don't like are the TDC and the periscope control. Scopes should be able to be raiseed 
 and lowered gradually. The full up and full down should only be an additional convenience. The 
 TDC is oversimplified. The worst thing though is the lack of documentation on the sub's systems. 
 There's hardly anything more than a paragraph on the TDC, crew management, or any other system. 
 In almost every case all they do is mention that it's there. There's hardly any explanation how 
 to use the features.
  
  Tom P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spec440
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 28, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  god almighty, where should i begin? the bugs that seem to be everywhere in this game? the uber-resource-hungry 
 (yet very pretty) game engine? the over complicated interface? the dumb as a doorknob AI? or the 
 simple fact that they've populated the game world with so many ships that you dont actually *NEED* 
 to hunt any more? (which was half the fun of SH3...)
  
  what an absolute disappointment... i was really looking forward to this game.
  
  seriously, 
 if you liked SH3, stay away from this! it dosent even come near being as good as the previous installment.
 
  
  sure, the graphics are VERY nice, i'll give it that, but the engine is also uber-resource-hungry, 
 and unless you have a serious top-of-the-range gaming rig it will simply crawl... but cant i tune 
 down some of the graphics and it wont crawl? i hear you say?
  
  well, yes and no.
  you can do it, and the game wont crawl, but it will also become so ugly that you'd stop wanting 
 to play it.
  
  seriously, DO YOURSELF A FAVOR and stick to silent hunter 3. its superior in EVERY SINGLE ASPECT. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinger503
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  I honestly was not going to get this game for fear it wouldn't play on my computer. But the call 
 of the sea is a harsh mistress. The game plays great. There are some small bugs, espicially around 
 the 3-D enviroment (ie. fog, etc.) options which slow the game to a crawl. Turn that off and you'll 
 have a blast. What was one of the problems with SH3? Few convoys and Task Forces. But the waters 
 around Japan are filled with them! The core of the game is mostly the same with only visual changes 
 for accuracy such as the TDC, radar/sonar and the submarine itself. Additions include the new Radio 
 (which already has mods like CBS news and others with 40s music) , the new crew management which 
 changes the crews shifts for you and is much easier than SH3. And the clipboard which allows you 
 to see objectives, your captains log, messages you sent and messages you received...
  
  But onto the problem/bug I mentioned in the deck. The clipboard takes down Messages like Convoy/Task 
 Force Positions, PAC News, FOX News etc. This wouldn't be a problem, but there are alot of Convoys. 
 Over time the messages build up and will cause major slowdown. So if you want to read a one line 
 message from Subcom, expect to wait 3-20 minutes for the game to load the clipboard. Hopefully 
 the devs will fix this in the next patch.
  
  Other than this and little bugs (no lettering on labels for switches and knobs) the game is perfect. 
 I have a half decent computer and the game is still visually stunning! A vast improvement over 
 SH3. Sound is awesome with great explosions as always. (Though it's best to load your own music 
 to the Gramophone) .
  
  Over all I've only skimmed the top of this game, doing only the Training and 3 Career patrols. 
 I haven't even touched the new multiplayer modes or the Quick Missions. But I'm still having a 
 blast! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmackjr
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game has a load of potential for Subsim fans. It also has some appeal for the casual gamer 
 as well on the lower realism settings. That being said. The game has some serious bugs and quite 
 a few annoying ones. If you read in the forum you can see a list that is already starting. And 
 that is after the first patch!!! I won't reiterate them here but check it out if you are thinking 
 of purchasing this game. I purchased it and probably won't play it until a few more patches/mods 
 come out. The mod community will hopefully get a hold of it and turn this game into an excellent 
 on just like they did with SH3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: balgy
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 25, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  Ok This is one game I waited for from the beginning, Ive been playing the SH series since the very 
 first one. TBH the SH series is currently the only good
  Sub-sim on the market, SH3 had its share of bugs and lack of AA And it also was locked at the 1024/768 
 res but once the modders got to work that was fixed! On a recent post on the game forums the devs 
 stated that they are working on a v1.2 patch that will hopefully allow AA and fix the res issue!!
 
  
  SH4 is a fun game to play and it has very good moments, yet it is lacking in
  some areas such as the sub interior unlike SH3 where you could roam to different compartments SH4 
 is streamlined and therefore tends to feel bland
  but it is a minor thing, the big issue is the res being locked at 1024/768,
  they made it a fake 
 hi res, allowing you to change the res in the options but it only sets the UI res NOT the engine 
 and with the lack of no AA it really makes the game look ugly , heck you have to get damn near 
 right on top of the target ship just to ID it by flag its so jaggy!!
  
  The new crew management is nice, and the new base HQ is set up in a more
  better design than 
 SH3, basically once the next patch comes out and the modders start working on it I think this game 
 will start to really shine, til then I would hold off to buy it and make sure the next patch actually 
 does what it promises it will...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiken
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  The patches on this puppy are all ready out there which means they are committed to this project. 
 Everyone agrees the graphics are unreal!! The water is the most realistic of all time. I gave this 
 game a great score and I like this game a lot. However, all you had to do is transmute SH3 to the 
 Pacific arena, update the sound and graphics and you were home. How did they screw the pooch? The 
 repeated crew orders are as annoying as a dud torp laid on the Yamato. There are some changes I 
 liked and some I did not. Delta renown is not as important as in SH3, and crew management is a 
 pain in the neck. Another thing totally off the subject, why are we having an American submarine 
 Simulator being created and programed in Romania???!! Like we dont need our guys doing games like 
 this. Never the less, 2 patces from now this will be the best WW II combat Submarine simulator 
 of all time I have NO doubts; like I said its a work in progress. I was getting hammered in Tokyo 
 bay on easy level so pay no attention to those that say the AI is broken, crank up the reality 
 and live with it. Patience Luke and this will be better than all the Silent Hunters before it. 
 9.5
  When I first reviewed this I was right. Now 2 years later with all the patches and the add-on it 
 stands alone as the best Combat Simulator ever. 
  
  obiken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeJW73
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Before I start this review I must say that some of the bugs mentioned in other reviews such as 
 2d crewmen, counting crewman, repeating crewmen and crewmen with huge eyes are due to copy protection 
 so these reviewers are slamming a game based on either a pirate copy or a legite game with a no-CD 
 crack. Either way its not a fair review. There are bugs TBH but what PC game doesnt ship with bugs. 
 There has already been one patch and the next is being worked on and may include FSAA. Now on to 
 the game. This is a simulation of the Pacific submarine war and such it covers huge distances. 
 You need to cruise at 2/3 and use Midway as a refueling base, just like submariners did in WW2. 
 Imagine that in a sim! Of course you can adjust difficulty so you dont have to worry about running 
 out od fuel. The game also has time compression that goes up to 8000x, or almost 8 times faster 
 than in SH3 so the patrols dont seem that longer than in the last game. In fact in Sh3 it seemed 
 to take longer going to the US east coast than it does to go to Japan from Pearl Harbor in SH4.
 
  The enemy AI seems to have some variation in skill as I've had some destroyers and ship react 
 very well while others act like rookies. This is good because you never know how they'; ll react. 
 The campaign has varied missions other than patrols and includes agent and supply insertions, photo 
 recon and pilot rescue. If you radio in a contact the allies may launch attacks if they have units 
 close. The interface is clunky compared to SH3 even when you get used to it and the manual doesnt 
 do a good enough job of explaining a lot of things such as radar operation. In my opinion I think 
 SH4 is a worthy succesor of the Silent Hunter series and while its rough in a few features Ubi 
 has a record of supporting this series fairly well and this is a highly moddable game. If you like 
 sims or have an interest in WW2 subs I recommend this game. If you want a quick and shallow arcade 
 game look elsewhere and please, if you have a pirated copy at least have the decency to not trash 
 the game because of bugs that arent bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucis29
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Indeed Silent Hunter 3, raised a very high standard about SubSims, but SH4 is not even close to 
 reach that standard.
  He has indeed better graphics (it should take into account that 2 years have passed) , but thats 
 all. It has bad sound (poor quality) , weak AI, and lots and lots of bugs.
  I will mention some bugs and some changes:
  1) You are sent to photograph some port (Hiroshima) 
 at 2 bilions miles across the map and surprize... you dont have enough fuel to even reach that port 
 (unless you dont cruise at 1/3) . In SH3 if you cruise at Standard you would have enough fuel to 
 make the rountrip and even hunt for other vesels.
  2) Convoy atack. Lets suppose the convoy cruises at 9 knts. You hit a ship. What would you do if 
 you where a captain? Yes. zig zag and increase speed. BUT NO, you (as a captain of a merchant ship) 
 stop your engines and wait for the escorts. During this time, the hole convoy is a sitting duck. 
 You can just shoot all your torpidoes and the surface and hit some the ships with deck gun. After 
 that you dive, wait for about 10-15 minutes, fire another torpedo (if the loading want get stuck 
 an 96%) , and again destroy another ship with deck guns.
  2') Torpedo trails (bubbles) are completely safe for merchant captains. They seems to ignore that, 
 and continue their way undisturbed.
  3) Escort ships. They are escorting at 30-40 miles away from the convoy and until they come, you 
 are away from the burning convoy.
  4) Ports. Gues what you will find in ports? Sitting merchants, just waiting to be sunked. You sunk 
 one, and the others dont even try yo escape.
  5) Recognition planes. Lets suppose you are near the Coast of Japan, and one recognition plane 
 sees you. They will send other plains to atack you, but no distroyer or submarine killer.
  6) Where is the visibility meter from SH 3 (to see how detectable you are)
  7) Why cant i modify 
 the torpedo solution? Manual TDC, anyone?
  8) Team management. Its a little better (no more micromanagement) , but its more confusing when 
 its up to giving medals or promotions.
  Thats it for now. I let the others continue my work, and hope for better patches.
  Now lets get 
 back to SH 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garron
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  SH4 looks and plays amazing. There are bugs which have been reported and harped upon ad nauseam, 
 but most of us have had a clean ride. Patches are forthcoming.
  
  If you liked SH3 at all, you will love SH4. If you didn't like SH3, you're probably the person 
 saying how horrible this game is because you hoped for something completely different. Surprise! 
 Sequels are similar!
  
  If would be so easy for Ubisoft to release a really crappy subsim and call it keeping the genre 
 alive , but in fact they push the envelope in all areas of the game: the graphics are some of the 
 best in any game to date, period; the dynamic campaign puts to shape every scripted game out there 
 (most) ; and the sim is one which you can play both casually and hardcore.
  
  The first time you sink a Japanese battleship, follow it underwater to the very bottom of the sea. 
 It's probably one of the more amazing underwater moments in gaming  the sounds, the effects, the 
 darkness  it's highly creepy and highly realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fwilli001
Rating: 4.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Very dissapointing. Terrible sound bugs with the repeating numbers and hissing chronograph. For 
 some reason, I have yet to fathom, all of my crew are two-dimentional cardboard cutouts rotating 
 around on the deck. Even with the graphics set to high I get the cutout crew. The AI is terrible 
 too. I hit a medium cargo vessel with 6 torpedoes. Not only did it not sink, but it didn't even 
 slow down. None of the convoy escort attacked me either, even after I surfaced right next to them. 
 The only thing that attacked me was aircraft. What a mess. I guess I'll be waiting around for patches 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XanderF
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  To be fair, the lack of FSAA *is* annoying, and no mistake. BUT... I'm glad I decided to open the 
 box instead of returning it. Believe it or not, I had pre-ordered it, and when I received it, the 
 news of no AA and locked resolution had already broke, so I never opened it. I got the code from 
 UbiSoft to return it, and was planning on doing just that this weekend. What decided me?
  
  - My biggest pet peeve reading on the forums was the lack of FSAA. But, hey, the devs said they 
 intend to fix that, so... what's next?
  I went into the local EBGames to pick up a copy of 'IL2: 1946' for one of my coworkers, saw the 
 Sh4 game box on the shelf (a real box, not the empty display ones they put out) and held it. Seriously 
 - if any of you are on the edge, go out and pick up a retail copy of this. Literally pick it up. 
 The ****er is HEAVY. And I'm not kidding! I've held BOOKS of this size that weighed less! This 
 tells out when opening it - in all seriousness, the amount of stuff they packed in there... I mean, 
 I vaguely can remember a time when this was the norm, but... only vaguely. I certainly couldn't 
 name a game that I remember with this much in it. Maybe the original Falcon 4.0 release? Bigger 
 manual, but...
  
  No, really - pick one up and hold it. That 100+ page manual has some heft to it, the ship recognition 
 guide (while fold-out) is no slouch, the full map of the Pacific, game DVD with 'bonus' DVD and 
 movie, etc. It's just.... it's the kind of packaging from the gold old days of sims.
  
  The memory most washing over me opening up my copy and reading through it during the install was 
 Silent Service II - the first PC game I ever bought all those years back, still sitting on the 
 shelf in front of me.
  
  - So, okay, the packaging is great, what else? Alright, it's silly, but the Milton poem 'On Time' 
 read over the intro movie is really QUITE stirring! A noticeable improvement on the bland-ish Sh3 
 video. (If you've not seen it, it's posted as the Official Trailer 4 on Gamespot's page for the 
 game  
 Worth downloading in HD if you have an account and haven't picked up Sh4 yet.) And yes, it's in-game 
 footage in high res , so you can see all the plusses and minuses of the trade-offs between post-processing 
 and FSAA. Let's just say... I'm looking forward to the AA patch, but if it comes at the expense 
 of the post-processing effects... well... I just hope we can toggle back and forth like with the 
 bloom in Sh3.
  
  - The graphics... in motion... I mean... I'm just drooling. There are some shots in the 'official 
 screenshot thread' that give you a TASTE of it. The desktop-worthy image in this post  
 and this post  and the 
 series of images in this post  
 and finally this post  
 for example. But those are all STATIC. In motion, it's just... it's WAY better. Unspeakably so.
 
  
  - The AI seem more... tenacious. I just tried a single mission of intercepting a Saipan convoy near 
 Japan late-war. The Japanese DDs did a MUCH better job of keeping me down than any UK DDs did during 
 Sh3. (To be fair, the UK DDs either seemed to sink me pretty much immediately, or I was able to 
 get away. The IJN DDs just kept... harassing me. They stayed with me and kept peppering me with 
 depth charges for HOURS. Never killing me, but... never letting up, either. It was really starting 
 to get nerve-wracking, which is just something I never felt in Sh3. Again, in that game I either 
 felt like I was getting away... and did. Or died. Rapidly. Not so, here!)
  
  - The graphics. Did I mention the graphics? They are awesome! Oh, fine, to make this a seperate 
 point - using a Soundblaster X-Fi XtremeGamer card, I can also use all the special sound effects 
 (when set to 'game mode') with no issue. Sounds pretty good, although, to be fair, I really can't 
 wait for the first user-created voice pack for it. The point in Sh4's favor is that the audio engine 
 seems like it can do some cool things the engine in Sh3 just couldn't do. Pair that with the same 
 improved treatment Sh3 got (and we KNOW Sh4 will get) , and we have a winner!
  
  - Performance is fantastic. I have what is a pretty mid-to-low-end system anymore:
  AMD dual-core 
 Opteron 165 @ 2.0ghz
  2gb OCZ Platinum @ DDR500
  ATI Radeon X1950 Pro 512mb
  Western Digital 250gb SATA HDD w/ 7200rpm and 16mb cache
  Creative Labs Soundblaster X-Fi XtremeGamer
 
  ... and Sh4 plays VERY well with all settings MAXED on this box. Slowdowns in intense action sequences, 
 but these are minor slowdowns and happen rarely.
  
  - I know I mentioned 'Silent Service II' earlier in the post, but... I can't help but go back to 
 it. It was the very first PC game I bought when I was very young, and it was EXTREMELY compelling 
 to me - aided in no small part by the easy 'suspension of disbelief' achievable in youth. I'm surprised 
 to see Sh4 hit the same note. I'm obviously decades older, now, and orders of magnitude more cynical... but 
 Sh4 really hits that note right. If this comment is relevant (may not be to many, but for my age 
 group...) - the feeling you had playing 'Silent Service II' as a kid, Sh4 manages to deliver to 
 the adult version of you. Is it perfect? Hell no, of course not. Indeed, there are some bugs that 
 are RIDICULOUS and should have been caught. But it's pretty darn amazing all the same. It's one 
 of those games where - a testament to the game designers - it really IS immersive enough you can 
 forgive the glitches. As in SSII, where you could sink 6 Yamatos during the course of the war, 
 but you didn't really care (for the time) , or every ship always took the EXACT same number of torpedoes 
 to sink, or the entire enemy fleet consisted of 8 different ship 'models', and you had a 'godlike' 
 overhead view of the battle - sure, in Sh4 it'd be nice if the rocks on the ocean floor actually 
 obstructed you, crewmen were more interactive, and FSAA worked (what FSAA in 1990? LOLz!) , etc... but... overall... the 
 effect is made.
  
  So, I guess, in short (or long - this took more space than I expected) - this is my way of saying... hey, 
 I was wrong. The game has bugs, sure. Irritating ones. But trust me on this - only the most curmudgeony 
 skinflint could really fault what we've been delivered. It is already so close to ideal. And will 
 only get better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahetulla
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft has outdone itself with Silent Hunter 3. Too bad they didn't get it right for Silent Hunter 
 4! The graphics are amazing! Yet that is the only thing. After adding v1.1 patch, the AI is still 
 messed up, as well as MANY MANY BUGS!!!
  First off... the sound. The sailors keep repeating numbers endlessly and the chronograph hisses 
 endlessly even when you disable it. Also there are popping and snapping sounds. Needs a major sound 
 patch!
  The AI sucks. I came upon 3 Japanese destroyers and they just shown the spotlight on me and let 
 me nail them with the deck gun endlessly. Also... one destroyer didn't sink, it just stopped its 
 engines. It would be nice to be fired upon once surfaced.
  Sitting in the bay just out from Osaka Port. I was trying to take pictures of ships in port, yet 
 no pictures would take when click the button. Also the ships just shown the lights on me, no firing 
 went on.
  There is an issue with ghost ships on the map as well.
  Instead of rushing a half made product out the door UBISOFT ROMANIA should have just finished the 
 job, instead of letting once again the consumer to do it's R&amp; D for them. So they can throw 
 out a patch every week! So if I want to float around looking at a great Graphic Environment Silent 
 Hunter 4 is the game. Raise those sails boys, the water and weather look nice!
  In the meantime I'll be back in the Atlantic nailing Allied ships in Silent Hunter 3, eagerly awaiting 
 Patch Version 8.03!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Niklas_F
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Ok. Its a SIMULATOR, which means it takes quite a long time to master the game. Luckily, as in 
 the third game in the series, you have the options to lower the simulation and thus make the game 
 a bit more easy.
  If you decide to play the game at the hardest level, prepared to sit a lot of hours. But when you 
 have mastered the game, you have a lot of fun and it is my belief that you actually could be a 
 great subcommander in real. (of course that means you could actually die for real and not just 
 in front of your computer)
  This is indeed a great game, however it has a few annoying bugs. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
