-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Silent Hill 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/silenthill2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  3, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 7.0, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 997 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Dec 2, 2002
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The problem with Silent Hill 2 is that it's all atmosphere and no real scares. 

 Like most games in the so-called survival horror genre, Silent Hill 2 has a combination of unintuitive 
 puzzles, confusing camera angles, and sporadic violence. The Resident Evil games at least had the 
 good sense to take inspiration from zombie films so that the silliness and bad dialogue seemed 
 like a necessary ingredient. Silent Hill 2 builds its nonsensical story on more serious subjects, 
 such as child abuse, insanity, and terminal illness, so that the ridiculous plot and awful dialogue 
 aren't as easy to enjoy as a campy B-movie horror flick.           The dialogue is consistently 
 absurd.    

  What the game does have in its favor is atmosphere. Like the original (and superior) Silent Hill, 
 the entire game is set in the eponymous town. The streets, which are constantly shrouded in a thick 
 fog, are filled with potential terror as you run around, wondering what may be lurking just out 
 of your visual range. The only respite from the haze is the many ramshackle buildings of the town, 
 and the decrepit apartment buildings and hospitals adorned with broken lights, piles of refuse, 
 and arterially spray-painted walls don't offer much solace. If Silent Hill 2 offered more scares 
 to back up its impressive mood, it would be easier to overlook its faults.   

  In the game, you play as James Sunderland, a tortured young man who has come to Silent Hill after 
 receiving a letter from his dead wife. There, he meets several other strange folk who have equally 
 bizarre reasons for visiting. They all speak in strange clipped sentences that would seem stylized 
 if they weren't so awkward. Over the course of the game, Sunderland will solve not only his own 
 mystery, but those of the characters he encounters as well.   

  Unfortunately, along the way the game descends into total incomprehensibility. The original Silent 
 Hill had a point in which everything turned weird -- what started as a somewhat straightforward horror 
 story became completely surreal. Not to be outdone, Silent Hill 2 has two points at which everything 
 gets weird. At one point in the game, an otherwise run-of-the-mill ghoul-infested hospital turns 
 into a sort of pagan shrine, full of twisty roots and autumnal artwork. The second point involves 
 a series of descending pits leading deep down into the bowels of the earth. While these pits may 
 seem to figuratively represent Sunderland's descent into his own psyche, in reality, it just seems 
 ridiculous that anyone would build a meat locker so far underground.   

  Silent Hill 2's puzzles are typical for survival horror games. They mainly involve finding some 
 trinkets -- a music box or a clock key, for instance -- that you use in a device to open a door. There 
 are ample "locked door" puzzles of every sort, and most areas will require you to run back and 
 forth as you find keys and triggers that will open new areas.   

  Standing between you and the locked doors are a small variety of creatures. The game's creepy monsters 
 are one of Silent Hill 2's real strengths. Among the creepiest are the zombie nurses and a thing 
 with four legs (and not much else) . The scariest of all is the monster known only as "Pyramid Head," 
 a creature that looks like Leatherface from  Texas Chainsaw Massacre , bloody apron and all, wearing 
 an industrial sink for a hat. There aren't many different creatures in Silent Hill 2, but the few 
 that are there are unique and add to the general atmosphere.   

  The monsters look really great, as does most everything in Silent Hill 2. Though the artistic design 
 may seem a bit too bleak and tend a bit too much toward the sadistic for some, the game does have 
 a distinct look, as far as games go. Unfortunately, the graphics don't compensate for the confusing 
 camera angles, which from the very beginning are problematic. In the very first room, you'll be 
 hard pressed to find the exit door. Things get better when Sunderland heads out into the open and 
 the camera switches from static angles to one that moves around him, but it moves at an occasionally 
 slow pace that takes some getting used to. Thankfully, the PC version of Silent Hill 2 at least 
 gives you plenty of graphic-tweaking options and even lets you save the game anywhere.         
   Real-time lighting and shadow effects add to the creepiness.    

  Silent Hill 2's sound adds a great deal to the atmosphere. The industrial-influenced soundtrack 
 is subtle, until something scary approaches and the scary music kicks in. There's nothing like 
 someone banging metal trash can lids, or Sunderland's radio suddenly blurting static whenever a 
 monster is near, to add tension to a scene.   

  But the problem with Silent Hill 2 is that it's all atmosphere and no real scares. Though there 
 are a few good scenes -- such as the first time you see Pyramid Head -- it becomes quickly apparent 
 that there aren't many startling, truly scary moments to support the mood. Silent Hill 2 has repetitive 
 puzzles and an implausible story, and you need to play through it several times to get the "good" 
 ending. Not even the game's foggy atmosphere is thick enough to hide Silent Hill 2's problems. 
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Carles7
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Firstly let me just say that I had the pleasure to play the first Silent Hill on PS, and it was 
 an amazing experience. Seriously, I didn't expect to get so caught up by it and so.., scared! So, 
 whoever has played the first SH and liked it, will surely like this one too, as the concept is 
 pretty similar.
  
  Great atmosphere (the game's best element) , excellent sound, nice graphics and fearsome monsters, 
 along with a good story, sum up Silent Hill 2. Also, the ability to choose combat difficulty, riddle 
 difficulty, and the multiple endings that are available (depending on your actions throughout the 
 game) , give it great replay value.
  
  One has to note, though, that this game is less action-focused (although if you choose the "hard" 
 combat difficulty the enemies and bosses are much more resistant and dangerous) . It's all about 
 the atmosphere, the creepiness, the story, and the constant feeling that something is very-very 
 wrong (and I think that's what horror games should be about, after all) .
  
  Overall, SIlent Hill 2 is a great and pioneering game.
  
  Pros: Atmosphere, sound, graphics, 
 plot.
  Cons: Controls, Camera angles (actually I like the gameplay, but I guess other people could not 
 like it so much)
  
  Sound: 8.5
  Graphics: 8.5
  Controls: 7
  Story: 9
  Replay Value: 9.5
  Overall: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codename_halo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:00 am PT
Review:  ok its 2009 and i know it's a little late to review this game since i, myself played this game about 
 five or six years ago, but seeing alot of negative reviews of this game, i just chouldn't sit around 
 and watch those who can't appreciate this great title sabotage its reputation for it's true fans 
 and people who will appreciate it.
  
  let me begin by saying that, if you are a true silent hill fan you will really appreciate this title, this 
 game brings to you the essence of sadness, loneliness, guilt and fear which are the most important 
 elements that this city represents, but then again if you just like to try things out just for the 
 fun of it then no i don't think you should try this one, or at least if you did, don't ruin it for 
 it's fans by writing a negative review, i'm seeing a lot of people saying it's not scary or spooky 
 enough and that it's all foggy and that were is the rocket launcher's and m60's, why the nurse doesn't 
 have a face and were are all the zombies! this is not resident evil nor it is castlevania, or even 
 alone in the dark for that matter (with all due respect to all of them) . this city (silent hill) is 
 a state of mind, it attacks through your fears and sins and guiltiness, your enemies are your loved 
 ones, those who you've harmed and those who have harmed you, this city is your own judgment day, so 
 please don't judge it like that.
  
  but enough about that, i spoke my heart and mind. to tell you about the game itself, it does have 
 an acceptable graphics for it's time, and the game play is exactly how it should be, but the true 
 impression comes from it's magnificent atmosphere, mood and feeling combined with one of the saddest 
 and most twisted story lines of this kind that i still feel it impression on me after all these 
 years.
  you (James Sunderland) receive a letter from your wife, mary, she say's that she is waiting for you 
 in silent hill, a place, a beautiful town that you have visited years ago as a young couple, the only 
 problem is that mary is dead, she died three years ago due to an illness, but you take your chances 
 and hopelessly and desperately ignore that and go to silent hill, so just maybe through a miracle 
 you can see her again...
  well i wont say anything else, you should really take this journey on your own and don't lesson 
 to anyone that say's you shouldn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkyfunky
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, I went into this game with a little trepidation. I was in my teen years when the 
 original game came out, and carrying over my enthusiasm from the Resident Evil series, I was eager 
 to try out the new survival horror game on the block. I figured after beating that first Resident 
 Evil game a few times, I'd be ready for any survival horror game thrown at me. I mean come on, 
 it had the dog fly right through the glass! 
  
  I knew the hype from gaming mags, so I was at the video store ready to rent the day it came out, 
 ready to be one of the first to beat it. Fast forward 3 days, and I think I'd played the game for 
 maybe 2 hours; Not because it was bad, but because it was so unsettling that after an hour creeping 
 around in it, I was genuinely unsettled. I'd find myself coming up with any reason at all not to 
 play it.
  
  I eventually overcame the fear (to an extent) and played through the game, but nothing I'd read 
 could ever prepare me for the atmosphere generated by Silent Hill.
  
  Fast forward 8 years or so, and I figured I'd give Silent Hill 2 a shot. After playing through 
 the game, I'm pleased to say it was everything I'd hoped for and then some. A definite improvement 
 over the first installment, and one of the best games I've played to date.
  
  The gameplay is everything you'd want it to be; A slow descent into hell with barely a defense 
 to call your own. Some would say the controls are cumbersome at best, but I think they suit the 
 story perfectly. Your protagonist is just an average guy, and it makes sense that he's not an action 
 star in the making. Sometimes it makes more sense to just tuck tail and run, which really adds 
 to your sense of helplessness.
  
  One thing I did notice, is that the game is just a little too easy on the Normal difficulty. I 
 finished the game with way too much ammo and health for someone who'd done a pretty thorough job 
 of exploring. For anyone who has experience in these types of games, I'd probably recommend the 
 Hard setting for a more intense experience.
  
  Also, I found the enemies to be just a little too slow and weak. You can really evade most enemies 
 quite easily, especially in the streets. Most are very slow moving, so you're not dancing around 
 looking to avoid dogs biting at your heels. A big part of fear can be that feeling of being chased 
 or hunted, and with the exception of a couple of key plot points, I think this was overlooked for 
 the most part.
  
  The sound in this game is everything. The industrial ambience is perfect and when the music picks 
 up, so will the hairs on your neck. On the opposite end, moments of silence also do their job of 
 adding tension. Occassionally you'll hear a faint whisper or unusual noise which will put you on 
 edge, but for the most part this isn't a 'boo' type of game ala Resident Evil. For the best effect 
 however, it is strongly recommended that you play this game alone, and if possible, with headphones. 
 Playing through this game in the afternoon with 5 people hopping around your house, is very different 
 than playing it alone, in the dark and with headphones. Atmosphere is everything, and to get the 
 best out of this game, you really have to play it with that in mind.
  
  The game's visuals do a great job of furthering the plot and enhancing the feeling that James is 
 truly descending into hell. Where else but Silent Hill can you find a meat freezer 50 stories underground? 
 The rustic and bloody environment of the 'otherworld' are really a sight to behold. The game is 
 a dark one for the most part, but your flashlight does just enough to make your path visible. Alternatively, 
 playing in the dark can not only allow you to better sneak by enemies, but add to the fear factor 
 as well.
  
  All in all, it's got the tools of a great game, but it's the plot which brings it all together. 
 You find yourself really connecting to the characters and their roles in the game. You understand 
 why your protagonist is willingly putting himself through hell, literally. In that same light, 
 you too will want to keep playing just to find out what happens to these characters. The multiple 
 endings can be confusing, but if you play through the game normally, you should achieve the most 
 natural ending. 
  
  It takes a special game to make you reflect on it after you've finished playing, and Silent Hill 
 2 is just that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monanri
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I've seen G-Spots rating before. I rate Silent Hill 2 as a hard core simulation of your typical 
 horror movie. It was like playing a horror movie. From playing part 1on the PS, I know it's not 
 meant to be a action horror game. I believe you leave that up to CastleVania the companys other 
 Franchise. the mosters the twisted eerie story made the game, and like many other games I had to 
 know where to go and with the puzzles what to do. The PC version made a big enhancement on the 
 first (Avanced Filters, Complex Fog, High Res Textures, and HD: 1280 x 1024p or 1600 x 1200p. when 
 all these options are chosen what a difference it makes. I had to be care ful of some of the suprises, 
 I found that it was better to avoid some monsters instead of taking all of them on. Some of the 
 Bosses killed me once or twice also. And the puzzles & clues were challenging, making me have to 
 read very carefully. I play my games on Normal then Hard most of the time, playing on easy, then 
 thats what I can expect is an easy game. This is a video game great & now a new classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubel_07
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'm a longtime fan of Resident Evil. I must say that even after playing through a Silent 
 Hill game, I still think that Resident Evil is superior on most levels. What Silent Hill has to 
 offer is what I'll call the "Creepiest Game (series) Ever". Resident Evil had scares, Silent Hill 
 has atmosphere.
  
  The review (out of 10) :
  Story: 10
  The story is amazing. You play as James Suderland, a clerk who's wife mysteriously died three years 
 previously of a terminal illness. You receive a letter from her (presumably) and set off for Silent 
 Hill to find her. There are other characters who's stories are mostly explained throughout. Also, 
 there is a sub-story where you play as the character Maria and learn of what led her to be at the 
 docks when James met her there.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  What the graphics are missing are things that probably could not have been fixed at the time, as 
 the PC version is essentially a port of the PS2 version. The problem occurs mostly in the cut scenes: 
 the voices don't match up with the mouths -- BUT! the mouths are clearly saying the dialogue.
  
  Sound: 10
  Absolutely perfect. This is where the game wins against Resident Evil. The game 
 supports Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround (on my laptop it says that it also supports 7.1) . The voice 
 casting is perfect, adding to the story. Also, it should be noted that the character-to-character 
 dialogue is far, far superior to Resident Evil's.
  
  Control: 9
  A PS2 game on PC is somewhat more difficult without a game pad.
  
  Replayablilty: 9
  What 
 the game is missing is more "stuff" to do in it. The sub-chapter I finished in under an hour and 
 the game itself was about 7.5 hours for me, a newcomer to the series. The game does sport 4 unique 
 endings that supposedly give more insight into the story. I'd play it again just to see Pyramid 
 Head.
  
  Other:
  What the game suffers from is some unnecessary flaws in its essential play. Every time you solve 
 a puzzle -- which involves collecting items, opening up the inventory screen, and figuring out what 
 to do. The problem is that for every piece you insert into the puzzle, you have to look at the 
 puzzle, open up your inventory, place only one piece -- but you have to remember what you are going 
 to do, otherwise you have to re-do the entire thing. You cannot check what you're doing while doing 
 it and you must open up your inventory every time you need to put something in. This is a minor 
 flaw that is easily overlooked with the brilliant game.
  
  Overall: 9.2/10 -- I'll round up to a 9.5/10 because it's so much fun to play.
  The game is HIGHLY 
 ADDICTIVE. On the cover of the box, there is a quote from Playstation Magazine: "So engrossing 
 that you simply can not put it down". That pretty much describes the game. It is well worth it. 
 Go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkwolven
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  This was my first Silent Hill game, so maybe I'm biased, but this is what reinvented the survival 
 horror genre for me after playing every single Resident Evil up to Zero before this. The Resident 
 Evil franchise was fun, but it didn't prepare me for THIS.
  
  I played this in the evenings with all the lights off and headphones on after people went to bed 
 and WOW what an experience! The atmosphere in the game and the fear was palpable. The fog was terrifying 
 and we all know how effective it was now that every single horror movie out there is using the 
 trick now! (I'm talking to you Mr. KING!)
  
  After finishing it, I felt like I had spent a few weeks inside the mind of somebody who was mentally 
 ill. It was also emotionally draining. Definitely one of my favorite gaming experiences of ALL 
 TIME and I have been playing since PONG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limowrecked
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Silent hill 2 is one of the most fascinating games i've ever played and for sure the best horror 
 type game ever made and i mean horror not survival horror since it's all about the story, the atmosphere. 
 Sure u fight packs of creepy monsters along the way but it's not the point the main cause because 
 of which u want to play is to finally find out what happened in silent hill, where those creatures 
 came from and finally u're start wandering about the main character you play. There's no hordes 
 of zombies coming out of nowhere which u can blast in 10 seconds, but there's a lot moments u'll 
 be scared for sure. Dark corridors of alternative world buildings strange noises which u can hear 
 almost all the time and in some moments u realise that u want to get out of there because those 
 places really freak u out (assuming u wont play with all lights + TV on because in that case nevermind 
 about what i've just said: P) . The trick is not in cheap scares where u're supposed to jump with 
 your keyboard and smash your head on a ceiling it's all about immersion in SH twisted world where 
 everything can happen. Other great thing is that this game doesnt give you any straight answers, 
 in one moment u're almost sure that u know what it's all about and the other u have no clue that's 
 why the story resembles that of a great book rather than the computer game. 
  Truly masterpiece not even a second is wasted by playing this game i doubt any other will come 
 close to this one including other SH games in next couple of years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill 3 has some really cool things to offer. The hero is great, just an ordinary man named 
 James Sunderland, who receives a letter from his dead wife and ends up taking on the eerie world 
 that's Silent Hill. The creatures are classic Silent Hill, with the Pyramid Heads, undead nurses, 
 zombies with no arms or faces and much more. Silent Hill has a unique and disturbing atmosphere 
 that will leave your skin crawling, but will totally immerse you into the game play and leave you 
 always wanting more.
  
  Personally, I found this game to be the most classic of the series. The game play was well thought 
 out so that you had time to explore the environments and engross yourself into the atmosphere that 
 is Silent Hill without the constant running and shooting you find in so many other games. There 
 are puzzles to solve that mostly involve finding different items . The cut scenes are great and 
 build hair raising tension for what will come next. Konami has always done a great job with the 
 series; it seems that each game unravels a little more of the mystery that is Silent Hill. This 
 game is the most classic because it is set in the town of Silent Hill with all it's environment. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great graphics and effects, creepy sounds and ambiance, interesting monsters and characters, 
 decent voice work, easier than the first, recognizes joysticks
  
  The Bad: Extremely short, story can sometimes leave you scratching your head at the end, not all 
 endings are worth playing through again, no replay value, terrible keyboard controls, bad camera
 
  
  It took me long enough to finally play SH2 and I'm glad I did. The story has nothing to do with 
 the first one but is somewhat confusing really and not all the ends are tied off no matter what 
 ending you choose. The graphics are actually pretty good even for today. The thing that bothered 
 me is the SH2 is all atmosphere and no pop-out-of-the-closet type scares. The game nails atmosphere 
 spot on with fog effects, lighting, and down right disturbing ambiance. The main thing I loved 
 here is that the game is a lot easier when it comes to puzzles. Almost every puzzle is just right 
 and you can solve yourself without a walkthrough. I love the PC version more because you can save 
 anywhere and this makes the game much more forgiving. The story is extremely short and you can 
 beat it in 5-8 hours. One word of advice though... YouTube the endings since they're not worth playing 
 through the game again unless you're a die hard fan. Another piece of advice: Get a gamepad! The 
 keyboard controls are terrible and even the gamepad requires remapping. If you played the first 
 game pick this up for sure since you can find it real cheap now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waseinstwar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill 2's is not that exciting. Your dead wife has written you a letter and expects you in 
 a special place at Silent Hill. Everything is very acceptable - at least she's not trapped in a 
 castle waiting for a plumber to rescue her. You'll find nutcases everywhere in this game - from 
 Angela to Eddie - and will deal with odd stupid enemies while figuring out the puzzles that are, 
 basically, door lockers or locked wardrobes with a key inside. Feels like locking a drawyer's key 
 inside the drawyer itself.
  
  You can select 3 different difficulty levels for the game itself and for the puzzles. This make 
 your life very easy if you like to deal with tough monsters but you don't feel excited to solve 
 puzzles.
  
  ========
  POSITIVE aspects of the game:
  
  - Graphics are detailed and won't disappoint
  - Creepy atmosphere
  - Easy controls (basically 
 like in SH1 and SH3) provides you ROTATIONAL or DIRECTIONAL style
  - Easy combat mode
  - Sound is good and brings fear in cold-swearing moments
  - PC version has QUICK SAVE and you 
 can SAVE your game whenever you want
  - DIRECTOR's cut version brings SH3 trailers and a SHORT paralel story played by Maria
  
  =========
 
  NEGATIVE aspects of the game:
  
  - Dialogues are very stupid
  - You can beat the game in 4 hours if you're an experienced player
  - You will realize that the 
 game have many cutscenes, but the endings are very disappointing concerning them
  - Camera offers more danger than the enemies themselves
  
  ====
  TIPS
  
  - If you beat 
 the game once, check GAME OPTIONS to get more from the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AhmedYehia86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:41 am PT
Review:  this game is fantastic and perfect althought the bad gameplay.
  the graphic in great i think its the best game in graphic in this year (2002)
  its great too 
 in sound but the most thing which make me love the game is the story and its ideas .
  this game make you feel you are special as not anyone can olay this game the player must be intelligent 
 clever
  also its videos make you live with the game .
  i feel its same to resident evil but resident evil is less thinking but more monsters and silent 
 hill is based on thinking and little monsters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iron_priest
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  Silent Hill 2 it's a good horror game if you take a look at the storyline. When you start to play 
 it doesn't seem like a game that was made in a hurry (and it's true) but the more you play the 
 more you find out that the control is fulsome and at when you reach the boat mission you'll feel 
 the culminating point of nauseating. Acceptable graphic and sounds. I'll give it an undeserved 
 7 just for the horror story. It quite captivates you, not a hard game, but a tangled one. Strange 
 creatures that are not making any sense (but that's the beauty of Silent Hill) and characters are 
 acting different and not realistic (if i were in such a world i would probably shot myself in the 
 head) . I like the main character it was thought very well. As a conclusion if you reach this game 
 take a look around you might find it interesting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  You assume the role of James Sunderland and you've received a letter from wife who, for three years, 
 has been dead. And where does your dead wife tell you to meet? Silent Hill -- a town that, at its 
 worse, makes you wish you'd rather go to Hell instead. Once you reach the town, you'll go into 
 one deserted building after another, gathering clues, solving obtuse puzzles, meeting odd characters, 
 encountering horrific monsters, fighting an awful camera as you try to decipher the nonsensical 
 plot -- standard survival-horror fare.
  
  Progression is measured by the amount of puzzles you solve. When you solve enough, you'll eventually 
 be allowed to venture into a new structure. In every area, you run around finding clues and items 
 that you need to solve a puzzle. And that's about it. You'll run into your fair share of spastic 
 horrors that try to throw up acid on your face but for the most part, it's one fetch quest after 
 another so you eventually open up whatever's inside that drawer. And it doesn't control well. It's 
 very tank-like -- pressing forward will always push James forward, no matter where the camera's 
 pointing. Turning is intensely slow and the camera doesn't help at all, too. The camera rarely 
 shows things at a cinematic angle so it's hard to understand why Konami didn't just give you free 
 reign over the camera.
  
  Now, this wouldn't be so bad if the game was scary. And unfortunately, it fails to some degree. 
 There's a definite uneasy atmosphere but it never reaches the point where you crap your pants from 
 the anxiety. There are moments when it becomes genuinely creepy but before that creepiness turns 
 into genuine horror, you're given a pretentious cutscene that only destroys whatever mood existed 
 from right before. The story doesn't help either. It's just plain weird. People die and come back 
 more than once and characters walk around town as if the monsters aren't too much of a problem. 
 It's unfortunate when you consider how much potential anxiety and scares an isolated town full 
 of demonic horrors and sometimes disturbing imagery could've provided.
  
  Visually, for a PS2 game, it looks fantastic. And it looks even better on the PC with resolutions 
 that can go as high 1600x1200. The amount of detail in the textures goes a long way in giving each 
 environment a decayed look and feel. The monster designs also sport an equal amount of artistry 
 and style but there's less than 10 monster designs in the game so it's only a matter of time before 
 you get used to their disturbing looks. The standout feature is most definitely the lighting and 
 shadows. There are points when the game reaches a Doom 3 fidelity. Nearly everything casts its 
 own shadow and the light bends around objects so realistically that you'll wonder how the PS2 pulled 
 such a thing off. The only issue is the character animations which look extremely robotic and mechanical 
 when James starts running. But really, such a thing is easily ignored.
  
  The sound doesn't reach the greatness of the visuals but it's close. The music does a terrific 
 job of raising that anxiety level up a notch and the voice acting is more than acceptable for a 
 survival-horror game. And then there are moments of pure silence. It's amazing how hearing nothing 
 can increase tension in such a subtle way. And when you hear a monster's scream break the silence, 
 you know something's going on. Too bad another confusing and unintentionally humorous cutscene 
 just hit you in the face.
  
  The game's short -- should last about 7 hours. The extra sub-story that comes with Restless Dreams 
 should give you 30 or so minutes of extra playtime. There's multiple endings and each one is really 
 different than the other so it's worth checking out if you really want everything. Your enjoyment 
 largely depends on whether or not you buy into survival-horror conventions -- weird puzzles, clumsy 
 controls, awful camera, confusing story. And even you did, you wished there was something more. 
 The actual horror part is disappointingly lacking and does little to try to keep you awake at night. 
 It never truly grips the mind but it's atmospheric enough that it's easy to push on to see what 
 strange thing from the depths of hell the game will throw at you next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ma6akoleva
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  Silent hill2 is second part of Silent hill series. It is interesting, scary and misterious like the 
 first game, but also it is much different then Silent hill1, different story, diferent characters 
 and different monsters of course to make the second game not the same a little bit diferent and 
 lend variety. Silent hill2 is not a contining of the first game, becouse the story is diferent and 
 the game is about someting else, about peoples guilty and feeling of blame. The story is also misterious 
 but not as much as Silent hill1. The most strange and misterious is one letter from the wife of 
 principal character and his ,, born wish,, Maria the duplicate of his wife. But the atmosof second 
 game is the same, also misty and misterious. It is very good adventure, horror game, dignity contining! It 
 very good horror adventyre!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_blue
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill 2 is a survival horror game with an emphasis on slow pace action and on a mysterious 
 story which unravels as you play through the game, set in the eponymous town of, Silent Hill.
 
  
  You play James, an average sort of chap, not too bright not too dumb who gets a letter from his 
 wife Mary asking him to come to Silent Hill to their special place , the problem... Mary died three 
 years ago from a disease (or did she?) , so off James goes to Silent Hill and strangely the town 
 is nearly empty, a few odd characters to be met (and they are memorable characters some of which 
 you cant help but feel sorry for - as you play you learn more about them but only a little since 
 the game focuses on James) . The town is also surrounded in fog and home to some really bizarre 
 and freakish monstrosities some of which are vaguely human, and throughout the game there are moments 
 when everything goes to hell.. (almost?) literally, im talking gore all over the walls, ceilins 
 floors shambling monsters after you rust decay everywhere, why does this happen? who knows its 
 not what James is concerned about, its all about finding Mary -nothing else.
  
  The story as you can tell, ive tried not to spoil its very very good, it focuses on the psychological 
 aspect of the protagonist, - James and what he has done, is doing and through the game everything 
 could be construed as a symbolic of James personality even some of the characters you meet - (or 
 are they real?) needless to say I really enjoyed Silent Hill 2 for this reason more so than I would 
 the other Silent Hill games which focus more on the bizarre cult (which was responsible for creating 
 the hell that is , Silent Hill)
  
  Sound wise, Silent Hill 2 is absolutely brilliant, the voiceovers are well done, some lines feel 
 akward (maybe due to translation? such as your not freinds with that red pyramid guy are you?) 
 but barely worth criticising surely scraping the barrel to give the game a harsh score by going 
 on about voice overs (beyond divinity had AWFUL voice overs o nthe otherhand) Akira Yamaoka's work 
 is some of the best and most varied music you will hear, the title tracks are certainly memorable 
 and others are full of emotion which might stay in your head (Laura play the piano is one that 
 stayed in my head) others are exciting and some really capture the scary atmosphere of Silent Hill 
 itself, certainly a fan of Akira Yamaoka's Silent Hill music after playing Silent Hill 2.
  
  The gameplay is pretty basic and yet quite fun, you run around finding items, solving some 
 interesting puzzles and battling monsters, the monsters are nicely varied and incredibly freakish, 
 some will slide on the floor making strange noises and will spasm as they move, or their heads 
 will twitch un-naturally, others are pretty immense, some are feet... and not much else, each monster 
 is very unique and you'll remember the majority of them due to this - especially our' Pyramid Head.
 
  
  The combat itself is pretty standard, you lock onto a specific opponent and attack with whatever 
 weapon is equipped, i suspect most people will be using a melee weapon to conserve ammo (which 
 can be quite scarce) , to change weapons is easily done by going into inventory screen, scrolling 
 to necessary weapon and equipping, whilst one is also in the inventory screen they can check up 
 on James health condition, and also use items to heal James (again healing drinks/kits/ampoules 
 are quite scarce) , reload weapons and examine items.
  
  Whilst the combat is pretty simple it is still satisfying to take down an enemy and stamp on them 
 to keep them down for good, and walk off leaving bloody footprints!
  
  The game is mainly about creating a tense atmosphere of horror, it doesnt rely on cheap scares. 
 it broods continuously, you cant see very far for a start, so you dont know whats coming but 
 if you have a broken radio equipped and switched on you can hear static from nearby monsters, inside 
 buildings it can be pitch black and you'll need to turn on a flash light, the problem with this 
 however is that monsters are drawn to the light, and this is with the normal Silent Hill, once 
 things get even worse everything is in decay, rusting with gore splattered liberally throughout 
 locations and there are even more monsters.
  
  As you unravel the story you'll appreciate it more than most computer games (maybe even some books) 
 its a mystery at the beginning and a lesser mystery at the end, the ending of which is determined 
 by your actions throughout the game, there are a total of 4 endings some sadder than others but 
 this offers a fair bit of replay value, which is needed in Silent Hill 2, whilst the main game 
 is good, and the story is very good the game will probably be clocked in under 8 hours by a beginner.
 
  
  So all in all, an extremely good game, graphics have held up very well, low system requirements, 
 the sound and music is phenomenal certainly some of the best in any computer game (and a lot of 
 bands...) , a satisfying story with interesting characters and twists and its quite cheap these 
 days, if difficult to find for PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aprillaprill
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  The best Silent Hill game ever. :D
  Ok, now i have to write 100 words... uhh...: (
  
  Ok.. um.. what should i write about...... . Gameplay: i dont complain about the gameplay because 
 for me it was easy and great gameplay.
  Graphics: graphics are VERY good for the year.
  Sound: Sound was the greatest thing in this game.
  
  Silent Hill games:
  SH: yes i have played 
 it on my playstation, but i couldnt end the game cause PS went broken.
  SH2: as i said, the best!
  SH3: great game, but it went boring in the end, so i didnt complete 
 it.
  SH4: it was different from others, but it had its own interests
  SH5: hope there will be silent hill 5 coming soon :P ....
  (sorry for bad english) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viveckvivu
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 15, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Silent Hill 2 was a good game. This is the first time I am playing a Silent Hill game, and this 
 was one of the best horror survival game I have ever played. Silent Hill 2 doesnt follow its previous 
 game. So new players of Silent Hill like me can play this one first too! Silent Hill 2 will creep 
 you out with its deadly atmosphere. You will always see fogs in Silent Hill. Its always foggy in 
 the roads. You will not see a thing ahead of you if you are not that near. And the buildings which 
 you will enter will always fill with creepy atmosphere too. There will be blood everywhere; you 
 will hear some creepy sounds now and then, that makes you jump. (WellI did jump many times)
  
  The graphics is very good too. Sound effects are the best. The sounds are frightening sometimes. 
 And the voice-actors play their roles well. Especially James and Maria. James is the best in the 
 game with his dialogues and attitude. The monsters are here too. There are many types of monsters 
 in this game. And the most frightening monster which I thought was The Pyramid Head.
  
  The story is very good. James received a letter saying that her wife Mary is waiting for him in 
 his special place in Silent Hill. But is she really alive? Is Mary still living? Didnt she die 
 three years ago? Thats the mystery.
  
  Overall, this is a very neat horror game. It really does deserve a two thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edito24
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 14, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics are awesome. The collectors edition will even provide you with even higher 
 resolutions. Images and textures look crisp. Detail is very well done such as the decay on the 
 walls, rusty old metal, abandoned hospital. The 'movie-like' cut scenes are awesome!!! Sound: This 
 is one of SH2's strengths. I recommend to play this with your speakers turned up or head phones 
 for a more immersive experience. In a dark corridor you will hear footsteps or a growl. The static 
 on your radio will warn you of the UNSEEN danger in your proximity.
  
  The atmosphere is unbelievable. The fog around you wont let your heart rate rest. The monsters 
 in SH2 are exactly that MONSTERS . Every monster is truly scary and freakish. Whether its the way 
 they walk or the way they crawl. A truly memorable character is Pyramid head (as seen on the SH 
 movie) .
  
  The story is out of this world. You don't need to have played the first one. You receive a letter 
 from your dearly departed Mary (but she is dead) so how can she send a letter? Thats where James 
 comes in to investigate and finds a freakin scary town. Very satisfying story and does not disappoint.
 
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is still good for its time and is very effective. Foot stomp is a classic finishing 
 move. A gamepad is a must to feel the force feedback of the steel pipe or your hand gun.
  
  Replayability is very high with various endings to please everyone with a few comedic endings to 
 give you some light in a very dark game.
  
  In conlusion: this game is the best in the series (SH3 trails behind closely) no wonder Silent 
 Hill 5 will revert back to various aspects of SH2's gameplay. This is a 'must have' for a fan of 
 the series or someone who just wants a memorable horror game that throws you into the drivers seat 
 and makes you crash! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deiviuxs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This game has the best story I have ever seen in the video games. I always remember this game and 
 I always want to play it again.
  This game awesome and it will such you into it right away!
  I never though that games could be 
 so sad and they could be so realistic. This game is like a movie but even better.
  It has that horrible atmosphere everywhere and the monsters are not just some strange and stupid 
 creatures but they also have their own past.
  Every corner and every place in the game is so realistic that you will think that you are not playing 
 a game anymore, you are in it.
  There are no words to explain this game.
  The best thing to do, is to play it by yourself. Everyone should play this game and it does not 
 matter if you like scary games or not because this game is not about scariness, it's about life 
 and human feelings.
  Silent Hill 2 is the best Silent Hill game ever and also it is one of the best games ever created! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RussianYulia17
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill 2 is the best game I've ever played. This is not the same as saying it is my favorite, 
 although it is certainly one of my top ten of all time.
  This is the only game aside from the original Silent Hill which I was able to take completely seriously 
 from beginning to end, which thoroughly immersed me in its impeccable storyline, and which can 
 be called a true work of art. It is also one of only two games (and no films) which have ever made 
 me cry. First of all, I take my hat off to the producers for resisting the urge to make any of 
 the game hammy or tongue-in-cheek (like all of the Resident Evil series) , and for keeping any semblance 
 of comic relief well away from their product. Nothing ruins a project- be it a film, a book, or 
 a video game- faster than comic relief. It has been said that the controls are unresponsive, and 
 much has been written about the old-fashioned Resident Evil -style control scheme itself that is 
 less than glowing. It is only a personal preference, but in a game like this, where the emphasis 
 is on moving slowly and carefully, this system (where up is forward, down is backward, etc) is 
 superior to the Metal Gear-style scheme which shifts with the camera. I had no issues with the 
 response time but, like the main character's lack of firearms proficiency, I think it only adds 
 to the impression of a frightened, amateur avatar. I cannot say whether this was Konami's intention, 
 but the effect is a good one, nonetheless.
  Secondly, there is no shortage of moving and mind-bending material here to satisfy any number of 
 plot theorists. I have my own thoughts, as will anyone else who plays. But here, unlike so many 
 other products which claim to be artistically open-ended , there is enough of a skeleton provided 
 to string a believable theory across. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  I don't understand how anyone who even bothered to play Silent Hill 2 or any of the Silent Hill 
 series to have just average comments on one of the greatest horror survival games in history. Yes, 
 it has a weird non-Hollywoodish plot that wouldn't satisfy any Evil Dead fans, but guess what, 
 this is what the Japs are great at. Horror movies. The Jap horror storylines always have poetic 
 if non-sensical undertones, and the Silent Hill series further justify the genre. Graphics and 
 are up-to-date at the time of release, no complaints. The sound is the one that drives you mad 
 (into playing on) ! It has one of the best sound design along with the soundtrack that defines the 
 atmosphere and mood. If you don't feel visually intrigued by the game, you will certainly be freaked 
 out by the sound work here. It's twisted enough to make you whimper with thrill when playing alone 
 in the house even in broad daylight. That's how good it is. Believe me, if you still can find this 
 game, try it, it turned my nerdy world of computer gaming around! You won't be disappointed.
  
  King Lim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  Silent Hill could never disappoint, can not be compared to other games only with the games in the 
 series and can not change. Silent Hill is art, and it's becoming more and more representative. 
 The crew who developed this game are brilliant especially Akira Yamaoka with his special effects 
 and sondtrack.
  
  Silent Hill 2, in my opinion is the best in the series because it's somehow romantic... to search 
 your wife although she's dead and even more... ammm i'll be a spoiler so i won't tell, play it and 
 you'll see.
  
  The graphics are great considering the release date, the sounds (as usual) exceptional. This is 
 an game that could be played anytime, you don't have to begin with the first release and end with 
 the last one (like Silent Hill and Silent Hill 3) , it has it's own story as well as Silent Hill 
 4 (The Room) .
  
  The atmosphere in this game is more anemic and sad, searching for the beloved one , finding clues 
 that, in the end, reveals something terrible, something you never believed could happen, makes 
 out of the game a masterpiece.
  
  So if you don't like survival horror, what are you doing reading these reviews? and by any chance 
 my reviews regarding Silent Hill had convinced you to play it then i'm glad that my English is 
 not too bad.
  
  Ok, so , play it, you won't regret it, the atmosphere, the graphics, the sounds, the game play, 
 the characters and last but not least the story... hard to describe with words.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scape45273
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  As a game Silent hill 2 is not that great as there isn't a whole lot of action and its all a bit 
 wierd. But as an experience it is amazing. The atmosphere in this game is incredible with one of 
 the best mixtures of memorable visuals and emotional music. I personally don't consider Silent 
 hill 2 a game its more of a work of art that only people who really think deeply into things will 
 truly understand.
  
  Some questions.
  Did Mary write the letter to james or did he imagine the writing all along.
  Is Maria real or 
 is she a representation of James's thoughts.
  Think about what James says just before he fights the 2 Pyramid heads.
  
  I personally have 
 completed this game more than 20 times as it only takes about 1 and a half hours and its more like 
 watching a film than playing a game.
  
  There is a lot more to this game than meets the eye and for that it is one of the greatest things 
 I have seen and heard in my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 2, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This is my second Silent Hill game and while I think i liked the third one a little more this one 
 is still a good game. The controls for the silent hill series obviously take alot of getting use 
 to and i had to readjust the controls before i could play the game. The reason I didnt like this 
 one as much as the characters seemed strange in it like the eddie dude just kept poppin up wherever 
 you go. The main reason is the voice acting though which is pretty bad at parts. The graphics in 
 this game are still very good for the time it was released in and still holds up today. The characters 
 are all done pretty realisticly although im not sure why black lines appeared on there faces when 
 they were talking n such. The game like the third allows you to set the difficulty of the combat 
 and the puzzles. I played the game on easy fighting and normal puzzles and the games monsters didnt 
 give me any problem at all and was extremely easy and most of the puzzles i got through without 
 much trouble problary because i knew what to expect after playing the third one. The games story 
 is pretty good idea actually and they did do alot with what they had. Overall i would recommend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrxdemix
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 4, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I can be called a Silent Hill fan. I got the original game within 2 months of it's released and 
 was shocked at how immersive it was. It was a great change from the cheap scare tactics of Resident 
 Evil. The story kept me involved and I couldn't stop playing till I figured it out. This game is 
 no different. Silent Hill 2 has a story that will keep you trying to figure it out from the get-go.
 
  
  The first thing I noticed and was happy about was the overall gameplay. It still had the inventory 
 menu, map, combat and city nearly the same as SH1. They updated it and tweaked it to make it more 
 accessible and more up to date. The SH feel itself is the best I have seen of the genre. The way 
 the camera moves and hides things from you makes even the smallest thing such as walking down a 
 dark hallway a story of it's own.
  
  The graphics truly were quite amazing at the time. The Playstation 2 had just came out recently 
 and they made sure to use as much of the power of the system as they could. The lighting effects, 
 colors and dark look of the game is something that is incredibly important for setting the vibe 
 of a Silent Hill. One of my gripes are the cut-scenes. For some reason they were hard to watch 
 because the voice acting and movement was very corny. It really ruined the mood of the game.
  
  As in any other Silent Hill, the audio is top-notch. They go out of their way to deliver ambiance 
 and music that will in itself keep you scared throughout the game. The audio, in my opinion, is 
 the most important thing to ensuring an incredibly scary feel to every single room. That leads 
 to my second gripe. Too much environment and not enough scare. This game seemed to have not enough 
 actual scare to it. They seemed to try and let the audio and environments do the work on it's own. 
 There wasn't a time in this game where I actually had my heart start pounding.
  
  I can honestly say that the story itself isn't too shabby. There are multiple different endings 
 that are influenced by decisions and actions you make throughout the game. The ending I got when 
 I beat it wasn't exactly the most exciting, but it did help answer all of the questions I had throughout 
 the game, as it was quite a maze. Most people will argue that the story is confusing and broken, 
 I would say otherwise. The whole Silent Hill series basically gives you a very complex story and 
 slowly builds character development and by the end you know what was going on. It's really a psychological 
 thriller that you wont experience in any other game series.
  
  I personally love the Silent Hill series almost as much as the Final Fantasy series, but this is 
 the worst of the current four in my honest opinion. There isn't enough scare to actually support 
 the demonic-like environments that the city holds. The whole story is quite interesting as well, 
 but I am not much of a fan of love stories. For any person who loves Silent Hill, you want to play 
 this one but don't expect as many scary things that the other 3 have. Overall it's a fun game, 
 an incredibly scary environment, and a story that you wont forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relset
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Before I play this game I say that never will be a horror game as good as resident evil, but after 
 a few minutes of gameplay I say that this is a very good game. Other say that this game is not 
 scary, but I can say that Silent Hill 2 scared me near to death, it scares the hell out of me. 
 It`s atmosphere it`s simply a masterpiece. The only bad thing about theese horror games is that 
 I don`t have patient to finish them a second time.
  Be careful when you play this game make sure that you have many pants near you to change the wasted 
 one :) I can say nothing else than this is the most scary game I played!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AINISA
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 19, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  My oppinion is that this is one of the best horror games to date. the silent hill
  series have got alot of critisism over the years about bad controls and bad storyline, but dont 
 let that fool you, if youre looking for a horror game, you need look no further.
  
  This story is deeply touching, because beside the fact it happens in a surreal horror world, the 
 core of the tale is tragically real. Love your wife, love your girlfriend the most you can, one 
 day she'll die. A thousand living deads are less dire to face than a single loving dead.
  
  The combination of story, horror and game mechanics make this game a classic horror/adventure game. 
 Definitely better than the plot and story of the Resident Evil series. 
  
  I giw 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lompir
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 27, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  My oppinion is that this is one of the best horror games to date. the silent hill
  series have got alot of critisism over the years about bad controls and bad storyline, but dont 
 let that fool you, if youre looking for a horror game, you need look no further.
  
  Gameplay: the game have a very slow pace, but takes up for it later in
  the game, overrall a 
 8.
  
  Graphics: the game actually look very good to todays standards, the models
  are very detailed, and the surroundings look really good (in particular 
  the hospital and underground 
 prison will scare the heck out of you)
  overrall a 9.
  
  Sound: the scores are perfect, it makes you start the game just to hear the 
  music, and the 
 sounds are terrific, a few scares around to but im not 
  telling them, that would be a spoiler, overrall a 10.
  
  Value: a absolute must in your gaming 
 collection, at least horror fans!
  overrall a 10.
  
  (ps: to get full effect out of this game, lights off, doors closed, hopefully home alone) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woodlandboy22
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 24, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  The Silent Hill 2 game series has recieved a great deal of criticism over the years for having 
 clunky controls and bad story lines. Much of this is true... the PC controls are pretty beastly 
 and combat is sort of tricky, but once you get the hang of it, it's great. There's not much more 
 satisfying than blasting a zombie nurse with a shotgun at point blank range or playing ring around 
 the rosie with a club and a "poopie monster." The graphics are pretty good even by today's standards. 
 Some of the outdoor environments are atrocious, but the run down hospital and hotel are superb 
 looking. The sound is great too; what with the crackling of your radio and the scary sounds that 
 the monsters make. What's even better might be the lack of sound. Everything is always so quiet 
 and that makes you tense as hell. The story line is amazing as well. On the surface, it may seem 
 sort of lame, but if you take the time to delve really deeply into it, there's some incredible 
 exploration into the human condition. Konami leaves so many loose ends that you need to tie up 
 which is great fun. Overall Silent Hill 2 is one of the most superb games I've ever played. Although 
 it isn't particualrly scary, I'd definitley recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merchitO
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I have been haunted by Silent Hill 2 for many days. And now that the game is finished I feel like 
 I am back from a far away trip, or rather from the depth of a long fever.
  
  Emotionally, it's a success. The story strikes straight to your heart. As a game, it is also excellent, 
 although the control system is quite awkward. Camera angles are sometimes infuriating, especially 
 when you fight an opponent you can not see. But it does not really matter. The story and atmosphere 
 make it up for those little flaws.
  
  This story is deeply touching, because beside the fact it happens in a surreal horror world, the 
 core of the tale is tragically real. Love your wife, love your girlfriend the most you can, one 
 day she'll die. A thousand living deads are less dire to face than a single loving dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 7, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Despite a rather clumsy control scheme for the keyboard, this game is more than playable.
  
  And play it you must. IMO the Silent Hill series has been grossly underestimated, which really 
 is a shame. Considering the mood, atmosphere and the story, which really has its strengths in the 
 rather mysterious plot (as in the other SH games)
  
  The combination of story, horror and game mechanics make this game a classic horror/adventure game. 
 Definitely better than the plot and story of the Resident Evil series. 
  
  Oh, and you might as well buy a gamepad for this game, as it is an obvious console port. And for 
 once I don't mind.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coelho5
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:45 am PT
Review:  Editado pela Konami, Sillent hill 2 apresenta-se como sendo um bom titulo para jogadores de terror 
 psicologico. A qualidade  boa com uma boa histria, um bom grafismo, boa jogabilidade, mas perde 
 pelo seu valor. Pois... perde pelo valor, perde por no ter "zombies" bem concebidos mas sim sacos 
 ambulantes com pouca inteligncia artificial e com erros de movimento, no apresentado grande qualidade. 
 No surge por isso grande medo ao enfrenta-los, at porque o jogo no  muito sombrio e faz com 
 que a qualidade dos Survival horror que tanto sucesso tivero (Resident Evil, Alone in the Dark,...) 
 no esteja presente neste titulo. Assim o jogo tem mais nome do que de "realidade". Anda-se em 
 prdios com boa iluminao e com algum nevoeiro, vendo-se algum sangue no cho. Deste titulo, pormenores 
 arrepiantes, talvez... as sombras, mas mesmo assim como survival horror deixa um pouco a desejar... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Author_1990
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2005 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill is one of the best horror games out there, and also has the best sounds and stories. 
 The game lets you explore Silent Hill, an eerie town that is monster infested. Not only will players 
 experience monsters, they will also experience Silent Hill being changed to an alternate world 
 where we see Silent Hill in a more eerie and disturbing way. And this is how Silent Hill is a very 
 nice game.
  
  In Silent Hill 2, we take control of James Sunderland, whose wife died 3 years ago prior to the 
 game's event. His wife died in a disease and surprisingly, 3 years after her death, James recieves 
 a letter telling her to come to Silent Hill. James, of course, investigates the town. But as he 
 explore the town, he realizes that there is something wrong with Silent Hill. It wasn't just the 
 fog, but it is monster infested. 
  
  So in this game, you basically control James as he explore the town and learn more secrets. The 
 gameplay has nothing innovative though, as you will feel something Resident Evil-ish about it. 
 Monsters are easy to kill in this game. Along the way, you will encounter puzzles. Some are hard, 
 and some are easy depending on the riddle mode. But it won't be much of a burden. Also, there is 
 a sub scenario, where you control Maria, somebody who looks like James's wife, Mary. Her scenario 
 is short though and can be beaten in less than hour, it also explains a little more of the mysterious 
 plot, although by now it is already known. The controls are also confusing but you will eventually 
 get used to it. Gameplay: 7
  
  It's graphics are a little better than the original. Fans who buy this game nad has played it in 
 the PS2 will notice this. 'nuff said. Graphics: 9
  
  In this game, the scores are impressive and so are the sounds. Sound: 10
  
  In the end, fans 
 will enjoy this game. I have tried the PS2 version and in my opinion, the PC version is just better. 
 It's extras, a new ending (So now there are 6 endings, am I correct?) and it's short sub scenario 
 are worth it. This game is just awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilo_rws
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 12, 2004 4:24 am PT
Review:  Silent Hill 2 is not a Resident Evil clone. While RE focus on the action and the fate of a zombie-infested 
 town, SH2 focus on the psychological horror, the dark atmosphere and... the fog.
  
  Silent Hill 2 doesn't have to do anything with SH1 or 3. Your alter-ego, James Sunderland, goes 
 to Silent Hill after reading a letter that arrived from his dead wife. What are you doing there 
 if Mary died three years ago? Is this real or just a hoax? Some of the questions you'll ask to 
 yourself.
  
  One of the greatest things of SH2 (if not the best) is its storyline. It's interesting in how many 
 ways you can interpret it. It keeps you hooked 'till the end, and it makes you want to finish the 
 game with all of its endings.
  
  Second: the graphics. The motion captured animations are the best ones around (excluding SH3) . 
 Everything is so well detailed. The dynamic lightning of the flashlight is also awesome, you see 
 how the shadows of objects and monsters reflect so cool on the walls and the floor.
  
  The atmosphere is also a strong point. Everything is so dark, you sometimes step before disturbing 
 suprises, even it most of the time it's too repetitive.
  The more you advance through the game the more things start to get twisted and confusing.
  
 
  Sound is well done. The soundtrack, when it sounds off, its really envolving. The sound effects, 
 especially the monsters' are great and add to the game the stay-away-from-me feeling.
  
  The puzzles are sometimes "stupid". They don't have anything to do with the game. But most of them 
 are well done and can give you more than one headache.
  
  Not to mention the game's weakness: the camera angle. It's simply awful.
  
  PC gamers who like 
 suspense and adventure will find Silent Hill 2 a great game. Highly recommended for gamers looking 
 for a solid storyline, graphics, puzzles, and fog!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineComedy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 10, 2004 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with this: this is one of the top three games stories I've ever encountered, and this 
 is one of the greatest injustices in GS history when it comes to its score. The graphics are very 
 good, the sound is good, the voice acting average but enought to get you in the game. The only 
 thing that Konami didn't learned yet is how to control the character in a more confortable way, 
 but really it can't spoil the fun and excitement of playing this game. I recommend to anyone who 
 loved the old school adventure games and anyone who likes atmosphere games, because this game simply 
 drags you in and doesn't let you go till the end. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sidvic
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 31, 2003 8:41 am PT
Review:  A good dream gone bad. Silent hill 2 was a game I looked foward to playing. Seeing that the first 
 one was very good and filled with b-movie atmosphere. Turn off the lights and kiss three to four 
 hours of you life goodbye. The people at Konami once again made a game rich in atmospere and sound. 
 Giving you a feeling on being alone in a deserted town of Silent Hill. Everything is there to make 
 your eyes pop open and take in the experience. It has swirling fog that moves around as you run 
 through the town. Monsters in the game will give you the creeps, like the whored up dead rotting 
 nurses that try to cave your skull in.
  Unfortunatetly, that's where they stopped putting thier heart and soul into the game. The storyline 
 is some what intersting in a twilight zone of a way. The downward fall comes in the form of game 
 play. It simply is not all that demanding or compelling. As I was running around with my pistol 
 equipped in the lush environment of Silent Hill I asked myself on more than one occasion, when 
 will this game suck me in? will it suck me in? what other game do I have to play? I don't know 
 what you people look for in a game. If it doesn't have good gameplay, I don't care how awsome it 
 looks. It's like looking at pictures.
  The bottem line is if a game doesn't pull me in, I lose sleep over it or forget where the last 
 six hours of my live have gone... it's not all that great. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
