-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Silent Storm
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/silentstorm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 26, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.3, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 678 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Encore Software, Inc.
Developer: Nival Interactive
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Jan 20, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Silent Storm is so over-the-top that the rough edges seem acceptable in the context of everything 
 else, and overall, surely this is a game whose strengths outweigh its weaknesses. 

  Just when you thought World War II was pretty played-out as a setting for computer games, along 
 comes Silent Storm, which has enough great qualities that it'll make you happily indulge in yet 
 another game that pits the Axis and Allies against each other. Occasionally in top-secret walking 
 tanks. It's primarily a turn-based strategy game of small-squad tactics, and it plays out like 
 an homage to the cult classic Jagged Alliance 2. Silent Storm features a surprisingly impressive 
 presentation, complete with realistic physics and some of the most destructible environments ever 
 seen in a game, which lead to some very exciting unscripted moments. The game offers a lot of interesting 
 tactical depth, to boot. Silent Storm is unfortunately a little too open-ended for its own good, 
 as the dynamic campaign structure is a little weak, and the game suffers from some noticeable balance 
 issues. However, the core gameplay is so cool that you'll probably be willing to forgive Silent 
 Storm's shortcomings.  

          A very slick presentation highlights this challenging and addictive turn-based game of 
 squad tactics.     

  Unfortunately, there's no multiplayer mode, but Silent Storm does feature two big campaigns -- one 
 for the Allies and one for the Axis -- that may be played in any order and at any of three levels 
 of difficulty. The fact that one of the difficulty settings is called "easy" is a bit misleading 
 because even at this setting, Silent Storm will provide a hearty challenge even for an experienced 
 squad-tactics gamer. In any case, the campaigns' stories aren't well told and primarily unravel 
 through the discovery of awkwardly written textual "clues." Regardless of which campaign you choose, 
 you'll get to select or create a main character, who can belong to one of several nationalities 
 and six different classes, like soldier, sniper, grenadier, and scout. After an introductory mission, 
 you'll get to select five additional squad members with whom you'll conduct a top secret campaign 
 throughout Europe and Asia.  

  Like Jagged Alliance 2 and games such as X-COM: UFO Defense, Silent Storm features role-playing 
 elements in addition to turn-based, tactical combat, which means your characters will gain experience 
 as they fight, find better weapons, learn new special abilities, and become more resilient to damage. 
 At any rate, while it's theoretically possible to replace killed team members with fresh recruits 
 back at base (it's game over if ever the main character dies, though) , this is the sort of game 
 that will have you saving and reloading your progress frequently. Not that there's anything wrong 
 with that. For what it's worth, the game is quite forgiving about character death on the easy and 
 normal settings -- characters who lose all their vitality points merely fall unconscious, and will 
 recover if extracted from the mission area.  

  The nuts and bolts of the gameplay are very interesting and represent the best part of the game, 
 along with the presentation. As in many turn-based games, your characters' actions here are governed 
 by abstract "action points." Things like running, aiming, firing, and crouching all require different 
 quantities of action points, and for the most part, this is an intuitive system. For instance, 
 it generally takes more action points for a sniper to draw a bead on an enemy than it does for 
 a soldier to squeeze off a pistol shot. Actually, Silent Storm features a number of different firing 
 modes, so in any given situation, you'll often need to weigh the relative advantages and disadvantages 
 of being able to take a number of relatively inaccurate "snap shots" versus using all of your remaining 
 action points for a single "careful shot." Furthermore, you can even attempt to cripple an opponent 
 by specifically aiming at his head, arms, or legs.  

          Don't expect your enemies to go easy on you. You'll face tons of powerful opponents in 
 superior numbers throughout Silent Storm.     

  Characters also have a great range of motion. They can run, walk, crawl, move while prone, and 
 they can also lock which way they're facing and can then move backward or side to side without 
 looking away. They can also hop over fences, they can leap out of first-story windows, and more. 
 In short, they can pretty much do everything you'd want them to be able to do, and excellent animations 
 make all these different actions look convincing. You'll need to be careful, though, because your 
 character's movement may be interrupted if he or she stumbles upon an enemy. Your characters can 
 interrupt enemy phases, too, so it's often strategic to conserve action points.  

  The game seamlessly switches between real-time and turn-based modes depending on whether or not 
 your characters are engaged in battle. All combat is turn-based, and the real-time mode is conveniently 
 there for when no opposition is present. The game's pacing would be excellent were it not for significantly 
 long AI phases both for enemies and any computer-controlled allied characters in the area. Turn-based 
 games, by their nature, are best suited for patient players, but Silent Storm definitely would 
 have had a better feel to it if its turns didn't take so long to resolve. It can be pretty frustrating 
 when your main character gets smoked right at the end of an enemy phase, thus forcing you to reload, 
 retry that part again, and hope the enemy misses the next time around. Partly because of the length 
 of the AI turns, and also because many of the maps are quite big and feature multistory buildings 
 that must be carefully explored, individual missions in Silent Storm can easily last a couple of 
 hours.     

  When the bullets and grenades are flying, that's when you'll notice Silent Storm's impressive physics 
 engine. Many action games these days use "rag-doll physics," an animation technology that dynamically 
 models how a body might get sent sprawling from a blast like a crash test dummy in a car commercial. 
 Silent Storm innovatively uses this same technique in the context of a turn-based strategy game, 
 and the results are outstanding. When characters are killed in this game, they don't necessarily 
 just keel over, but depending on how and where they are struck, you'll see them react differently. 
 For example, a well-placed sniper rifle round might blow an enemy clear through a window, down 
 a couple of stories, and through a crate. Plus, the body count mounts very high. Expect four-to-one 
 odds, or worse, in a given scenario. The AI isn't completely stupid, either, and it will often 
 try to flush you out or lie in ambush while waiting for you. The occasional civilian characters 
 behave rather strangely, though, and often won't do anything at all when caught in the middle of 
 a firefight.  

          The game's highly destructible environments are one of the main attractions. Bring plenty 
 of grenades and watch the fireworks!     

   Everything  in the game's environments is destructible. Open up with a machine gun indoors, and 
 you'll see wood splinter, glass shatter, and solid brick dislodge. Toss a high-explosive grenade 
 down a stairwell, and watch as the entire floor collapses out from under you. The damage modeling 
 is quite convincing, looks great, and has a real impact on gameplay. You'll see often silhouettes 
 representing characters that your squad can hear making a racket in the vicinity, so "pray-and-spray" 
 tactics can actually work very well. Why barge through the only doorway to engage a roomful of 
 bad guys when you can just rip the entire wall apart with high caliber rounds?  

  The physics are very impressive and add a lot to the game, though in what's perhaps an overly realistic 
 touch, a significant enough blast can destroy the part of a building you're trying to get to. If 
 your mission is to retrieve documents on the second floor of a building and a grenade destroys 
 the only staircase, well, it's time to restart that mission. Fortunately, this isn't a serious 
 problem -- it's common sense to avoid using high explosives indoors, right? Also, the campaign missions 
 are dynamically arranged depending on which clues you find in earlier missions. As a result, you 
 may find yourself in way over your head in a given scenario, so you may just have to restore a 
 saved game and try another one. Actually, though, Silent Storm doesn't profess to be a realistic 
 game, despite appearances. It has Jagged Alliance 2's goofy sensibility, which is most apparent 
 in the completely silly voice acting heard throughout the game, and your squad members and their 
 foes can normally withstand a surprising amount of gunfire before dying. In fact, the most dependable 
 way to kill a foe in a single turn is to go full-auto on him from relatively close range because 
 rifles and semiautomatic bursts won't always get the job done quickly.  

  Then there are the Panzerklein. For some reason, the game isn't very secretive about featuring 
 what are basically WWII-era robot suits -- walking tanks bristling with heavy firepower. They come 
 into play later in the campaigns, and while their inclusion in a WWII setting is at least an interesting 
 choice on the part of the game's designers, these things can have a way of being a bit  too  powerful. 
 Impervious to most weapons, the Panzerklein, cool-looking as they are, seem to disrupt the logical 
 progression of the game's action and seem like they're even stronger than they should be. You'd 
 better hope you have access to these deadly machines by the time you run into enemies using them. 
 Certainly, Silent Storm is a challenging game, but things like its occasional balance issues and 
 its lengthy turn-resolution times make some of its challenge more frustrating than rewarding. Nevertheless, 
 this is an open-ended game in which you're encouraged to experiment and try whatever crazy tactics 
 you can imagine, because they just might work.  

          Some aspects of Silent Storm are frustrating while others are much too cool to pass up. 
     

  Furthermore, Silent Storm looks remarkably good, especially for a turn-based game. In addition 
 to sporting a clean and functional interface, the game boasts a great 3D engine that renders surprisingly 
 detailed characters and environments, yet lets you blow everything completely to hell. The game 
 is surprisingly bloody given its Teen rating, and towards the end of a mission, it's not uncommon 
 to see piles of enemy bodies and stacks of their fallen weapons, helmets, and ammunition clips. 
 The action will slow down when the fur really starts flying, but since this is a turn-based game, 
 this slowing down is never really detrimental to the experience. Though the audio is dragged down 
 a bit by the repetitive and ridiculous voice work and dialogue (Enemies say things like, "Good 
 night... Mommy..." when they die) , the militaristic musical score is effective, and Silent Storm 
 sounds great overall, thanks to great weapon and environmental effects. It's particularly nerve-racking 
 when enemies open fire on one of your characters who's hiding behind cover, as you'll hear bullets 
 whizzing past and striking each object in the environment with a realistic crash or thud.  

  Silent Storm features two long, replayable campaigns, as well as an editor for creating your 
 own scenarios or customizing the game rules. Obvious enthusiasm went into this lively game, and 
 the result is simply much more exciting and visceral than what you might expect from turn-based 
 strategy -- though you'll wish more of the game's potential was tapped. Nevertheless, the game is 
 so over-the-top and open-ended that the balance issues and rough edges seem acceptable in the context 
 of everything else, and overall, surely this is a game whose strengths outweigh its weaknesses. 
 In particular, Silent Storm is a must-have for those who've enjoyed games like Jagged Alliance 
 2 in the past.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lakin0817
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Silent Storm is a big surprise in a small package. It has so many good elements that bring so much 
 flavor to the game. Lots of small things add realism which makes this turn-based, demi-RPG a hit 
 for me. 
  
  First, for a game that is working on being 5 years old, the graphics compete with some of todays 
 games. Maybe not Crysis, but certainly any other turned based game out there. The gun sounds are 
 far above average. There are hundreds of weapons to choose from, most with completely different 
 variables and stats. Gaining familiarity in your weapon of choice adds to its effectiveness. The 
 game mechanics are very in depth and detailed. There are many contributions to hit factors: cover, 
 weapon, skill, distance, day or night, familiarity, body position, just to name a few. Everything 
 is destructible. Can't see an enemy but hear them??? Grenade a wall !! Each weapon has their own 
 firing mode. Single shot, snap shot, aimed, short burst (more rounds increase with skill ) , long 
 burst, and sniper mode. Each with appropriate firing modes. You can even pick which body part you'd 
 like to obliterate. Critical damage is figured in there as well. So many more good mechanics to 
 this game, just name a few.
  
  The character customization is comparable to any good RPG. You can take a generic hero or create 
 your own. Including choice of facial features, uniforms, nationality, gender, voice, class, and 
 stats. After a brief intro mission, you get to choose a squad up to 5 additional members. All with 
 very detailed histories and personalities. It helped me to value my team members and it brings 
 that much more depth to the game. You and your team gain experience with each action during a mission. 
 Your stats, and skills all increase. Also you get additional skills via a skill tree. Picking how 
 you'd like each particular character to specialize. 
  
  Silent Storm is one of those games you can sit back, and take your time planning your actions in 
 combat. For example; strafe to a doorway, fire a short burst or two, strafe back and save a few 
 action points to blast anyone who comes through. Or, camp out atop a building, putting your choice 
 of action points in snipe, and mow those Nazi's down. This and so many other choices. Watching 
 the destructible environments and rag doll physics is very satisfying. With more damage and powerful 
 weapons they even increase their effects, proving your increased power. A few other good notes, 
 you can take random encounters to build more experience. Also, every usable item can drop on the 
 ground and be picked up. Arms, ammo, medical tools and supplies, engineering tools, grenades, etc. 
 
  
  Winding down to some cons. The skill tree choices are a bit jumbled. Not enough to bring the game 
 down, but it would have been nice for more appropriate choices that lead into similar skills. Sometimes 
 you have to choose an off the wall skill in order to get the skill you want. I only have about 
 30 hours in the game, but I hear later on you get sci-fi like armored suits. They are very powerful 
 and are supposed to bring down the balance of the game. You and your enemies can acquire them. 
 Sounds balanced to me. We'll see. Once you make your choices and they play out, there are some 
 long waits for the AI to finish theirs. A little hint, don't touch any controls when it starts, 
 that way it will zoom in on the individual actions and fights for your viewing pleasure. 
  
  With all that, Silent Storm is just a classic sleeper. A lot of work was clearly put into the 
 game and its mechanics. All of which I certainly enjoy and appreciate. If you are looking for a 
 strong Turn based demi-RPG, this is definitely the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zippythezip
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Hard to believe just how many people missed this game. Poor marketing in North America has left 
 what I believe to be one of the best games ever made in the gutter. You can still find a few copies 
 around in bargain bins etc. My advice would be to try it before its too hard to locate a copy. 
 Now if your not a turn based game fan then don't bother, if your stuck in that nothing beats XCOM 
 then also stay away. Now when well into the game comes the panzerkleins and they are not to everyones 
 liking. I like the change and a new level of fun.
  On the strategycore web site is a mod to remove them if you so wish.
  But the battles have so 
 much open strategy to them, guy behind a wall? then blast a hole right through it! Shoot down through 
 floors, blow the leaves of the trees every thing is destructible, not bad for a game 4 years old 
 and still looking good. This game deserves to be up there with the best, Jagged Alliance, Xcom 
 Fallout tactics etc. Only in my mind this is the best.
  Treat your self to a copy now, you wont be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentat76
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  Well, yes and no. But it is obvious it is a successful fresh blood for this genre.
  
  I was fascinated by graphics and the gameplay for highly destructible environment and its high 
 RPG value. Lets breakdown Pros &amp; Cons for a better comparison;
  
  PROS:
  + Characters earn experience points and they highly improve their skills as well as they earn Perks 
 just like in Fallout. JA never allowed perks.
  + You can choose both sides as Axis or Allies, which is a nice feature that most games force you 
 to play with only one side. (usually allies)
  + Character creation screen is a charmer.
  + Using explosives are great fun as everything around is highly destructible, that feature expands 
 your tactical options which jagged alliance never offered. especially when you fire upstairs from 
 downstairs with a heavy MG and watch your foe is shot and fall down in front of you because of 
 destroyed floor. Don't worry if you couldn't shoot the lizard, as there is a new hole on top of 
 you, you can still throw a grenade upstairs. You can even shoot the enemy behind walls, hedges 
 or windows, nothing is an obstacle for you. + The noise enemy creates is displayed as a silhouette, 
 visual representation of his whereabouts helps greatly to the player. JA only informed you of a 
 noise and its direction.
  + Wide variety of weaponry and later Sci-Fi options. That reminds me of Fallout, in which you start 
 with a junk pistol and could grab lasers as the game advances. Not everyone is happy with this 
 feature however, IMO this truly saves the game from monotony. (Especially the first encounter) 
 and anyone remembers mysterious mines in JA?
  + A base with lots of rooms, medical, armory, hangar etc. JA offered no base environment, just 
 an interface screen where you could arrange your squad.
  + Sounds are much better than JA, explosions and weapons sounds are more of a quality and realistic. 
 Music is ok, and characters talk ingame just like JA.
  + It is as addictive as JA.
  
  CONS:
  
  - Perks are nice, but half of them is weak and player choose to go for the same slots 
 most of the time. Not all the perks has the same attraction but costs same points, so they are 
 ignored forever.
  - The base could have offered much more options, almost no RPG elements in base. Even there is 
 no one else other than you there. - Weapons &amp; equipments are free, I wish there were some prestige 
 points required to get your hands on them. (Or at least XP points required)
  - There is no stamina, thus no need to rest for characters, JA required you the get rested before 
 battles. (until you got a vehicle)
  - Unrealistic travel times. in JA you had to walk a long way before desired locations. (until you 
 get a vehicle)
  - Poor voice over work, they could have been much better, much charismatic.
  - No side quests, 
 forced linear story line, no objective. (Free Arulco.. Yeah!)
  - Encounters are voluntary, you see them coming so if you don't want them, just get away from them.
 
  - No vehicles are available except panzerkliens (Sorry for Spoiler)
  - Long loading times, especially for those civilian turns! Why in earth i can not disable them 
 from the options menu?
  - Characters doesn't have personality in SS. In JA, in some cases characters complained from each 
 other and moreover they refused to work and quit. remember Fidel? Leave me alone.. i busy! .. BANG! 
 
  
  I have also played sentinels expansion pack, and i say, it is disappointing, and as a conclusion; 
 Silent Storm is definitely better.
  
  For comparison between JA and SS, Both games have similar playing characteristics, same addiction 
 and more or less similar tastes. SS beats JA by means of graphics, sound effects and fully destructible 
 environment as well as the Level Perks. On the other hand, JA has much better story, Non-linear 
 story allows Freedom of play, Characters have personalities which leads to humorous dialogs and 
 tons of equipments like night vision googles and merging items together makes JA much versatile. 
 Money earning necessity makes JA a deeper game with more NPC's to interact increases its RPG value 
 and I also have to mention JA has a higher overall replayability value.
  
  I think the winner here is JA, but that does not mean SS is a bad game. On the contrary, for a 
 different experience but with the same feeling, i do recommend for those who like this genre wheteher 
 you like JA or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 15, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  Think of chess for the moment. You have all the players lined up, each of them specialised in their 
 field. Planning ahead is absolutely imperative otherwise the end will arrive very soon. You think 
 and ponder of what the opposition is thinking as the queen is looming near. Silent Storm is just 
 that and quite possibly the ultimate strategy game since Jagged Alliance. However the game takes 
 a bold step further; destructible environs and a non-linear storyline make this game the chess 
 of strategy games.
  
  The premise of Silent Storm is based on an alternate history of WW2. Set in 1943 it's a dismal 
 time for Europe (and the rest of the world) . The war has been dragged on in it's forth year; the 
 Nazi's not showing any signs of giving up nor the allies gaining much advantage. On the 'game front' 
 scientists from both camps have either been kidnapped or simply 'disposed' off. Scientists are 
 after all the backbone to any war as the old saying goes 'The pen is mightier than the Sword'; 
 so a small band of soldiers have been assembled to look into this and you are their leader.
  
  Considering this is a hybrid RPG/Turn-based strategy, you can select a pre-rolled character 
 or customise your own. There are six types of soldiers to choose from being the soldier, grenadier, 
 scout, medic, sniper and engineer yet better still you can play either the allies or the axis as 
 there are no disadvantages in playing any side under three levels of difficulty. Just a note as 
 well; the allies does not consist of the All-American team as there is even an Australian solider 
 for hire and naturally I took him!
  
  Considering it's a strategy game determines the many choices you make and it's these choices that 
 this game really glow. The story is non-linear hence during the course of your missions new locations 
 will crop up throughout Europe. Of course the more clues you have discovered the more 'quests' 
 you will have in your disposal as there is no real need to follow a certain path. That said if 
 you locate another two locations (on the map marked as a question mark) choose what's suitable 
 for you; and we all love choices.
  
  The entire layout of the game is very simple to navigate. You don't have to spend countless hours 
 trying to work out what all the silly icons represent. All icons are at a decent size with recognisable 
 symbols and all have logical shortcuts for those keyboard fanatics (e. g. 'i' for inventory, 'r' 
 for reload) . It also sports great mouse/zooming control so you can plan your attack with extreme 
 precision.
  
  I have never seen so much graphical attention to detail in any game like this. All the buildings, 
 pastures, fences, cars, furniture and everything else are placed in a logical order. You can even 
 see nice wall-hangings; old-fashioned typewriters and even a coat hanger with... yes a hat on it. 
 Very nice. This and the wonderful destroy-everything-you-can-see engine makes this game so realistic 
 that you can almost feel it's the 1940s. On top that that, all the character's animations are designed 
 well. That said if you were shot in the leg and if you can zoom in close enough, there will be 
 blood stain on the legs; get shot in the head then there's blood splattered around the neck.
  
  Speaking of this engine, this game also promotes destructible environs and rag-doll effects. 
 Again, as realistic as the graphical engine mentioned above, all the environs can be 'altered' 
 in some way. Hear an enemy underneath you? Blow a hole through the floorboards; need to penetrate 
 the brick fortification? Send in the grenadier and blow it through. Collapse a section of a building? 
 Send in the engineer and plant dynamites. And the list goes on and on. Flexibility is the key to 
 success!
  
  What compliments the above are the sounds. From squeaky floorboards to birds chirping to the different 
 sounds of gunfire (and lasers - yes you have read correctly) again immerses you into the game. 
 The background soundtrack presents well to match the mood of the environs you are in so the music 
 doesn't seem to out-of-place for a moment. However I wish there were more tracks to play from.
 
  
  Considering all of the above, you may think it's the perfect game. Its strengths can also be its 
 weakness. The locations if not 'followed' correctly can confuse the story. At times I felt a little 
 lost in what's happening however considering the realism of this game I felt that this is life. 
 You are not going to get everything in a logical order. Also considering the environs are destructible 
 be very careful what has been blown otherwise that important clue that the next mission depends 
 on maybe just in that very same room. The RPG element, even though presents well with level enhancements 
 the skill-trees is nothing more than a joke. At first glance you may think the skills follow a 
 logical pattern by simply following the arrows down however this is not the case. There are pre-requisites 
 that not mentioned at all so many-a-times you just want to click on any skill just for the sake 
 of it. Lastly considering it's turned-based and this goes especially at the hard and impossible 
 difficulty level, the combat can take literally forever and will not switch to real-time unless 
 that all 'seen' enemies are disposed off.
  
  Silent Storm is after all a turned-based strategy game. Some considered to be too slow however 
 for me it's ideal. I like to sit down and pretty much plan all my movements and options before 
 executing them unlike some RTS games where it's mostly about clicking the right icons at the right 
 time for maximum effect. If you can relate to what I have said boot it up and enjoy; great physics, 
 great graphics and a great story. To those impatient ones, stay way clear of it. Try playing chess 
 first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacopper
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of turn-based games since the XCOM era. I enjoyed playing Silent Storm until... 
 well... until I got to the point when the mechanized armor suits appeared. Then I got really confused, 
 where in the world these impervious to almost any weapon suits come from??? The American army nowdays 
 would pay billions for such a technology to be used in Iraq. We're talking about 1940's here people!!! 
 What kind of twisted parallel dimension is this???!!! Anywho, after getting over the shock I did 
 continue to play the game and actually finished it playing as the Allies, but the charm of authentic 
 wartime game was all gone. It was yet another XCOM wannabe, a pretty good one, but still a wannabe.
 
  The game itself is turn-based (duh) . Each mission may take several hours to complete, especially 
 if you want all of your operatives to survive with least damage. The survival is not crucial, but 
 during each mission their various skills improve and they earn point that can be used to develop 
 new skills, such as disarm mines, taking aim in complete darkness, etc. 90% of weapons are the 
 ones from WWII era and each has its own pros and cons. You may develop a liking to some and never 
 use the others, it's completely up to you. Everything in the game is destructible. It's pretty 
 fun to completely demolish a building as long as that building doesn't contain your objective, 
 then you're stuck. So, you have to be careful what kind of explosives to use, when and where. The 
 game have some objectives to follow. I did follow them at first until the abovementioned culture 
 shock. Then I just blasted my way through levels occasionally picking up clues and hoping for the 
 best and actually made it to the end. I guess individuals with attention span of a 7-year-old can 
 make it also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuggeredRigs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  Simple concept. Form a team, fight against overwhemling odds, take apart the Nazi hordes.
  
  This game has amazing graphics / ragdoll / physics and a fully destructable environment. Something 
 that no other game has matched to date. Its basically an anything goes turn based fight to the 
 death. You can use cover, destroy whole buildings and generally turn the surrounding maps into 
 smoking piles of rubble.
  
  The only drawbacks are no multiplayer &amp; slow music. But this doesn't detract from a great game. 
 Its now the basis for another great series, Jagged Alliance 3. Also check out sentinels, its basically 
 and advanced version of silent storm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackazz17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 10, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  You have to hand it to a game developer to try making a turn-based action game. Think about it... 
 turn, based, action. Action games these days are gung-ho on packing as many big booms and massive 
 destruction before you even know what's going on. Not to say it's a bad thing, it gets your adrenaline 
 going, but when a game like Silent Storm comes along and can get your heart racing as fast as one 
 of the "modern" action games, you know you have a true gem of a game.
  
  As I feel I've annoyingly said before, this is a turn based game. For those who don't remember 
 what this genre exactly is, think of it like a board game. Make your move, then sit back and watch 
 your opponent make his move, not being able to jump in at any time to counter. It makes you choose 
 each and every action carefully, like making sure you can get into cover after firing so you're 
 not a sitting duck for the enemy's turn. Sound exciting? No, not really, but that's where this 
 game surprises you.
  
  The game is set during WWII, and does a pretty good job at first setting up old WWII era weapons 
 and settings. You'll fight through settings such as occupied towns with Germans hiding out in civilian 
 houses, train stations, air strips, and even some factory type settings which offer themselves 
 up to some frantic close quarters battles. It keeps up the charade of being strictly WWII era for 
 a fair portion of the game, before it switches into a weird kind of science fiction story line, 
 where the Germans are building these annihilating war machines, but it would be a shame to spoil 
 the details on these behemoths.
  
  You start the game customizing your character, where you can choose what he / she looks like, what 
 class he / she is (like sniper, demolitions, support, assault, the usual suspects) , then it will 
 drop you right into your first mission. The mission structure after that is supremely varied. You'll 
 be given a map of Europe and can choose where you can go to partake in a mission. Apart from the 
 absolutely critical story missions, you'll find that the hot spots that come up will be varied 
 in both their locations and the settings that they'll take place in. It really adds to the replay 
 value in the game, as you'll rarely be playing the same missions over and over. This can also, 
 however, be kind of confusing, as there's no indication as to where you're EXACTLY supposed to 
 go next. But if you're having fun playing through the missions, then you won't even really care 
 about the lack of structure.
  
  The battle system is fantastically modeled; simple to learn and use, yet surprisingly complex. 
 The actual turn-based structure will only kick in either when you spot an enemy soldier or an enemy 
 soldier spots you. Then each person in your six man team will be alloted a certain amount of Action 
 Points (AP) , depending on his / her level. All actions you do draw from this pool of AP, from moving 
 to shooting to changing your profile (standing, crouching, or prone) . Weapons also have different 
 firing modes that will change how many APs you use. For example, with a sniper rifle you can use 
 all APs you have left for that turn to concentrate on a shot, giving you much better accuracy. 
 Or, for the automatic weapons, instead of doing a short burst, which uses a small amount of AP, 
 you can choose to unload a full clip, using a large amount of AP, but giving you a better chance 
 to hit your target. In addition to different firing modes, you can also choose to do a "precision 
 hit." By pressing a button on your numberpad, you can choose to aim for the head for a quick kill, 
 a leg to slow down an opponent, or an arm to knock a weapon out of an opponents hand. You'll find 
 yourself using all of these features, especially as you get into the game and figure out everything 
 you can do. The "precision shots" are especially useful should an enemy sneak up on you and you 
 need to take him down in a turn or two.
  
  Once you use up the AP for each person in your team, it's time to sit back and watch the enemy 
 go through his turn. During this time, you have no control, save for interruption occasions, which 
 I'll explain in a bit. It can get kind of frustrating when an enemy does get the jump on you and 
 punishes you up close with a rifle, but it'll just get you thinking more defensively during your 
 turns and you'll be able to avoid a lot of those situations. As stated before, there are times 
 during the enemy's turn where you'll be able to interrupt them. If an enemy soldier walks into 
 one of your team members' line of sight, and that team member's position was unknown, you'll get 
 to spend any remaining APs from your previous turn to act upon the enemy. This is where strategy 
 comes in the game, as sometimes you may want to save some APs at the end of your turn in case you 
 do get to interrupt. A general strategy, for example, would be to place your big machine gunner 
 right outside a door, use the APs of a sniper or rifle man to lure enemy's out of the door, end 
 your turn, then as the enemy uses his turn to pile his soldiers out of the door, your machine gunner 
 will get the interruption and can unload his gun on the unsuspecting bunch. Of course, this is 
 just a simple example, and you'll have fun experimenting with this element of the game.
  
  Where Silent Storm really shines is in it's presentation values. The physics engine built into 
 the game leads to some really satisfying scenarios. Near everything in the game is destructable, 
 even entire buildings. Is a door locked and you need to get through to the target on the other 
 side? Simple, just blast the door to splinters. Is the door metal and unable to be shot through? 
 Blow a hole in the ceiling on the lower level of the building and climb up through the floor. Just 
 feeling adventurous? Place explosives in the corners of a house and bring the whole thing and everyone 
 in it down! The possibilities are wide and varied, and you could waste hours experimenting in a 
 single mission.
  
  The game could use polishing on a few elements, however. As stated before, the story-driven structure 
 is loose, which could or couldn't annoy you, its up to the personal player. Also, your team members' 
 line of sight can sometimes be buggy too, as sometimes you'll have to just maneuver around and 
 mess with your position to see an enemy that should be easily spotted right in front of you. And 
 since it takes APs to move around, this can get frustrating, but it's a minor flaw on what is otherwise 
 a fantastic game.
  
  I found this game for 20 bucks, and I would have paid 50 for it, easily. The elements of strategy 
 and just downright how much you can do in each level lends itself to a lot of replay value and 
 is just as fun the 10th time around as it is the first. The turn based structure is both old and 
 brand spankin' new at the same time, and a refreshing change from today's gun-crazy shooters. So 
 give it a try, you definately will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razerc
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  The game itself is good. 3D graphics, destructible environment and ragdolls. At first I thought 
 it was a plain WW2 special squad tactic game, but when I got far enough with the plot the sci-fi 
 portion came to spoil the immersion. The plasma ray gun I would've swallowed as a secret Nazi weapon, 
 but the PKs were too much. The nearly indestructible walking tanks added more difficulty and having 
 them on my side were a burden since they are so slow.
  
  Despite the PKs Silent Storm is very enjoyable package and highly addictive tactical game. With 
 some freedom of choice in missions and little touch of role playing the game doesn't get boring.
 
  
  If you like jagged alliance and/or Fallout Tactics you should definitely try this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pekenu_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test 
 Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test 
 Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test 
 Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test 
 Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test 
 Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test 
 Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test 
 Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test 
 Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test 
 Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test 
 Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test 
 Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test 
 Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test 
 Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test 
 Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test 
 Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test Test 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_angry_amish
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 19, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game on ebay after realizing a huge shipping discount I would recieve by adding it 
 to my checkout list... Wasn't expecting too much, to tell you the truth. 
  
  What I got was much more than I bargained for. Just when I thought I would never play another WWII 
 themed game again and actually enjoy it, this one comes along and changes my mind on the entire 
 concept. 
  
  The turn based system was a little different to get used to, especially considering most other 
 WWII games are either FPS or RTS, but in the end I found it to be just the right mix of challenging 
 and rewarding. 
  
  As a student of history, I found the diversity amoungst the soliders to be one of the most worthwhile 
 innovations made to this game. 
  
  Traditional WWII games will focus only on the major players from both sides. Allies will usually 
 stick to the U. S., U. K., and USSR, while the Axis will usually only consist of Germany, Italy, 
 and Japan. 
  
  Not in this game. There was a plethora of different nationalities to choose from when creating 
 your 6 man Squad (or I guess I should say, 6 PERSON squad, because there are also female soliders!) 
 
  
  Allies had Canada, France, India, and Yugoslavia, among others. Axis had Hungarians, Romanians, 
 Slovakians, even some Irish dissidents!
  
  While the premise of the story seemed a little far fetched and gimmicky, I found it to be along 
 the same lines as a graphic novel, like something that could have happened, but surely did not. 
 
  
  Overall, this game is worth playing for anyone who enjoys Turned based, WWII, or really just plain 
 GOOD games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomasonfa
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 11, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't get the respect that it deserves. I got this game for about $20 bucks, and I 
 quickly discovered all the physics that is calulated in the explosions. 
  
  You are able to create your player, they also progress in levels through exp. I loved this game 
 the first time I got a huge grenade; I was in the basement, and I set a boobytrap. I was able to 
 run outside. When the enemy opened the door, my PC started processing for a few seconds and BOOM 
 the build was blown in half!!! I was able to crawl into the hole that I was able to use for cover.
 
  
  It is turn base so if you aren't a fan of that stay away. I liked almost everything about this 
 game with the exception of when the item drop to the ground it is tough to find this tiny items.
 
  
  The story progresses well, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scruffer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 8, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  i love turn based games anyway but this game rocks on many levels.
  the graphics are above sufficient and add real flavour to an already immersive game
  the sound 
 effects are great. just wait until you shoot a german and he says "my goose is cooked" it rocks 
 :D
  theres JUST enough roleplaying elements to it tho more would be nice. you get to spend points on 
 gaining/improving special abilities and ur stats increase automatically with use :)
  random encounters are nice because they can give you valuable experience and insight into how the 
 game functions
  this is one of them rare games that you want to play "just one more turn" and minutes can easily 
 turn into hours :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abhichoke
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 12, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best turn-based game I ever played. The story was based on WWII. Nazis 
 and the Allies have to "co-op" to fight of the third side of the war, a faction of high-tech terrorists. 
 You choose to play one of the two sides and recruit your teammates. They have different jobs and 
 classes. Yor team and your friends can collect experience along the way and level your characters 
 up. The system is you'll have a base of operations in a region. You will "drop-in" into the enemy 
 territories and accomplish your missions. On the way you could choose to fight little groups of 
 the enemy. With arsenals at your disposal ranging from rifles and SMGs to robotic armours equipped 
 with laser guns, artillery, chaingun or even rockets! With ragdoll physics and detailed and destroyable 
 environments, you could render the whole place into a pile of rubble. So have fun with the "Best 
 Home-Wrecking game EVER!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclarkdog
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Basically, this game is just a classic turned-based strategy - one of the best ever. It's one of 
 the few games that I've played more the once. In fact, I'm playing it again right now. I've found 
 that there are several different approaches to playing this game, adding to the replayability. 
 
  
  Silent Storm at it's core is a turned-based and squad-based strategy, but it also adds elements 
 of role-playing, as inventory is important and your characters improve dramatically over the life 
 of the game in attributes/skills - there is even a skill tree. Nival further enhances the the role-playing 
 aspect in the expansion Sentinels and the sequel Hammer & Sickle. H&S is really more of a sequel 
 or extension of Sentinels. Both of those games are excellent too, even though H&S got dogged by 
 critics - it's just misunderstood.
  
  Silent Storm is very challenging, but with the TBS aspect one can sit back and plan out their moves. 
 I love this style and hope to see it in more non-fantasy based gaming. The positives are many in 
 this game - there are virtually no flaws. Graphics, sound, gameplay are all good. The fully destructable 
 environments were somewhat unique at the time though we are seeing that more in recent games. The 
 destructable environments are important and add to the variety of choices/decisoins one makes in 
 achieving the mission objectives. And when I say fully destructable, I mean it - you can just about 
 blow up anything and there's plenty of firepower to do so.
  
  I'd say the one and only drawback in this game is the increasing sci-fi element introduced around 
 the midway point. The sci-fi element centers around the Panzerklein suits, an advanced military 
 suit and weaponry developed by Thor's Hammer, the terrorist group that you are fighting throughout 
 the game. Ultimately, your team gets a hold of this technology which you can use against the enemy. 
 However, one can make a decision whether or not to use these suits in a mission. A couple of the 
 later missions are virtually unwinnable without the suits, but it does affect the challenge in 
 the game dramatically. In my view, the Panzerklein is really neither good or bad, but basically 
 was not needed in the game. I was more than happy with the conventional warefare in the game which 
 is more than satisfying. I'm sure their are many out there that enjoyed playing the Panzerkleins 
 because they are cool, but a tad cumbersome at times.
  
  The game is certainly a good value. For one, the price came down a lot because the game was not 
 an initial success do to poor marketing. However, I do think it was more of a cult and international 
 success in the long run. In fact, Gamespot gave it the "Best Game No One Played" award in 2004. 
 The game is also a value because the replay value is tremendous.
  
  As for the story, it is very intriguing. Set in WWII, your group of highly trained ally soldiers 
 (or axis - your choice) are given a mission to hunt down an unkown terrorist group. Through the 
 over twenty mission or so, your team finds clues in the form of key NPCs and documents that pull 
 you deeper into the story and open up new areas (countries and site) on the map. You create a character 
 to play as yourself, plus a team of up to six soldiers. Your team can be made up of a soldier, 
 engineer, medic, sniper, scout and grenadier. I played with one of each, but others use a different 
 combination. The scout character is without a doubt one of the most important. Regardelss of "creating" 
 your own character, you really play all six the same way, so the created character was not really 
 necessary. I played all six as if they were me. The character you created though is always the 
 team leader, but his/her development is no different than the rest of the team.
  
  Another important note is that the Silent Storm engine is very demanding on the computer and GPU. 
 On an older computer I had trouble with performance until I was directed to some config tweaks 
 that did help a bit. I'm now playing the game on a new PC with a lot of juice and it runs great 
 maxed out. But keep this in mind if your PC is not up to date - you can customize the config file 
 directly to improve performance.
  
  In conclusion, this game is simply best of breed. If you are a fan of turn-based strategy and WWI 
 games then this game is a must. Heck, I'm not sure why anyone would not enjoy this game. I hope 
 Nival keeps this engine alive in more turn-based combat games with just enhancement to keep it 
 with the times as technology improves. i know they are using the engine for the upcoming **** game, 
 although it's more of a fantasy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  It would seem that most of the recent good games that make something new or new'ish have come from 
 Russia. Maybe that's one of the few countries that still have some innovation left and courage 
 to go public with it. Anyway, to the game itself.
  
  It's WW II. Your character (if you choose to make your own character) along with maximum of five 
 others are to go through series of different missions. Sadly, mostly the missions are quite simple 
 search&destroy's, so there isn't a whole lot variation on that part. Kinda the same goes for the 
 plot; there is one, but it isn't much to talk about really. The plot pretty much takes you to places 
 around Europe, to either kill or capture a person, retrieve information or something similar. It 
 all still involves killing lot of opponents along the way.
  
  The graphics are pretty much the best I've come accross in turn based squad-based strategy game. 
 It's fully 3D with pretty good quality, too. You can see most of the gear and stuff on your characters, 
 and it's possibly for example to identify the weapon your opponents and your own guys are holding. 
 This is a good thing, considering that you may want to kill the guy with the MG-42 first, instead 
 of wasting your ammo and turn for the guy who's holding MP40 (there's quite bit of difference between 
 those two, afterall) . Not only that, but I find it quite pleasing to see what my guys are wearing 
 and using.
  There's couple reasonably unique things in SS. They're not new in general, but rarely seen in this 
 kind of games. First of all, there's a simple ragdoll animation when the person dies, meaning that 
 if you shoot in the head, they will fall backwards etc. Physics aren't great, but they work good 
 enough for the add of realism. It's actually quite fun to see a guy fall down from a roof or balcony 
 when he gets "sniped out". Far more interesting than just... dying where he stands, at least.
  Another thing that kind of stands out in it's benefit, is the almost fully destructible enviroment. 
 Pretty much everything, besides the ground itself, can be destroyed with enough power. Some SMG's 
 are powerfull enough to shoot through walls and doors, while most machine guns go through like 
 butter. You know that there's a guy upstairs, but you can't get there without getting shot and 
 possibly killed? Not a real problem - just shoot a series of shots to the spot he's known to be 
 in, and you might actually kill him (or the floor just breaks a whole for you) . Same thing, but 
 the guy is one level lower than you? Toss a grenade and most likely you got yourself a hole. It's 
 actually nice that with enough power in your explosive, you can bring down most of the two-storied 
 house, if it doesn't go down all at once. This, however, may lead to situation where your comp 
 signs off the deal. More about this bit later.
  
  As I like to meddle with weaponry and other gear, SS is like... well I wouldn't say "heaven", but 
 something close to that idea. More weaponry comes available as you play, along with new grenades, 
 medical equipment, etc. And gladly there isn't usually The Best Weapon that suits for everyone, 
 but you have to choose between silentness and power. A scout is more usefull if he has silenced 
 SMG. A sniper, after couple of levels gained and certain skills acquired, is one-shot deadly even 
 with the silenced rifle. But on the other hand, a soldier with his machine gun is always handy 
 in most of the situations.
  One new (at least to me) thing that SS also presents, is the actual sniping. You get to spend turns 
 on aiming if you wish, just waiting for the perfect moment or whatever you like, and not just shoot 
 once every turn (you can still do that, but most likely with less accuracy) . This actually puts 
 'sniping' into 'sniping' in this kind of games. Small yet excellent feature, which I'd like to 
 see in many games of this type in the future.
  
  Sounds and music do their jobs, but aren't excellent. Music gets repetetive quite quickly, but 
 hasn't been annoying to myself yet. The firing noises of weapons are distinctive, so you won't 
 hear just one sound of shooting for SMG's, one for pistols and so forth, but most guns have their 
 more or less unique sound. Nothing great, but could be far worse.
  
  I personally found game mechanics work for me just fine when I played. That is, when they worked. 
 There has been issues with certain types of hardware (cannot remember with what, but most likely 
 a peak to the forums of the game will reveal more information) that wouldn't let the game run for 
 more than couple of minutes tops. Also some massive explosions have also crashed the game for some 
 people, but I personally haven't experienced this. I still get some hitches when a big apartment 
 explodes, though, but that only slows it down for a bit so the game can calculate the physique's. 
 A sacrifice I can make for the benefit of the game, since the physique's are excellent for the 
 genre.
  
  Only thing that kind of ruined the game for me, were the Panzerklein's. Bit after halfway through, 
 these mech-like prototypes come to the game, and they are quite hard to kill, to be honest. But, 
 with patience and some skill those get doable, but I never grew to like'em, not even when I got 
 some of those for myself to use. It could have been fun to have like, one PK for yourself and occasionally 
 meet one or two of'em against you, but getting like five at once in one mission... it can get bit 
 tricky, even if you'd killed everyone else already. Nevertheless, I played through the game, but 
 I still don't like'em. Thankfully, Silent Storm : Sentinels has tweaked'em a bit to be less-powerfully 
 armored but with equally destructive weaponry as before.
  
  Especially these days, when less-mainstream and innovative games come to be published, Silent Storm 
 is great addition to the genre. It isn't without it's flaws, but it's so far the best turn-based 
 squad-based tactical strategy game in 21st Century. I just wish similar games, like SS : Hammer 
 & Sickle, will prevail and make the genre even better. But before that happens, I shall spend one 
 more turn aiming to the head of the officer across the street. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikolajb
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 14, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  Silent Storm revives a genre that many of us feared died with the Jagged Alliance series. But the 
 game manages to prove that turn-based tactical shooters still have a place in today's world of 
 gaming.
  
  Old fans of Jagged Alliance and the X-Com series should feel right at home with this game, as the 
 gameplay feels like an updated version of these games. With some distinctive improvements, though: 
 First of all, the graphics are much better with more detailed worlds and characters. Also, you'll 
 find a (more) destructible objects: Shoot through wooden doors, bushes, etc. Also, the game awards 
 you for sticking to a single weapon as opposed to constantly swapping between five different guns 
 - a nice change that needs some tweaking, though.
  
  Another nice addition is the Diablo-inspired skill-tree which allows you to distribute experience 
 points on improving your characters. This helps give the game a role-playing feel, although the 
 characters are colourless and you never have the same affection for them as in - sorry about repeating 
 myself - Jagged Alliance.
  
  The early part of the game is challenging without being impossible. Rush blindly, and you'll get 
 punished, even against weaker enemies. However, the balancing goes down the drain when the Panzerkleins 
 start showing up. Suddenly, you'll become a practically indestructible walking tank that only other 
 panzerkleins can hurt. While at first it's fun trying to lay traps to defeat the enemy, it slowly 
 gets annoying, and human opponents are no longer a threat.
  
  All in all, the game is a fresh breeze from the past, but you may end up enjoying old memories 
 from playing JA2 rather than enjoying the game itself. Personally, I kept thinking "Since the game 
 is moddable, could I turn this into Jagged Alliance 3?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cesarjose1979
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 16, 2005 11:53 pm PT
Review:  When I first stated playing this game I was hooked... for hours I played just randomly fighting 
 enemies that showed up on the map screen. Then I decided to do some of the mission... eventually 
 I faced some enemy soldiers that looked like where inside a walking tank.... the fun I was having 
 was from that moment was over... 
  
  nothing worst then a when a game takes you in under false pretences... making believe it was a 
 WWII era turn base strategy and then at the last moment takes it away for some sci-fi bs... the 
 makers destroyed this gaming experience for me... how I wish now that I could get my money back...
 
  
  oh well... back to playing Jagged Alliance still the king of turn base strategy in my book :-  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MindlessTeef
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 31, 2005 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Jagged Alliance, X-Com and Fallout Tactics were the only good turn based tactical strategy games 
 for a long time. Fans of genre were starved for a new game that could compare to any of these three 
 titles. UFO Aftermath, a tribute to X-Com, didnt come close and just when it started looking like 
 we will never see another descent TB-TS game again, along game Silent Storm
  
  S2 uses all the technologies, like ragdoll physics, that one would normally get in a FPS. S2s 
 engine works perfectly for the game and adds never before seen visuals to the genre and completely 
 new tactical options. The fact that you can determine the position of enemys by the sound they 
 make combined with the ability to shoot trough walls and doors or even completely destroying them, 
 makes for some seriously brilliant game play. 
  
  S2 was an instant classic and its add-on, Silent Storm Sentinels or S3 for short, only enhances 
 an already near-perfect game. Silent Storm is a must-have game for those of us that loved JA, X-Com 
 and Fallout Tactics. 
  
  ... keep a eye out for Hammer & Sickle...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: concealedview
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 15, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  If you like the turned based strategy genre, you'll probably love this game.
  
  Gameplay- This game is very fun to play but there are a couple of things I just couldn't warm up 
 to.
  The game is a turned based strategy game like 'X-Com' in which you take turns in combat. Silent 
 Storm makes good use of this system using AP (action points) which determines the amount of actions 
 you can take in a turn with each character. Depending on your characters classes they will have 
 either more or less AP, also each class and character has their own skill tree similar to Diablo 
 2 so the game has RPG elements when building up your characters. This all makes the game feel deep 
 and meaningful.
  When you're actually playing the game it goes at a pretty quick and action filled pace until your 
 turn is over. Then you would probably have to wait 2 minutes for the enemies' turn. There is no 
 way to pass or speed up the enemies' turn but their turns are played out the way it would look 
 if you did it so it's not boring to actually watch what they're doing. 
  The problem some might have is that this is a very hardcore game. Since I wasn't used to turn-based 
 strategy games it took me quite a while to understand everything in the game. If you give this 
 game enough time though you'll be rewarded with a very deep combat system that is enjoyable.
  
  Graphics- The graphics engine that this game uses is amazing. It has ragdoll physics which 
 is a sight to see when you kill enemies. If you shoot a guy off a building it will look like a 
 guy falling from a building and it will probably look different each time. Also, each bullet is 
 actually a bullet and can go in any direction.
  
  Sound- The sound effects in this game are great and the guns and explosives sound perfect. The 
 voice acting is very odd but it still got a laugh out of me every once in a while so it was pretty 
 ok.
  
  Value- This game has a lot of replay value if you don't mind its annoyances because there are random 
 battles through the map and there are two long campaigns for axis and allies.
  
  All in all you must get this game if you like the genre. If you don't then you should still give 
 it a try you might like it. But if you don't want to take the chance go for something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndnjedi
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 4, 2005 9:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Straight-forward, turned-based, simple story, no character development, tactical. 
 If you like X-Com, then go pick this up immediately! There are very few annoying features of the 
 game, except that in harder settings you can't save. Which, if you're married, is a real pain when 
 you've been summoned numerous times and can't get away from the screen!
  
  Weapons? TONS. Plus lots of "character classes." I really enjoy the Scout and Sniper classes... you 
 can do a lot with those two classes. Such as... need to get in a door or simply blow a wall open 
 to get clear shots? No prob. Throw down some dynamite, back up, then shoot it from a distance w/sniper.
 
  
  Environments are FULLY destructible. Cool feature is you "hear" someone on another level, well 
 just let 'em have it with the MG. Nothing more satisfying than blowing a hole in the floor, then 
 letting the frag grenades fly!
  
  Great game... nothing cutting edge, but extremely enjoyable. Pay attention to the details! Pictures 
 on walls, candles on hearths, even the vegetation looks good!
  
  NDNJedi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfmanstout
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 28, 2005 5:09 am PT
Review:  If you have been looking for a suitable turn-based tactical combat game and are sick of replaying 
 X-Com and Final Fantasy Tactics, your search ends here.
  
  Silent Storm's most endearing feature is that it rewards creativity and caution. The turn-based 
 setup allows unlimited time to plan and execute complicated maneuvers yet maintains a decent pace. 
 You will feel like a hero when your sneaky plan to hit the enemy from behind works beautifully 
 and will beat your head in to wall when your head-on assault is cut down by machine gun fire. Considering 
 the simply inhumane odds against you (most missions see you outnumbered by 3:1, if not more) , careful 
 planning is an absolute must. The beauty of the game is that it, unlike many other games that claim 
 to support creative gameplay, does not make your alternatives plainly obvious. There is no big 
 neon sign that reads "take this approach, it's better," a feature that has turned far too many 
 "thinking man's games" into standard linear affairs. Clever use of the fully destructible terrain 
 and your squad's strengths will leave you with victory and, more importantly, a heartfelt feeling 
 of satisfaction. The game features an experience-based skill tree/leveling system for characters 
 that is just as engaging and satisfying as the combat.
  
  Visually, Silent Storm is exactly where it needs to be. The game is rendered in zoomable full 3D, 
 allowing for comprehensive viewing of the terrain, which aids in planning a course of action. Explosion 
 effects are amazing and a little over the top, but they often cause such a strain on the video 
 card that they are not seen very smoothly. The game would benefit from having more smooth surfaces 
 and fewer jagged ones, but the games overall visual quality is commendable and its style fits the 
 game's dark and mysterious storyline, especially during night raids.
  
  The sounds of combat are very convincing and add much to the game's feel. Hearing a machine gun 
 open fire on your squad is a tense situation even without sound, but the sounds of stray MG rounds 
 ricocheting off of metal gates or shattering windows makes the tension almost unbearable at times. 
 Grenade sounds have an ample amount of beef to them and massive explosions are appropiately loud 
 and bass-heavy. The character speech is the sound departments weakest link. It is far too lighthearted 
 and as a result distracts from the tension and reality of the game.
  
  The game offers no multiplayer, but the two campaigns, one Axis and one Allies, are very long. 
 Although the mission maps are common, both sides will play each mission from a different position 
 as well as use different weapons. It also gives the player a chance to create a different type 
 of squad the second time around - the Axis campagin may be taken on with an explosives-heavy team 
 while the Allied one is give a more stealth and snipe angle. In addition to missions there are 
 "random encounters," which are strictly optional and mainly serve as a way to let your team gain 
 experience The point is, depsite its lack of multiplayer (which would be a phenmonal addition) 
 there is more than enough game here.
  
  Silent Storm definitely isn't for everyone. It is paced much slower than most other games and its 
 payoffs are rarely instantaneous. A patient and clever gamer will find plenty to like here though. 
 Engrossing, addictive, and an absolute joy to play, Silent Storm is akin to the most entertaining 
 game of chess you will ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr0wnage_PhD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2004 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Silent Storm shows us that turn based strategy games can still be great fun and are here to stay. 
 The gameplay is very similar to X-Com and Jagged Alliance. Silent Storm takes these type of games 
 to the next level with incredible physics, fully destructible environments, detailed graphics, 
 rpg elements and addictive gameplay.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great for a strategy game. Extremely detailed environments and characters. 
 You can zoom in very close and see all the fine detail in the game. The buildings and any structures 
 in the game are done very well and can are all destructible. The special effects for weapons and 
 explosions are done very well. This game engine is a little demanding so you may need a midrange 
 to high end PC to play it in all its glory.
  
  Sound: There are many different weapons and they all have original and realisitc sounds for each 
 one. The music is well done as are the explosion sounds. The only drawback in the sound is the 
 average voice over work, although there is a different voice for every possible character in the 
 game and some of the things they say are funny but some are annoying.
  
  Gameplay: Silent Storm plays out like Jagged Alliance did. You have turn points for each of your 
 characters that you get to use to move or fire your weapons or any other number of activities you 
 can do during your turn. After you are finished with your turn, usually after you used up all of 
 your move points, you end your turn and the enemy will take its turn in the same manner. The enemy 
 AI is excellent in Silent Storn and will give you quite a challenge. 
  
  Some of the better parts of the game come into play with the destructible environments, you can 
 blow up entire building, cars, telephone polls or any single thing you can see in the game. It 
 makes the world very realistic. The physics in the game make for some great ragdoll death animations, 
 for example you can give a headshot to an enemy soldier hiding out on a roof and watch get shot 
 backwards and fall off the roof tumbling to his death. The game is also very graphic as you can 
 really bloody up your enemy. There are also RPG type elements to the game. As your characters get 
 more experience in the field you can level them up in quite a few areas, for example you can make 
 your character see better at night or make them more stealthy, better doctors, better snipers it 
 is endless how you can progress your characters. There are a few character types you can reqruit 
 for your team such as Medics, Snipers, Soldiers, Engineers and Scouts. Each character type can 
 help you in different ways through out the game. It is a good idea to comprise your team with a 
 variety of classes.
  
  When you start the game you can play other as the Allies or Axis side in this WW2 era story. The 
 story is well done and fairly long. It should take you around 30 hours to play either side. Some 
 people don't like the Sci-Fi element added to the story which enters the story around 70% through. 
 They are called Panzerkliens and basically they are some secret researched walking robot suits 
 which are very powerful. You will get to use them in the game as does the enemy. There are mods 
 out there that allow you to take this element out of the game if you dont enjoy it. Another complaint 
 is the time it takes for the enemy to take its turn, there is also a mod out to speed up enemy 
 turns if you find that it takes to long for your tastes. Besides these two fixable setbacks to 
 the game, SIlent Storm is definetaly the best TBS game to come out since X-Com or Jagged Alliance. 
 The gameplay is just as addictive and the modern graphics and physics take it to the next level 
 in TBS games. Any strategy fan should add this to thier collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 29, 2004 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Silent Storm shares much in common with Jagged Alliance 2, and it even supasses that great game 
 with a fantastic all 3D engine where almost everything is destructible. Line of sight plays a major 
 role (as it should) and it works perfectly in Silent Storm. The levels are small-ish but very detailed 
 and most have buildings with multiple levels and many different vantage points. 
  
  But there are a few critical things lacking in Silent Storm that make it a bit dull by the middle 
 of the game. First, "hiding" in JA2 was a legitmate strategy, but in Slient Storm you simply enable 
 the "shadow" ability. This means you can hide in the middle of an open space in broad daylight 
 if your shadow ability is high enough. That's just dumb. Furthermore hiding in a dark corner does 
 not make you less visable to your enemies. Problem is your enemies can use the "shadow" ability 
 too. Suddenly an enemy will appear 1 foot away from you and blow you away because he was using 
 "shadow" ability. Its as annoying and cheap as it sounds.
  
  The other big fault is that the RPG elements of building your character are really under-whelming. 
 In Silent Storm you can choose special attributes and abilities as you level up, but these abilities 
 either have too much affect (they make the game way too easy) or too little impact (not worth the 
 effort of having them) . Luck plays too great a role in whether you see an enemy before he sees 
 you. I'm playing the add-on "Sentinels" now and I find that most of the faults are still in the 
 game. 
  
  I should also mention that the game plays pretty slowly as it thinks through the enemy and civilians' 
 turns. Ideally, I wish I could disable all innocent citizens in a level since that would speed 
 up the turn quite a bit. I like turn-based games, but this game takes a bit too long to play through 
 the turns. 
  
  Jagged Alliance 2 had faults also, but I enjoyed building those characters much more than the charaters 
 in Silent Storm. 
  
  The problem with Silent Storm is that there isn't enough depth to the game to keep you playing 
 past the middle part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: askme1now
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 4, 2004 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I'm an experienced turn-based tactics player. I loved Jagged Alliance 2 and even Fallout Tactics. 
 If you're a fan of the genre too, then you know a modern update is badly overdue (not just another 
 makeover, ala Jagged Alliance: Wildfire) , and you're hoping Silent Storm will be the one. You're 
 in for some disappointments.
  
  Silent Storm is beautiful (although I get lag with 1 gig RAM, 9800 Radeon Pro) . Rag-doll physics 
 and destructible environments are awesome. Sound is weak: music is too monotonous to like and too 
 invasive to ignore, and weapon sounds are very bland. Voices are silly, like Jagged Alliance, but 
 random, nonsensical, and repetitious, and thus dumb instead of funny, unlike JA.
  
  Gameplay has ups and downs. Some great improvements over JA, like cones of vision, improved sneaking 
 and melee, far more developed terrain. However, AI is weak: the soldiers don't respond to bodies 
 or to being shot if they can't see you. But if you are sneaking and they detect you, they will 
 come from all over the map (even the ones you'd just been shooting as they stood there) . The maps 
 are even smaller than JA's and a fraction of Fallout Tactics'.
  
  Roleplaying aspects are unbelievably weak. Yes, "stats increase with use," but due to a bug the 
 developers have resisted patching (they are holding it for the expansion pack) , soldiers left at 
 home actually increase stats far faster than the ones you just used for a mission, which takes 
 away all the fun of watching your guys grow. Also, specialty skills (e. g., medicine, traps, lockpicking, 
 etc.) are useless, because they don't increase fast enough. And you can't manually "practice" these 
 skills to usefulness because lockpicking/mining/etc. requires tools that are used up quickly (e. g., 
 5-use lockpick) .
  
  The storyline and gameworld are very weak. There is no discernable plot (not even an overall objective 
 like Jagged Alliances' "free Arulco") , no day/night cycle, no "sleep," no "capturing territory," 
 weapons are freely available back at base, enemy patrols roam the entire map (Germans patrolling 
 English soil during World War 2???) , no side quests, no persistent NPCs, not even persistent cities 
 (if you visit anywhere but your next mission on the map, it just shows a tiny patch of ground with 
 your tent, even if you'd had a mission in a city at that spot just a few minutes before) . The "random 
 encounters" (enemy patrols that appear on the world map) are voluntary and use very repetitive 
 maps. And the last missions of the game involve you discovering a secret weapon that basically 
 eliminates squad-level tactics and turns the game into a turn-based version of MechWarrior.
  
  Basically, download the demo, and you've seen Silent Storm at its best. If you really liked 
 the combat, and you think you can ignore its lack of RPG and world elements (just looking at it 
 as a bunch of turn-based squad battles strung together with no relation to each other) , you might 
 still buy this. Just know that most players have had to heavily modify the config files and use 
 cheats to make the game playable, and you really may have to buy the upcoming expansion pack to 
 get even the biggest flaws addressed. 
  
  You know what would have saved this game, by highlighting its strengths? Multiplayer. Too bad there 
 isn't any.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiny
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 28, 2004 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game. How do I describe this game? Easy: Worms + Call of Duty. Its basically a turn-based 
 strategy game a lot like Worms (based on the alltime classic Scorched Earth) . 
  
  But they add to that many elements that make it much more enjoyable than Worms and make this game 
 a "must play" game and contender for game of the year (IMHO) : 
  
  (1) 3D Isometric camera/view (Warcraft III essentially) . You can control the camera, change angles, 
 zoom in/out.
  (2) World War II theme. Does this ever get old? Thats right, you must destroy the Nazi menace. 
 This means guilt-free killing!
  (3) RPG elements; your group of 6 soldiers all have different professions, skills, experience levels, 
 etc., and they advance in skill as you proceed in the game. 
  (4) Ragdoll physics. Everything in the environments can be destroyed, including soldiers, civilians, 
 cars, buildings, signs, fences, trees, phone poles, lights can be shot out.
  
  Detractors would highlight the following flaws in the game: Enemy/Ally turns can take a LONG time; 
 Easy is too easy, while Hard doesn't let you save while you're in combat, so you can basically 
 play this game on "So Easy Its Pathetic" or "Im So Frustrated, Im Going to Kill My Computer" mode; 
 AI camera control leaves a lot to be desired. These guys should tweak the camera movements during 
 AI turns. Its often directly above and at a distance. You many times have no idea who is shooting 
 at who. Once you take over control of the AI camera, you control for rest of turn so be prepared 
 to race around the map trying to follow the battle; Plot? What plot? This game's plot is not that 
 easily discerned. You are looking for something being made, no wait, being researched. And there 
 are scientists and some other guys from some secret organization, or was it scientists from a secret 
 organization... who cares! Lets kill some Nazis!!! 'Nuf said.
  
  If you like Civilization, Worms Armaggedon, the RTS genre, Turn-Based genre, etc., then go get 
 this game and play it and love it and sleep with it at night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyRuS
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2004 9:41 am PT
Review:  It's simply the best strategy game I've ever played, you can't find anything like this you have 
 to BUY it!!! You can see the eyes' color of characters while playing the game. Graphics are really 
 what are shown in screenshots & maybe even better! I am a commandos fan but the third version really 
 sucks don't go anywhere buy the game & enjoy it!
  Everything is great from graphics to story & gameplay & one more: there is a good editor & it seems 
 that great mods will be added soon.
  My system spec.: P4 1700MHz, nVidia Geforce 4 Ti 4200,512 MGs of RAM & game runs perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyzz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2004 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Great game. I am truly enjoying the experience. I like turn based strategy games where you can 
 take the time to plan out the actions o your men. And I must admit there is nothing more rewarding 
 then filling some guy full of lead and watching him get thrusted thru the wall behind him. Yes 
 the rag doll physics in the game are cool! 
  
  Let me also tell you the game is not easy. I have gone thru a few scenarios and I have a tuff time. 
 The enemy AI is pretty good, not perfect, but pretty good.
  
  My only grief is the sound. The sound effects are cool. The bullets firing around sound very real. 
 The music though, well it sucks. It doesnt get you into the game. If you can handle weak music 
 I encourage you to give it a try.
  
  Try the demo and if you like it then get the game.
  
  Oh and be careful what you read in some reviews. I have a Pentium 4 2.4 Ghz and a decent video 
 card and the game runs great for me. Also I have a LCD monitor and the game works great in 1280*1024. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: allenw007
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 1, 2004 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Waste of 50 bucks!! Don't be fooled by the graphics in the screenshots, you won't get it to look 
 like that unless you have some major hardware. I have a 2.8 P4 (not celeron) , NVIDIA TI4600 (cost 
 me $350 last year) , 1 gig memory, and all the settings are on medium or low just to be able to 
 stand playing it. It also doesn't have 1280x1024 for those of us that LCD monitors which really 
 is inexcusable these days. Did they rush it out the door? Absolutely, no CD case here, just paper 
 sleeves. You can get this game for $19.99 in about 3 months. The sound is at best OK and you will 
 get tired of your guys saying the same thing over and over. But what will make you ill is the constant 
 "path not found" message while cliking on a spot that can easily be reached and then moving your 
 mouse a centimeter more to see your character move where you cliked the first time. Trust me, you 
 will be disappointed in the way this game not only looks but how it responds to your commands. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtrim1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 26, 2004 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I've played a lot of turn based strategy games before, and this one floats straight to the top 
 of my absolute "favs" list when it comes to this genre. Silent Storm is based heavily (but not 
 entirely) on a realistic WWII landscape where you have Nazi Germany trying desperately to take 
 over the world, and the allies who will do anything to stop them. The game focuses on one character 
 that you will control as your own, and whatever team you decide to put together to help you accomplish 
 your missions. The depth of character in this game is so massive you could spend a good hour just 
 piecing together your first team of soldiers. You are able to pick from a collection of about 30 
 or so pre-made characters ranging from gunners, to medics, to snipers, and engeneers suited to 
 picking locks and disarming mines. Each character has a full set of skills that determine his/her 
 abilities on the field, and as they make their way through missions, they will each accrue experience 
 and improve their skills in whatever they practice the most. This gives you unlimited ability to 
 fine tune your team to your personal specs. 
  
  Once you gather your team, you will take a mission and set out into the field. You are able to 
 move your characters around in real time, having them stand, crouch, go prone or run, and you even 
 have the ability to have them concentrate harder on hiding from the enemy. As soon as an aggressive 
 action is taken by either your team or the enemy, the game flips into turn based mode and each 
 character has action points based on their stats. Every action you make takes a certain amount 
 of points to complete, so there is a great amount of strategy in every turn managing your action 
 points. If you save some points, you will also have the chance to interrupt if an enemy comes into 
 your view while it is not your turn. there are different levels of aiming precision that take varying 
 amounts of action points based on their accuracy. Overall, the strategy involved in this game is 
 superb, and having the ability to take as much time as you need really allows you to immerse yourself 
 fully in the game as you plan your moves and run your options through your head.
  
  The 3d engine that the game is based on provides nearly limitless possibilities for your characters 
 to explore. everything exept for the ground itself is destructable in this game. Believe me, I've 
 tried to blow up everything, including the ground itself. the ground does recieve scars from bullets 
 and explosions, so it's pretty close to being destructable in that respect. But everything else 
 is fully destructable, and on varying levels as well. Shoot a few rounds into a wooden crate, you 
 will see pieces of wood splinter away, shoot some more and eventually you'll completely destroy 
 it. shoot a car a few times, it breaks down a little bit, shoot some more, it starts on fire, until 
 it finally blows up and is a burnt heap of metal. you can blow holes in walls and floors with just 
 about any weapon. Bullet trajectory and penetration is fully calculated. you can easily shoot through 
 several walls of a building to hit an enemy hidden inside, as long as you know they are there. 
 
  
  The graphics are clean, and detailed. and benifit greatly from anti-aliasing. One of the cooler 
 effects are the puffs of smoke that burst from the barrel of your weapons as you shoot. they look 
 very realistic. 
  
  The sound effects are nicely done, most of the guns have a realistic pop, but there are a few that 
 I've heard that have a less realistic effect to them. that takes a tiny bit away from the immersion 
 when you hear those go off, but not enough to bother me at all. the ricochet's and impacts on all 
 types of surfaces sound very very good. 
  
  My main complaint is that this game lacks any multiplayer. This game is very similar to (actaully 
 almost identical in it's gameplay) jagged alliance series, which did have multiplay capability. 
 I would have loved to be able to go against, or even cooperatively for that matter, with some friends 
 on lan or internet. 
  
  Outside of that, I can't complain about anything with this one. I absolutely recommend any of you 
 who are at all interested in WWII or strategy games to pick this one up ASAP!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Rommel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 26, 2004 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This Game is simply incredable it has its flaws in realism but its good dominates its bads. First 
 of all may I mention its total destructable enviorment such as ex: you walk up to a door hmmm its 
 locked.... you whip out panzerfaust/bazooka point it at the wall BOOOM! Well there the door or just 
 shoot the door till it break and walk in or use a nade blow the door off walk in windows can actually 
 be shot through you name it its destructable. This game stratedy as in cover and everything is 
 just amazingly realistic such as you can crouch behind a car and shoot over the hood avoiding shooting 
 the car but at the same time have cover its just so great! Interactivity IS AWSOME! NO QUESTIONS 
 all things are interactive the total destructivity given available to the player adds on to this 
 if there is a person such as a civilian and you dont feel mercillias during your raid of an building 
 simply sink one into the head. Which leads to what I like to call The Ragdoll Effect I have seen 
 this affect in other game and I think there starting to realize how great it makes the game it 
 adds a great amount of realism to the game GREATLY! And also there are mods already installed into 
 the game to modify game play if you dont like it such as Say you dont like the whole head shot 
 thing or you do like it well go to mods turn head shot kill on or off your choice with many others 
 such as one shot kill (always critical) which gives it a little too realistic touch if you ask 
 me lol. But this game is so far the best game I have seen except for two things. Weapons they are 
 not as powerful as they should be such as A mauser 98k sniper heart shot doesnt kill and the bullet 
 goes through them. Second the future touch in the middle and end of the game you discover futuristic 
 mechs and weapons in which you fight in quite a few levels 5 maybe 4 levels maybe more Im not sure 
 but 75% of the levels you play will be regular WWII combat. This game is just great just awsome 
 two thumbs up! And may I say I judge many WWII game War games in general at that you could probably 
 go to any WWII game review and find that I have reviewed it and this Is probably the best out of 
 All and may I say if you enjoy this I think youll enjoy freedom fighters and GRANDLY Great Game 
 indeed! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
