-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Silent Hill 4: The Room
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/silenthill4theroom/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 17, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.0, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 1,287 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date:     Sep 9, 2004
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The game retains the dark, disturbing soul that is the unsettling center of the Silent Hill experience. 
 

  Silent Hill is a town where pure evil permeates the air and the soil and eventually consumes the 
 people. It's a soothing vacation spot that masks demon-worshipping cults and dark purpose. Each 
 of the previous titles in the Silent Hill series of horror games has either outright taken place 
 in the titular small town or has gradually been pulled there through some terrible inertia. Silent 
 Hill 4: The Room breaks this trend, because it takes place in the neighboring city of South Ashfield 
 and centers mainly on an ill-fated apartment building, a cursed apartment, and the man who lives 
 in it. That's not the only series tenet the game breaks. Silent Hill 4 pairs third-person and new 
 first-person gameplay with an emphasis on combat and item management. The resultant hybrid has 
 some flaws, but The Room retains the dark, disturbing soul that is the unsettling center of the 
 Silent Hill experience.  

          Silent Hill 4 is the first Silent Hill title to take place completely outside that mysterious 
 town.     

  The unfortunate hero of Silent Hill 4 is Henry Townshend, a man living what used to be a content 
 life in the city of South Ashfield. One night, Henry begins to experience intense, recurring nightmares 
 and terrible headaches concurrent with his apartment apparently becoming cursed. His phone is dead, 
 his neighbors can't hear him when he calls, his windows are sealed shut by a mysterious force, 
 and his door is blocked as well, albeit by a not-so-mysterious force. Thick chains thoroughly web 
 the only exit, with an important additional detail: They're bolted to the inside of his apartment. 
 Scrawled in red on the door's interior is a note that only says, "Don't go out!! Walter." While 
 exploring the confines of his single-bedroom apartment to fuel his confusion and despair, he discovers 
 a ragged, man-sized hole in his bathroom wall. Faced with a dearth of other options, Henry gathers 
 his courage and crawls through the strange portal, hoping to find an escape route. What he finds 
 instead will lead him on a convoluted journey that will reveal the sordid past of his apartment -- Room 
 302 -- as well as the identity of Walter, the man responsible for sealing Henry's room.  

  As mentioned previously, Silent Hill 4 encompasses two gameplay modes: a first-person mode that 
 you'll use to guide Henry around his apartment and a third-person mode that you'll use to explore 
 the alternate worlds Henry will visit by entering portals. While in Room 302 and in first-person, 
 you can look around wherever you'd like. When you position Henry's view over an area of note or 
 over an item that he can interact with, a small eyeball icon will appear in a corner of the screen. 
 You can press a button to investigate further. Sometimes you need to be careful about what area 
 you're viewing, because certain parts of the room will have multiple focal points. For example, 
 you can either test a window to try to open it, or you can peek out the window to check out the 
 lovely South Ashfield skyline and the windows of apartments opposite you. At the chained door, 
 you can test the doorknob, check the area at the base for notes slipped underneath, or look through 
 the peephole to keep an eye on what might be going on outside. You can miss certain perspectives 
 if you're not careful, so you'll need to experiment with views at various levels to make sure you're 
 seeing everything, which can get tiresome when you're trying to use the peephole and instead keep 
 reading the message on your door. The apartment itself gradually changes over time, making repeated 
 peeks at various objects in your room worthwhile. In fact, Room 302's degradation as the game progresses 
 is an integral part of Silent Hill 4's experience, since new information slowly comes to light, 
 and things become decidedly more sinister.  

          Much like the Hotel California, while you can check out of The Room, you can never really 
 leave.     

  The more traditional, third-person action sections of Silent Hill 4 take place in various dreamlike, 
 alternate worlds that you'll reach by squeezing through one of Room 302's portals. You'll explore 
 the environs of a subway, a forest cult compound, a hospital, and more as you move on, picking 
 up a number of different weapons, healing items, keys, and other useful knickknacks. Something 
 you'll notice very quickly is that you've got a limit to the number of items you can carry at one 
 time. The game attempts to justify this with a vague statement about not becoming overburdened 
 in this alternate universe, but the outcome is that you're going to spend a lot of time picking 
 things up and then finding a return portal to your room (which contains the only storage solution 
 in the game) so that you can re-sort and then go back. Furthermore, items don't stack. Want to 
 carry two healing drinks of the same type? They each take up a space. Want to bring along 20 additional 
 rounds for your pistol? That's one space for the pistol, and two spaces for the two 10-bullet reloads. 
 As the game wears on -- and you've got to carry various keys, puzzle items, a weapon, and a healing 
 item to and fro -- this starts to become a chore. You can't discard items, either, so it's not even 
 an option to drop something that's perhaps expendable to pick up something you might need. And 
 when your room becomes a more dangerous place later in the game, having to revisit it often can 
 be a hazard. At least you can try to insure yourself when you go back -- Room 302 also has the only 
 save spot in the entire game.  

  All this exploration isn't smooth sailing. Silent Hill 4 sports some creepy-looking baddies that 
 attempt to foil you at every turn. Unlike previous Silent Hill games, in which fighting ultimately 
 could be said to take a backseat, Silent Hill 4 throws enemies at you in sometimes great numbers, 
 forcing you to engage in lots of combat. While avoiding enemies remains an option, it's an increasingly 
 difficult feat to pull off, because you've got what are oftentimes narrow spaces, multiple foes, 
 and an aggressive artificial intelligence that can make blitzing through enemy-ridden areas more 
 health-costly than just squaring up with your steel pipe or pistol and clearing your way. In the 
 later parts of the game, you'll be escorting someone through all this danger, and you'll want to 
 keep her from being attacked too much, so you're painted into a bit of a corner. If you run, you 
 can end up leaving her behind -- and she'll get gnawed on.     

  Your fighting abilities are rudimentary. You can choose from a selection of melee weapons (an obscene 
 number of which are golf clubs) or a very small number of firearms. You'll press the right trigger 
 to get into a battle stance, and then you'll press a button to whack or shoot away. Henry will 
 aim automatically at whatever happens to be closest at the time, and you can execute a jump-dodge 
 move to try to avoid incoming attacks. When you manage to get an enemy down, you'll have to stomp 
 on it to ensure that it's dead, which ends up making combat seem like a bug-crushing simulation 
 after you've stepped on your 20th foe. Some of the enemies in the game are actually spirits, which 
 happen to be unsettled ghosts that float around and don't even have to attack you to cause damage. 
 When a ghost appears, you'll hear a high-pitched static whine (roughly equivalent to the radio 
 static you'd hear in other Silent Hill games) , and your screen will start to turn red and become 
 grainy. If you just stand around doing nothing, Henry will clutch at his temples, and his health 
 will begin to drain. Additionally, ghosts cannot be killed permanently without a special item to 
 actually impale them to the floor, so you'll be trying to avoid most of them anyway.  

          You'll be in combat quite often, so you get to be a connoisseur of creatures like giant, 
 two-headed babies.     

  Like the vast majority of console games that make it to the PC, Silent Hill 4 is meant to be played 
 with a gamepad (more specifically, in this case, it's meant to be played with a dual analog gamepad 
 similar to the ones found on console systems) . The default keyboard and mouse controls just don't 
 fare that well in an environment of constantly shifting perspective views that can make navigation 
 frustrating. With all the nasty, demonic critters running around, the ability to maneuver and strike 
 them with as much precision as possible is of utmost importance, as is the ability to quickly change 
 weapons or use items. The default control scheme is simply not sharp enough for effective combat, 
 though it's perfectly adequate for roaming around your apartment.  

  For all the mobs of enemies and constant item-ferrying, the game takes about 10 hours to complete 
 on normal difficulty. You will receive one from a possible four endings that are based on a combination 
 of what condition your apartment is in by the end of the game and how the character you had to 
 escort about has fared. Finishing the game once allows you to get an additional weapon and alternate 
 character outfits, though there are not many of these extras. Most people who go through the game 
 again will likely be trying to get the best ending possible rather than shooting for a nurse outfit, 
 anyway.  

  Survival horror games often indulge themselves in graphical detail, and Silent Hill 4 is no exception. 
 The game looks its best in corroded, bloody, gritty environments, like the damp, steel halls of 
 the water prison or the subterranean subway layers that, at one point in the game, are walled in 
 living, moving flesh. There are only a couple of areas in the game that employ any of the notorious 
 Silent Hill fog, and those seem to do so as an homage to previous titles by accenting a long, spiraling 
 climb or blocking your progress when you're carrying a cursed item. The characters in the game 
 are often very well detailed facially, though their movements seem somewhat stilted, and the animation 
 is not quite as smooth as it could be. The room itself sees some great effects, from the warping 
 of a small section of paint in the shape of a face, to a cluster of wailing demon children plastered 
 to a wall, to a spirit crawling out of a dark, dripping portal. There's certainly no lack of unsettling 
 imagery, which stays true to the Silent Hill formula.  

  The game has been optimized well for the PC, and aside from the odd wall or floor texture that 
 doesn't look so good up close, the visuals in Silent Hill 4 are great. This version, in particular, 
 is the best for counting all that stubble on Henry's bemused, world-weary countenance. It's worth 
 noting that all this detail comes only on a DVD disc, so if you want to check out the Silent Hill 
 experience, you'll need a DVD-ROM drive on your PC.  

          The gameplay may have changed around, but the horror is still there.     

  The ambient 
 and creature sound effects are often very important to horror games as well, and the sound in Silent 
 Hill 4 is great, for the most part. Creatures all have their own distinct calls, footfalls, and 
 death rattles, and the environments are peppered with nice ambients like dripping water and gusting 
 wind -- or even something as simple as an object clattering to the ground. The voice work in the 
 game is uninspired but solid, with the exception of Henry himself, who has an incredibly milquetoast 
 delivery and seems to never get emotional about anything, despite the fact that his apartment is 
 horribly cursed. The haunting main theme is one of the only pieces of music you'll ever hear in 
 the game, and the times that it plays are few and far between. That's fitting, though, for a horror 
 game that seeks to create mood through subtle sounds in the environment rather than through music. 

  Silent Hill 4: The Room is an interesting sequel; it attempts to branch out in several areas of 
 gameplay and setting, while remaining true to the psychological thriller style that's always set 
 the Silent Hill series apart from more action-oriented scares. While not all of the changes made 
 necessarily serve to enhance the series, the dark, gripping storytelling is what allows this game 
 its Silent Hill credentials. If you're an existing horror fan or a Silent Hill fan, Silent Hill 
 4: The Room is certainly worth looking at. Just make sure you bring along your dual analog gamepad 
 to ensure that all your terror is generated from the cursed setting -- and not from the controls. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (45 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Mekon
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 9:37 am PT
Review:  I played this game for an hour and felt no incentive to carry on with it. The game makes a terrible 
 first impression with a very weak beginning in the characters apartment which doesnt actually look 
 very good. Then as I proceeded further, the disjointed and nonsensical plot failed to pull me in. 
 Unrealistic and daft character acting didnt help either. The washed out graphics also detract a 
 lot from the atmosphere and make no use of light and shadow to instill any feelings of dread.
 
  
  Silent Hill 4 manages to lose all the tension and atmosphere that the previous games had. The fact 
 that the combat system and controls in general are a mess doesnt help in the slightest. I was expecting 
 something really good with this game and yet it seems the franchise has seriously gone downhill.
 
  
  I came to this game straight from playing Penumbra: Overture and Penumbra: Black Plague which are 
 fantastic games and seriously raised my standards for horror games. I actually felt scared while 
 playing those games! They make Silent Hill 4 look like a piss-poor arcade game...... which is basicly 
 what it is. I didnt feel the slightest bit immersed in this game. All I felt was boredom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megatrunks
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 6:37 am PT
Review:  Silent Hill is one of the biggest series in fear games. The story in this part is different than 
 other parts in this series and it doesnot take place in Silent Hill city and non from the original 
 silent hill story take part in this addition. The graphic in this game is high and the sounds is 
 great but unfortunatly the control is really really bad and it from old school were no jumbing 
 and no for using camira with such a boring combat fighting. But in other side the game keep you 
 in a fear atmosphere and its secrets make you puzzeled and the new monisters are more powerful 
 than in the other parts. And the really interesting thing in this part its end it has four ends 
 for this game make it more diffecult to the amature players. So it make you live in a true nightmare 
 and belive me you will enjoy playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Punisher25
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  There isn't much to complain about SH4, even if it doesn't give you the creeps like its predecessor 
 you won't dislike this one.
  This Silent Hill concerns a more claustrophobic aspect, in fact the game is mostly centred on Henry's 
 apartment (which is the only place you can save) introducing a new small SH POV-gameplay.
  The story is pretty original even if it gets more immersive in the middle of the game; some aspects 
 of the plot are not so precise and (like the other SH) there's a variety of different ending (just 
 one actually works) . So if you want to know how are the other endings, it's not worth to play the 
 game in who-knows which way to see the different endings; I advice you to watch them on YouTube 
 instead (lot more easier!) .
  The monsters this time are not disturbing like in the previous SH they're just ridiculous. 
  
 Masterpieces like: the giant pigeons with feet; the useless flesh-poles; the stunned stray dogs; 
 the rotten monkey-men and of course the most hateful, frustrating, disabled side-kick that a game-player 
 would have never looked up to: Eileen.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Znuck_King_Ling
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill 4 seemed to recieve a lot of complaints simply because it was different from all the 
 previous Silent Hills before it.
  
  Though Silent Hill 4 may be different, no more flashlight for example, it still does Silent Hill 
 justice, as well as horror survival games in general.
  
  Silent Hill 4 relies on a very creepy atmosphere, as did all the previous Silent Hill games. However, 
 in this Silent Hill, they make a big change, in that when you hear a scary noise, there's probably 
 going to be a monster there.
  
  Silent Hill 4 is essentially a puzzle game, with many puzzles to solve to continue on in the game. 
 Figuring out what goes where, and what items to take with you is half of the fun, even if it can 
 sometimes be a nuisance. There will be some items you'll never bother taking with you, and others 
 you'll keep on hand at all times, because you'll never know when you need them.
  
  Silent Hill 4, as is the case with all the Silent Hills before it, has a terrible, repeat, terrible 
 combat system. It has been improved slightly, but you'll find very often that you won't attack 
 what you want to attack, and the AI following you around acts just like AI. Very, very stupid AI.
 
  
  However, for all it's combat faults, Silent hill makes up for it in scares. The first person view 
 inside the room was an awesome choice for the game, and can provide some scares, even when not 
 intended.
  
  *SPOILERS*
  
  At one point in the game, you're room becomes possesed. Seeing the room possesed has to be some 
 of the creepiest things I've ever seen in all my gaming history, as well as any horror movie i've 
 ever seen. Babies heads coming out of the walls, the TV flashing scary images, the eyehole on your 
 door bleeding, and that helpless feeling you get knowing no one can save you but yourself.
  
  *END SPOILERS*
  
  Silent Hill 4 may be the least popular in the franchise, but if it was 
 the first one you ever played, you'd be amazed because you wouldn't be expecting a bunch of throwbacks 
 to previous games. You'd appreciate every scare for how it comes at you, which is precisely how 
 the game should be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thandor_DX
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  Starting off a normal day in your hotel room you notice something is wrong. Your door has chains 
 accross it and well, youre locked in.
  
  The graphics and gameplay are stunning, reminds me alot of resident evil.
  It may be a typical 
 survival game but it has some great twists, it has a very eary feel too it, when you go back and 
 forth through this other world to your room something changes in it, as if its being infected.
 
  
  The story is compelling and the riddles and puzzles in it just leave you stumped, but they are 
 passable. The boss's really do make it challenging especially if youve ran out of bullets, but 
 that teaches you to conserve.
  
  The world that you pass into is a very freaky place filled with monsters and other strange phenomenon 
 and the places you go too can be very disturbing but very interesting.
  
  Summing it up: This game doesnt have much replay value although it is long enough for you to be 
 satisfied and will make you think "Wow, now that was a game" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lesteristheone
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 5, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  
  #Bad grapics compared to the other ones. The levels are boring and repitive and theres lots of dam 
 backtracking (this will happen alot in this game trust me) .
  #The story is rubbish as well its just confusing until the end of the game. Also you can end up 
 with bad endings that just make you feel annoyed. 
  The game should not be called silent 4 because it does'nt take place there stupid. 
  #You can 
 also only hold so many items {that just sucks} this just means more back tracking. 
  #The are also un killable ghosts that will just drive to insanity they just get in the way.
  
 #The person you control in the game is a breathtaking bloke with no emotions.
  #Guns in the game blow almost usless.
  #The one thing that really ticked me off was doing the 
 same levels again half way thought the game that is just a lazy way to make the game seem longer. 
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  I really liked the other silent hill games. But this is just so bad its funny at times. It seems 
 to me to be a really lazy cheap game. I think that konami is just trying to squeeze money out of 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill 3 has some really cool things to offer. The hero is great, just an ordinary man named 
 Henry Townshend, who is trapped in his apartment that is constantly evolving throughout the game 
 and ends up taking on the eerie world that's Silent Hill. A lot of new creatures are introduced, 
 including subway ghosts, wall creatures, two headed bird men and much more. Silent Hill has a unique 
 and disturbing atmosphere that will leave your skin crawling, but will totally immerse you into 
 the game play and leave you always wanting more.
  
  Personally, I found this game, even though good, to be my least favorite of the series. The game 
 was constantly changing from first person to third person modes; whenever you were in the apartment, 
 it switched to first person mode with little to do but look through peep holes and examine how 
 the apartment had evolved. The third person game play was well thought out so that you had time 
 to explore the environments and engross yourself into the atmosphere that is Silent Hill without 
 the constant running and shooting you find in so many other games. There are puzzles to solve that 
 mostly involve finding different items and depending on how the game is played, it has different 
 endings. The cut scenes are great and build hair raising tension for what will come next. Konami 
 has always done a great job with the series; it seems that each game unravels a little more of 
 the mystery that is Silent Hill. This game is more about the classic atmosphere of Silent Hill 
 how it changes the environment
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omegax23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  There are a slew of "survival horror" games out now after the release of resident evil. Most of 
 them are good and scary and others are plain crazy or just plain stupid. Silent hill has slowly 
 been making it's mark on the gaming world as one of the best in the genre and has been keeping 
 it that way for a few years now. The release of Silent Hill 4 saw a few changes, mostly in gameplay 
 and visuals, but kept that same old Silent Hill feel.
  In Silent Hill 4 you play as Henry Townshend, a man facing his own demons. Locked mysteriously 
 in your own apartment you start to notice portals opening up in your apartment and you decide to 
 explore what they lead to... hoping to find a way out. Instead of an escape you're thrown into the 
 mind-f$%* world of Silent Hill. The most noticable change in this game from all the rest is the 
 ability to "charge" attacks to deal heavier damage to creatures using melee weapons. I like this 
 route because it gives you a little more control on the action and makes for some good killing. 
 Controls are the same however when moving around and the camera is still fixed in certain parts 
 of the game adding that feeling that someone is watching you.
  Compared to the series staple, Silent Hill, the visuals have obviously improved over the last ones 
 adding more eerie environments and crazier creatures in this title. The bobblehead nurses make 
 a return appearence and they never get old.
  The sound is still pretty scary with the ambient noise and help from veteran composer Akira Yamaoka. 
 The soundtrack is one of the best in the series as well featuring songs like Nightmarish Waltz 
 and others to make the experience more enthralling.
  This is one of my favorites apart from 2 (we'll pretend 3 never happened) . I reccommend this to 
 anyone who is looking to get the crap scared out of them. Turn out the lights and turn off the 
 reality... this is Silent Hill 4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyber_AM
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing! One of the best games I have haver played!
  This game is also scary, not because of the graphics but because the amazing soundtrack.
  I can 
 say I was more scared when I was in my room without no one than being outside with a bunch of horrible 
 monsters!
  And another thing, the best way to play this game is to be in a dark room, alone with headphones!
 
  Doing these is the best way to enjoy the full "power" of this game!
  
  For any horror games lover, this game is a "must to play"!
  
  
  Really good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z4kn4f31n
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  While this game has some great ideas to add mystery (consecutive dreams etc) the way they applied 
 them into the game wasn't very good. It made it feel frustrating and repetitive.
  
  Graphics: I didn't really like the scenery. It just didn't have the mystery feeling i felt in SH2. 
 Character models look great and monsters too.
  
  Gameplay: Puzzles are quite similar to past SH games but a bit boring at some points. The port 
 to pc wasn't the best but wasn't bad either.
  
  Sound: SH Soundtracks have always been good for me. This one is too. Not the best, but certainly 
 good! Character voices and monster sounds are great too.
  
  OVERALL: This game isn't quite worth playing in my opinion. My opinion doesn't suit everybody though. 
 It felt quite repetitive and frustrating to me. I would suggest trying another part of the SH series 
 if you wanted to try the game. Not a bad game overall but still didn't do it for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waseinstwar
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  What you probably will expect from this game:
  
  - New and better controls
  - Creepy atmosphere
  - Scary and cold swearing moments
  - New scenarios
  - A good plot to 
 entertain you
  - Nice cutscenes
  - Intelligent dialogues
  - Linear facts, linear scenarios
  - New guns to improve game's action sequences
  
  ========
 
  POSITIVE aspects of the game:
  
  - Creepy atmosphere (not as the two previous games, but still does the homework)
  - Misterious 
 plot (sounded better than SH2 but worse than SH3)
  - Nicely made cutscenes
  - Cold swearing moments
  - A new plot with some folcloric elements from previous games (as the 
 character Walter Sullivan)
  
  =========
  NEGATIVE aspects of the game:
  
  - GRAPHICS aren't amazing as you expected
  - The menu SOUNDS are very annoying
  - CONTROLS 
 are quite new, but it's hard to get used with them if you have already played previous games (if 
 you're playing with you keyboard - you might get insane)
  - The same old boring SCENARIOS (SH3's second scenario is a subway - SH4 first scenario is a subway 
 - you get disappointed expecting something new)
  - DIALOGUES aren't that great - and you will listen a lot of What the hell from Henry's mouth (Game 
 producers should play Call of Cthulho to learn how to make good dialogues to make characters look 
 more human) . If you're a foreign player, might need some subtitles: but they aren't syncronized 
 with the speech at all
  - The game is not that SCARY. If you're looking for fear, you might get some with SH3 or, maybe, 
 SH2.
  - You cannot carry as many ITEMS you wish - you might never carry more than 2 weapons.
  - You 
 beat 50% of the game's SCENARIOS and expect that the other 50% will be something new. It isn't.
 
  - As you probably know - SH offers you different endings - most of them are alternative ones and 
 might not be what you were expecting (like UFO /DOG endings from the previous games - or not so 
 good endings [should I call them bad?] ) . So you might get frustrated if you finish the game and 
 get the worse ending there is.
  
  ============
  CONCLUSION:
  
  if you ever expected SH4 to be an amazing new experience, I'm sorry - it won't. Only the matter 
 of controls would be enought to make you frustrated. But if you have never played any previous 
 SH, you might even enjoy this one. But for fans of the serie, game producers let us down - don't 
 matter what they say. I would stick with SH3 until the next release.
  
  If you still want to try this out, at least buy a joystick and make sure to play it in the dark 
 - to help the game look like more creepy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud01y
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 28, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  Wow.. i wish i had never picked up this game.
  If anyone is making a game, i'd recommend they play this just to see how NOT to make a game.
 
  
  I had just played SC3 through and it left me with some wow factor. i was ready for SC4 now, to 
 see how awesome it would be. haha i was wrong about that.
  
  First things first, the characters, sound, graphics ect are all nice. but the gameplay just makes 
 this game flat out stupid.
  
  Let me try to explain just how annoying and repetitive this game really is.
  
  First, you can 
 only carry around 8 items, you're usually carrying around 4 key items at a time. so that leaves 
 maybe, a pistol, 20 bullets, and a melee weapon.
  you want more stuff? you have to find a giant hole to go back through to the real world. dump your 
 stuff in a chest, then go back to the wierd world. you'll do this about 50 times a level. Each 
 time you have to watch a cutscene of you waking up in bed, which is cool for the first 5 times. 
 then its just annoying, and unskippable.
  
  the enemies? most are ghosts, which follow you through rooms, cannot be killed. you get hurt by 
 just being near them. lucky their slow...
  apart from when you complete all 4 worlds, get this, you have to go BACK through them all again. 
 now it's even harder.
  Were you THAT stripped for time while making this game? you could of made all new levels but noo!
 
  
  so now there's a ghost that's super fast, can pretty much instantly kill you when they get close 
 to you.
  so you go about your way and do that.
  then you meet the guy whos trying to kill you! and get this.. he's mad and has a chainsaw, which 
 instantly kills you! So you can glitch his AI and dodge him. you can floor him for about 20 seconds 
 tops, using like 50 bullets. he follows you around every area.
  
  then on the 3rd run through of the 2ndworld he.. has duel machine guns. so you just instantly die. 
 I just quit the game here. every second i died, was frustrated and this game just was NOT FUN!
 
  
  and while all this is hapening, you're escorting a girl whos ai is so horrible she is just a huge 
 bother to be around.
  I rushed through the train level 2nd run with her, only to get stuck. I had to look up a walkthrough 
 to find i had to go back to the real world and look under the door. great.. so i just left the 
 girl there, came back, oh look she's glowing red, whats this mean? I look at the guide, apparently 
 i will now get the worst ending in the game. Well that's just great. Thanks to your bad design 
 i'm now going to get the bad ending. That's certainly disheartening isn't it? When i was at first 
 so carefully trying to keep her safe, what a waste of time.
  
  the only safe place to go in the game is the real world. but when you go back to the wierd worlds 
 2nd run through. the ghosts haunt your house too! So you have to collect holy candles throughout 
 the wierd world, loosing even MORE precious inventory space, so you have to go BACK to your room 
 EVEN MORE. So you go back to use in the real world to get rid of these ghosts. you can't see them, 
 you just get hurt being near them. So if one is guarding the item box and you need the holy candle 
 from inside. you can kiss your heiny goodbye!
  
  Also what annoys me is in these kind of games you pick up absolutely everything you come across. 
 One part the bad guy hands you this doll, well ofcrouse from human curiosity you'll pick it up. 
 BAD MOVE, now it's stuck to you, cannot be dropped. and causes your room to have even more ghosts 
 in it. So unless you read a walkthrough first, this simple move will make you even more frustrated!
 
  
  On an ending note, this game wasn't scary, or creepy at all. The environments are repetative and 
 boring. I'd have more enjoyment smashing this game with a hammer then playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MafuyuHinasaki
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  game is good dont get me wrong but between the xbox version and the ps2 version they look the same 
 not saying thats bad the gameplay is good the controls are fairly easy the graphiccs are eccelent 
 there just needs to be some difference in graphic between the xbox and ps2 i mean i bought this 
 game for xbox to thinking it would be different but its not it was a waste of money when u can 
 play it on the ps2 i mean there is stuff to improve but its still a worth while game so to pass 
 time i will scream for good games ahhh ahhh ahhhh ahhhhh ahhhh ahhhh ahhhhha ahhhhh ahhhhh ahhhhh 
 ahhhhh ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krakam
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 1, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  SiLENT HiLL IV review by Krakam.
  -----------------------------------------------
  Graphics: Really Amazing.
  Everything is quite detailed, I think that the Graphics part is flawless. 
 The environment is really detailed, something that makes it even more creepy (the room you live 
 in, for example) . If your computer can run this at high detail (say 1024x768) , you will have a 
 great experience.
  
  Sound: Well, just as anyone would expect.
  By that, I mean it can be scary most times. Nothing repetitive really. It's just as it should be.
 
  
  Gameplay: (just keep on reading)
  The plot is really interesting, and kinda reminds you of those Japanese-style horror films (like 
 The Ring, for example) . The game story is really gonna grab your immediate attention.
  The problem, however...: The Control System
  You have no idea how irritating it can be when you 
 cannot control the camera. Sometimes that prevents you from spotting nearby enemies, or certain 
 hidden areas. And the controls! The fighting system is absolutely horrible! It's really hard to 
 hit an enemy most times. And believe me, I'm good at games, sometimes very good. But this game, 
 you just can't win easily. Trust me on this one.
  
  Value: Great value
  If you don't have much to do, this will certainly help you pass your time, and generally, it's 
 something close to a must-have , if you can put up with the fighting system, which is a pain in 
 the ^^^ most times.
  
  Buy or Rent?: Your choice, but I'd say buy
  You are really going to like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnwillfindit
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  silent hill 4 is a very plot driven game, the gameplay is quite boring, but the atmosphere is the 
 most redeeming part of the game. Silent hill 4 has pretty much nothing to do with the previous 
 silent hill games, execpt for focusing on a guy named walter sullavan who was mentiond in silent 
 hill 2, you dont play as him but more, follow him as the game progresses. This is where the let 
 down part comes from: the game play instead of getting progressively better gameplay like resident 
 evil did through the years, this gameplay mechanics have been demoted to 1997. you can no longer 
 carry as many things as you wanted like in the prevous games, you now can carry no more that 10 
 items on your person. this is more realistic right? atleast items still stack right? nope thats 
 the seccond problem, this makes carrying the olny two guns in the game pointless which leads us 
 to our third problem, guns. this game has but two guns, a 1911 that can for some reason hold a 
 10 round magazine and a revolver, they both suck, this game even has enough nerve to tease you 
 about it, there is a room filled with guns that all turn out to be fake : ( the flaws dont end there, 
 there are also unkillable enemys and and a transport level with no commands but its time to talk 
 about the good points of SH4. the atmosphere and story telling is great, and for the first part 
 of the game being in you room heals. in conclusion SH4 mannages to be a good game despite its flaws, 
 if you are into survival horror games be sure to pick this up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentistu
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  Henry Townshend wakes up one day to realize that his apartment has been chained and bolted shut... from 
 the inside. All by himself inside the creepy apartment room, he tries calling for help, but no 
 one can hear him. Henry's only escape is through a strange portal-like hole that appears in his 
 bathroom, but the hole takes him to strange places, which house strange secrets, and even stranger 
 creatures. Henry must go through this hole if he wants to get away from his apartment, which is 
 slowly being invaded by an evil force, and must attempt to find an answer for who or what locked 
 him in... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crxhf
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill fan or not. Its is defenitly one of the most horror thirsty games out there for people 
 like us. The ingenuis of imagination and world of Silent Hill always draws me into wanting to play 
 the game from start to end. Never in a dark place but with all the lights on in the house. lol. 
 It took awhile for me to get use to the Room part of it. After awhile you start to see whats going 
 on in the game. Stuff starts to change and get worse and worse and never any better. I wasn't really 
 going to judge the game based on previous silent hill games. If the orginal creator made it and 
 its all legit then its a silent hill game. Ever story is changed and something new. This was a 
 good change for the game. The graphics on the PC look awsome and compared to xbox there both pretty 
 nice looking games. They both do there jobs of giving you chills up and down your body. The gameplay 
 is great and like all other Silent hill games. The camera does get touchy ive notice from the pc 
 vs xbox version. But it does work. I can't really find any fault with this game. Ive loved every 
 Silent Hill game out there. Iam about I guess little over half way through the game. Nothing dissapointing 
 yet and don't count on it. And to those who say the movie sucks. If you knew what Silent Hill was 
 all about you would know that they did a very good job on the movie. I can't wait for another one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calist0
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  Fist of all i am a BIG fan of Silent Hill series, i remember i have rented the fist Silent Hill 
 on Play Station and i didn't have any idea what was about about in this game but some of my fiends (back 
 then) were amazed by this game and i figured to try it and since then i remained faithful and a 
 big fan of this game. I must say that i played Silent Hill 1 for about 30 times, because back then 
 i didn't have access to the internet to search for walkthrough just to see that it has several 
 endings but is seemed to be obviously since i finished it with items i didn't use during the game... ahhh 
 golden times i tell you. Silent Hill: The Room is not the best in the series but still it's a great 
 game, and just like Silent Hill 2, it comes with another story totally different then the original 
 but Silent Hill could never be Silent Hill without the dark, depressing and terrifying atmosphere 
 not to mention the soundtrack... All in one it's a great game but the developers had removed the 
 lighter from the game so it looks brighter then the other releases, and this is the BAD regarding 
 this game i can not tell anything else that would lower the score in my point of view.
  
  This is a great game, and those action adventure fans who been avoiding this game because of it's 
 dark atmosphere and the feel of shivers rolling down your spine... play it with the light on, increase 
 the brightness of your monitor and play it at least for the story, you won't regret it.
  
  Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charlie2688
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 29, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  As its already know Silent Hill has been Konamis flagship Survival-Horror series that has raised 
 the level of what we can call a horror game and by doing this has created incredible worlds of 
 nightmare for players to enjoy, 
  Lets start by looking at the factors that make this game so great
  
  Gameplay: The core gameplay 
 is good, you are Henry Townshend an ordinary guy who woke up one day to find himself trapped in 
 his apartment and in his bathroom a portal to different nightmare worlds filled with scary and 
 dangerous monsters. Henry must arm himself with anything he finds if he is to solve the mystery 
 that his apartment holds. Dont expect Henry to use heavy fire power he has too use rudimentary 
 weapons from a rusty pipe to an axe, Henrys apartment will become like a home base that he must 
 protect and is the only place he can save the game and store items, also while in the apartment 
 the view will change to a fist person view. The combat is pretty basic and melee weapons will have 
 a combo like meter that will fill to give more powerful attack as you perform consecutive strikes 
 at the enemies. To advance Henry will have to deal with item search some puzzles and a handful 
 of monsters that just wont die including the new ghost enemies that will not die or rest until 
 they kill you and can even cross thru walls making impossible to escape from them.
  
  Graphics: This game contains incredible graphics that are simply a beauty to admire filled with 
 incredible amount or detail and realism. The enemies are highly detailed making them very scary 
 and even disturbing. The environments will be shocking scary with gruesome details not suitable 
 for those with weak stomachs. The characters look as vivid as ever and their facial expressions 
 are highly life-like. 
  
  Sound: The game is packed with a incredible amount of sounds that will surely shock even the most 
 veteran player. The sounds varies form the typical horror movie ambient sound to some shocking 
 and even disturbing high pitch sounds that will appear when you lest expect them to. As in any 
 good horror movie the sound highly complements the overall scary experience creating a sense of 
 immersion and tension, its recommend to play this game with headphones to fully enjoy the horror 
 experience.
  
  Value: The game composes of a main base that is Henrys apartment were you are able to save and 
 store items and a portal that will take you to multiple nightmare worlds including a subway station, 
 a forest, a prison, a building complex, a apartment building and a Hospital. All this worlds will 
 be filled with monsters and puzzles to solve items to collect, making and overall lengthy experience 
 for a survival horror. 
  
  At the end Silent Hill 4: The room is a highly entertaining and recommended survival horror filled 
 with nightmare monsters and a lot of gore filled situations and disturbing scenes for survival 
 horror fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusmartin23
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 21, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Never ending story. Do not play this game on PC. The camera work is terrible, so many blind spots 
 you might as well not play at all. The story is semi-good and keeps you interested. The graphics 
 are different and attractive. In order to save or take your health up you have to travel back and 
 forth to your apartment, that is just terrible. This game is so PS1.... At times it will ask for 
 intelligent questions that reward you with that am so smart feeling but the trip to find the answer 
 makes it just not worth it. If you are stuck with a console play it. If you have a PC use your 
 time for bigger better things. Nothing else to say. Nothing else worth saying. 
  
  Nothing else to say. Nothing else to say. Nothing else to say. Nothing else to say. Nothing else 
 to say. Nothing else to say. Nothing else to say. Nothing else to say. Nothing else to say. Nothing 
 else to say. Nothing else to say. Nothing else to say. Nothing else to say. Nothing else to say. 
 Nothing else to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anarkiman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 15, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I just love Silent Hill, the story is great... very great. The gameplay is horribe but in rest 
 it`s perfect........
  ntl; a arhthryhh o yhoerh yoh h herop oh or hyop o horhgah [pgh [ iash h g a hahgahd [ohodhohg sha [dg 
 hsa [dh g [sadgihi [ h [h g [sahg [ [ hjh [ih gu pogpou g poug ou gpo ugp oug l jgo hg [ph [oih [ i [oh 
 oi h [o h po h puog pigui g pi gi g ig poi u hpo ug po o g pg po iug I am tired and have nothing 
 else about to write.... ad i ave got to write at last 100 words damn! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sondo214
Rating: 4.6
Date: May 22, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  To be sincere, this is the first game of the series I played, but I can say that the game is just 
 a copy of the PS2 version, just edited for PC use... Well, the gameplay and control system is absolutely 
 stupid. It is very difficult to manuoevre the player properly... Also, while the graphics in videos 
 are very nice, the in game graphics are a big dissapointment. Sounds are good, in general. The 
 combat and the save systems just suck... I recently started playing SH3, and I noticed that you 
 can save whenever and wherever you want. In SH4, this is not an option! As for the storyline, I 
 won't say anything, because it is a matter of opinion... Personally, I found it somewhat odd...
 
  Concluding, I believe that it could far a better game than it ended up to be... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeSlayer01
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 21, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I bought this at school from the Biology teacher who sells computer-related things regularly. I 
 installed it, started it up, and was extremely disgusted that I couldn't change the resolution 
 out of 600x800 or whatever the hell miniscule pixels it was.
  
  The game changes between FPS and TPS for no reason at all, it was quite annoying. Most of the game 
 is cinematics I felt like i was playing one of those education puzzle games on a computer where 
 you click doors and then it changes to a new picture and says "you have entered", you know?
  
  Then I found that the walking controls in third person mode were majorly screwed up and you 
 could barely run from the friggin froggered up dogs with the tongues yeah. So I quit and uninstalled. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgyuri
Rating: 2.4
Date: May 1, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  this game is tragic!!!!
  There is no gameplay, only run, run and the fighting is TERRIBLE.
  the only good things in the game: the sounds, (not music)
  
  the videos are run at 15FPS!!
 
  
  and the story: the story is **** A man blocked in a room becasue somebody closed the door inside. 
 and the keys? No keys has open the locks!!!!
  
  and where is the horror? NOWHERE
  
  Sorry konami! This game is a FATAL ERROR
  
  and the graphics: the graphics is also terrible, 
 and the sstem requirement is high!!
  this graphics acceptable max. system is P2 233MHz 64 MB ram & 16 MB VGA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monrogoth
Rating: 2.8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far, the worst port I have ever played. As far as graphics are concerned, it looks 
 very nice. The animation is not nearly as nice as onimusha 3, and an overall disapointment. And 
 some of the extremely low res textures clash with the very nice hi-res character textures. But 
 in the end, everything comes together to create a visually appealing (not to mention wholly creepy) 
 environment.
  
  Great atmosphere, great sound (even though it's only stereo) , and trademark (sometimes frustrating) 
 console camera angles. The shadowing is rendered horribly wrong on my Geforce 6800, which is a 
 big setback in my eyes. Fortunately it can be disabled.
  
  The controls are the worst. I have a Nyko AirFlo which has never given me any problems with any 
 games ever. Silent Hill 4 wont let me configure it properly, or at all (depending on what the config 
 program decides) . It wont recognize the 2nd analog stick or the right direction on the first (major 
 bummer) . This leaves me with a keyboard and mouse. Though I have the option of inverting the camera 
 in first person mode (and also disabling vertical movement) the game completely ignores these settings (even 
 with a restart) . What's worse, the vertical sensitivity is greater than the horizontal. As you 
 can imagine, this makes it very difficult to work with. This game could be playable with a keyboard 
 and mouse, if not for Konami's half-assed efforts (or lack thereof)
  
  Though the game in and of itself may be excellent, the PC port is an 8 foot mound of sticky monkey 
 bowel discharge. Don't buy this port unless you know it will work for you with your hardware.
 
  
  It is (for me) unplayable and a massive disappointment. Which is a crying shame. Ever since Doom 
 3 I"ve been craving a good horror game, and this could have been it.
  
  It would seem that Konami (and countless others) only port games to the PC to make money off of 
 the ignorant gamers who don't know better. It's despicable and flat out rude. They should have 
 their gums scraped for taking advantage of people like this.
  
  In conclusion, Silent Hill 4 isn't a bad game. But Silent Hill 4 for the PC can't even be considered 
 a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  As you probably already know, the game starts out explaining you've been having recurrent nightmares 
 and that for some strange reason, you can't leave your appartment.
  The story is defenetly original, quite creepy when sudden things happen in your home and even a 
 little similar to the cube movies. Thats why I actually enjoyed it. Being trapped somewhere and 
 not knowing how you got there is always a good thing. The only problem about it is that it's very 
 badly explained. There are only a few brief words at the beginning of the game that introduce the 
 situation, and they are not even that great, somehow they seem written by somebody that didn't 
 have english as their mothertongue. The same person must have written the dialogues between the 
 main character that you will play and the other scarse characters aswell. They are just plain bad. 
 Subtitles read stuff that look like they came out of japanese action comics, things as "I feel 
 like im dieing" and Henry (your character) repeats "What the hell..." like a million times throughout 
 the game. I really started feeling that creepyness at the beginning but it all faded out when I 
 realized how cheesy the game turned out to be.
  The controls were pretty screwed up too, it took me a long while to figure out how the take out 
 a weapon and actually start using it. I guess this is because the control option menu in the game 
 is a mix of keyboard and PS2 joypad controls.
  The enemies are just as annoying, I couldn't tell if they were zombies, ghosts, or what. Every 
 time you kill one, no matter what you do, it'll get back up and start floating towards you again 
 after a while. Even if you exit and re-enter that same area, the same zombies/ghosts will be there 
 again trying to hit you.
  The weapons I managed to gather were quite neat though, varied and fun to look at when used. The 
 only thing to say is that the pistol is strangely underpowered, much more less effective than a 
 simple steel pipe. Now whats up with that? You don't find a lot of bullets around so why not make 
 those few bullets effective against enemies at least?
  I have to say that I personally love horror adventure games but this is defenetly not a good one. 
 It has great potential but at this stage its just not in there. I recommend other stuff like the 
 new Cold Fear game or one of the Resident Evils, much more survival/action in those. Much more 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKiller17
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I'll talk about the basics first. The gameplay is extremely difficult, for one, the camera angles 
 while using thrid person is extremely frustrating when you have to continuously try to turn around 
 Henry to u see what's in front of him, not behind. And when your trying to examine something while 
 in first person, you have to click many times to get it in the middle of the screen to finally 
 compute. The graphics were good, but it wasn't that scary to me. For me, the sound was more scary 
 than the picture. The sound, was extremely well done, the value might not be that good, since it 
 isn't such a long game, although that allows for you to play it over and over to try unlock some 
 of the secrets.
  
  Okay, now i'll talk about some pros and cons...
  
  Cons...
  
  -For one, I don't believe the idea of Henry being trapped in his room is actually believable, unless 
 he's a whimp. Seriously though, how much effort does it take to pick up a chair, and smash a window 
 open? Bam, the window's open, and now u can run out in the open.
  
  -Next, having to save by writing in a stupid book is frustrating. Not having to save anywhere means 
 you have to keep going until u finish the level.
  
  -Now, there was something i noticed. WHAT THE HELL IS WITH ALL THE FREAKING PINK BUNNIES! I SEE 
 ONE FLOATING IN THE SKY! I SEE ONE IN EILEEN'S ROOM! OMFG!! I WANT A PINK BUNNY!
  
  -Also (spolier) when Henry digs the hole into the wall, there's a huge hole to spy on Eileen, the 
 thing i don't get, is how come u can't go any further? WTF? the wall isn't that strong, its so 
 thin and look at the huge hole!
  
  -Another thing, is when the door is chained from the inside. How about this, you unscrew the chains, 
 open the door, and walk out? what about that?
  
  -Next, (spolier) When cynthia dies, there is blood everywhere. You know, I never knew that humans 
 had that much blood.
  
  -Also, if a ghost and walk up to you, and stick their hand through ur chest, how come you can't 
 see through them? They're freaking solid! If something solid plummeted their hand through your 
 chest, your not gonna just lose some life, your gonna DIE!
  
  -Also, one last thing. at the beginning of the game, the phone rings, and it says Save Me, but 
 the phone cord is cut. And we all know the voice is probably cynthia's. I could be wrong. But I 
 look out the window, and Cynthia is still at the entrance of the subway!
  
  - (Spolier) One more thing, so we saw Cynthia walk into the subway entrance. And when we meet her, 
 she says she can't find her way out. WTF? You can't get lost, just follow the way you came in u 
 idiot
  
  -One last thing. So the first time we come back from the portal, (Through the women's washroom) 
 the phone rings and says something like, save me, if u need a coin there's one here. What i'm thinking, 
 is like, WTF? You're freaking trapped in a train car, but I just saw your body holding the coin 
 in the women's washroom. WTF? Did you know you will have to be saved in the subway? So u perposely 
 put that coin in that statue's hand so when you go into the subway, someone can save you?
  
  Okay, finally I get to the Pros...
  
  -Pro: At times of the game, you get women to follow 
 you... and one of them promised a special favour...
  
  -Eileen gets weapons too... a purse at first... (Wow,,, she's gonna kill a lot of people with her 
 handbag... maybe bash them over the head will kill em)
  
  -There are funny parts in the game :) I found the wall monsters to be a bit, so lame to be funny. 
 Seriously... ur going up the escalator, and the wall monsters are just jumping out even when your 
 like 10 stairs below em.. Don't they know where you are?
  
  -You get to see who's faster, a guy running, or an old granny floating in the air.
  
  -YOU 
 GET TO SPY ON YOUR NEIGHBOURS!
  
  -You get to see how dumb Eileen really is... (At the time when u first look through the hole and 
 watch Eileen, she's like where's the broom, and its like freaking in front of her... lol)
  
  -You get to see blood. That is the number one pro... You get to see blood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeeduckieez
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  Of all the games I have played, the Silent Hill series really stuck to me. The utterly awesome 
 stories, the great graphics and atmospheric sound, really is an experience for all horror fans.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are nice, real clean textures, nice shadows, and great looking models. Everything 
 in the game is clean, but it requires Pixel Shader 2.0, which I realy dont see why - we could have 
 lived without shiny pictures in Henry Townshend apartment. The models are awesome, nicely done, 
 and pretty creepy. The textures are crisp, but some pretty blurry, the apartment for example. Overall, 
 it deserves an 8.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is near perfection. Apparently, you wake up one day stuck in your apartment. You have 
 to go through a hole in your washroom, over and over (the repetive part) , and solve puzzles. The 
 puzzles are fairly easy, and the fighting isn't very hard. The most annoying part are those damn 
 ghosts! You can never kill them, and they're incredibly annoying! Overall, it deserves a 9.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is extremely well done. The ambient sounds are pretty creepy, and there 
 is very little music. The sound is well done for most of the game, but the yelling of those annoying 
 dog-things on the ground will really anger some people. Overall, I give it a 9.
  
  Value:
  Amazing, amazing, amazing! This game is awesome! Creepy, fun, and very fun! Silent Hill 
 beats the Resident Evil series hands down! You have to play this yourself to truly enjoy it. Overall, 
 I give it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill is a town where pure evil permeates the air and the soil and eventually consumes the 
 people. It's a soothing vacation spot that masks demon-worshipping cults and dark purpose. Each 
 of the previous titles in the Silent Hill series of horror games has either outright taken place 
 in the titular small town or has gradually been pulled there through some terrible inertia. Silent 
 Hill 4: The Room breaks this trend, because it takes place in the neighboring city of South Ashfield 
 and centers mainly on an ill-fated apartment building, a cursed apartment, and the man who lives 
 in it. That's not the only series tenet the game breaks. Silent Hill 4 pairs third-person and new 
 first-person gameplay with an emphasis on combat and item management. The resultant hybrid has 
 some flaws, but The Room retains the dark, disturbing soul that is the unsettling center of the 
 Silent Hill experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonbrobertson
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  I wish to tell you that I am a survival horror fan from way back. That being said, Silent Hill 
 4 : The Room is one of those games you have to look over the bad things about it, to really see 
 the game's potential for enjoyment. First off, and most importaintly, the controls on this game 
 sucks. I absolutly can not stand it. It is an annoyance to only have left/right/forward/back and 
 it makes it difficult to control. 
  Anyway, if you can get past the clunky controls, this game will scare the hell out of you (sometimes) . 
 After a while, you tend to get used to the movie scenes, but it is still nice having my wife (who 
 can't stand games) sit on the couch and enjoy watching a game. 
  I just completed Resident Evil 4 and I think that Silent hill 4 could use the same control system 
 and it would be a whole different game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill 4 is still a Silent Hill game so you've got a lot of elements from the series. The monster 
 design is as innovative and creepy as ever. The first monster you meet is a mutated dog that has 
 a habit for biting whatever come its way. Ghosts are in the game and they pull themselves out of 
 the wall. Unlike previous Silent Hill games, Henry doesn't have a radio, This time but when a ghost 
 is neaby it makes a screeching sound similar to the radio static. Some ghosts have a special attack 
 where they will reach and grab Henry's heart making him cringe. While the monsters have new attacks, Henry 
 has something up is sleeve. Silent Hill 4 gives you the ability to"charge" your melee weapons by 
 holding down the attack button. Henry can unleash a couple of different attacks depending on where 
 you let go. This means you can make your own custom combos and have control over how much damage 
 you want to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandpierre
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:25 pm PT
Review:  The Room cannot be even compared with previous 3 parts. These were the masterpieces, but the fourth 
 part is a misunderstanding.
  
  SH 1,2,3 had some kind of special atmoshphere, which was unique and made me believe in reality 
 of what was happening. But the fourth one is a disaster from this point. 
  
  Silent Hill has to stay Silent Hill - there is no need in inventing the rooms! It is so stupid 
 that Henry cannot get out of his appartment in normal way. Why not just cut those chains on the 
 door or break the window? The game in the form of dream is primitive. 
  
  Where the puzzles ARE? 
  
  How annoying was it to complete all the levels twice!
  
  
 
  I've completed the game only as the respect to the spirit of Silent Hil.
  
  The positive moments of the game are a few: its proud name: Silent Hill and.... well, there WAS 
 something scary about those ghosts flying all around in metro (especially the granny) (But again 
 - "brilliant" move by developers (this fact infuriated me the most) - we cannot in whatever way 
 kill them.
  
  Hope for a revival of SH in the next chapter 5 of the game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric1000
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a prime example of a game that should have stayed firmly on the console, from the attrocious 
 control system to the sheer lack of anything that we have come to expect from a PC game Silent 
 Hill 4 is a let down. The graphics are dark and gloomy but well done, the combat system is laughable, 
 the sound is passable at best and to be honest, unless you are a serious fan of the silent hill 
 series you will be bored in a very short time. Playing this game quickly becomes a frustrating 
 chore. The only save point is in the room itself making repeat visits a must and if that wasn't 
 bad enough the only storage area is also in the same place. This leads to more frustration as you 
 are unable to drop useless items and instead need to head back to the room yet again to free up 
 some space. If you can get this game at a budget price then maybe give it a try but if not there 
 are much better games available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekou
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 10, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  I have always loved Silent Hill games, but the fourth part is a bit confusing. At first, everything 
 seems ok, but then... The game just isn't scary. If you take a closer look at the enemies, for 
 example. I liked some of them, but the others... Let's just say an undead grandma coming through 
 a wall looks a bit ridiculous. So do the two-headed monkeys wielding ultra-deadly golf sticks.
 
  
  Some blame the storyline or Eileen, but I actually think they are the strongest parts of this game. 
 I actually did pity Eileen in the end of the game, and that's very extraordinary. And the storyline 
 is addictive, even though the ending is a bit of disappointment.
  
  So, why only 7.0? The levels are a mess, mostly you don't even know what you are supposed to do 
 or where are you supposed to go, especially on the second visit. Game controls are crappy. The 
 engine is much worse than in previous parts. Especially the shadows - what did they do to them? 
 SH2 and 3 had one of the best shading systems out there, but in this game, light comes out from 
 nowhere, sometimes from a bare wall...
  
  So, what's the final judgement? Not as good as it could be. Not like the other Silent Hills. Doesn't 
 even take place in that town! However, It's playable. Besides, the music still rocks. So if you 
 liked the previous games, you could buy this one, too. Just don't expect too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vodka_RUS
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 10:28 am PT
Review:   Silent Hill , 
     
 .   
  2   
    
     
 .    
   
 . 3   
   , 
    
    . 
  ,  ..., 
  .
      
 ,  
 ,  
   ,  
   , 
   , 
   . 
    
    
   
      
 ) .    
  ,  
   
    
   
   
 .   
   
  
 , ,  
    
    
   .   
  
 ,  
   
    
  .   
     
   , 
   . 
     
  ,   
    
    
 (    
   ) ...
 
    
  ,    
  -   
 . , 
   , 
    
 1  2 .   
   5 , 
   
    
    
 
  PS:    
  ,  
     
  2 . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hacer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 16, 2005 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I spent a lot of time playing all of Silent Hill parts. But last game was a little bit different 
 than others. Convention of Silent Hill was broken. Why we are somewhere else than in Silent Hill?? 
 
  GRAPHICS: Good but it looks just like Silent Hill 3. Generally looks very good.
  SOUND: Awesome Akira made good job doing all soundtrack to SH4. It is as great as in earliers SHs.
 
  GAMEPLAY: Main advantage of SH4 is its story. It is really interesting an can be "addictive". 
 
  
  Overall: If u want play a good game and you like to be scared buy Silent Hill 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breshpe
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2005 11:00 am PT
Review:  The new Silent Hill 4 game promises to be an excelent game. When I played it I couldn`t believe 
 that it was so addictive .It has got an excelent sound ,it is very weird and addictive. The graphics 
 are espectacular and all the atmosphere of the game too. The mounsters are excelent too, but they 
 are too easy to kill or extreamly difficult to kill them.
  
  But I Still think that it is an excelent game and I recomend it to all people, fanatics of silent 
 hill or not. But it isnt a perfect game ,it has gotr some mistakes of story or unsense dialogs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonitendo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 10, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill 4: The Room was developed and bla bla by Konami and so on...
  First off when you begin, you wonder what's so special about this "Room". Well that room is like 
 your portal... It leads you onto other world (s) and takes you back to your main base. So it is 
 a good thing you can advance throughout the world and come back to take a rest and calm down if 
 you've been phreaked out! lol kidding but might be true. And what else? Is it scary? Well let me 
 tell you right that some parts just freaked me out like I see a big monster (new one) and when 
 I get close to it, it runs after me at a high speed and then you hear it's footsteps and then "Oh 
 dude, hide, run or enter in somewhere!" but no, you gotta fight it. So what am I trying to say 
 that there are lots of part where you can find real fun in this game, but of course and honestly 
 there are some frustrating parts that you will eventually find, so you just keep trying to ignore 
 those parts. As all parts are combined , it creates a Mediocre fun.
  
  =Controls:
  
  Honestly, the controls of the PC version or good enough to play and have fun of course but there 
 are also some gaps which "they" forgot to refill. But I configured out my controls so nowadays 
 it is not a problem for me anymore. I could care less about the controls as it is not much important 
 for me.
  
  =Graphix"
  
  I noticed that SH4: TR has a good engine enough to reach a high level. The problem is that if you 
 do not have a strong PC, then the cutscenes will be so ununderstandable. Some things remind me 
 of Metal Gear stuff, especially the cutscenes. As the graphics are pretty challenging.
  
  =Sound/Audio:
  
  The game also uses 3D effect, of course the phone is ringing to the north, 
 when you turn to the south, the sound of the phone ring fades away, let's not forget that the 3D 
 effect is a big plus to all these game, especially this one. Other than that the voice acting is 
 great because it seems like they are talking for real and when some people die, I wonder where 
 did they record that sound with all that noise making it so real? A big plus too
  
  =Gameplay:
  
  Laugh out loud, when I first began playing it, I started in 1st person view mode 
 so I said like "NO! I want the old-fashioned one!" but guess what? It IS old-fashioned. You play 
 on 1st view mode only within "The Room". (Sorry to spoil this part) . The gameplay is not SO fast. 
 Well I love fast games so I would not give a big plus to this part, all I can say is "Good enough 
 to have joy". Yep...
  
  =The Good Thing (s) :
  
  Good things are almost everything, but not totally everything. Graphics yes, sound yes. cutscenes 
 yes, reality reflections yes (not mirrors lol) and I should not forget the gameplay. lol of course 
 another good thing is that it is scary!!!! BOoooo! Don't get scared lol... When you stomps on the 
 monsters... A big plus... yea... you know what I mean... Feel the feet!
  
  =The Bad Thing (s) :
  
  The bad thing about this game could be a single mistake but do not consider 
 it right now. It is the game speed, it should have been faster at least but still OK to feel the 
 fun! Then, I have to say this but *Spoilers* I just hate killing the zombies... You need to have 
 some kind of sword in order to get away from them, at the beginning you cannot kill ANY of them, 
 all you have to do is run away like crazy or knock them down for a short period of time. Play it 
 on easy and they will be easy for you but still I just hate them when they get around me. It is 
 SO hard to get rid of those zombies/ghosts until you find the sword (s) .
  
  Final Word (s) ? Yes.
  
  "It Is Worth Sliding Money Away For This Game!" 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kariyanine
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 20, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy the Silent Hill series. I have since the first game appeared on the Playstation. I thought 
 that the game was creepier than the Resident Evil series and the original game still can claim 
 as the only game to ever get me to "jump" out of my seat. Unfortunately the series has gone downhill 
 since the first one. Don't get me wrong, I enjoyed both SH2 and SH3 but they were obvious steps 
 down. So along comes Silent Hill4: The Room, a sequel to a series that was pretty much tied up 
 at the end of the last installment. 
  
  I kept waiting for The Room to have some sort of meaningful connection to Silent Hill but other 
 than one level (which you visit twice) , a few references in memos and some pictures on the wall 
 of your apartment the game really doesn't link to Silent Hill. Maybe that is a little harsh, the 
 reason all the things are happening in SH4 are because of the wacky cult that lives outside of 
 Silent Hill but still it just seems trivial. To me Silent Hill 4 is more of a sidestory than an 
 actual sequel. In any case let's traverse to the second complaint of the title (and by title I 
 mean the actual title of the game) . The game is subtitled The Room, yet there are at least 4 rooms 
 included in your apartment, so shouldn't have the Room been renamed the Apartment. Oh well onto 
 gamepaly.
  
  I've always liked the gameplay of the Silent Hill games, it was a distinct contrast from the Resident 
 Evil games. You control a normal schmoe whom just happens to be caught in his own personal hell. 
 And for the most part SH4 sticks to this standard. They add a new first person mode that is used 
 when you are in your "Room" but other than that the controls are very similar to other SH games 
 and anyone whom has played one before should have no problem with SH4. In an effort to spice up 
 the series they changed some things around. You no longer have your annoying radio to tell you 
 when enemies are near and to me it is no big loss. The part of the gameplay that I do have a problem 
 with is that the game has gone to a structured level system, they never actually say this is level 
 2 but you just feel like they should have. The Silent Hill games have always been about exploration 
 and most of the level feel has to do with the premise of the game but I miss the exploration of 
 the city and the "opening" up of new areas as opposed to going to new levels. 
  
  Graphically speaking, Silent Hill 4 looks great. Slightly better looking than SH3, and that game 
 was wonderful to look at. The game is grainy looking but that is done to give you the creepy dreamlike 
 feeling and I enjoyed it alot. The cutscenes are well animated and character models move well in 
 game as do the new monsters which are better than anything since the first game. But what would 
 a horror game be without some creepy sound? While not quite as good as the graphical portion it 
 still does it's job to keep you significantly creeped out. The music was solidly fitting, with 
 ambient sounds littered throughout. 
  
  The game does have multiple endings but I found myself not wanting to play through the game again 
 to see them. There is no multiplayer mode. So other than the Brand New Fear mode it doesn't have 
 a whole ot of replay going for it. This game is more or less a spin-off rather than a direct sequel 
 but it isn't a bad game just not a scary one and unfortunately it is a survival horror game so 
 it should be somewhat scary. Give this one a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2005 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely the best Silent Hill game so far. Although the game was a lot shorter than I 
 would have liked, the quality made up for the short quantity. The game was very creepy, thrill-inducing, 
 and creative. "The Room" concept added a claustrophobic quality to the game that was extremely 
 effective in causing discomfort in the gamer (but in a good way, the way a survival horror game 
 should cause discomfort!) This is not a rehash of the same old same old, like some game sequels. 
 "4" is different enough from the first 3 games to keep things fresh and interesting, and, in fact, 
 it was the best game in the series yet. Possibly the best survival horror genre game ever. Very 
 disturbing and frightening (again, in a very good way!) A must for any survival horror fan, and 
 a definite pass for the squeamish or those prone to getting nightmares easily and the kiddie crowd. 
 Note: Gameplay score lowered due to short length (not quality) ; value score raised due to $39.99 
 retail price I found it for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwruger
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 7, 2005 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Despite some genuinely creepy imagery, Silent Hill 4 suffers from an over reliance on action in 
 place of the scalable puzzles that fans of this series have come to expect.
  
  The storyline takes a real departure from the series in that Silent Hill is only tangently involved 
 as a setting. The real setting is the Henrys apartment room and building. True, the horror began 
 at Silent Hill, but its involvement is limited to one of the worlds that you must explore and 
 conqueror.
  
  There are far more foes to combat and you do spend a fair amount of time fighting them. This brings 
 up another complaint. Without getting into spoilers, there is a foe that simply cannot be killed. 
 He shows up mainly, to reduce your ammo or your health or both. The first couple of times you do 
 this arent too bad, but by the tenth it has become tedious and frustrating. I like a challenge, 
 but this was challenging, just annoying.
  
  Graphically, the game looks great and some of the ghosts that you will encounter are extremely 
 well rendered. It is this area that Silent Hill 4 excels. I thought the first person view that 
 was available in the apartment really added to the immersion factor and I wish that it had been 
 extended to the entire game.
  
  The PC port of this game is pretty standard. The save game system is identical to the Playstation 
 version and the control scheme is not well implemented on the PC. If you have the PC, it is fair 
 easier to play it on a gamepad.
  
  I still enjoyed the game, hence the rating that I gave it, I just felt that it could have been 
 ported better and that it might have been better as a standalone game than as an entry in the Silent 
 Hill series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oni
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2004 6:52 am PT
Review:  SH4 is the newest installment into this fantastic Survival horror series. You play as Henry Townsend, 
 your average Joe living in his one bedroom apartment. Well, average if you dont count bleeding 
 walls, blood sprayed bathtubs, huge holes that lead to other dimensions and a phone that is possessed. 
 Yes, Henry doesnt know it, but his room is a gateway into everybodys favorite vacation stop, 
 Silent Hill.
  
  Silent Hill 4 takes a new approach to the series by starting you off, not in Silent Hill, but a 
 town near it. You get to SH by taking a portal that is located in your bath/laundry room. From 
 there you are subjected to many strange puzzles and monsters. Every time you complete a goal Henry 
 then wakes up in his bed, as if it were a dream. When you go into your living room strange notes 
 will have been left for you under the front door (which is barred and locked with changes) . You 
 are able to interact with your surrounding s as well. At one point you are able to move a counter 
 to find a hole in the wall where Henry is able to spy on his next door neighbor, Eileen Galvin. 
 Now thats creepy ;)
  
  The game, which is set 4 years prior to Silent Hill 3, doesnt do much for the story of Silent 
 Hill, only adds to the mysterious nature of the town and its cult. Through out the game you are 
 introduced to new characters that interact with you and give you hints on what to do next. The 
 puzzles in the game were tedious at times, or very easy. The game focuses more on combat then previous 
 titles. Theres a huge array of weapons to be found. Once Eileen joins the nightmare, you can equip 
 her with a weapon as well; shell help you beat down those crazy two headed babies with out fear.
 
  
  I found the controls in the game to still be a bit clunky, and the inventory to be just as bad 
 as the previous titles. Youd think they would improve on this. The graphics and character models 
 are a step up from the previous games, but the ending and cut scenes use pre-rendered, low quality 
 movies, which take away from the experience, where as SH3s cinematic where done all in games. 
 The sound and music is top notch as usual, but I couldnt help notice the foot steps sounded like 
 1 sound repeated.
  
  I cant help but feel that Silent Hill 4: The Room was rushed a bit to meet some deadline. My Experience 
 with the previous games is cherished, though I did like this game. I hope Konami will improve on 
 some of the things that take away from the experience. Its just hard not to get frustrated when 
 every time you want to pick up some ammo it will ask Take Pistol Rounds? Yes/No . Well of course 
 I do silly, stop asking ;)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: perquak
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 3, 2004 9:23 am PT
Review:  I've played all of the Silent Hill games from the first to this latest effort. They are all creepy 
 and scary, but sometimes difficult to control the player character. Silent Hill 4 has made improvements 
 to controlling your character which makes the game less frustrating much more enjoyable. The graphics 
 engine is also a vast improvement over the prior titles. The creatures and non-creatures look more 
 life-like and move much more smoothly. The sound is also a major improvement over the prior games. 
 The save game system is similar to the prior titles - you can't save whenever you wish, just at 
 save points, but there are plenty of them so it's not a problem. You save your game by entering 
 a tunnel which takes you back to your room, and your health is fully rejuvenated.
  
  The plot is good - not great - and the game is very enjoyable. If you've never played any of the 
 Silent Hill games, this would be the one to start with. If you've played the others and enjoyed 
 them, this one won't disappoint you. If you didn't like the prior releases, look elsewhere.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: radx800pro
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 22, 2004 5:58 am PT
Review:  I only put the Difficulty at "Very Hard" because of the pathetic
  Controls.
  
  I think Gamespot is being very generous with there scoring! 
  
  For one, the graphics do not 
 deserve an "8" when you compare
  them to what the standard is now!! 
  
  Two, the Gameplay should stay on the console!! If your going
  to convert it then make the Controls 
 for PC!! 
  
  The cutscenes are so slow that I feel like Henry is drunk. The 
  eyeball icon is poorly done. You don't have a clue what it might
  choose when there are more 
 than 1 thing you can look at in the
  screen. Also, there's not an option to Invert the mouse.
  
  This Game would have been so much 
 better if it allowed free look
  with the mouse. This reminds me of the Resident Evil games that
  Capcom tried on PC. It doesn't 
 work!
  
  The Sound in the game is very good.
  
  All these things I could live with if it weren't for the horrible Controls!!
  
  Do not buy 
 this for the PC unless you have a nice gamepad you can use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcorbin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 14, 2004 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first lets start with the game play. the gameplay is great because now you can switch between 
 weapons on a dime now. Like the other silent hill's you could'nt. I will admit that the control 
 of when something is attacking you and your trying to recover and hit it back does take to long 
 and your attack is kinda clunky. Everything else is ok, from the running and walking and just plain 
 old action. One thing that I do hate about silent hill 4 is the fact that the ghost wont die but 
 other than that I love the game. Also the thing That I love the most about sh4 is the story. Its 
 just like a movie and I love the story to this game. Its different compared to the other silent 
 hill's.
  
  Next is the graphics. The graphics in this game are better than the other silent hills. I think 
 the graphics in this silent hill are very good for a silent hill game. The guy you play is very 
 detailed along with all his sorroundings and ghost and monsters. 
  
  Ok now the sound. The sound is one of the best things about the game. The ghost's sound pretty 
 scary along with some of the other monsters in the game. You have alot of background noise that 
 sound realistic. The music is just perfect for this game. The sound for silent hill 4 is pretty 
 errie.
  
  Value. I have'nt got bored of this game yet. Infact I have been staying up till 3 in the morning 
 playing it. I dont know about the replay value but I dont think you'll get bored because you follow 
 the story wondering whats going to happen next.
  
  My tilt I give 1 out of 10 I would have to give a 8 because it has its flaws but its a pretty stable 
 game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
