-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Silver
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/silver/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 29, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.4, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 381 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Spiral House
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Aug 31, 1999
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Silver is simplified by the removal or retooling of much of the complex stat-based baggage of its 
 console RPG brethren. 

 Japanese-style RPGs, while popular on consoles, have been woefully underrepresented on the PC. Those 
 few that have been released to date are mostly shareware fan efforts or no-frills console ports, 
 Final Fantasy VII being the most notable example. Now French publisher Infogrames, in an effort 
 to fill this void in the market, has released Silver, a purported Final Fantasy killer designed 
 specifically for the PC. And while Silver won't unseat Final Fantasy as the reigning champion, 
 the game is nonetheless interesting in the way it attempts to rethink some of the genre's conventions. 

 As the game begins, your alter ego David witnesses his wife's kidnapping by the minions of the evil 
 wizard Silver, and he sets out to rescue both her and the rest of his hometown's stolen women. 
 Helping David in the pursuit is his incredibly tough granddad called Grandad. It's a loopy, enjoyable 
 start to the game, which is a good thing because Silver's success or failure rests almost entirely 
 on the strength of its story.   

 Silver plays out on prerendered three-dimensional backgrounds through which you must guide polygonal 
 characters. The environments themselves are essentially static bitmaps with a few looping animations. 
 They look good for the most part, and some are spectacular, though everything tends to have that 
 overly clean, computer-generated feel that Final Fantasy VII managed to avoid. The characters themselves 
 are not particularly detailed but are especially well animated.  

 Silver's developers chose to streamline the traditional console-RPG formula by removing many of 
 its standard elements. Thankfully, the thousands of random encounters typical to the genre are 
 gone. Instead, most screens are stocked with monsters that must be fought once, then never again. 
 The exits to each area are sealed during combat and reopen only when all enemies have been defeated. 
 A few sections have regenerating creatures that reappear with each visit, but these are the exception 
 rather than the rule. While this removes much of the tedium associated with this type of game, 
 the finite number of available battles makes open-ended stat building virtually impossible.  

 
 Silver does include character stats and levels like your typical RPG but eliminates experience 
 points completely. Instead, levels are gained by reaching key plot points and defeating boss monsters. 
 Only a few instances exist where extra levels can be accrued out of sequence with the story, so 
 in general, you are kept in strict parity with your foes. This tends to dilute the sense of escalating 
 power that is a key draw of RPGs, but the discarding of an endless series of uneventful brawls 
 makes that sacrifice more than worthwhile.  

 The fights themselves occur in real time and are very fun. Melee attacks are launched using only 
 the control key and the mouse, with various mouse movements resulting in different thrusts and 
 slashes. This feature could have become a cumbersome bore, but the number of moves is kept to a 
 reasonable five, and each has its own clear use. Once the control is mastered - and it doesn't 
 take long - the battles become both more exciting and more tactical than your average turn-based 
 fare, which, strategic pretensions aside, tend to degenerate into attack, heal, repeat. Since you're 
 free to move around each environment, positional advantage becomes a big factor, and many of the 
 battles are staged as sort of minipuzzles wherein landscape features must be utilized to win the 
 skirmish.  

 While things may look bleak in the land of Jarrah, everything seems to be pretty great in the actual 
 playing of the game. At least at first. Like many console RPGs, Silver's story unfolds completely 
 linearly for the first few hours before opening up somewhat. Grandad accompanies you throughout 
 this beginning section. He is controlled by the computer and is generally pretty helpful. Later 
 in the game, you're saddled with up to two companions whom you must control yourself.  

 This wouldn't be so bad if they were as intelligently autonomous as Grandad, but you're expected 
 to directly control everyone. Unfortunately, such a plan is utterly incompatible with the game's 
 arcade-like combat system. Unless you've got unusually evolved hand-eye coordination, you'll eventually 
 end up using one character to kill everything while the other two stand motionless as monsters 
 hit them on the head with clubs. It's true that you can select all the characters at once, at which 
 point the secondary heroes become marginally effective. But the flaw in this strategy is that everyone 
 then tends to clump together and, in the mouse-clicking frenzy of battle, you'll accidentally click 
 on just one character and break the grouping, returning the remaining combatants to passive-observer 
 status. You can direct the unused characters to stand back and fire their ranged weapons, but this 
 is nothing more than a quick way to deplete your ammo. And instead of noting this problem and properly 
 addressing it, the developers seem to simply kludge it by having any dead companion automatically 
 return to life after each battle.  

 Silver's story is an equally big problem, although it starts out strong. Each game character actually 
 speaks his dialogue. Bucking the trend of having friends of the programmers provide the voice talent, 
 Infogrames has hired what appear to be professional actors, and they do a uniformly good job. Unfortunately, 
 the plot soon devolves into a typical tale of magic-orb fetching and simply runs out of surprises 
 long before the end. This is a critical flaw in a game that has consciously pared away many of 
 the gameplay elements, annoying or not, that compose the bulk of other entries in the field.  

 
 Silver is simplified by the removal or retooling of much of the complex stat-based baggage of its 
 console RPG brethren. It's a good idea that almost works. Every element starts off strong, only 
 to reveal its weakness as the game progresses. Infogrames has come close to successfully creating 
 a new subgenre - one based on enjoyable fast-action battles mixed with rich story. It's fun while 
 it lasts, and even if you find yourself unmotivated to complete the entire quest, you'll at least 
 enjoy the ride to the halfway point.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: F2bnp
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 14, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Back in 1999, Silver was released by Infogrames. A typical JapaneseRPG for the PC. It can't be bad 
 right? Well, although the game has it's strong points there are some notable exceptions.
  First of all the story is plain like every JRPG. You're David and you're in a quest so save your 
 wife from the evil Silver, who has taken all the village's women to marry one of them and kill the 
 others. I know it sounds bad, but it isn't. You just have to play it.
  Then there are the graphics... For 99' standards they are very good and considering the system requirements, you 
 could still play it on a VERY low end PC.3D characters with prerendered backgrounds suits the game 
 just fine.
  Now let's get to the main point, the gameplay... The game plays like an Action RPG, you have a character, you 
 move him and attack. There's no real LVL up whatsoever, if you beat the boss you continue the story. In 
 the game you can control 3 characters at once and this is where the game gets really impossible.
 
  The controls don't help you move the characters and you just have to give each one a task and 
 that would have been wonderful if you could pause and select what to do, but it's real time so nope... I 
 would prefer if the other characters had their own AI and you didn't have to control them.
  The music is awesome. It suits the atmosphere absolutely. The sound effects are also good. Overall, you 
 won't be dissapointed here.
  And we come to the final question: Is it worth it? Well, if you find the game laying around for a 
 few dollars, grab it and play it you will like it. Silver's strong points make up for the weaker 
 ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shepstar1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 22, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  I've had this game lying around my house for a long, long time. I was having a recent clearout 
 when I discovered it, I was intrigued by the game as I can't remember the last time I played on 
 this!
  
  I booted up the computer, installed the game and started to play on it. What a fascinating game! 
 This game has an intresting storyline (all of the town's women of child bearing age have been captured 
 and been taken forth to Emperor Silver, where he will choose his next wife.) It is your job to 
 find your girlfriend, who has been captured by the Emperor's militia, along with your grandad.
 
  
  This is one of the greatest RPGs i've played on, it has the story line and the features to keep 
 you entertained for a long time. Throughout the game, you encounter the Emperor's right hand man, 
 Fuge, who you can decide to fight early game. But this is a guaranteed suicide!
  
  You have to work through the quests of finding where the ship which took off with all the women 
 went and going on to tackle the Emperor himself.
  
  This is definatly an RPG that time has forgotten. Being 8 years old, the games graphics are quite 
 good, featuring very nice rendered artwork and the geometry in-game is quite impressive also.
 
  
  Shepstar1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fasteru
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  one of the best games i've ever played. great story, ,great sound, great gamplay, great wrapons 
 and combos. i wait the 2nd part if it will ever come. a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a aaa a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroTM
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 17, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This game because it is so unique and great still remains one of my favorite games of all time. 
 The music was beautiful, the gameplay, stunning, and the story, brilliant.
  
  This RPG, is one of a kind, and even though released in 1999, still is just as enjoyable to play 
 today in 2006. 
  
  In combat, you actually use your mouse as the weapon or the shield. I haven't seen this done in 
 any other game and this is what makes it addictive and fun to play. An example would be while holding 
 the Ctrl button to go into combat mode, click and hold the left mouse button while moving it to 
 the right and release which in-game causes the character to swing his sword to the right. There 
 are many ways to attack, and many combinations of movements that can be used with the mouse in 
 order to get the character to fight in game. 
  
  Movement is simple, just click on the space you want to go to with the mouse. Even though the surroundings 
 in the game drawn in a 2D environment, they are enough to make a player go "Woah!" every time they 
 move on to a new area, and there are simply hundreds of areas for your 3D characters to move on 
 to.
  
  The story is as I already said, brilliant, and there are plenty of heroes to choose from as you 
 find them along the story but you may only choose 3 to follow you on your quest. You can interact 
 with almost any citizen or character that you meet and in the conversations there is much amusement 
 to be found from what they say.
  
  I recommend you get this game, it will be one of the best games you have ever played for most of 
 you and if the fans of Silver wish to see Silver 2, support Spiral House by going on the Atari 
 forums, and convince them to fund Spiral House once more in order to develop Silver 2.
  
  http://www. ataricommunity. com/forums/forumdisplay. php? f=139
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccrow21
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 22, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Silver was good game in the beginning. 
  
  The plot is nothing more than repeated. Really, people are just running out of ideas now. Same 
 used up plots over and over. Basically, the evil Royal Family takes all the women out of town and 
 you have to fight for them back. On your way, you meet some new people, you lose your master/grandfather, 
 and you gain access to new weapons. 
  
  The characters... aren't terrible. The main character David I find rather lame. The other characters 
 aren't too bad. There are a lot more though, so don't worry if one or two of them aren't that great. 
 You can have 3 in a party though.
  
  They introduce a system of special moves that you can learn throughout the game and use. They are 
 good I guess. 
  
  The healing system is alright... nothing spectacular. You eat food and you're healed. Nothing great. 
 It's kind of stupid, seeing how it is hard to find enough food to journey with.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
