-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Silverfall
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/silverfall/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Attractive, cel-shaded visuals.
 A whole lot of ways to build a one-of-a-kind character.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Poor interface and minimap make traveling a chore.
 Death insurance, companion resurrection, and save-game systems are half-baked.
 Multiplayer is limited and laggy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.3, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 745 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Monte Cristo
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date:     Mar 27, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's not a bad game, but Silverfall's enormous potential and pretty graphics are overshadowed by 
 its weak story, poor interface, and frustrating design elements. 

  Silverfall is the latest in a long line of action role-playing games, and it's brimming with possibilities. 
 It's got neat cel-shaded character models, a whole lot of cool monsters, and the tried-and-true 
 clickfest Diablo formula going for it. It could have used a whole lot of buff and polish, though, 
 and sloppy design elements wiggle their way into almost every aspect of the game. If you like action 
 RPG's, you'll get a good amount of gaming out of Silverfall, but you won't find any of the slickness 
 of Dungeon Siege II or Titan Quest.  

          Silverfall's cel-shaded characters are detailed and colorful.     

  You also won't 
 find a reason to see what happens next. The genre's never been known for deep, complex stories, 
 but a cache of clich characters and an uninteresting plot send you on a series of missions that 
 feel disjointed. You must find out the truth behind an attack on the grand city of Silverfall, 
 and as you might imagine, some friends become enemies, some enemies become friends, and you fight 
 hordes of monsters on the way from one predictable plot twist to the next.  

  The sound design is trapped in the same basic formula as the story, with a boring orchestral soundtrack 
 and some mediocre voice acting. The sound effects are nothing special, with all the standard sword 
 clangs and spell whooshes. Yet all of that blandness is in direct contrast to the visual design, 
 which is inspired and the most striking aspect of Silverfall. The environments are pretty, though 
 par for the course in an isometric-view RPG, but the unique cel-shaded models are remarkably colorful 
 and detailed. There aren't many gameplay reasons to zoom in close, but you'll want to do so anyway, 
 just to get a good look at your character and the monsters you're fighting. Cleverly designed enemies, 
 like corrupted elves mounted on enormous flying eagles and goblins with hind ends like wheelchairs, 
 are as great to look at as you'd think, and the stylized shading makes it all pop. It's disappointing 
 that the engine is so sluggish, though, and the animations get a little herky-jerky.  

  It's also fun to check out your character up close to see all the cool gear you can customize it 
 with. But customization goes far beyond armor and weapons, because there are tons of upgrades, 
 skills, and spells to spend experience points on. Many of them are available to you regardless 
 of prior choices, while others depend on your alignment within Silverfall's technology-versus-magic 
 trappings. As you make dialogue choices and take various quests, you'll align yourself toward nature 
 or technology. In turn, you unlock more skill trees based on that affiliation. It's a neat system 
 and is more than a little reminiscent of 2001's role-playing game Arcanum. But it works even better 
 here, since both alignments are equally effective in combat, and the customization options are 
 more fully realized.  

  Playing Silverfall isn't nearly as interesting as the fantasy-cum-graphic-novel atmosphere would 
 lead you to believe. It uses a typical mouse-centric combat system that results in a lot of frantic 
 clicking. While that's fine in and of itself, the genre's familiar and enjoyable action gets bogged 
 down by strange design elements and frustrating glitches. The interface is the most noticeable 
 annoyance, exemplified by the maddening minimap. Many vital non-player characters aren't identified 
 on the map by anything more than the same white dot as unimportant NPCs. Also, the arrow attached 
 to your own identifying dot points in the direction the camera is facing, not the direction your 
 character is facing, which means you'll occasionally wander into groups of enemies by accident. 
 Other times, you might drag a skill icon off your hotkey bar when you just want to move your character 
 or fumble with the hotkeys when you want to cast a bunch of spells in a row. Part of the success 
 of any action RPG is its ease of use, and getting around in Silverfall shouldn't be so much of 
 a hassle.  

  Other simple game elements are either underdeveloped or poorly explained. In a system more common 
 in persistent-world online RPGs, you either need to retrieve your corpse after you die or pay the 
 insurance vendor to get your stuff back. Sometimes when you respawn, you appear in front of the 
 insurance guy and the dialogue for retrieving your things begins automatically. Other times, you 
 need to go searching for one, even going so far as to travel to distant towns if you can't locate 
 one near the respawn point. Like other similar games, Silverfall lets you recruit various NPC companions 
 to join you on your journey. However, the game never explains what to do if one of them dies, so 
 at first you'll zone from one area to the next to find that your henchman's erect but lifeless 
 body accompanies you. Eventually you can put points into resurrection skills, or use the world 
 map to automatically travel to a main city, which will cause your companion to respawn. But since 
 the game never clues you in on this mechanic, as well as several others, you just have to figure 
 it out on your own.  

  Even more issues get in the way. Sometimes, the pathfinding is terrific, so if you aren't sure 
 how to get to a certain visible spot, you can click there and your character will take the most 
 efficient path. Other times, it's ridiculously out of kilter, since your companions will stand 
 right in your way and never move, potentially keeping you from reaching a quest location and forcing 
 a reload. And lest you think you can at least reload a saved game, think again. You can save your 
 character's level and quest status at any time, but you can't actually save your game in progress. 
 It's a big pain, because some of the dungeon areas are enormous, so you're forced to either finish 
 the quest or do it all over again later.  

          Look, a mechanical dragon! We'll love him and pet him and squeeze him and call him George. 
     

  There's a sizable multiplayer component to Silverfall in addition to the 25-hour campaign. You 
 can join friends in a cooperative campaign or in a free mode that keeps the side quests and lets 
 you whop up on other players. Don't expect Silverfall to replace Diablo 2 or Neverwinter Nights 
 in this regard, however, since online sessions are incredibly laggy. You can take your offline 
 character into an online game, but the options for doing so are limited. Once you use the character 
 online, it's limited to that online session, even though the character is not stored on the host 
 PC. If you get into a lag-free game and don't mind the strange limitations on using characters, 
 Silverfall is fun to play with others. But like the single-player game, basic design flaws hamper 
 the experience.  

  It's got numerous issues, but Silverfall is still some fun for fans of the Diablo formula looking 
 for something a little different. It's too bad that all the design wrinkles weren't ironed out 
 prior to release, because the game had a lot of promise, and the great character models and the 
 broad skill trees are almost worth the price of admission.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zippythezip
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:45 am PT
Review:  Now for any one like me who bought this game and gave up in frustration of trying to play it, grab 
 the "earth awakening" and reinstall. The next installment is a better game and the good news is 
 that it also fixes the original silverfall controlls. Now you can use WASD keys and the bloody 
 mini map works.
  
  Sorry, about the ramble folks. I found Silverfall so hard to play control wise that I just quit. 
 I would given the game a 4 out of 10 without the up grade. On this revisit I find the game very 
 good.
  
  Just hope some of you read this and grab earth awakening and give it another try. The graphics 
 are really nice, I turn the black outlines off but thats just me. Now I have to find a way to write 
 enough to get 800 , sure hope I get there soon. Just a few more and then I can write about something 
 else. Got my copy of earth awakening for $9, you sure cant beat that for a few hours of fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoReph
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is Ok, it's not the greatest thing ever, but its not the worst either. We all know that 
 the worst game ever is simply Two Worlds, but I'm not writing about that lol. This is a game you 
 would play if you was really really bored. The story is kinda bland, but what is neat are the graphics. 
 Everything is outlined in black, giving it a cool unique feeling. If you dont like the black outline, 
 you can always take it off with the game options. The game play is a lot like the Diablo series, 
 which makes it kinda fun, also you get to have comrades which helps out a lot at times. 
  
  Overall, this game is not bad for buying it brand new for just $6 online lol. It's not great, but 
 not bad. Again, if you think this game is bad, you haven't played Two Worlds, talk about bad. "Bad" 
 doesnt even describe how horrible Two Worlds is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleWeasel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  Hi
  
  I've literally just completed Silverfall, and to be honest it's not as bad as some of the reviewers 
 have said.
  
  I played as a human and levelled up all bow skills quickly and found this to be a fast, fun game. 
 
  
  Levelling up is quick and easy, the skills do exact what they say, and you really feel that going 
 out of your way to level up is worth it in the end. 
  
  The quests were varied enough although some quite basic. 
  
  You get up to two companions and 
 there are several companions to choose throughout the game. 
  
  The armour and weapons are aligned to a 'technology' or 'nature' game path which was good, as on 
 top of that there are 4 character types (humans, elf, etc.)
  
  Saying that, if you're not in to trawling around to get some experience to level up, this may not 
 be for you, and yes you may have seen this style of game before, many times - That doesn't stop 
 it being a fun game. 
  
  It was quite short and not massively challenging but I think by getting a Very, Very Fast bow helped 
 in creaming all the BOSS in double-time. 
  
  Also, there's no real interaction with NPCs  it's very point/click and move to were the arrow 
 points, and I would have liked to travel across the whole map in order to finish the game.
  
  I paid less than 3 on Amazon. co. uk for it and it was worth the 30 hours or so to complete 
 - They even thank you for playing at the end of the credits  not many games do that.
  
  Hope this was useful...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Praj72
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Although I was told by a friend that many of the problems in the game were fixed, the most recent 
 version was still plagued by technical problems not to mention lack of imagination - you can tell 
 that no one put any effort in to this game. When my character wasn't stuck on the floor or a wall, 
 I was traipsing through such zones as "Forest" and "Rocky mountains." Also the dialogue is broken 
 in places, many of the menus aren't even finished, and crafted weapons have a tendency of disappearing 
 from your inventory. If you can get past that, the graphics are original and item creation is also 
 kind of fun. Maybe the multiplayer is worth playing, but beyond that I'm going to give you the 
 benefit of the doubt and assume you have something better to do than suffer through the campaign. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xeis-net
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  This sort of game has gone out of vogue in recent years. The rise of WOW and MMORPG has meant developers 
 have not wanted to try and produce "hack and slay" RPGs which made the like of Diablo highly rated 
 games. As they think adding network connectivity means they can complete with WOW (which they cant) .
 
  
  This is not the best "RPG" game, and is certainly not ever going to worry the guys at Blizzard, 
 but this is a fun and satisfying combat game in the same vein as Diablo (imo) .
  
  The flow of the game seems good, the only criticism being that you rarely find yourself wondering 
 into an area where you get your backside kicked (but this is common in this style of game) .
  
  If you are looking for complex stories and character interactivity then this is not the game 
 for you. If you are looking for "click, kill, get loot, sell loot, buy weapons, click, kill, click 
 kill...." then you will like this game (I liked it way more the the average review here) . Also 
 at higher levels it is very satisfying to watch monsters that previously caused you problems fly 
 halfway across the screen with but a single blow.
  
  I also got this from the bargain bucket of PC world, and while it was a really difficult game to 
 get working with Vista (read the forums) it is one of the more enjoyable games this year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoMatrixOC
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  Well, I was playing WoW when this game came out... and have been for way to long.. but back to 
 Silverfall. I was looking for a game to help fill the void of, recently, leaving WoW and saw this 
 title in the 'Bargin Bin' at my local discount store. I paid $6.00 for this game, but I think (now 
 that I have played it) I would have not had a problem paying full price for this game a year ago. 
 Silverfall is REALLY helping with my WoW-Withdrawal.
  First, the graphics are far better than I thought, and more realistic than that darn 'cartoon' 
 engine WoW that I have been playing. I enjoy all the different types of armor, and I am only to 
 lvl 10. The camera control takes a little getting used to, I think I still AM getting used to it. 
 I choose to roll a Magic User, and am quite happy that I did. The effects for the spells is really 
 nice, even though several spells use the same animation. 
  I have only played about 5 hours, and I already have a 'Bank Bag' and that has helped a lot. The 
 game starts you out with more ''Bag Slots' than WoW, and that was a welcome suprise. You seem to 
 level about the same rate, but try not to die. When you die, you leave a 'headstone' that you have 
 to go back to so you can pick up your items. Yes, I came back from my first fight naked and had 
 to run back and get my armor and weapons back, luckily I had killed everything around and did not 
 have to fight anyone to get them back. It was a lesson well learned. 
  So far, the plot is simple enough and there are no shortage of quests to take at the beginning 
 of the game. There is no voice acting, but is that a 'Bad Thing'? I am going to keep playing it 
 and post what a run across. Bottom line; IF you are trying to kick the WoW habit, and see this 
 game at a discount store (or used) , pick it up you won't be disappointed! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: islandboisl
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 6, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  Silverfall falls short in 3 areas in my opinion.
  
  Game play difficulty:
  Single enemies are easy to take care of, however most enemies like skeletons come in bunches. This 
 makes it extremely difficult and in some cases impossible to defeat them. Running away does not 
 help because most enemies have ranged attacks. 
  
  Saving
  There is a very weird saving system. There is no quick save or main save. I think the automatically 
 saves when you reach a settlement or city. If you happen to venture out of the town and stop in 
 the middle of a mission then say goodbye to all that progress. Added to this is another problem 
 that comes up when you die. If you had taken the trouble to pay this goblin character to store 
 your stuff and resurrect you then you end up being resurrected in front of him when you die. You 
 lose all the items you had on equipped and you lose a good amount of coin. The stuff you were wearing (probably 
 the best you had) is now in the middle of nowhere surrounded by the enemies that just killed you.
 
  
  Menus
  The menus are big, that is they take up too much screen space and end up blocking your view. Some 
 parts of the menu can't be seen or accessed. All that could have been endured if the developers 
 chose to pause the game while a menu was opened.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vijaynine
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 1, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Never go for this game unless you want to get yourself bore.
  
  first of all i had to wait 20 mins for its installaton and eats up HDD space
  and took me another 
 15 mis to uninstall after trying 1 hour.
  
  god i was a hardcore fan of rpg and i was really and highly dissapointed by this game.
  
  poor 
 visuals ,and creepy controls and camera angles .
  
  It's got numerous issues, but Silverfall is still some fun for fans of the Diablo formula looking 
 for something a little different. It's too bad that all the design wrinkles weren't ironed out 
 prior to release, because the game had a lot of promise, and the great character models and the 
 broad skill trees are almost worth the price of admission.
  
  
  If the bar of entry to creating a killer action-RPG game wasn't already high enough it's certainly 
 obscenely high now. Which makes reviewing Silverfall all the harder. If it had come out before 
 Titan Quest it would have faired far better. As it stands now I can't recommend this game to even 
 a weekend-fan of this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stips
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Platform : PC
  Graphics : A-
  Sound : B
  Controls : B- 
  Game Mechanics : B 
  Fun : A-
  
  Comments:
  Lately I've noticed a trend when it comes to my relationship with 
 gamespot. When they give a horrible review of any form of rpg game, I usually end up liking it. 
 Why? I suspect it is because the standard has been raised so high by certain large company big 
 name titles that unless a new game is at that exact level, with that exact gameplay formula, then 
 alot of these review sites simply toss a 'bleh' label on the game and move on. I also really dislike 
 the percentage review system. Maybe its just my american education systems A through F and the 
 percentage's involved but I am used to a 59% meaning FAIL, which it really dosent on gamespot's 
 review system but... still. I see it and it sticks in my head as such. But anyways.
  
  Silverfall is your standard hack ' n ' slash that dosent attempt to reinvent any wheels. You accept 
 quests, you run around in the wilderness smashing things with whatever weapon you happen to choose, 
 and then you turn the quests in. You sell loot from your kills, you buy better gear, you level 
 up and spend skill points on your attributes. You also spend points on your actual skills that 
 you use to better yourself out in the wilderness.
  
  What does it do different? Well for starters and the most obvious you have the graphics. No larger 
 than life reality stuff here, cellshading baby! Woo! I remember when cellshading first started 
 showing up here and there in the gaming community, and I remember hating it. OF all the games in 
 existance that changed my mind though, it was Dark Cloud 2. The graphics of silverfall are much 
 the same as DC2, plenty of variety in gear appearance, monsters are vibrantly well designed, the 
 enviroments are nice but I couldnt give it an A+ because zooming in on your character gives you 
 a distance view of your surroundings and the draw distance of trees, rocks, etc is a good bit limited 
 so you often find yourself staring around at blank fields of terrain that you know have trees but 
 cant see them yet because the game hasnt rendered them. OF course the A- remains because you are 
 almost never in this camera angle so you never really notice this little quirk.
  
  Sound is on par, good background music, generic slash slash, ack! aiee! sounds. Voice overs are 
 decent. Nothing to write home about here, but at the same time nothing to turn off your computers 
 sound over either.
  
  The controls work well enough though the rotation around your character is a slight bit twitchy. 
 A quick tap of the left or right arrow kicks the camera 10-15 degrees, so no subtle movements here 
 heh. There's also abit of stupidity with the pathfinding system. Especially in the beginning of 
 the game when the city is being attacked. Certain areas, I simply kept the camera facing the direction 
 I wanted to go so that all my character had to do was walk 'up' otherwise he often bounced all 
 over the place trying to 'find' the way I wanted him to go through the debri. Again, not a show 
 killer, just a quirk. When I play these games I always like to have the camera facing the direction 
 I'm moving in anyways so this one dosent bother me to much.
  
  Other things I've noticed that I would like to point out. No worries about misplacing your skill 
 points on attributes or abilities, there are npc's who will reset your skills for you... for a 
 price. Four races to choose from, human, elf, orc, goblin (woo!) . Your ability tree is divided into 
 three major catagories, Melee, Magic, and Racial. Each of these is then divided into 3 or more 
 sub catagories. Melee for example is divided into actual upclose melee, ranged weaponry, and what 
 I would call 'survival/explorer' skills (movement speeds, universal weapon boosts, loot percentage 
 boosters, etc) that apply to all your physical combat arts. Each piece of equipment you buy/loot 
 takes one nice little square, horray! You can have multiple members in your party who are unlocked 
 via quests if you like. Goblins with guns! (w00!) . The game is choice based and its course/end is 
 varied based on whether you go technology or nature. Example, there are buffalo hunters killing 
 the local wildlife, the refugee camp's naturalist asks you to make them stop. You go find them 
 and through conversation you have a choice, stop them via conversation or threat... or side with 
 them, end up helping them do some hunting, get a nice rifle... piss off the naturalist... endear 
 yourself to the blacksmith who is a tech nut.... etc. Choices such as this affects the slider on 
 your character screen in the direction of either nature or technology and you do require certain 
 percentages in one direction or the other if you want to use certain equipment in the game. (guns 
 require technology percentage!) Death reminds me of dungeon seige 1, a tombstone appears where 
 you die, you run back to it, click it, then run like hell because the monsters were smart enough 
 to know you'd be back for your gear and decided to squat on your corpse waiting for you. There's 
 a bank box in each town and the goblin who controls it will offer you 'insurance' that lets you 
 keep your gear upon death and/or will offer to get your gear for you... for a price.
  
  The only thing I would of liked 'changed' in this game so far would have to be the compass. It 
 works well enough but instead of my little arrow rotating around to reflect which way I am facing 
 I would of liked the entire compass to rotate instead. Also, better icons to reflect merchants, 
 quest givers, etc rather than the little blip dots would of been nice as well.
  
  But thats about it, there you go, like hack n slash games? You'll probably like this one too. Looking 
 for an oblivion level experience, go somewhere else.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the screenshots for this game I thought wow the cell shaded graphics look really 
 good and different to what we usually see in RPG games. I played the demo and got a little bit 
 bored with it but I persisted and then brought the full game twice (long story) . I'm really glad 
 I brought the full game, on my first play through I spent well over 100 hours playing it.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The cell shaded graphics in the game are really good and very unusual for 
 an RPG game. Sliverfall's world environments tend to be well detailed but the game really stands 
 out when you get into certain cities in the game. 
  
  Graphically the monsters are really detailed and fit it with the rest of the world really well. 
 The animation of the monsters is also really good and adds to the overall experience of the game.
 
  
  Sound: 
  
  Unfortunately the sound in the game is pretty standard really, there's nothing really there that 
 stands out and even the music isn't that great. 
  
  Most of the voice acting is very good, as with every game you'll get a certain amount of poor voice 
 acting and that rule applies with Silverfall but thankfully there is a very limited amount of poor 
 voice acting.
  
  Experience/overall:
  
  I found the game to be a great old school RPG with lots of character development options coupled 
 with a believable story. The premise of nature versus technology is really interesting and fits 
 in well with the world that they designed.
  
  Silverfall is a worthy successor to Diablo, most people might not think so but I enjoyed this game 
 a lot more than Diablo.
  
  
  Good stuff:
  
  Large and immersive world.
  Loads of monsters (people have complained about this but Silverfall is all about leveling up, get 
 over it) .
  Large variety of monsters.
  Good in game tutorials, I didn't need to look in the manual.
  Ability to alt tab back to Windows 
 (a must have for any game!) :) .
  Nice and lite interface, I don't know why people complain about it so much.
  Lots of replay options.
 
  Lots of character development choices.
  Different companions to choose from.
  Nature versus technology premise is really good and to mu knowledge hasn't been done in an RPG 
 before.
  Monsters are graphically well detailed and their animations are really good.
  You can actually play through the game again at the end of the game with your current character.
 
  
  Bad stuff:
  
  On first release there were broken quests but with the 1.17 patch most things have been fixed. 
 I personally haven't found any broken quests.
  Long load times.
  Bit of a resource hog. Certain parts of the game can use 1.2GB of RAM.
  Path finding in certain 
 places can be a little bit off.
  
  My review does in no way do this game justice all that I can say is go and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoyholyhoy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Holy potatoe bunns this is the best 3rd person game ive ever played to tell you the truth because 
 i can finally create and design my own charactor however i want and its has fantasticle grafigs 
 and gameplay. i think this and fury are the funnestest olden day games eva! ok is that one hunfred 
 words? any way im probobly ganna go buy this game in like two or tres days if i can so astala vista 
 bebe. and other stuff from movies like termonater and james bond and john puffy colms and some 
 sort well im off to the new distant land or spakledorf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 11, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Keeping in mind I am a huge fan of action RPG titles like Diablo, Titan Quest, and Dungeon Siege 
 - Silverfall has really impressed me.
  
  Overall, it's certainly not going to win any game of the year awards. It feels a little rushed 
 - or perhaps just not quite as thought out as some of the big dogs in the genre. But the fun factor 
 is there, and you can tell that the developers tried very hard to offer up a good experience with 
 Silverfall, even if it didn't quite turn out to be the best entry the genre has seen.
  
  Let's start out with what makes this game really good.
  
  Firstly, the graphics are gorgeous. 
 Typically when you see action RPGs, they're isometric with a fairly fixed screen - you usually 
 dont get to alter the viewing angle too drastically. (Diablo is 2D, Titan Quest and Dungeon Siege 
 offer little more than the ability to zoom in and out.) While you don't have a full range of camera 
 options that a first person shooter would have, you certainly have a good deal of options. Zoomed 
 out the game resembles Titan Quest, but you can zoom in and play the game more like typical MMOs 
 like World of Warcraft - sort of over the shoulder. And when you're zoomed in close like that, 
 the details really shine - while some of the environments can get repetitive if you've been there 
 too long, i just love zooming in and looking at my enemies off in the distance, and checking out 
 my character's shiny new armor, or generally cool demeanor.
  
  And that leads me into one of the other features i liked about the game, the character customization. 
 Action RPGs tend to do a good job of allowing you to customize your character, and Silverfall is 
 no different. You get to choose from one of four races, gender, and have four sliders to make finer 
 adjustments. Now there aren't hundreds of possibilities here - but there are at least a few dozen 
 different looks possible for each race and gender combination, which isn't bad at all considering 
 every Titan Quest character starts out looking exactly the same. Of course, the fun doesn't stop 
 there - you still get to outfit your character as you play the game, and like other entries in 
 the genre, basically everything you equip can be seen on your player. You have about six armor 
 slots and three weapon slots to fill out, and a couple slots for jewelery. While all those parts 
 don't necessarily fit well together when you mix and match armor types, it gives you a lot of possibilities 
 to mess around with, and there are plenty of different things to equip, which gives you a truly 
 unique feeling character, even when you're playing multiplayer.
  
  Unfortunately, that's really the end of the stand-out portions of the game.
  
  Now, I'll move 
 onto the downers.
  
  Firstly, the games storyline is abysmally dull. I won't go into any detail, but it is honestly 
 one of the most generic plots i have ever seen. Now, this isn't a huge problem for me - i mean, 
 i loved Diablo and it had virtually no plot - so this, in my opinion, was fairly easy to dismiss 
 - while an engaging storyline can easily make or break a game, i feel that it really plays second 
 fiddle to the action in action RPGs.
  
  Secondly, the user interface is equally as uninspired. After getting used to easy to pick up and 
 play action RPGs like the constantly referenced in this review Diablo and Titan Quest, it becomes 
 considerably more difficult to recommend this game to a genre newbie. Personally, it only took 
 me about 20 minutes to completely figure out the majority of the interface and in game systems, 
 but when you consider that Titan Quest took me all of 1 minute to figure out, that makes Silverfall's 
 interface quite entangled, jumbled, and unintuitive in comparison. Thirdly, unpatched early versions 
 of Silverfall have some minor instability issues. Occasional crashes to the desktop have popped 
 up, but luckily at this point most of the issues have been worked out, and the U. S. version should 
 already include most of the patching on the retail CD.
  
  So, would i recommend Silverfall to friends? Definitely. It isn't the easiest to learn, but once 
 you do its a solid game. The four playable races, multitude of side quests, and gorgeous graphics 
 really pull you into the world - even if your reminded regularly that the main quest is one of 
 the most generic of all time. I honestly feel that the developers have a solid work on their hands, 
 but Silverfall is certainly a title that will appeal more to action RPG fans than your every day 
 gamer. If you're into the genre, you'll have a good deal of fun with this game. If your a more 
 casual gamer, then keep in mind that this is not a genre defining title, it won't end up going 
 down in history as a classic like the Diablo games and Titan Quest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffkretz
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Many other reviewers have covered most of the points I was unhappy about, but I have to make special 
 mention of the auto-leveled mobs.
  
  I found that this completely eliminated ANY value in leveling at all. I played through the first 
 third of the game, looking through the nooks and crannies, doing all side quests and gaining experience 
 and levels.
  
  When I realized that mobs were auto-leveled, I decided to restart the game with a new character, 
 but this time I basically ran through the storyline as fast as I could, killing as few monsters 
 as possible. This ended up making an already easy game even EASIER, as in the second and third 
 acts I was fighting extremely low-level mobs.
  
  There is no reward WHATSOEVER for building up a higher-level character. I eventually petered out 
 interest on Act 3 and have given up trying to finish the game, which is a shame because the main 
 reason I like to play an RPG is to follow the story.
  
  JK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUnified
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Since Diablo 2, I have been waiting for that modern dungeon hack-n-slash game that was addicting 
 and fun to play just like Diablo. Silverfall is as close as I've seen, and it's only a few hundred 
 bug fixes away from being that one game to finally replace good old Diablo.
  
  Unfortunately, and it's been some time, the game doesn't play much better. Traveling is cumbersome 
 and confusing, especially since some of the quest map markers (especially the important ones) don't 
 always correctly show where you need to go. It's hard to determine the strength of enemies, dying 
 too often is really frustrating because you have to go find your body which is usually in that 
 mob of enemies that just killed you.
  
  If I am not dying too often, and the quests are working, it can be an enjoyable game. The problem 
 is, all motivation for playing game ceases when you find a quest bug, or you die.
  
  Gameplay: Too frustrating to play continuously, my wife noted that she's never seen me so angry 
 at a game before! The dynamic camera is cool, but it would have played much easier if it was a 
 static bird's eye view or over-the-shoulder. Worrying about the camera and movement at the same 
 time is cumbersome.
  
  Sound: The sound is quite good, and expected for each area. Jungles sound like jungles and so on. 
 Spells and attacks sound good, enemies and monsters sound appropriate.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great, reflective water, lush canopy in jungle areas, make you feel 
 like you are really treading through the environment. Plenty of diversity, lots of different looking 
 enemies and spells. Cell shading can be turned off for extra performance or if you just don't like 
 it.
  
  Bottom line: Silverfall could have been the Diablo replacement many people have been waiting for, 
 but the myriad of bugs and the cumbersome gameplay make it unbearable to play any longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 2, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  overall I enjoyed the game and don't regret buying it. However the game play dragged on as I found 
 the combat to be highly repetitive. And if you restarted the game after quiting it, all the monsters 
 are spawned afresh resulting in more of the same combat all over again. That's alright if you want 
 to grind to higher levels but after a while you wind up with zero sum improvements since the game 
 gets tougher as you level. I had focused on technology and two skills: ranged weapons with a further 
 focus on headshot and punch weapons with a further focus on it's specialty skills. As a result, 
 using just those two combat types for all fighting scenarios, I pretty much had to only make sure 
 I never got surrounded or criticaled. So put effort into defense and then you are done with character 
 development so there is no need to comtinue fighting the hordes of critters just to level since 
 at that point (high level 20s) the game will match you for difficulty and you are not getting any 
 necessary new skills.
  
  Another peeve: I enjoyed using a low camera angle to move around but with the large female ogre 
 henchman, you will select her the vast majority of the time you try to click on an opponent to 
 hit or on terrain to move. Grrr. using shift click helped with targeting but you still have to 
 zoom out to click on the ground to move. The story is there but it gets drawn out too long with 
 all the fighting that you have to do. You CAN walk around lots of potential combat especially out 
 in the open (which is weird since it looks like you are only 10 feet away from the monsters and 
 they just ignore you) .
  
  Finally, saving is automatic, but only at the most current point. If you die, you either start 
 at the nearest town in your skivvies, or if you purchased insurance, back at the town with all 
 your gear. If you accept a mission that goes against your path (tech or nature) you get dinged 
 even though you may not have done anything yet as I found out. And some of the tasks are not that 
 obvious which one they favor (most are though) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hank32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Very much an attempt at updating Diablo with a few extra quirks Silverfall is a solid, old school 
 style RPG hack and slash adventure with some ups and downs. As you would expect this is very much 
 like Diablo, mouse button mashing fun at its best, but to keep this from getting too repetitive 
 Silverfall has a huge skills tree and an interesting twist of choosing technology or nature to 
 influence the skills you can access later on. Silverfall also has an extensive item list, with 
 such a huge assortment of items to choose from and the constant need to upgrade your characters 
 and your characters companions equipment it keeps you interested in the combat long enough for 
 you to complete the game a few times over. For example changing your standard run of the mill light 
 power rifle to an elite power canon is just so satisfying, especial when the sound effects kick 
 in and you get a satisfying boom as you blow another enemy to pieces!
  
  The graphics are great, giving an interesting new perspective on gameplay, as most new games move 
 into the expensive realms of top of the line graphics cards. Silverfall gives a good visual experience 
 throughout while keeping those annoying system requirements in a reasonable level.
  
  A let down that could easily have been solved is the games environment sounds. As you adventure 
 through the world you will slowly begin to notice the drowning, constant and repetitive background 
 music. It really would have made the game much more playable without the gamer wishing he had earplugs. 
 In a completely weird turn though the skill and weapon effects for Silverfall are actually very 
 good and add an extra element of interest to the world, bringing the game into a more forefront 
 and engaging realm of play.
  
  Overall Silverfall is a true testament to old style RPG ing and is a must for those gamers looking 
 for a game to spend a few days enjoying, without to much concentration required. Obviously this 
 will not suit those of a younger generation who think Diablo is slow and has the same graphical 
 capacity as a dead sheep, but Silverfall still manages to pull a few good RPG elements out of the 
 bag. Can it match the new age graphics and gameplay you would find in say Oblivion? No, but it 
 can still achieve a good class of enjoyable gaming for those willing to give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunman710
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  My biggest problem with Silverfall is I can see that the game could have been great. Overall the 
 game isn't horrible by any means. It's playable you can play through the game with very little 
 irritation with the game play. However, the game fails to make the story engaging and it actually 
 feels like your playing side quests the entire game instead of playing a main quest. The story 
 goes something like this- the city of Silverfall is attacked by evil, stop me if this sounds familiar, 
 and the leader of the city the Archmage disappears during the fight. As one of the survivors you 
 must search out the Archmage and challenge the evil which destroyed Silverfall. The other selling 
 point of this game is the choice between Nature and Technology it's a nice little touch to the 
 game but unfortunately there's never really that much of a difference in the game. You'll have 
 access to different sets of skills, weapons, and armor which do relatively the same thing. One 
 of the problems is that after about half the game you've seen everything item wise. Most of these 
 items look amazing and you will spend a good amount of time simply checking out how awesome your 
 character looks. This also leads to another problem, the first half of the game blows by fast because 
 the items and the overall style but the end feels like a chore. I found myself walking into every 
 new town already knowing what I had to do. The game is beautiful graphically and really brings 
 you into the world which is very well designed. However, the numerous glitches such as being able 
 to walk through walls and floating in the air while on a incline really do make the game feel like 
 it should be in a bargain bin but it still costs $40 which it is not worth at all. Like I said 
 before the game isn't horrible but it could have been amazing and it's really sad that they didn't 
 take the time to make a better product.
  
  Pros- Nature vs Tech, Graphics are pretty good, Some cool armor and weapons, Combat system sort 
 of works.
  
  Cons- Bad Storyline, Overdone side quests, Glitchy, $40 price tag 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcdullen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Since Diablo, this is one of the best choices that a true gamer can do. The game is very extensive, 
 brings lots of fun, it's highly detailed (looks how the armors, weapons and accessories is detailed 
 on the body of the caracter) and brings a intuitive menu (it's easy to learn how to play) . The 
 patch v1.17 it's extremely recommended. So, if you look for a immersive game, that's the one! Be 
 damned and be the best! - Man, I don't care how if lenght of my review is short or big. The most 
 important thing is that's to a classic gamer to another! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmart2
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Somethings wrong when a game as good as Silverfall is rated below a game like Neverwinter nights 
 2. Of course NWN2 is hyped by the great machine so that at least 2 points can be explained by politics. 
 But I believe the real disparity in fairness here is that Silverfall is a game that dares to be 
 a little different and we have grown so used to games caving in to our conventions and preferences, 
 that any (foreign) new approach to camera or story is not judged on a level basis.
  
  So you have to develop a little familiarity with controls tolerate a slightly different camera 
 angle, isnt that what gives us a fresh take on an old genre?
  
  Fundamentally, I believe the storyline, characters, and especially voice acting is far and away 
 superior to that of Neverwinter Night 2 as well as others.
  
  I am only using NWN2 as a good example because they received great reviews for a game that is nowhere 
 near as good as Silverfall.
  
  I find myself returning to the world of Silverfall to do battle for a cause they made me believe 
 in. This phenomena and great music and graphics alone qualify this game for much higher reviews 
 than it has received.
  
  I have been playing and reviewing PC games since their inception some thirty years now, and I highly 
 recommend Silverfall for a great RPG rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalay_BG
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 11, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Really Great Multiplayer , Wonderful long enough story !! Stunning fresh graphics and UI ! Everything 
 is really great . But the future to have your items from Multiplayer games under Single is amaizing 
 !! I cant agree with the other reviews ! I had great fun with my friends , cool game !!!! Just 
 some prons like long loading at the start and not really good sound . Some missions gat too hard 
 2 but thats not big problem . Some skills will make you immortal like ;) This game is good so if 
 you have some free time try it / and if you like it BUY IT ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 5, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Silverfall: Is it groundbreaking? No. Is it graphically stunning? No. Does it have deep environments 
 and NPCs? No. Is it a fun, loot-grabbing, critter killing, light RPG with decent action? Yes! The 
 reviews have been harsh -- I agree it doesn't have quite the polish of Titan Quest, but I found 
 this game more compelling. Silverfall is maybe closer to Sacred than anything else I've mentioned. 
 It does take some ramp-up -- your character will die early and often, but once you get some levels 
 under your belt, the game balances pretty well through to the end. Graphics: Actually, quite good. 
 They intentionally are going for a graphic novel look to the characters, and the scenery is all 
 well done. There's a lot of variety, with quite a few unique environments that each offer unique 
 monsters as well.
  Audio: Voice acting and soundtrack are average for the genre -- not particularly memorable. Gameplay: 
 Lots and lots and lots of combat - monsters regenerate pseudo randomly. Lots and lots and lots 
 of goodies -- you'll be loaded down, and selling frequently. Fortunately, rare items are indeed 
 rare and rewarding (e. g. after killing a boss) , so Silverfall offers action RPG goodie-grabbing.
 
  Bottom line: There's some repetitive combat, and the RPG elements are light, but for a fun couple 
 of weeks of hacking 'n' slashing action-RPG style, this is a solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_NHB
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 2, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  Well this game got a good graphics on the tree&acute; s, lands and the houses but not on the characters 
 well maybe because they are 2D/3D. The game it self is no major different from any other RPG just 
 a little more boring.
  
  The gameplay kinda sucks feels like its to much of something, just something.
  
  4 characters 
 to choose from ohh yeah nothing new by the race only one and thats a goblin kinda cool.
  
  The game is really easy to play and learn and the spell&acute; s really nothing new like they have 
 stolen spells from Diablo hehe, which is boring and the spell is no fun to use no cool effects 
 on them.
  
  Don&acute; t buy this if you want to play a boring rip of rpg game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supertigger28
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 1, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  Silverfall is a very beautiful game. The artists put days of work creating great, highly detailed 
 environments to explore but the game designers seriously let them down. Spell effects look great 
 and I love the goblin machines but the game play falls short. The game is very frustrating for 
 the first few character levels as you develop a couple of specialized skills and find the first 
 few companions but quickly becomes very easy. After you have started to max a couple of primary 
 skills, the monsters start to fall quickly except for the rare occasion you are swarmed. Companions 
 help prevent swarms more than anything else . In fact, the only significant strategy in combat 
 is avoiding swarms. The combat system includes an interruption probability which really doesn't 
 work well. If you are swarmed and the monsters start to hit you, the constant interruptions to 
 your attempts to move or attack will kill you quickly. Conversely, solo monsters are doomed. A 
 stream of attacks will kill them before they can raise a fist. This is a big problem since it makes 
 the boss encounters trivial. Combinations like stunning gunpowder weapons, slowing poison, and 
 the interruptions from constant hits can easily prevent almost all mobs from reaching you. 90% 
 of weapons are useless as well since weapon speed is the critical attribute. He who hits first, 
 hits second, hits third, and wins the battle. Monsters typically come in groups of three and only 
 react when you attack them or come within a critical distance. So divide and conquer to your hearts 
 content. A different group will watch you tear apart monsters right beside them without reacting. 
 Huge swarms (tough battles) can only appear if you get confused by the camera and run the wrong 
 direction or your companions start casting low damage area effect spells everywhere (that happens 
 pretty often) . The main enemy in battles is your camera. Accidentally spin the camera and you could 
 get pummeled by a series of interrupting attacks before you can reorient. I usually devoted one 
 hand to the mouse for combat and one for the camera which really limits the use of special skills. 
 A couple of special attacks and buffs fill the hot keys and its too hard to use anything else in 
 combat. So, skill points end up dumped into inate buffs while using the same few special attacks 
 over and over again. In summary: A very pretty game with a weak story an d combat which is either 
 easy or frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NielPeart
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 30, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  The game doesn't support Dual Core, and with 1GB DDR2, the swap file still gets hit hard. I had 
 to turn the graphics WAY below setting I can play on other games, and it still ran slow. I hit 
 all the forums and did all the tweaks.
  
  My character keeps getting hung up on objects, but I found that if you show the map, then drop 
 the map, sometimes the character relocates.
  
  The unique concept of this game is its use of technology, which is why I bought it. But there are 
 only a few ways to make use of it, either in skills, or weapons. Great concept, not enough immagination. 
 I can think of 10 times the possibilities with technolgy-based weapons/implants/etc.
  
  LOAD/SAVE does not save your charactor at a specific location. Instead, it uses the old-school 
 console-style of saving only to the center of town, then you have to start over on whatever you 
 were doing when you saved last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kay262
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 27, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  What should i start with? I guess with the look and feel.... extremely dated, this game would have 
 looked and felt dated 5 years ago. The only thing worse than the miserable controls is the camera. 
 Basically you have the choice between a good view with unuseable control and a bad view with useable 
 control.
  Its buggy and has issues like bad copy protection that will ask you to insert original DVD and 
 still no patch to address this in sight.
  Despite all this, the game is fun to play, its a Diablo-style game at heart but in 3D (half arsed 
 3D that is the source for most of this games problems) and with more story and quests to it. Big 
 variety of items to find, nice skill system and very interesting Nature versus Technology aspect.
 
  The companion (s) you get are very useful, you have an input over their attributes and decide their 
 behaviour in battles, very well done.
  I havent played much into it because I'm too busy playing Saga of Ryzom but so far its been quite 
 fun despite the camera view and the controls which are a pain.
  This should have been a budget priced game in my humble opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strykarr
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  First of all, I bought the game so I am not all negative about this game. It is very obvious that 
 it was rushed to the shelves considering the immediate release of patch to 1.65. Silver fall is 
 very close to Titan Quest. You would almost think you were playing Titan Quest except for the Cell 
 Shaded Graphics. The controls almost mirror Titan Quest.
  I was and still am a little disappointed with Silverfall. The graphics are pretty however the bugs 
 and balance of game play make it very frustrating to enjoy. Initially, I was ready to retire this 
 game to the box to storage but after leveling and getting used to cussing the death and reincarnation 
 system, I found myself wanting to dive a little further into the game. You get severely punished 
 early on when you die in the game. Especially if you do not complete the quest to get the bakers 
 chest back. The banker holds stuff for you but also has the ability to resurrect you with all of 
 your gear, for a little to a lot of gold (depending on how many times you have died) . What makes 
 it so frustrating that if you don't have the money then you have to make it back to your tomb site 
 butt naked which means if you died around any enemies, chances are you will die again. I had to 
 restart with a new character each time at the beginning of the game because it was downright impossible 
 to get to my tomb without getting rapped by the numerous mobs. Anyhow, once you get used to the 
 system and controls, you start to notice that there is a game buried underneath all of these problems. 
 The story pretty much stinks so youre basically running around as an errand boy doing various 
 quests.
  The companion system seems to be pretty good. They respond however you set them to react. If you 
 want them to, they will fight and also heal you. Its all your decision and whatever you select, 
 they do it well. You have no direct control over them except for their equipment. So even though 
 you have a healer, if you die, no one can resurrect you. You die, everyone dies. This brings me 
 to my next frustrating point, there is no recall to any location except to major cities or locations. 
 So when you die, you have to walk all the way back to where you were. The monsters don't respawn 
 but the items usually do so in that aspect, it does make up for screwing you.
  All in all, there is a decent game in there despite the bugs. Even after the patch I had to move 
 (teleport) to a major city because my character got stuck to a tree or rock. It's definitely half 
 baked so if you have the game you know what I'm referring to. For those who have yet to purchase, 
 all I can say is that there is a decent game in Silverfall, you just have to gain some levels and 
 get used to screaming BULL@#$^! a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PC_Pete
Rating: 4.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Look, I haven't played this game through to its conclusion. I didn't want to.
  
  I've enjoyed every release of Diablo (maybe a bit too much) , and at first glance, Silverfall would 
 seem to be the perfect up-market, shiny new replacement. But it's not.
  
  The graphics are pretty swish, and there's a lot of eyecandy and plenty to look at, but once you've 
 entered combat once, it's mostly ho-hum.
  
  The strange map behaviour and hopelessly confusing item menu structure kept me reading the screen 
 for the first half hour while I tried fruitlessly to figure out how to select and use the appropriate 
 weapon, and the spells interface was so confusing I just gave up.
  
  The storyline is pretty thin too - it exhorts you (the player) to do all sorts of things quickly, 
 but you seem to have forever to do them in once you start. So you quickly ignore the hurry, hurry 
 mission explanations.
  
  I got lost so many times in such a short while that eventually I just kind of wandered around - 
 and that got me dead pronto.
  
  The sound environment was moderately substantial, good atmosphere and interesting feedback for 
 the user interface, and the positional cues were mostly usable (distance/direction/speed of approach) . 
 As an audio engineer, I tend to expect less substance and more ear candy these days, and Silverfall 
 fell smack into the middle of the glitzy-but-simplistic class for me (take this with a grain of 
 salt, though, because I do have an astonishing sound system that tends to show the flaws in game 
 sounds rather than the gems) .
  
  There's a lot to like in this game, I guess, if you're not too worried about interesting gameplay 
 or logical player control or storyline or engrossing fight mechanics or...
  
  I was dreadfully disappointed in this game. I tried to have low expectations, but they consistently 
 failed to be met. Great boobs on the flash screen 'meat' though, which I guess pinpoints its target 
 demographic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Than924
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 8, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game for about 15 hours now... I kinda like it... Nothing exciting, really.... 
 The concept and combat are fun, but that's about the extent of it. Had they developed this game 
 a bit further it might have really been an exceptional game. With all the Bad games coming out 
 these days, It's surprising studios release Games that have no flair. This game certainly could 
 have been a contender with a little more Development. The Quest system is Alright at best, but 
 could have been made a bit more organized. I do like the Death System. You Die, you have to go 
 find your corpse to get your stuff back (Unless you buy Insurance) . If you like Monotonous Hack 
 and Slash games with little plot, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellScream1359
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  What a waste of time ... begin with good shape of story ... but the interface real junk ... in 
 merchants you really need a guide to buy and sell ... After all of this the really big big map 
 without any guide ... it's really fearful environment that has no line of map ... you are free 
 to go without have any target ... guide to the side quest really bad thin at all ... what a waste 
 in the real good graphic and smooth environment with no target ... The good thing is you are not 
 to have a high end pc to play this game ... nothing more ... this game could be better if developer 
 has no haste in releasing this game ... Pooof ... MoonWalker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slowram
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Yes the interface is very poor - making it difficult to move in anything but a straight line and 
 track where you are going on the map. However thankfully aside from when you are in towns you can 
 generally walk in a straight line or often enough it's not a major hinderance.
  This game is fun/addictive every few minutes you will level up and the choices for you to make 
 to improve your character are plentiful and they make a difference. Put a point in freeze spell 
 and notice it work better, put it in a sword ability and notice you are doing more damage or hitting 
 more frequently. This is a very fun game stressing what makes rpgs the best encouraging you to 
 level up and get a good reward for doing so. Unlike most rpgs that taper off as you get higher 
 levels this one keeps giving goodness letting you still level in a relatively quick period of time 
 and there are so many options to improve your character that it doesn't get boring forcing you 
 to make incremental improvements in one area.
  Oh yeah also the patch fixed some pathing issues I had previously forcing me to transport back 
 to town cause I got stuck - be sure to get the patch.
  To sum it up: It's frustrating interface will annoy you (especially in towns) however it constantly 
 rewards you and keeps you going resulting in hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_an
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I got surprisingly deep into Silverfall, played it non-stop until I beat it and I have to say I 
 enjoyed the experience very much. I love the old-school gameplay and although it doesn't do anything 
 new, I highly enjoyed how it stuck to games that came out 5-10 years ago. Silverfall plays a lot 
 like Diablo, which I think is great. However, the controls take a while to get used to. The game's 
 fully 3D but the camera angle (when zoomed out) has a bird's eye view from an angle. In order to 
 not run into problems with dragging items off the interface and actually seeing where your going, 
 you have to be move upwards (it's troublesome going side to side or to the bottom of the screen) . 
 Also, in order to move the camera, you either have to move the mouse to the side or use the arrow 
 keys. Moving to the side works alright but being able to actually use WASD instead of the arrow 
 keys would have been great (you can't adjust the controls) .
  
  Other than that, the controls work pretty well. The 1-3 keys change your stance such as certain 
 melee or ranged stances (your basic attack) and 4-8 are hotkeys for your spells which you activate 
 by right clicking. 9 and 0 are used to take potions and all of this works pretty good. The only 
 problem is that I had trouble finding out the less used controls (such as alt to see items, x to 
 auto pick up) and there's absolutely no options for the controls. That and clicking on your companions 
 which kicks in the dialogue can be annoying.
  
  I was a big fan of the graphics and the sound was also well done. The graphics have a nice cell 
 shaded look which worked surprisingly well. I was also impressed on how well the game looked with 
 all the settings turned down to the lowest. The sound is similar to older games like Diablo and 
 I thought the music was pretty well done. Although, most people have trashed talked the story; 
 personally I like it. It's really similar to games like Baldur's Gate, Diablo, and other fantasy 
 old-school RPG's. I also liked the technology and nature idea. Basically, certain quests and decisions 
 with quests increase your loyalty to either technology or nature. There are specific skills for 
 both groups and certain items require 40% technology or 35% nature etc. First time through, I chose 
 technology and you can actually pimp yourself out to look like a robot. If you want to use guns 
 (which are kind of rare) then you'll also be interested in technology. The game takes a descent 
 length to beat, although it could be a bit short for a RPG. When you beat the game, you can still 
 walk around in the world and you can also restart all the quests (including the primary story mission 
 ones) keeping all your skills, companions, etc. Most people have also complained about numerous 
 bugs throughout the game, although I encountered very few (and minor ones) . Most of the bugs I 
 ran into were after I beat the game anyways. Another thing I should address is how people have 
 been complaining about the death penalty. Right in the beginning of the game you can get life insurance 
 for a very cheap price which practically eliminates it. Also if you're playing on the normal difficulty 
 setting, the game is rather easy (died once at the very beginning of the game) . Also you can hire 
 people to get your equipment back for a price. Another thing: if your companion dies, just warp 
 to the area where he's from and he'll be resurrected; again not a big deal.
  
  I'm a big fan of the creative monsters, the graphics, and the gameplay. I love the old-school leveling 
 system with all the attributes which you just dump points into and the skill system. I'm also glad 
 that you can pretty easily take skill points back (it's the sole purpose of money, pretty much) 
 and the equipment is fairly creative as well. All and all, if you liked the style of older RPG's 
 such as Diablo and even Neverwinter Nights, then you just might like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonestowncz
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  REALLY BAD GRAPHICS - I think they use the comic book look excuse as a cover up gimmick. Not only 
 do the characters and environs look like they were drawn by a badly trained and tripping monkey 
 amputee, but all of the things like the life, special abilities and gear interfaces are beyond 
 ridiculously simple and bland.
  ALL TOO SIMPLE COMBAT - this goes far into the void of idiocy and in the few games I played they 
 didnt even attack my companions. I was a hackin and a slashin, hackin and slashin..... no skill, 
 no battle strategy... nothing.
  WORSE THAN GOTHIC AT FINDING YOUR WAY - the mini map is almost no help at all
  CAMERA - appalling, 
 simply appalling
  
  After playing Oblivion and Neverwinter Nights 2,... wait... maybe I should have played this game 
 a good 10 years ago. I am sure it would have been quite mediocre then.
  
  I could go on, but even writing about this is a waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trashcanhands
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 2, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Total waste of money.... lousy interface, quickly repetitive, bad features, no immersion whatsoever, 
 except graphically (and even there it could run a lot smoother-physX?.... pleeeeze physX sucks!) , 
 but its like dressing up a turd........ Like i said, i went running back to Neverwinter Nights 
 2.. I wanted to like this game sooo much when I first booted it up, but within 2 hours i was seriously 
 let down. I thought I'll give it a chance to win me over and continued putting more and more time 
 into it only to stay regretful of plunking down 39.95 to get it. Stay away from Silverfall. Had 
 gobs of potential, though.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottAdams
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I must say I was looking forward to Silverfall. I love fantasy-based worlds, and Diablo is (of 
 course) a wonderful game to be compared to in the media. So, I entered the world of Silverfall 
 full of hope.
  
  The first thing I noticed was that the game reverted back to the Diablo-style mouse driven universe 
 (meaning, click the ground where you want to go) . Not bad, but a rough switch from using my Nostromo 
 52 (or WASD controls if you use keyboard) . The few keyboard commands (map, quests, and items) , 
 are not reprogrammable. So, you better like having your hand stretched between the M-key and the 
 LeftAlt. But, generally, you can adjust to the awkward controls after a while.
  
  Then you start following the quests and assuming the storyline will develop. It doesn't. You basically 
 are enveloped in a pretty world with interesting creatures -- and you get to play the glorious 
 role of errand boy (or girl) . Run here - get this - bring it back. Lather - Rinse - Repeat.
  
  Mix in an insane number of enemies that all increase in power with you, and you generally end 
 up dead... a lot. After that, you have to run around regathering your inventory from chests you 
 have after death. Very annoying.
  
  In general, not worth the $40. Wait until the price drops to to $19. That is more reasonable for 
 a game like this.
  
  -- Scott 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eviakhan
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game from the first time I started reading the previews. It sounded 
 great and we really needed another good Diablo like game (seriously) . After I played the demo, 
 I had a bad feeling, and I said well maybe the retail will be better, its not.
  
  Silverfall leaves me with that longing feeling I get when I play other not quite as good as Diablo 
 games . It's fair, but just not good enough. There are just too many better games out there right 
 now to keep this one on my hard drive. This game will collect dust with the other almost games 
 like Sacred and Titan Quest.
  
  Good points:
  -neat graphics and fantasy setting.
  
  Bad points:
  -Camera control - it always feels like work to get the best view, and I can never 
 quite get to a good vantage point of the battle or upcoming danger.
  -Combat - there is no feeling to it, i just click attack or spells and watch things die... I like 
 meaty hits you can feel like in Oblivion, I want to feel the life being pounded out of my foes.
 
  -Map system - its just bad, it does not have enough detail, I would like it to be more flexible. 
 Let me move it around, resize it and such.
  -NPC Interaction - I had a very difficult time trying to find vendors who I could sell things too. 
 In these games you need to constantly run back to town and sell loot, its difficult in Silverfall 
 because I cannot easily see the merchant NPCs until I get right up on them. You also cannot see 
 them on the map, would have been a nice touch to add.
  
  So overall, I give it just a fair rating and most certainly to be uninstalled from my hard drive 
 before the month is out. If you are waiting for the next great Diablo clone/action rpg this is 
 not it. Stick with Titan Quest, Sacred or Dungeon Siege until we get something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 1, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Some people think because a game has a different artstyle that it has bad graphics. Games like 
 Okami and Silverfall prove them wrong with a unique art design and graphics that still look decent. 
 While this is apparent Silverfall otherwise is pretty much your cookie cutter RPG.
  
  Bunch of Skills. Check.
  Lots of skill branches. Check.
  Fantasy Characters. Check.
  Main Story 
 Dillema. Check.
  See Silverfall has the needed RPG elements but it just doesn't use them to give the player a enjoyable 
 experience.
  
  When you die in Silverfall you lose ALL of your items. Yup. And you don't pay to get them back. 
 No you have to go back to the spot where you died, Naked and still lethal creatures attacking you, 
 and pick your inventory up. The only way to avoid this annoying process is to pay a large sum of 
 life insurance, which is pretty lame.
  
  Everything else such as gameplay, constant click combat, and story progression is average. With 
 all the faults, annoying features, and average gameplay elements added up Silverfall is just your 
 run-of-the-mill Action RPG that doesn't bring anything memorable to the table. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArchAngelAlex
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  First off i would like to solemnly state that RPG's are my life. Only my closest friends know how 
 many nights i wasted playing games like Diablo, Diablo II, World of Warcraft, Fable, Gothic or Neverwinter 
 Nights (1&amp;2) and the list goes on. This is one of the reasons why i give this game a higher 
 grade than i would another (and for the sake of trying to be fairly original but that is another 
 issue) .
  Considering the games mentioned above, seeing that a Diablo 2 clone (or wannabe clone) with a twist 
 was going to emerge from the sea of shooters, strategies and adventure games with jaw dropping 
 eye candy, got me hooked right away. Breathlessly awaiting it's release i was thrilled at the idea 
 of a good RPG. Oh how wrong I was...
  The good: Moderately satisfying graphics (one major advantage is to remove that black outline option) , 
 fast paced game play, pretty cool town teleportation through the use of the map wherever you may 
 be. lots of monsters. The choice between nature and technology that replaces an alignment with 
 good or evil of some sort is ok.
  The so-so: quest mini map indicators (I love that in any RPG, but the fact that only certain quests 
 are marked is quite odd making it fit into the category of so-so) , diverse assortment pf weapons... 
 which quickly become repetitive since you just get them over and over again just with higher stats. 
 Note: Diablo has the armor thingy too but you actually get to finish the game once before that 
 happens!
  The bad: Ravaging through hordes of endless monsters becomes some what like jogging, you get tired 
 but in the end it's just the same old run over and over. Spoken dialogue (when available) is just 
 a hanous display of horrificly bad voice acting, totally unbalanced skills (basically becoming 
 a warrior of sorts is the biggest mistake you can ever make)
  In the end a pretty fun experience for about the first 6 hours of gameplay. After that, you start 
 to wonder if you haven't started the game all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buttertooth
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 31, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This isnt worth it.
  
  The fast game play is great, but the game definitely feels rough. My number one gripe is that when 
 i run to get my body ala diablo, all of my equipment must manually be re-equipped. Another big 
 turn off for me was the display - i never did feel like i could see everything i wanted to see. 
 Had this game hit a year after the diablo II expansion, then we might be singing a different tune. 
 All this time since though, they have had plenty of time to get it right, plenty of time to see 
 what other successful games (WoW, for one) have done right. It feels rushed and half assed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 30, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  From the depths of death and decay to the holy lands of the blessed Silverfall gives you the choice. 
 Be a praised warrior, a noble wizard or even a ruler of decay it is finally your choice to be what 
 you want to be. No more classes, no more restrictions its all about you and what you want your 
 character to be. The graphics in Silverfall are nothing to shout about for they use the lazy technique 
 of cell-shading. Some people like that technique and thats fine for this game appeases both opinions. 
 For those that do not like the technique the game allows you to zoom out far enough not to notice 
 it. Though, for the people that do like the technique, by all means zoom in and behold the spendor 
 that you think are graphics. All characters, good and evil alike, are all done by cell-shading 
 but the environment is not. The environment though is nothing to shout about either for they did 
 just enough to the environment to make it like good. Though its easy and quick to tell that the 
 graphics in this game are not the center point. The gameplay in Silverfall is just like another. 
 Diablo II, yes ladies and gentlemen Silverfall plays exactly like Diablo II. For those Diablo II 
 veterans the game hardly has a learning curve to speak of. Though for those that are not veterans 
 to Diablo II get ready for a rough ride because you have a lot of catching up to do. The game consists 
 of the two mouse buttons and the keypad, though don't think that nullifies what i said about non-Diablo 
 II veterans because its not easy to get used to. The left mouse button does all physical attacks 
 and the right mouse button does all magick attacks/spells. Now the keypad is what distinguishes 
 what spells/attacks you do. The good thing is that the HUD makes it easy on you and gives you a 
 big symbol of what spell/attack you're using and surrounding that smaller symbols of designated 
 other attacks/spells which are all numbered. So if you forget what attacks/spells are what numbers 
 simply look down and you have your answer, all spells/attacks have their corresponding numbers 
 underneath their symbol. Though it would behooth you to memorize what numbers are what for when 
 in the midst of a big fight looking down to see what spell is what number is too much time to waste. 
 Just like most games out the sound in Silverfall is just fine. The effects of your attacks against 
 your opponents is pleasing enough to the ear. The good aspect to Silverfall is the fact that the 
 main character, besides yours, has a voice so you don't have to read. Though the bad aspect is 
 that, that main character that has a voice is the ONLY character that has a voice, so as long as 
 you don't do any other quests but the main one you wont have to read anything. Though intend on 
 reading because to fully tweak your character you have to do some of the side quests to access 
 certain experience ladders. The game itself has nothing to be ashamed of, what it lacks in graphical 
 prowess it certainly makes up for in sheer gameplay and role play factor. Though it replicates 
 a lot of its game from Diablo II it takes a different path from it. For Diablo II had classes which 
 had ladders you had to stick to, Silverfall has those same ladders but no classes to choose from. 
 So you can choose to be a necromancer priest or even a shadownight druid. The fact that the game 
 gives you this freedom of classes is by far what keeps the game so fun for you can create exactly 
 what you want. Besides the freedom of experience ladders to use the game is essentially exactly 
 just like Diablo II that has had a major makeover. Now don't think that if you're a Diablo II veteran 
 that you're going to have an edge over this game because just because you are already use to the 
 keys the beginning levels in this game are not easy. There's hardly any quests when you first start 
 the game because they just expect you to venture out and level up a bit first before they expect 
 you to do anything. Though until you put a good 3-4 points in a certain area your character will, 
 without a doubt, have some issues with staying alive. The game doesn't start to get easier until 
 you're about level 15 which does take a good solid 24 hrs to accomplish. Now to divert from the 
 level system part of the game there essentially is no saving in this game. Don't let the Save button 
 fool you, it will save your progress but its not saving where you are it's just saving your character. 
 You really don't even need to hit the Save button for when you exit the game it automatically saves. 
 Though everytime you leave and comeback you're never where you left, you're always at a city or 
 campsite that is closest. So you might save the game in a cave or in some distant mine, when you 
 leave you automatically get zoned to the nearest city/campsite. Overall this game almost has everything 
 it needs to be a great game but some of the aspect of the inner workings keeps the game from reaching 
 that phase. The freedom of experience ladders is probably the biggest part of what makes this game 
 so good for without it the game would just be another Diablo II. So if you liked Diablo II and 
 REALLY what to see what your character could be pick up the game, you won't be disappointed. Though 
 if you like the segregation of classes then just stay with Diablo II for it has a bigger calling. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbroz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 30, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  Silverfall is a fun game to play with lots of quests. I like the way they allow you to design your 
 character. You can have a nice mix of magic and melee, and you can design the character for the 
 way you like to play. The graphics are great and it is easy to learn how to play. They could have 
 made the maps a little better and easier to follow. Also the way you control your character and 
 screen could have been designed better as well. If you liked the Diablo games, you should have 
 fun with this game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: springy75
Rating: 2.6
Date: Mar 30, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  The idea of playing a game is to get some fun form the story line or from the game play or at least 
 from the graphics scenery... Silverfall simply miss those all After playing it just for 90 minutes 
 I couldn't even continue playing for it felt like a punishment or better it is a waste of time 
 while other game are in hand specially like NeverWinter Nights2... I think that the developer of 
 Silverfall should have spent more time working on this title to polish it much more, but I guess 
 it is a very good example of time limit and money problems (They have very many good ideas like 
 the view of the dead monster bodies under water when you throw one)
  
  But as it is now my advice is: if you are to save your money and time look somewhere else 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marmadukeleet
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Been playing the game for a few days now. Definitely some frame rate issues, and had some issues 
 where fast travel would take me to the wrong place, but other than that, I have been enjoying this 
 game very much. The world is pretty big, and pretty at that. Navigating around the game can become 
 difficult, but in open areas this game shines. I play a techie fighter, and I have a blast just 
 hacking and slashing. The npc's on your team are smart and heal you just right, and attack what 
 you attack, enemy AI is usually pretty good, archers will run to get some distance and whatnot. 
 There are usually fast travel spots in just the right locations so you never have to run too far, 
 but you can if you want. Loading times aren't very long. Hunting for items is always fun as well.
 
  Plays very similar to Diablo 2, even down to the mouse configuration. Generally a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skrewdriven
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 29, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I had really high hopes for Silverfall, looked great. Unfortunately it didnt pan out, the graphics 
 are very nice, but the performance can really stutter. The world is confusing to get around you 
 will find yourself bumbling around trying to find your way to a specific and often difficult place 
 to find, MINIMAL voice acting which.... sux. When u beat it, your just plopped back to redo it all 
 over BUT the enemies dont level up with you so your a level 50 something beatin up on level 10 
 monsters, the whole technology vs nature thing is kewl, but ends up dissapointing like most of 
 the game......... not much replay value which is kind of the point for hack n slashes, you wanna 
 keep gettin your guy stronger and better, and theres really not much of a reason to do that once 
 u beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lestatx75
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 29, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Silverfall is a fun, graphically impressive game. The skill progression is nice, and the spell 
 effects are impressive. The whole technology versus nature theme is also new and refreshing. But 
 there are a few things that keep the game from being great. First, the whole tombstone/death system. 
 Losing all your items when you die and having to retrieve them doesn't seem to fit into this genre. 
 Secondly, the controls are a bit to get used to. Moving the cursor toward the edge of the screen 
 causes the camera to rotate, sometimes a bit out of control. And lastly, I would have preferred 
 a save anywhere system in the true sense. Here, when you save if you restart you begin in the nearest 
 town or outpost. So, good all in all, but could have been even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lastpick
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  Absolutely beautiful and every bit a clone of Dungeon Siege. Dying gets old with the Everquest 
 fetch your tombstone routine. Nice variety of weapons and skills. Graphically it can be adjusted 
 to run on a wide array of systems, but to fully enjoy all the beauty without a lot of hitching 
 be prepared to have a very beefy system. The quest system so far has proved to be okay. Personally 
 something feels odd with how the minimap works, normally i'm not one to lost but that map has had 
 me scratching my head more than once trying to follow it. One nice feature found in the quest journal 
 is the ability to select a quest and have the mini-map show you how to get somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steveosaurous
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of Diablo style gameplay, this is about the closest you can come to a third-part 
 to the Diablo series. This is, however, the upside and the downside.
  
  The story line, which is basic, to say the least, is poorly told and will mostly be revealed to 
 you through reading numerous text conversations. You will find little voice acting in this game, 
 though this is not a bad thing, it would be nice to see a little more, especially from the hero. 
 Which, by the way, has a terrible case of prophetic hero syndrome. And by this, I mean, that the 
 hero is very flat and unbelievabl as the hero makes comments like It doesn't matter, we have to 
 help them! . Though you will (rarely) be given a choice of what to say, it rarely makes much difference 
 as to the outcome of the storyline.
  
  The gameplay is rather boring. Much like diablo, you will use the mouse to move your character 
 around the screen and there is no option to change this, so you had better get used to it. You 
 will spend the entire game pointing and clicking, and once you get 2 party members to aid you, 
 you'll really just be watching as your character blasts away or hacks away the enemy. There is 
 little strategy involved.
  Although the game employs the same item-drop system as Diablo, in that you get items with randomly 
 generated stats, you'll find that there are fewer variations that you'd expect and continuously 
 equipping all 3 characters can become quite tedious as there is no Best-equip option. In addition, 
 though you must update your party members equipment by yourself, you will be unable to adjust their 
 stats, and they will grow however the game designers saw fit.
  
  The graphics are great and terrible at the same time. The graphics certainly look nice, with realistic 
 character animations and water reflections. However, it is evident that the designers used a high 
 amount of polygons and high quality texture maps, which can, in first person mode, bring even top 
 end computers to their knees. Overall, this game really could've been so much more if it included 
 a little more strategy here and there. Perhaps, with a few more updates, it'll be something worth 
 playing. But for now, unless you really need a Diablo fix, I'd say it's safe to pass up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaz-420
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  If you like hack and slash games, you will like Silverfall, get it. If you like turn based games, 
 you most likely will not like Silverfall, but it is still worth downloading the demo to see if 
 you like it.
  
  Pros: Very easy to learn. Fun hack and slash, very addictive. Smotth operation so far, no glitches. 
 $10.00 cheaper than most new games. Works on Vista X64. Non-Stop fighting. OK combat engine. Hard 
 to put down. I like how you can see enemies on the mini-map.
  
  Cons: Confusing story at the beginning. Graphics not up to the hype (but they are not bad) . I did 
 not like the tutorial system. Interface is a bit clunky. Install was very wierd on Vista. The camera 
 is a little agrivating at times.
  
  I have by no means finished the game, so I still may run into bugs. All in all, I am having fun 
 with it. I don't think it is anything like Titan Quest, which I also play and enjoy. It is a different 
 twist on hack and slash gaming.
  
  To the previous reviewer who is the 19-year gamer, who cares. If you are an experienced gamer, 
 please give a review that is helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Twitch
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  This game is awsome. the war that builds up between nature and technology is an original storyline. 
 i love a hack and slash game that requires quick action or strategic spell use. it's like playing 
 diablo or titan quest but it's just more fun to play. i love the fact that you can play offline 
 and still have the ability to LAN with friends. i've played it since the 25 of march and have accumulated 
 about 20 hours of gameplay and i still can't stop thinking about playing it. i also like how the 
 enemies level with you, it keeps the game going and makes the items even better! People have got 
 to buy it and play itt, just try not to get addicted like me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  The Gamespot forums seems filled with Oblivion fans who wish this game was Oblivion 2. Well it 
 isnt anything like the glitzy but too easy Oblivion I'm happy to report. Silverfall is a very solid 
 PC RPG that in some ways is a pleasant throw back to older-style PC RPG games. I have one fairly 
 big complaint though: there isnt a whole lot to do with your character in terms of adding or developing 
 skills after about 10 hours into this long game. At first I was happy with the skill tree but it 
 becomes apparent over time that the game makers didnt add enough skills and abilities to last out 
 this game. In other words and to my surprise, I got a bit bored. 1. The combat is in a frantic 
 real-time mode that will remind anyone of Diablo2. The fast combat takes some getting used to because 
 you've got 3D graphics and a camera that doesnt always cooperate. Character-building is also highly 
 reminiscent of Diablo2 with options for ice/fire magic, melee, ranged and so on for your character. 
 If you; ve played Diablo 2 then you already know basically how the combat works in this game. Just 
 as with Diablo2, you can nerf your charcacter if you try to make him good at everything. If you 
 do that, by mid-game that character wont be able to handle enemies. You have to specialize your 
 character's abilities. 2. What pleasantly surprised me was the semi-open-ended world and lots of 
 disparate side-quests to do. The game-makers clearly made some effort to create stories and quests 
 that arent the same thing over and over again (aka Oblivion) . Also, unlike the recent (and fun) 
 Titan Quest, this game never makes me feel I am being lead thru a linear quest thru linear levels 
 where basically I know to just keep moving north up the map to get to the end of the game. Titan 
 Quest's story was instantly forgettable and enemies were the usual stock cliches of mummies and 
 spiders.
  
  3. The graphics. This is what will annoy the console gamers the most I suspect. The graphics cannot 
 compete with the pretty glowy world we get in Oblivion. If that's the most important thing for 
 you in an RPG, this may not be the game for you. The quality of the graphics remind me generally 
 of Neverwinter Nights 2's graphics. They are serviceable. It helps that all of your equipment is 
 represented on your character as you wear it and there's a nice variety of odd-looking creatures 
 that arent the usual cliche in a fantasy RPG. For example the giant killer trees and the goblins 
 driving around in mini-tanks are a nicely odd.
  
  If you liked Titan Quest and Diablo 2, you will likely like this game. If you liked older PC RPG's 
 that emphasize story and dont mind the frantic real-time combat, you might like this game. If you 
 loved Oblivion above all other RPG's because it looked really cool and you could quickly level 
 up to become an uber-hero, well, you will not like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gargoyle67
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 13, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot better than Titan quest , although I haven't played the expansion for TQ yet 
 (which is supposed to be better than the first game) .
  Titan quest was a Diablo wana be, but did'nt quite feel right in the gameplay.
  Silverfall manages 
 to capture the original diablo feel, the way you shoot off spells in quick succession, the way 
 the monsters get zapped and fly back, the manic feel as monsters swarm you, It's all there.
  The down side is the load times can be a bit slow, but once the levels loaded the mayhem starts 
 !, Nuff said go buy the game now and let the slaughter begin! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
