-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SimCopter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/sim/simcopter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 17, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 8.0, 1 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 367 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Maxis
Genre: Helicopter Sim
Date:     Oct 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
On the whole, SimCopter offers a solid action experience combined with added value for SimCity 2000 
 owners and virtually endless gameplay. 

 CALLING ALL SIMCITY 2000 FREAKS!!! Getting a little tired of building city after city? Have you accomplished 
 your life's goal of creating a SimCity replica of Des Moines, Iowa, only to find that you have 
 no greater purpose to aspire to? Now it's time to actually go inside your city and control it not 
 as an all-powerful comptroller, but as an ordinary Sim citizen- - an ordinary Sim citizen with 
 a helicopter, that is.   

 After Will Wright, the creator of SimCity, finished his second masterpiece, SimCity 2000, he set 
 to work on a new challenge for his disciples. He wanted the thousands of people who had created 
 vast metropolises in SimCity 2000 to be able to explore them in 3-D. A simple first-person walking 
 tour interface would not suffice, though; the new game had to take advantage of the random event 
 generator in the SimCity world that controlled crime, fires, riots and such. What better vehicle 
 to cope with all these contingencies than a helicopter? It can carry police to a crime scene, dump 
 water on fires, launch tear gas into rioting crowds.... Anything the Sims need, their chopper-armed 
 guardian can provide.  

 As you start a career game using the 30 included cities or a user game using yours, you will find 
 yourself on the tarmac standing next to a little Schweitzer 300 helicopter. As you climb aboard, 
 the radio inside turns on and starts blaring music and commercials. Hit the right key and the rotor 
 begins to turn, taking you into the air to await your first call. You won't have to wait long before 
 "Dispatch" crackles over the radio and relays your mission. If it's a traffic jam, you have to 
 fly over and use your megaphone to tell the cars to move along. Medevacs require you to retrieve 
 injured Sims and transport them to the hospital. For rescues, you'll need to have equipped your 
 copter with a rescue harness to snatch trapped Sims from their precarious settings. Dousing fires 
 with water takes quite a bit of dexterity and numerous trips to a nearby lake to refill. Riots 
 can sometimes be handled with stern announcements over the megaphone and maybe a little spritz 
 with the water cannon, but occasionally they reach Rodney King proportions and the tear gas has 
 to be broken out. The list goes on, and the variable difficulty of each type of mission, combined 
 with the differing characteristics of the nine copters, will keep almost anyone engrossed for hours 
 at a time.  

 The graphics, although fluid and colorful, could have been visualized a bit better. The buildings 
 and terrain are adequate, but the people and vehicles look as if they were designed by a junior 
 high school art class. Even so, this is the only substandard element in what is otherwise a terrific 
 package. The sound is especially well executed. The tunes on the radio (which you can customize) 
 blend seamlessly with the realistic chopper sounds and the environmental noises to create a rich 
 soundscape. Plenty of tongue-in-cheek Maxis humor awaits fans as well, with secret laughs that 
 appear everywhere from the comical user's manual, to the congratulatory marching band that awaits 
 you back at your hangar, to the sound a passenger makes when you drop him out at 4,000 feet. Even 
 the cheat codes are funny. Type in "I'm the CEO of McDonnell Douglas" and see what happens!  

 
 Perhaps the finest feature of SimCopter is its added value to the SimCity 2000 user. The translation 
 of the cities is impressively accurate. Each building, vehicle, street, bridge, and lake is exactly 
 where it would be in SimCity 2000, only in rendered-on-the-fly, texture-mapped 3-D. If a SimCity 
 with a high crime rate is loaded into SimCopter, you can be sure to get more than your share of 
 robbery and mugging calls. Playing with a poverty-stricken city? Look out for riots.   

 On the whole, SimCopter offers a solid action experience combined with added value for SimCity 2000 
 owners and virtually endless gameplay. It's all the fun of watching a SimCity grow plus the feeling 
 that you have a real hand in the process. Beyond that, it's a full-blown helicopter sim that would 
 be extremely playable even if it didn't translate SimCities into 3-D. This one's a keeper.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jack5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  So you're basically flying around doing stuff in a helicopter, sound interesting? Maybe not to 
 the untrained eye but when it came out there was nothing like it, I had a certain sense of freedom 
 if you will and by sense of freedom I mean you could literally get off the helicopter and start 
 moving around looking for purple cows, but more than that it created relatively new space never 
 before seen in video game. A city from top to bottom, can't say it was the first (surely it must 
 have been in the top 10) but it was an impact non the less.
  
  It also helped that you could load cities from sim city 2000, enabling you to create some of the 
 most insane scenarios possible. But even without crazy scenarios the missions could sometimes be 
 a handful. Maybe what a lot of people didn't like was the fact that it was incredibly easy to get 
 the most expensive helicopter, and that kinda took out some of the merit out of it. But what people 
 forget is this game came out in 1996, when the majority of todays gamers where still in their diapers, 
 so we got to cut these guys some slack.
  
  A sequel wouldn't hurt maxis, considering it only does the sims now, and if it came out I'm sure 
 it would get all the older maxis fans interested in their series again. Anyway it's fun (for a 
 while like all sims games) and surprisingly enough I still find myself playing it from time to 
 time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atilaoe23
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  I got this game in a special box that also included Sim City 2000 Special Edition. I had loads 
 of fun playing both games. The best thing was that you could build a city in Sim City and play 
 with it in Sim Copter. Since the graphics of Sim Copter were much better and the cities were exactly 
 the same, you got a whole new look at something you created.
  
  The game play to me has never been matched. You could do anything. From throwing people of a helicopter 
 to ramming a bad guy with your rotors (come on you know you did it) , the freedom you had was amazing 
 and pretty realistic.
  
  The graphics were pretty outstanding for 1996. The cars looked like they were made by a 4-year-old 
 and there were blue cows in the middle of the city. The dogs were ugly as hell and the people looked 
 like their faces were stretched over their heads, but overall it was pleasant to look at.
  
  The best part of the game for me were the cheat codes. There was a cheat for everything. From 
 turning into a dog to nuking the city, the cheats were just plain fun.
  
  Overall, I would not change this game for anything in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itaichi-666
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  CALLING ALL SIMCITY 2000 FREAKS!!! Getting a little tired of building city after city? Have you 
 accomplished your life's goal of creating a SimCity replica of Des Moines, Iowa, only to find that 
 you have no greater purpose to aspire to? Now it's time to actually go inside your city and control 
 it not as an all-powerful comptroller, but as an ordinary Sim citizen- - an ordinary Sim citizen 
 with a helicopter, that is. 
  
  After Will Wright, the creator of SimCity, finished his second masterpiece, SimCity 2000, he set 
 to work on a new challenge for his disciples. He wanted the thousands of people who had created 
 vast metropolises in SimCity 2000 to be able to explore them in 3-D. A simple first-person walking 
 tour interface would not suffice, though; the new game had to take advantage of the random event 
 generator in the SimCity world that controlled crime, fires, riots and such. What better vehicle 
 to cope with all these contingencies than a helicopter? It can carry police to a crime scene, dump 
 water on fires, launch tear gas into rioting crowds.... Anything the Sims need, their chopper-armed 
 guardian can provide.
  
  As you start a career game using the 30 included cities or a user game using yours, you will find 
 yourself on the tarmac standing next to a little Schweitzer 300 helicopter. As you climb aboard, 
 the radio inside turns on and starts blaring music and commercials. Hit the right key and the rotor 
 begins to turn, taking you into the air to await your first call. You won't have to wait long before 
 "Dispatch" crackles over the radio and relays your mission. If it's a traffic jam, you have to 
 fly over and use your megaphone to tell the cars to move along. Medevacs require you to retrieve 
 injured Sims and transport them to the hospital. For rescues, you'll need to have equipped your 
 copter with a rescue harness to snatch trapped Sims from their precarious settings. Dousing fires 
 with water takes quite a bit of dexterity and numerous trips to a nearby lake to refill. Riots 
 can sometimes be handled with stern announcements over the megaphone and maybe a little spritz 
 with the water cannon, but occasionally they reach Rodney King proportions and the tear gas has 
 to be broken out. The list goes on, and the variable difficulty of each type of mission, combined 
 with the differing characteristics of the nine copters, will keep almost anyone engrossed for hours 
 at a time.
  
  its boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InputOverlode
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  I got this game back in '98 and I haven't put it down yet. All together a very fun game. I remember 
 back when I first started playing the game thinking it'd be rather on the stupid side. Then I actually 
 learned to fly without slamming into things.
  
  The graphics are, obviously , old compared to the graphics of today. Block stick-figure like people, 
 and blocky buildings are the norm in this game. The helicopters are rendered rather well compared 
 to the rest of the game. I've never had frame-rate problems with this game, even back when I had 
 a bargain bin bottom-line PC. 
  
  The sound in the game isn't too bad. You get the rotor noise continuously, but this is to be expected. 
 You hear rushing water when flying over water, car horns and such when driving over the city, and 
 even the occasional crackle and sizzle if you fly into a fire. The music selection, and the stations, 
 are very well composed, and the news/commercials lean on the hilarious side.
  
  The controls were the one thing I had a problem getting used to, since I had small hands back when 
 the game came out. While I eventually sucked up and bought a joystick, the keyboard controls are 
 logical and well laid out. The mouse can be used (as well as certain keyboard keys) to control 
 the various equipment you can acquire for your helicopters. 
  
  The gameplay itself revolves around doing randomly generated missions of varying difficulty in 
 a number of different cities. These missions range from breaking up simple traffic jams to quelling 
 riots and rescuing people off of runaway trains. Since you typically never know what comes next, 
 the game tends to keep you on your toes. You could be a firefighter one minute, a paramedic the 
 next, and then go into law enforcement. All in three to four minutes.
  
  All in all, if you can get your hands on this game, do so. Its a fun, stupidly addictive game. 
 The added bonus of being able to fly in *any* city you build in SC2K means theoretically an infinite 
 amount of possibilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOWAG
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  sim copter if I you have played it u know that it is without a doubt a great game. If u have never 
 played it I think that it comes in a sim pack now for $20 or something. every thing i have heard 
 about sim copter is really good. im just tired of people complaining about the graphics. look when 
 this game was made, and when you're done with that look at the other games. Sim copter is always 
 one of the best games in my book and if you don't enjoy this instant classic for more then 10 hours 
 I think that you might need to check your soul a few times. And if u did not understand this game 
 or think it was good read it again. Thank you. All hail sim sim copter!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
  
  if I you have played it u know that it is without a doubt a great game. If u have never 
 played it I think that it comes in a sim pack now for $20 or something. every thing i have heard 
 about sim copter is really good. im just tired of people complaining about the graphics. look when 
 this game was made, and when you're done with that look at the other games. Sim copter is always 
 one of the best games in my book and if you don't enjoy this instant classic for more then 10 hours 
 I think that you might need to check your soul a few times.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simtim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  Maxis (Will Wright and Electronic Arts) is now well known for their "sims" games that range from 
 simulating virtual life to cities, golf, and most recently (2008) Societies. In the middle of their 
 sophomore releases immediately after "Sim City 2000" and before "The Sims," there was a game that 
 was much more than fun. It was a helicopter simulation, which can only be described as "revolutionary" 
 since it was the very first civilian adaptation of rotor flight. Long before Microsoft incorporated 
 helicopters into "Flight Simulator," and before the "Search and Rescue" series was initiated, Maxis 
 had virtual pilots in the skies flying helicopters for the first time in a non-military purview. 
 This is a "classic" game that is ten years old, but seems fresh every time it is played.
  
  The function of simulation goes beyond most flight games. It actually has a goal, and a means of 
 attaining the goal over time. Your job is to pilot your helicopter within the confines of a city 
 to accomplish a set of randomly-generated missions. The difficulty of the missions will increase 
 as levels are cleared. These missions include transport, medical evacuations, search and rescue, 
 crowd control, high-speed automobile chases, catching fugitives, rescuing stranded boaters, saving 
 people from the rooftops, and many others. Points are awarded for successful rescues, which are 
 the basis for completing a level. They can also be used to purchase upgrades for your helicopter, 
 or even completely new aircraft. Each of the helicopters modeled has different flying characteristics 
 and handles either rather easily or realistically depending on your difficulty setting.
  
  Missions are accomplished by means of extra equipment installed on the helicopter. For relatively 
 easy medical evacuations, all that is required is that the pilot (you) land near the patient, get 
 out of the helicopter, and carry the injured party back to the aircraft for delivery to a nearby 
 hospital. For other missions, such as fire extinguishing, a bucket is dipped from your helicopter 
 into a lake or stream, and then dumped onto the fire. A nozzle can be purchased in a later upgrade 
 for the much easier task of spraying in a specific direction. For boating rescues, a ladder is 
 lowered from your helicopter for the unlucky mariner to climb. One of the more interesting aspects 
 of the game is when the player is able to obtain a more advanced (and larger) helicopter with several 
 passenger seats, before any missions begin you can pick up emergency personal from hospitals or 
 police stations to assist in your rescue/police actions. When a criminal is on the loose, simply 
 let the policemen out of the helicopter near to where they are, and let the cop catch the fugitive 
 while you take the credit.
  
  Graphics are by no means phenomenal. They are somewhat simplistic by today's standards. The helicopters 
 are modeled well, but the buildings, cars and other objects are "blocky" but certainly make for 
 good frame rates. People do appear on a regular basis within the game, but are little more than 
 stick figures. One of the funniest things I have ever seen in a video game comes as a result of 
 this: after successfully completing a level and going back to the home base, your helicopter is 
 greeted by a stick-figure marching band complete with tubas and other instruments overshadowed 
 by a fireworks display.
  
  Sound within the game is wonderful. A lot of time and effort went into it, and the humor initiated 
 in "SimCopter" can still be seen in today's "The Sims" and "The Sims 2" games. Of course the rotor 
 noise is there, but many minor details make the simulation complete. Taxicab horns can be heard 
 when flying over a city; rushing water is noticed when flying over H2O; and gunshots can be seen 
 and heard from fleeing bank robbers. A radio can be tuned in your helicopter to be listened to 
 during your transient flights between rescue missions. The news commentaries, advertisements, and 
 even music are hilarious! "Simlish" had not yet been invented, and so the joke are in listening 
 range for everyone to hear. Yet another humorous element to the game is announcements which can 
 be broadcast from your helicopter to the ground via a loudspeaker. This is used to break up riots 
 and traffic jams. The announcements start simple enough, such as "Please go back to your homes." 
 But, after using the optional speaker for your helicopter a few times, the announcements gets ridiculously 
 funny saying things like, "The mayor sends you greetings and great joy!"
  
  Mayors of "Sim City 2000" are able to import cities they have created into "SimCopter" and are 
 able to fly in their own metropolis! Depending on how large your city is, a great amount of emergencies 
 may start to overwhelm your rescue pilot. This will give you another challenge in prioritizing 
 what missions will award the most points. Also, make sure to keep an eye on your fuel gauge, since 
 you may run out at an inopportune time. Maintenance and hot refueling can be accomplished at your 
 home base.
  
  Haze, fog and other weather conditions are modeled in the game, making for tricky landings in the 
 cityscape in tight area.
  
  This game can be controlled with a joystick or keyboard.
  
  A patch was released soon after the initial release which is commonly known as the "realism patch." 
 Minor bug fixes were included, but are mainly for giving pilots realistic flying qualities of your 
 birds.
  
  This is an extremely fun game for children and adults who are interested in flying, or rescue work 
 in general. The humor is all "G" rated, and the game will run on any computer system that was released 
 after 2001 with no problem. Check your bargain bin, because this is a gem.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capone360
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  I remember when this game came out, at the time I was playing Starcraft and Sim City 2000. Anything 
 3-D was ment for the consoles. People forget what games ment to them when they were new. All they 
 see is how it looks to some other game that is much more current. This game at the time had all 
 kinds of awsome features and was in 3-D which was rare. You could build a massive city in Sim City 
 2000 and then go back and import it to Simcopter and fly around your city in fluid 3-D. Something 
 that hadn't been done since Sega Genesis titles like Sonic. Not only that but it was one of the 
 few games at the time that had the capability of using a force feedback joystick. The missions 
 are simple but enjoyable however the game runs some 30+ levels which actually drags a bit when 
 you consider that you are doing the same over and over. Really the only thing that keeps you going 
 is the excitement to buy bigger and better aircraft. You can also get out of the copter and walk 
 around and there are many cheats that allow you to greatly expand the games abilities. Its not 
 exactly GTA but you can get out of your heli and 'steal' another heli from an airforce base. This 
 military heli has a gun which you can wreck terror on the city and even make money off of causing 
 disasters. In the end I think this is a game that will be lost to memories simply because it has 
 become rare and forgotten, not to mention incompatible. Sadly the replay value is low so I would 
 overall recommend that you download the demo and delete it after you finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rangent
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, they should of released additions like Sim Copter and Streets of Sim City for every 
 release of Sim City. My hope is if/when they create and release Simcity 5, they go and make additions 
 like this. Anyone who has played this game knows that this game in itself isn't too fun, however 
 i find it to be one of the greatest games of my childhood/early teen years. You could create an 
 entire city in Sim City 2000, then see it from a 3D perspective, like you cant even do in today's 
 Sim City.
  
  As a copter commander game, you probably wont have a lot of fun with this, but as a Maxis fan, 
 and as a Sim City fan, this is a must have addition if you still play Sim City 2000 / Sim City 
 Urban Creator Kit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 29, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  Sim Copter would probably be considered good in 1996 when it was released. Now, this game is NOT 
 GOOD. The missions were okay, but the controls were sort of strange. I don't think any store would 
 be selling this for over five bucks, and if they do, ask why. WHY?!? The graphics in this game 
 are terrible, just TERRIBLE!! I don't think you should bother with this game.
  Graphics:1.0 TERRIBLE!!!
  Sound:3.3 Very wierd sounds some in a cool way.
  Gameplay:5.7 Some 
 good missions wierd control scheme.
  I've seen better helicopter games on the internet, like "Police Chopper" on MiniClip. HA HA HA 
 HA! BURN!! Can't poar that terribly animated water with wierd controls on YOURSELF, can you? HA 
 HA HA HA!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beastiebite
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  sim copter
  this games theme is that you fly around cities in a helicopter.
  you need to do the tasks quick and without to many errors to avoid penalties
  the tasks include 
 fires, medical evacts, robberies, getaways, pick ups, traffic jams, rescuing ppl of buildings, 
 boats and trains- (pretty hard) After successfully completing these tasks you receive points and 
 money
  the points: go toward the levels completion (each level has 3 different cities to choose from)
 
  the money: money is needed to buy better copters and upgrades to make your job easier (or sometimes 
 possible)
  the first hele you get is very basic, slow, weak, and low passenger seating, but you can save up 
 on money using it until u can get the dolphine (in my opinion the best copter in the game) . what 
 could have made this game better:
  First, mabe some sort of story line, something sort of interesting.....
  Second, more stuff to 
 buy
  Third, better graphics
  Forth, clean up the bugs (some times I would get like stuck walking in-between buildings and crows 
 of people) Fifth, placement of the tasks some of the tasks were impossible to do Like if u had 
 a hurt person stuck in-between two building very frustrating... oh well
  Sixth, i heard that you could make your own citys to fly around in but i couldn't find out how 
 to do that... oh well Btw I don no if its just me but I couldnt save the game : (
  
  overall this game had great potential and should be redone.... but i guess it wont since the games 
 over 10 years old already... too bad : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbybexar
Rating: 1.7
Date: Aug 5, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  This game is very boring.
  If you want a game with old 16 bits color, you shall buy this.
  I should not play it if i even got payed for it.
  
  Now i think it is hard to find the game 
 in stores, but that is very good.
  Cause if the game isnt possibke to buy, noone has to get disappointes cause they wasted theire 
 money.
  There is some cheats you can use and the game may have to be edited in word pad.
  
  However, In this game you are flying a helo.
  You executes missions like cathing thiefs and 
 evacuating people.
  When you have executed a mission in the game you gets som emoney and with the money you can buy 
 new helos, there are around 8 different.
  You can also buy upgrades to the helo like teargas and a rescueseal.
  
  Well thats it!
  Dont 
 enyoy this game gamers!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash-E243
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This game was / is great, especially when combined with the simcity 2000 editor. The editor that 
 comes with SimCity2000, or StreetsOfSimCity gives you freedom to fly in your own custom built city 
 in user mode. The career mode is fun too- you start with a cheap and weak helicopter, but the game 
 continues with you flying missions in a variety of levels: such as putting out fires, stopping 
 criminals, rescuing people ... all while earning money for new about 10 choppers and helpful accessories. 
 Oh!, and of course Blowing stuff up with the secret Apache. ( the apache is a plopable in the SimCity2000 
 editor ) Nuclear Facilities make great targets ( lol ) . One more great game from Maxis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArthurYanthar2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  The good: Excellent graphics... at that time. Very creative.
  
  The bad: Gets repetitive.
  
  This game just gets so addicted so quicky. As you know, Maxis 
 is famous for it's sim games, and it's simcity games, the company should be known for this game 
 as well. Remember simcity, that you can create a city, and basically control it from any disaster. 
 The great feature of this game, is that if you have simcity2000, you can use that city in this 
 game, and it will be in 3d. The point of the game is to fly around in a helicopter doing good deeds 
 for the residents of the community. From fires, transporting, traffic jams, riots, injuries, and 
 more. Your airplane is equiped with quite a lot of things. Those are a rescue harness for performing 
 those medevacs of tough-to-reach victims, a water cannon for putting out fires, and a tear-gas 
 dispenser so as to quiet unruly citizens who decide to riot. As you make more money for the jobs 
 you complete, the more equipment, and helicopters you can buy as well. he helicopter itself is 
 fairly easy to fly. One button starts the engine, another button determines the rate of ascent, 
 while another slows or speeds how fast the craft descends. Maneuvering throughout the city is fairly 
 simple with a joystick, but can also be controlled ably with the keyboard. Also, you can change 
 the radio to certain genres of music as jazz, heavy metal (Oh yeah!) , pop, and classical music. 
 ne interesting thing to do is to land the helicopter at a certain spot, get out, and walk around. 
 This game gets repetitive quickly. After the 13th traffic jam, you begin to have enough. So for 
 the final word, this game is entertaining for quite a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OwlMan500
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This game was good, but... IT GAVE ME NIGHTMARES! It was too scary... too scary even for that weird 
 robot who lives in my house and makes me pizza. Overall, a good game.
  
  PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! 
 PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! 
 PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! (Sorry about this; I'm just making 
 sure I get the 100 words quota filled. We now return to our regular programming.) PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! 
 PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! 
 PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! PIZZAZ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2004 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Welcome to SimCity..... or its sky at least. In SimCopter, you control a nameless 
 man who must fly a helicopter through the skys of the city below, and put out fires, help evacuate 
 people from buildings, help find and capture criminals, etc.
  
  Gameplay: SimCopter puts you into the body of a helicopter pilot. It is your job to patrol the 
 skys of the city below you and watch out for fires, criminals, evacuations, medical emergency's, 
 anything that crosses your way, and assist. You start out in your basic helicopter, and have to 
 complete missions for money. Once you have some money, you can buy upgrades for your helicopter, 
 such as tear gas, a hose to spray water onto fires, etc. After you acumulate more money, you can 
 purchase better helicopters, which move faster and can hold more people at one time. As with the 
 SIM line, theres no real end to the game, it just continues for as long as you want to fly your 
 helicopter.
  
  Story: ..................... does SIM mean anything to you people?................
  
  Graphics 
 and Sound: Well, the graphics are fairly basic, mostly just an assortment of cubes and rectangles. 
 But, for the time the game was created ( 1996 ) , its excusable. Even tho its not as 'fancy' and 
 realistic as some more modern flying sim games, it works very well for this game. As far as the 
 sound goes, its fairly well done. It can get annoying at times, but it add's a lot to the game.
 
  
  Replayability: To an extent, this game has good replayability. Once you get all of the copters 
 and upgrades, theres not much more to do except for doing the same old missions. However, it is 
 posible to create your OWN cities in SimCity 2000, and import them into SimCopter, so with new 
 cities, the potentional for more gameplay returns.
  
  Final Recommendation: I would recommend this game to anyone, specially fans of the Sim series. 
 SimCopter gives us a new view into the Sim series, allowing us to fly a helicopter over the city 
 and assist other people. I give SimCopter a 7.5 out of 10. Its a great game that can provide much 
 enjoyment to even the most hardcore gamer. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
