-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SimCity 4: Rush Hour
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/simcity4rushhour/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 29, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 7.7, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 1,381 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Modern City-Building
Date:     Sep 22, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rush Hour takes the next step by adding such useful features that you'll wonder why they weren't 
 in the original release of SimCity 4. 

  SimCity 4 did a lot to modernize Maxis' classic city-building game, extending the formula to make 
 cities a part of regional networks and packing cities full of visual detail. But it had a number 
 of rough edges when it was first released at the beginning of the year, which naturally provided 
 extra opportunities for the developers to improve the game and have it live up to its potential. 
 For those who missed the significant patches released in the first half of the year, which fixed 
 a range of performance and stability issues and added missing features like SimcityScape, an online 
 city exchange mode, Maxis did make good. Rush Hour packages those improvements and takes the next 
 step by adding such useful features that you'll wonder why they weren't in the original game.  
 

          Rush Hour makes it easier to appreciate and address sims' long commutes.     

  As the title implies, Rush Hour is all about dealing with transportation -- and angry sims riled 
 up about long commute times. A handful of new road and other transportation options and some new 
 tools for diagnosing traffic problems are the core of what's new. It also makes transportation 
 a more hands-on affair, literally putting you in control of land, air, and sea vehicles that can 
 be driven around just for fun or in a series of missions. And while traffic is not something that 
 ever goes away in any but the most ideal city, the new options can provide some much-needed relief 
 for commute-weary inhabitants, which can make them that much happier and willing to pay up at tax 
 time. Rush Hour also adds content that isn't focused on the traffic theme, including reward buildings 
 like the new space center. Such additions are almost too minor to note, but they do round out the 
 game as a whole, which makes sense considering that Rush Hour installs as an update rather than 
 as a stand-alone game. SimCity 4 together with the Rush Hour expansion are functionally identical 
 to the new compilation, SimCity 4 Deluxe Edition.  

  SimCity has always presented a good case for mass transportation, and very dense downtown areas 
 will still be best served by a good bus and subway system, but the new road options help to fill 
 in the gaps and make cities look a lot more like those in the real world. By far the most essential 
 are avenues, double-wide boulevards that let cars travel faster and in higher volumes. With flower-bed-laden 
 median strips and big intersections, they are more elegant and effective than the old SimCity stopgap 
 of laying down ordinary roads in double lines -- how could we live without them? The other additions 
 are also fairly obvious extensions of what the game already offered: One-way streets are cheaper 
 than avenues but take more planning, ground-level highways are cheaper than deluxe elevated ones 
 but are harder to connect to streets, and elevated rail is cheaper than subway lines (and it can 
 tie in to an existing underground network) but takes surface space. And for times when only rail 
 will do, there's the fast monorail, which is also conveniently elevated.  

          Take a hands-on approach with the driving missions, which can earn you money, rating points, 
 and new buildings.     

  The region concept of SimCity 4 completely changed how cities could be built, by letting you create 
 cities that existed purely as job magnets, power generators, and garbage dumps to keep your population 
 centers pristine. Some of the new enhancements make it easier to create and manage regional transportation 
 networks, starting with a new overlay on the region map that lets you see how cities connect at 
 a glance. Far-off cities spread around a bay or along a river can now be connected almost effortlessly 
 with passenger and car ferries, which of course aren't as fast as bridges but are far more economical. 
 Layering different transportation networks -- connecting buses to subways to rail to ferries and 
 so on -- is a great solution for getting more bang for your buck and reducing travel times around 
 town or to a neighboring city. With the parking garage, now suburban drivers can also take part 
 in mass transportation networks, letting them drive from bedroom communities to garages strategically 
 placed at transportation hubs.     

  But in the original game, making subtle tweaks to your traffic grid could seem like a waste of 
 time, since the only feedback you got was in the traffic overlay, and from just glancing at the 
 number of little cars driving around. With the new route tool you don't have to wait until congestion 
 starts causing accidents to understand what needs doing. Click on any road or building with this 
 special cursor tool and you get a detailed list of how commuters are going to, from, or through 
 that point, and arrows pop up on the map to show their exact routes. The info is color-coded and 
 broken down by each mode of transportation, including walking. There's also a toggle to see how 
 morning and evening routes differ, which is particularly important for one-way streets.  

          New transportation options include wider roads, ferries, and elevated rail.     

  This 
 single tool should erase all doubt about what your sims are doing, but it doesn't really explain 
 why. While it won't exactly help if you're baffled by why sims won't give up surface streets and 
 use the extravagantly expensive highways, the new microphone tool does let you click on individual 
 cars and pedestrians to get a little thought bubble that cycles through red or green assessments 
 of the city's features. Schools and jobs are still on the top of most residents' priority list, 
 so if city growth is stalling, it may be time to focus on something other than traffic. Don't expect 
 much new in-game help for general strategies, but the excellent manual does have some tips. The 
 mySims feature that lets you move in named residents also now allows you to follow them as they 
 drive around town or to work for additional feedback. It's even possible to jump in and take the 
 steering wheel.  

  In a nod to the old Streets of SimCity and to the hypothetical "Wouldn't it be cool to drive around 
 a city you created?" SimCity 4: Rush Hour lets you do just that. As you build certain structures, 
 you unlock a range of land, sea, and air vehicles that you can drive with simple keyboard commands 
 and the normal camera zoomed in to the closer levels. It doesn't take long to get a few vehicles 
 to drive, as most are unlocked with typical infrastructure buildings. It's possible to just tool 
 around a city for a close-up view of your creation, and driving around can prompt ideas for how 
 to improve the road layout. However, in big cities blessed with towering skyscrapers, you may need 
 to constantly rotate the camera to see where you're going. The camera perspective is even less 
 well suited to flying fast planes and helicopters over a city's rooftops, and it's nearly impossible 
 to gauge how high you're flying unless you're actually close enough to see the aircraft's shadow. 
 Yet, as gimmicky and tacked-on as the free drive mode is, there's something undeniably fun about 
 racing around virtual cities you've built from the ground up.  

  Even though haphazard road placement may not slow growth, it's sure to frustrate once you start 
 the simple timed missions associated with the new driving mode. The driving missions -- mostly of 
 the fetch quest variety -- aren't easy when you have to deal with the same congestion as your sims 
 do. Though it's possible, there isn't much room to maneuver onto sidewalks to get around other 
 cars, as you might do in any arcade driving game. Most missions come in two tracks -- one "good" 
 and one on the side of the "evil" Dr. Vu -- and either can offer serious motivation, with not only 
 money and mayor rating points up for grabs, but also the chance to unlock reward buildings. The 
 ultimate reward for playing through the Dr. Vu missions is "Area 5.1," which unlocks a fighter 
 jet equipped with bombs and a UFO with a ray that sucks up cars.  

          Better tools allow you to see how cities and neighborhoods interconnect.     

  If you 
 have a copy of SimCity 4 lying around, Rush Hour is the perfect reason to dust it off. It's easy 
 enough to rework old cities with the new traffic tools and aircraft-equipped deluxe fire, police, 
 and medical buildings, plus you can get a new ground-level perspective. The earlier patches can 
 significantly improve performance on modest PCs, so it may also be possible to turn up the visual 
 detail and see the game's impressively lush cityscapes. Since the release of the lot editor, the 
 SimCity. com Web site has grown full of user-made lots to exchange, which can add a ton more variety. 
 This makes up for the fact that there aren't all that many new buildings in the expansion, although 
 there is one more visual style (raising the total to four) . Considering that Rush Hour can be had 
 for a mere $10 after EA's introductory mail-in rebate, there's little reason to miss out on playing 
 SimCity at its very addictive best.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zooba22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  Sim City 4 was a very good game i think most of us will agree. it combined a realistic city building 
 experience with a humerus "the Sims" style of game play. with all this one expansion pack surely 
 couldn't put much more into a game like this. Well Sim City 4 Rush Hour put much more features 
 into this game that makes it a better and funner experience to build a city (and with the new Autosauras 
 and UFO disasters it's now even funner to destroy your city. 
  
  the main and most exiting new feature of Sim city 4 rush hour is it's new "you Drive it" mode that 
 lets you drive every vehicle from police cars to bust criminals ( or help them get away with the 
 loot) to Tanks attack helicopters to destroy a villains secret lair.
  
  there are also many new transportation tolls available in this game to help you get your many citizens 
 all around your city. these new tools include Avenues and one way roads that have a higher speed 
 limit, ground level highways which are cheaper at the cost of having to build overpasses, monorails 
 for rich citizens to travel in the lap of luxury and toll booths great for both increasing income 
 and making people unhappy.
  
  the new feature of adding in signs and labels are very handy at the right times. you can use signs 
 you name you suburbs or to mark places with high levels of crime or what ever you like, what ever 
 the situation there will be a sign for it. labels can be use to name streets and bodies of water. 
 if you need to stop playing the game soon you can slap down a set of labels to mark where your 
 new series of homes will be placed.
  
  whether you are right into city builders or have never herd of them Sim city 4 rush hour is a great 
 new expansion pack to a great game. it's unfortunate though particularly in larger cities there 
 can be frame rate issues and when you scroll all the buildings disappear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxismc
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Sim City 4: Rush Hour is the first and only expansion pack, more features including U-Drive-It, 
 more transport options and more give it the new twist.
  
  Some major additions were Avenues (Less expensive than highways but include more road room than 
 roads) , One-Way-Roads (one road focused on the single direction) , Ground-Level Highways (Not elevated 
 and less expensive) , T-Highway Intersections (for adjoining highways) , monorails (for fast transport 
 around busy cities) , Elevated Rail (for elevated railway transport) , Ferries (for water transport) 
 and a whole lot of new building designs, bridges and civic structures.
  
  Rush Hour adds U-Drive-It which means that you can drive any vehicle (Land, Water or Air) around 
 your own city, you can also drive your Sims car. Such Cars are police cars & vans, ambulances, 
 fire trucks, news vans, garbage truck, buses, taxi's, mayor's limo, hearse, ice-cream truck, tank, 
 frieght and steam train, passenger train, monorial and army truck.
  
  Such Boats are motor boat, speed boat, cigar boat, fishing boat, passenger ferry, passenger and 
 car ferry, tug boat, yacht and metal whale.
  
  Such Aircraft are police chopper, medical chopper, news chopper, skywriter plane, crop duster plane, 
 sky diving plane, fire plane, millitary helicopter, jet and UFO.
  
  Thank's for reading my review,
  
  C U L8R, maxismc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave2k00
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 20, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  I could have been better because of all the bugs there is lots of download able content which it 
 very nice
  
  you can make your own buildings witch is very hard to make but also you need to make an account 
 on there website
  
  you can get board of this game
  
  there is sim city 5 coming November but you need to drop your buildings in like in this game you 
 see them grow I am looking forward to the game coming out
  
  you can make big city's in the game my city has 15,000,000 people in it with 14,000,000 jobs I 
 need to get another 1,000,000 jobs soon before they leave 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinite04
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 25, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I am writing a review of the SC4 Rush Hour Deluxe Edition. I have to let you all know that this 
 game very Difficult without this little cheat I discovered . Download the Special Park off of simcity. com 
 and you'll never EVER worry about Money again. I have no idea why EA thought $$ 500,000 was even 
 enough. It costs $$1,000.000.00 a month to have a real city. If they want to be more realistic 
 give us more money from the get go so we don't have to cheat. The graphics could very easily have 
 been way more advanced. They really should of had a Sim Copter or Streets Of Sim City feature.. 
 I loved those game 'cause My cities were my Playground., I have grown up quite a bit since then, 
 but still am needing some interactive playing time. Not just building. Spore Is coming out HOPEFULLY 
 in June no later than December. I hope Will Wright makes it way better than SC4. I want you all 
 to make very scary creatures. Besides that, I want to continue on to SC4., Every thing would be 
 complete in SC4 if they would have made it possible to have ground level views like in City Life. 
 That game doesn't have the MODing ability SC4 does. I would reccomend you all get the park . I 
 have 20 in one city and it has over $$20,000,000,000,000,000.00
  and it keep on growing. Forget weaknesspays that cheat is for chumps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adam0926
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  When is first got sim city rush hour I wasn't disappointed and was well worth the money. it has 
 some very useful add ons like the motorways monorails and lots of other transport items. the expansion 
 pack should of had some more landmarks but they can be downloaded online so its not to bad. the 
 game play has improved with this expansion pack it is easier to link the city's together to make 
 a realistic looking city. you now have the ability to choose a difficulty level this affects the 
 amount of money you start of with how fast you city will grow and the desirability levels in your 
 city. Overall sim city 4 rush hour is a great buy and a highly addictive game if you own sim city 
 you have to buy this expansion pack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HuasoCriollo
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot of things tha we, the simcity fans, dream to see in the next deliver of this sequel, 
 when SC4 gone out i play it but after a while i found that there where a lot of things that was 
 missing, now, this expansion pack fixes all that problem , increasing the value and enjoyment of 
 the original SC4, i highly recommend this EXP if you own the original, it give to you much more 
 than what you have, and turn my opinion about SC4. The music is stil tooooo lame, absolutly no 
 advantage in that, basicly is focus on how to keep your city on movement , with a lot of transportacion 
 opcions. Cities build before may start to interact totaly diferent after you install the EXP. If 
 you get bored allready with you simcity4 buy this one and fall in love again, jeje 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash-E243
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 9, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  SimCity from Maxis, has always revolved around the basics of a city: Power, residential population, 
 commerce, and industry. Every new SimCity has brought a new perspective to the game. SimCity 2000 
 with its Isometric views, Simcity 3000 with its 3D isometric, and SimCity 4 with a very real environment. 
 Simcity 4 Rush Hour adds many new transportation options to the already amazing SimCity 4. In Sim 
 City 4, the Lifelike Environment was probably the biggest change from SimCity3000. In "God Mode" 
 you use tools, such as "hill ; canyon ; erode ; mountain; trees ;and much more- to shape a square 
 piece of land into an environment that you can easily forget has a grid system. Once you've molded 
 the landscape to your liking, you enter "Mayor mode" , in which you create your city. You have 
 a variety of building tools to place Government, Utility, Transportation, Reward, and Landmark 
 structures. Also the zoning tool for deciding where you want Housing, Commercial buildings, and 
 Industry. These zones need to be near or connected to one of the many different types of roads, 
 powerplants, the water system, and a garbage facility. At first, this may seem a bit overwhelming, 
 so it is a good idea to start small and work up to larger cities. I estimate the learning curve 
 to be lengthy, only because of the vast amount of interconnected parts that the player must learn 
 to run a successful city. ( pollution, demand, money, safety, etc ) . SimCity 4 Rush Hour expands 
 upon the game with many new buildings, especially transportation options. It also has a new Mode 
 in which the player can control vehicles within the city such as planes, trains, cars, trucks, 
 boats, and a UFO - which brings up disasters: in all the SimCity series there has been disasters, 
 but now they're more realistic, some more destructive, and better yet you can control them if you 
 wish with the mouse ( an R/C tornado for example ) . There's so much more than the things listed 
 above. SimCity 4 is a great game for those who like to create, control, and/or destroy on a somewhat 
 large scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hygraed
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  If you were disappointed at first by SimCity 4, then despair no longer. Rush Hour is full of stuff 
 that's so useful you'll wonder why they didn't just put it in the original game.
  If you were bothered by the fact that there seemed to be no way to effectively alleviate the traffic 
 problems in SC4, look no further. Rush Hour adds a host of new transportation options.
  It also introduces one of the coolest features in any SC to date: U-Drive-It. You can control individual 
 vehicles to perform missions to increase your mayor rating or make money. It takes a little while 
 to get used to the controls, but it's super fun.
  To transform SC4 into a game worthy of its legacy, install this now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalionix
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  I personally hold Maxis in very high standings. I have owned and played every Maxis game to this 
 date. The best of all of them (in my opinion) is the SimCity series. SimCity 4 it beautiful. I 
 love the region addition, the fact that you can have multiple cities in one massive area and the 
 interact with each other. You can sell water, or power, or make one city with alot of jobs and 
 another next to it for the population. Your sims will travel to the next city to work. Subways 
 and airports are a great way to bring more sims and business to your city. I absolutely love it. 
 This one is a must buy. It's almost 3 years old and I play it quite often. You learn more and more 
 everytime you play.
  
  Rush Hour is a great expansion to an already greater game. With this you can drive sims around 
 or helis. And the transportation upgrades are awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Database72
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  I bought this expansion the minute it came out and have found it a welcome addition to my game 
 collection. This game takes all of the Sim city4 and adds more to it. The game is what its named. 
 Rush hour. This expansion has to do with managing the traffic in your cities, at times I thought 
 this was going to be one of those The sim games where one makes rush hour for traffic in your 
 city, then some more expansions for crime, pollution, disasters, etc. But I guess not. In this 
 game is the ability to take control of various vehicles in the game, all of these vehicles are 
 not only ride able by allow you to play them in a mission for cash or a building or various rewards. 
 This game is for those who like city building with an idea of driving around the city, although 
 it does lack that first person view for the vehicle.
  
  All in all this is one expansion pack I wouldnt live without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_locky_-
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 19, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Sim City 4: Rush Hour is a weird expansion in which its weird coz it seems to add alot of things 
 to do with transport, which i suppose is why they called it rush hour.
  
  The new transportation additions are great like avenues which are just two one way roadsput together 
 which can also be a start/end of a highway. One way roads are in as too are monorails, cruise ships, 
 ferries -they might have been in the first i cant remmber though.
  
  Thats not all, you can drive/fly/float around your city! You control your transport using a weird 
 control system (that may need some getting used to) from a birds eye view. These can be done in 
 free roam or for money as missions. Not all missions are for money i should add some give you rewards 
 and some give you credibilty. There are really two kinds of missions good and evil. As you can 
 probably tell the evil ones generally give you alot of money (say around 20,000 simoleans) but 
 you lose favour as a mayor. The good ones generally give you credibility and maybe a few thousand 
 simoleans if your lucky. You earn the money or whatever by driving/flying or whatever around your 
 city, some missions are short and have smaller rewards and the longer ones with more stops along 
 the way which give you more.
  
  So basically if your cities broke and your out of loans you can do afew of these which replenish 
 over time and you can maintain your funds that way.
  
  In all a great expansion to a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stony480
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 9, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  My review from SimmingWorld. com, originally published October 2, 2003:
  
  SimCity 4 came out last January, received critical acclaim, and sold briskly to say the least, 
 so it didnt take a brain surgeon to guess that Maxis was working on an expansion for it. Well, 
 after a few months of waiting, that expansion is finally here. SimCity 4 Rush Hour, as the name 
 suggests, focuses on improving the transportation options in the game, giving the player greater 
 control over almost everything even remotely having to do with roads, subways, ferries, and even 
 monorails. In that focus, the expansion goes off with barely a hitch. Rush Hour includes more new 
 modes of transportation  and ways of diagnosing and improving them  than most will ever be able 
 to scratch the surface of, let alone use strategically in city planning.
  
  One of the first things I did while in my city, Blarney, was try out the new U-Drive-It missions. 
 These essentially allow you to take direct control of a slew of different vehicles, ranging from 
 limos and tanks to tugboats and helicopters, and speed through your citys streets (or skies, or 
 waters) . The controls are very straightforward (its a lot like playing a first-person shooter 
 or one of the older Grand Theft Auto games) : W is accelerate, S is slow down, A is left, D is right, 
 and the Space Bar is horn. Unfortunately, you cannot re-map (or re-assign) these keys, so youre 
 stuck with them. Luckily they work very well and are actually relatively responsive for a SimCity 
 game. The objectives and quasi-story-based missions that propel the driving are solid; theyre 
 definitely not going to enthrall you in any way, but they do their job. They range from the basic 
 Point A to Point B stuff to putting out fires and throwing cash to pedestrians from your limos 
 sunroof. Nothing terribly exciting, but again, they serve their purpose. One problem I do have 
 with this mode is that sometimes its near-impossible to see your vehicles path when youre surrounded 
 by tall buildings. Sure, the thing goes all transparent and lucidly shaded and outlined, but thats 
 it. You know where your vehicle is, but you dont know where other ones are, let alone numerous 
 objects that could be in your way. I also wish the mini-map was larger and easier to derive more 
 information from with quick glances.
  
  Surprisingly, these U-Drive-It missions run with very little lag, which was something I was worried 
 about for a while after hearing about them from Maxis months back. I mean, this is SimCity 4, a 
 game already known to have some performance hiccups, especially in bigger cities. and you want 
 to add a sixth zoom level (oh yeah, theres a sixth zoom level, immersing you even deeper into 
 your cities) and have me speed through a city in a bus at 40 MPH?? Yeah, you can see why I was 
 concerned. But my trepidations have mostly been laid to rest  youll experience some draw-in issues 
 once in a while, and there is still a minor drag that occurs while on busier roads and intersections, 
 but thats about it. It's certainly nothing that will irk you too much or hamper your performance 
 in the missions. Just to give you a context: I was playing on the computer that I use for web stuff 
 and most gaming, which is a 1.8GHz with a RADEON 9700 PRO and 512 MB of RAM; just a small cut above 
 mid-range systems, so most players should be fine. If you can run SC4, you can obviously run Rush 
 Hour fine.
  
  While were on the subject of performance and everything, the expansion as a whole does not speed 
 up or fix the game a ton in terms of how well it runs. However, there was, as far as I could 
 tell, a mild but noticeable increase in how quickly the game draws-in all the buildings and scrolls 
 through a city (especially the bigger ones) . Maybe its just my quirky imagination, but I didnt 
 have to wait as much for things to load up, which is nice. Its possible that Maxis has improved 
 the games performance in ways that are only possible with additions like Rush Hour, and not in 
 patches. All the same, kudos to Maxis for not making SC4 run slower that it already does  I dunno 
 how they kept the thing from exploding. With the things this expansion adds to the game, it could 
 have ended up being a complete disaster. Nothing could be further from the truth. Whew.
  
  Okay, back to the actual game. The U-Drive-It stuff definitely isnt the only thing the RH brings 
 to the city-building table. Weve got new bridges, almost too many highway options, monorails, 
 subways on frickin stilts, double-wide avenues, a radical new building style (Euro-Contemporary) , 
 actual useful ways to diagnose traffic, and a couple of new disasters to boot. The new bridges 
 are completely aesthetic in nature, and dont really effect traffic in any way, but you can choose 
 from around 13 styles when you construct a bridge, as well as adjust the height. Not being able 
 to choose what kind of bridge to build has been a festering depravity of the SC series for years, 
 so this is truly a godsend. Another big gift are the double-wide, Time Square-esque avenues, which 
 are a fantastic way to give a troubled portion of road a quick and relatively cheap booster. They 
 also just look cool, and help a lot in my pursuit of re-creating New York City in virtual form. 
 You can also build one-way roads, which, unless Im missing something, Ive yet to find a suitable 
 use for. Supposedly, they can boost traveling speed in one direction, but then you just have to 
 build another one going in the other, so it ends up getting costly and cluttered. Oh well, nobodys 
 making you use them.
  
  The other notable additions to SC4s repertoire of transportation mediums are the monorails, ground 
 level highways, elevated rail, and passenger & car ferry systems. Monorails are the most expensive 
 of these, but carry the greatest efficiency. If you can outfit your entire city with a fully functional 
 monorail system, your traffic problems are basically over. Laying the rails can be difficult, though, 
 especially for cities that are already deeply rooted in road-based transportation, which brings 
 me to another of my peeves with RH: the layout tools. I wish oh so much that Maxis had made it 
 easier for players to migrate their cities to the new options. Its not so much that its hard to 
 lay everything by and large, its that the game still gives almost no reason as to why you cant 
 lay them. Its frustrating to see that land is unsuitable to network on. Thats great, but why 
 is it unsuitable? Is there some deer somewhere that I would crush if I placed a track strut, or 
 something? Tell me why I cant build it, so I can fix it without having to bulldoze from here to 
 freaking Timbuktu. Am I asking too much? A little contextual reciprocation besides a red line would 
 be nice. Aside from this problem, the rest of the new stuff is great. Ground level highways rock 
 my socks off, and are perfect for when you need to build an elevated track over a highway line 
 but dont want to move it. You can (usually) transition seamlessly from an elevated section to 
 a ground level one, and even place roads over it with an overpass. Badass. Still, as with everything, 
 it can be hard to lay in some nooks and crannies, but youll get the hang of it with some practice. 
 The elevated rail is essentially the subway aboveground. It's very similar to the monorail, but 
 is cheaper and can obviously link up directly to already existing subway lines using the Subway-Elevated 
 Rail Transfer. The disadvantage is that it's slower  no big deal for the penny-pinchers. The last 
 thing I will talk about is the ferry system. This bad-boy is the bridges little brother. If you 
 dont have the money to build a long bridge, these are your replacements. All you need to do is 
 build one on each shoreline and youre good to go. They come in two flavors; one that carries only 
 passengers and a more expensive one that will carry both people and their cars. Obviously, its 
 a helluva lot slower than a bridge, but what do you want from 10-ton boats?
  
  One thing I also have to mention are the road labels and area signs. Not much to say about these 
 except that theyre welcomed with open arms after SC3000 and the basic SC4 did not carry them. 
 This was by far one of my favorite things in 2000, so its awesome to see them finally return in 
 a much deeper iteration of the game. When SC4 came earlier this year and there was no sign of 
 signs, I was one sullen simmer, so my thanks go out to Maxis for bringing them back. If youre 
 like me and enjoy making various landmarks out of areas of your cities, the signs will prove invaluable. 
 The street labels are also great for micromanagers such as myself and help to add a little personality 
 to each city and region in the game.
  
  There are a few other features new in Rush Hour that I could talk about, but for the sake of brevity, 
 theyre probably not worth mentioning in an impression report. Ive also not tried everything out 
 in the past few days  theres so much. I could talk about the robotic whale or Truckasauras, but 
 those are surprises best saved for those who do buy the expansion...
  
  In conclusion, if youre even a small fan of SimCity 4 or the SimCity series as a whole, Rush Hour 
 is a worthy addition to your collection. You really owe it to yourself to try this thing out. It 
 doesnt completely overhaul the core SC4 gameplay, but its an expansion, so it shouldnt by nature. 
 What it does do, however, is give you even more of a reason to spend hours upon hours playing SimCity 
 4. Its certainly not perfect by any stretch of the imagination, and has some issues that may irk 
 you slightly, but its the best expansion Ive seen in a while. All youve got to lose is some 
 wear on the transmission. Give it a go.
  
  - stony
  SimmingWorld. com Head Administrator / Founder 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvernova001
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 27, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  I have played SimCity games since SimCity 2000 and this series has come a LONG way. SimCity 3000 
 and 3000 Unlimited showed a graphic jump and proved to provide a fun a entertaining way on building 
 cities. Simcity 4 was great! However, this expansion filled in the areas that 4 lacked. For instance, 
 when you start a new city, you begin with 500,000 instead of 100,000 originally in the 4. The graphics 
 are just as good as 4's, if not better. Rush Hour stresses transportation, which is important to 
 any city, but it is not my forte. The best thing about SimCity 4 and its Rush Hour expansion is 
 that it gives you the freedom to have multiple cities that you have designed and link them together 
 in one whole region. No more computerize cities stealing you residence! Now, you make all of your 
 cities appealing and work together. Of course, If you do not wish to make all of the cities (or 
 one BIG city) you can always import cities that have been built in. I found that this expansion 
 covers all the different areas of managing a city with wonderful detail, even though it stresses 
 transportation. 
  
  Truly an amazing game. One of the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360motina
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  What can I say?
  
  There is so much that can be done with this game, especially for customizable it is. The mods, 
 buildings, and terrains you can find on the web is truly amazing. A creative masterpiece (relative 
 to the people who take advantage of it) , even if the original out of the box game is not the spectacular. 
 However, this game is expected to be modified. Even if gmax/3dmax is difficult to use, and even 
 more now that AutoDesk has cancelled gmax. Lousy corporations.
  
  To even this review out. The game still has its restrictions. The basic road layouts can limit 
 potential urban schemes, even after the countless mods. The buildings can only go in the north 
 south or east west direction to. Also another annoying thing, it has always been a problem with 
 the others, but more so since the buildings last longer is abandonment, especially due to commute. 
 Now come on, people in the real world waste hours on the road commuting to work, but the Sims can 
 even be bother to waste 45 mins. I guess they are more intelligent than humans are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexlexia2000
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  what a pointless boring piece of crap, just the same as the other versions and the only reason 
 i acquired it was because c and c generals was buy one get one free and barbies fairy topia didnt 
 really interest me that much. the driving missions are ok but become **** and the fact that i even 
 wasted my time installing this cowdung of a game was a complete miracle. someone better have gotten 
 fired after comin up with this concept for a game, although one good point the cd did make a good 
 christmas decoration for my tree!!! and my cat loves shiny objects to scratch 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cool99bomb
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  Sim City 4 is a must have, although if your moving from 3000 to 4 or 2000 to 4 you will have a 
 hell of a time getting used to this game. Because maxis did not make a tutioral stressing all the 
 details that have been changed from the older version, such as everything has to face a road. Your 
 first city will be a disater. Also in this game it is much harder to get skycrapers, but it is 
 much more realistic, such as everything has to be paid for monthly. This game is a must have for 
 hours of fun, although i miss senarios. It has much better sounds and you can drive cars and buses 
 around even boats. And to spice it up they added a sims mode where you can control your sims see 
 where he works ect ect. Sound and grapics are wonderful, and the disasters are the coolest iv ever 
 seen (muhahahahah) . Buy the dulex pahcake if you already dont have the amazing sim city 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clutzyaj
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:23 pm PT
Review:  I began playing simcity on the SNES when I as about ten. Really, simcity is somewhat a modest game 
 compared to its other members of the Sim universe. but a game like this is truly challanging.
 
  
  Rush hour is an expansion pack, but it offers more things for you to use than what you got in SC4. 
 It includes El trains and ground highways, but also many features that make it extremley useful 
 in building a city, such as making a smooth transistion from roads to avenues to highways.
  
  It's pretty much the same thing, except there's a new Euro building set, but there are hardly 
 any gimmick like features that found in SC3K unlimited. The music of the game has somewhat lost 
 its jazzy feel and is replaced with wierd sounding forms of modern styles. Thankfully, you can 
 add your own MP3 format songs in the library.
  
  There isn't much to expect but a mere useful of features, but it deffinetly comes in handy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nfspck
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 23, 2005 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing city simulations for along time and favorite one has to be SimCity 4 Rush Hour, 
 I played the first SimCity 4 with enthusiasm but I wanted something, and now with Rush Hour I got 
 it, for the most part. More options, more buildings, and driving, I love driving the limo and throw 
 cash at people, because thats what makes the world go round. I love spending mind numbing hours 
 building and growing my city then altimetry vaporizing it or causing some mass mayhem. The graphics 
 are phenomenal for a simulator especially when you get to the 2nd closets zoom the buildings so 
 real you thing you were actually there. Of course once the cities get too large you got to tune 
 down the graphics just a bit to keep the frame rate up. I know I got the driving and I love it 
 I just wish someday when computer get more powerful we can actually get in the car and drive through 
 the city like some awesome GTA world but one you made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crowleybo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 27, 2005 8:52 pm PT
Review:  You either love this type of game or hate it. The complexity of city building is demonstrated with 
 each new version of the game. This expansion adds to your cities transportation system and provides 
 some overall performance tweeks. Overall, I like the direction the series is going. The graphics 
 are becoming more detailed and the cities seem to be more "alive". I would have liked a better 
 map editing system. The one employed now is just too cumbersome and difficult to remember if you 
 leave the game for any length of time. This is a game I keep coming back to time and time again. 
 Keep 'em coming.....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elemonkey
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 16, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy playing SimCity 4 and even more with the additions that came with the Rush Hour expansion 
 pack. I have one major complaint though. Most of the additions and fixes that came with the expansion 
 should have, in my opinion, been included with SimCity 4 on release day. We shouldn't have had 
 to pay $20 more for just a few extras that very easily could have been included in the first place.
 
  
  Other than that slight complaint, the RH expansion brings in many great new ways to transport your 
 sims around your city. Also it enables you to click on buildings in your city and see the routes 
 that your sims take to work and back home, this is a great tool in planning future routes and transportation 
 systems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daqua_99
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2005 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Sim City 4: Rush Hour is a good expansion pack for a great base game. The addition of the new transportation 
 options has really made city building more interesting in the way that you design the transport 
 section. Naming streets, roads and areas gives your city personality, and the new U-Drive-It missions 
 give you entertainment for those few boring moments in the game.
  
  With the addition of ground highways, elevated rail, monorail, ferry terminals and parking lots, 
 there is now a more diverse way of which your sims can travel to and from work and shops. Ground 
 highways are cheaper than normal highways, which is great seeing as it was really difficult to 
 afford regular highways at the beginning of the game. Monorails and elevated rails let trains pass 
 over roads so there is no more congestion near intersections (though they are expensive) , and parking 
 lots let your sims grab a near by train or bus instead of driving all the way to work. Toll booths 
 provide a moderate income, but cause traffic congestion.
  
  There has been a lot of improvement in the way which you can find out information about traffic. 
 You can now see how each individual sim goes to work, and using this data you can create public 
 transport to their work destination. There is also the new large schools and hospitals, which are 
 great for big cities.
  
  These additions are all great, but many of these should have been put into the original game.
 
  
  Including original means what this and the original rate together.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8/10
  Including original: 9/10
  
  With the inclusion of the U-Drive-It missions, 
 the new gameplay is a smash. Though the base gameplay is the same, the challenging missions add 
 a new level of entertainment and really adds to the overall enjoyment of the game. The new travelling 
 information also gives you more to think about. Though this game is good, it has its downfalls 
  like the original  of being a little repetitive.
  
  GRAPHICS: 5/10
  Including original: 9/10
  
  Though you may think 5/10 for graphics is crap, I mean the additional 
 graphics changes from the original, and seeing that the original had a 9/10, the advancements 
 needed to be great just to match it  though they werent. There was no advancements in graphics 
 as such, but new colour collaborations and better effects took a little piece of the cake.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  Including original: 9/10
  
  There is an inclusion of different sorts of 
 music, which creates a more diverse feeling and makes the overall game more enjoyable. More sound 
 effects also boosts the overall score up.
  
  VALUE: 7/10
  
  I only got it because it was on sale at $25, but I wouldnt buy it for the normal $40. It is interesting, 
 but I think to myself why spend $40 on something which should have come with the original?
  
  Overall, a great expansion pack, but most of the features should have been with the original 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKimbley
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2004 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This add-on is a must have, If only to improve the performance of running your SimCity on your 
 pc. It really has speeded up my game. 
  
  The add-on pack is mainly designed for was of improving transportation in your city. With items 
 such as monorail, ferry systems, elevated railways, wide avenues, one way systems, etc. Which to 
 be honest are incredible useful.
  
  The add-on also improve the data that you get about your city. Improve graphs. You can also not 
 in the My Sims feature click on a microphone icon and then click on any sim in the entire city, 
 and find out there opinions of your city. A feature that was promised in SimCity 3000 has finally 
 made it into the add-on pack for SimCity 4.
  
  The other main feature of the add-on pack is the U-Drive-It Missions, where you can take control 
 of mainly vehicles in your city, cars, planes, helicopters and drive them around your city on a 
 free drive or you can accept missions. Like in the police car stop a robbery. And in return you 
 can improve your mayor rating and sometimes receive funds. There is a Lightside and a Darkside 
 to missions (Good or Bad) . Usually a bad mission will do damage to your city but you will receive 
 money. But if you fail your mayor rating will take a big hit. While good missions will improve 
 you mayor rating, but if you fail your finances will take a hit.
  
  Overall this add-on pack is a must have, and you would be mad not to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johndoh4
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 8, 2004 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Sim city 4 Rush Hour is a great expansion pack for Sim City 4. Did sim City 4 feel like it was 
 missing something? Well this is what it was missing. Sim City 4 ads a lot of new features that 
 can be very helpful. The one I noticed the most was the new types of roads that were added. No 
 more will you be restricted to two lane roads only. Rush hour adds avenues, one way roads, ground 
 level highways, monorails, elevated railroads, ferry terminals, and some new bridge designs. Avenues 
 have a much higher traffic volume than the two lane roads. One lane roads can be helpful if you 
 dont have room to widen your roads to avenues (the avenues width is two tiles) . Monorails, and 
 elevated rail can work good with your city, but you will need to sacrafice some space for them 
 ( both are one tile in width, more space will be needed for stations) as you will not be able to 
 use the land that they are built on anymore unless of course you demolish it. And finaly, ground 
 level highways are much cheaper to build than elevated ones. However, placing highway on and off-ramps 
 will be more difficult with ground level highways. A new query tool has been added in the form 
 of the route query tool. This feature allows you to track the routes that commuters take when traveling 
 from one destination to another. You can now drive or fly around your city. A new mode called "U-Drive 
 it" has been added to the game that lets you drive or fly around your city. Using this mode you 
 can do good or evil missions to gain money or unlock rewards. If you take on the evil missions 
 which are given to you by the evil Dr. Vu, you can make a lot of money, but your mayor rating will 
 go down. The games camera angle doesent work well with this mode though. For example, if you drive 
 through an area with tall buildings you will have a hard time seeing where you are going. On region 
 view a new transportation view has been added that lets you see all the roads, airports, rail, 
 etc. in your region. Some new buildings were included in this expansion pack, but not a lot because 
 this expansion pack focuses mainly on transportation. New building styles were added, they include 
 1890's Chicago, 1940's New York, or 1990's Houston. In conclusion, if you have Sim City 4, then 
 you should have this expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocuba
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 18, 2004 10:27 pm PT
Review:  The SimCity games have always been great. This new part to the series is no exception.
  
  The overall gameplay is much like the others in the series except with further detail and more 
 power over the little things. Gameplay is involved and keeping your city "afloat" is a hard thing 
 to do. It requires some getting used to, something different from the seemingly easier cities of 
 past SimCity games. The whole idea of gaining population size, happiness and keeping a good budget 
 keeps you hooked though.
  
  The graphics of the game are superb. I recall SimCity 3 being a big improvement over SimCity 2000 
 and SimCity 2000 over the original. There is once again no exception to this with SimCity 4 over 
 SimCity 3. The graphics are seemingly becoming more and more real and more and more detail is being 
 added.
  
  The sounds of the game are great. At the more zoomed out levels you will hear blowing wind as if 
 you were high in the skies as portrayed at this zoom level. Zoom closer to the city and you will 
 hear the everyday sounds of a living city. Zoom in even closer to school areas and military areas 
 and you will hear the respective actions of the close buildings. The music is also quite catchy 
 and becoming accustomed to the jazzy styles known in Sim games is always an easy task.
  
  I have received lots of gameplay out of this game and always get the urge to load it back up and 
 play it some more. This is always a sign of a good game when you can play it after your other games 
 get boring. 
  
  Overall, I can highly recommend this game to anyone. It is a very interesting addition to the SimCity 
 Series and one that will carry no exception to the success. My calculated GameSpot score is a 9.5. 
 Happy SimCity-ing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cow_Overlord
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 2, 2003 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Great expansion pack. Adds tons of new features, some small and some drastic. The route query tool 
 is probably the best new feature of all, for it lets you see how your sims are getting to work 
 and what roads they are using. How the game figures out which routes the sims take is a bit crude, 
 because the sims will ALWAYS take the shortest route, dispite the fact that the shortest road may 
 be a street and theres road or wide avenue just a couple tiles above it. However, now with the 
 tool you can see that and adjust the street layout (for example disconnect the street so you force 
 your sims to take the road above it) . My second favorite addition is large elementary schools, 
 high schools, fire station, police station, water pump, and etc., which are more realstic and hold 
 basically do more, so for large cities so you dont have to build a lot over and over. My third 
 favorite addition, surprisingly, is toll booths which you can plop on any road or highway. Sims 
 doesnt seem to complain about the tolls they gotta pay so its a great easy way to make some bucks. 
 So out of all the great new features, I find some of the smaller features are the best. The BIG 
 BIG features, U drive it, is pretty boring to me, and gets annoying. Another great thing about 
 the exp is the new music.... not jazzy tunes but more orchestra stuff. Some really great catchy 
 tunes! Overall, this is a great expanstion pack that any simcity 4 fan can't do without. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
