-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SimCity Societies
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/simcitysocieties/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of structures and decorations to build your city with.
 Charming visuals and sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game is way, way too easy.
 Complete disconnection between social energies and Sim happiness.
 Sluggish graphics engine .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.2, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 1,487 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Tilted Mill
Genre: Modern City-Building
Date:     Nov 15, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The addictive gameplay of the SimCity series is completely missing in this lackluster spinoff.

  There's something not quite right with SimCity Societies. It's a highly casual take on the city-building 
 genre, which isn't bad in and of itself, but it comes across like a politician's campaign speech: 
 rambling on and on, but with no real depth or point. There are a lot of buildings and a lot of 
 decorations, so if you just want to plunk down buildings and make a pretty city, go for it. If 
 you wanted an intricate system of checks and balances to hold it together, or economic depth, or 
 something that would give you any sense of challenge, you won't find it here.  

           Buy me some peanuts and Cracker Jack...      

  The idea sounds good in theory: Each 
 building you place has a positive or negative effect on a particular social energy. There are six 
 of these energies, from creativity to spirituality, and each building uses or provides them in 
 different amounts. As your city grows, you unlock newer buildings and dcor, each of which is separated 
 into various themes, such as "romantic" or "cyberpunk." You don't have to theme your city, so feel 
 free to mix and match. The categorizations are actually rather helpful because you can create themed 
 neighborhoods without having to scroll through full lists of buildings.  

  Your Sims need to have places to work, hang out, and live, but you'll rarely need to worry about 
 it. To succeed in SimCity Societies, all you have to do is treat your social energies as currency 
 and keep them relatively evened out. Doing that makes everything from Sim happiness to your coffers 
 fall nicely into place. Need authority? Build a town hall. Have too much? Build a police station. 
 Just don't ask why it is a police station spends authority -- like many of the categorizations, the 
 connection between a building and its social energies is mighty unclear. Why would a service station 
 spend productivity, while a butcher shop creates it? All you can do is look beyond it and realize 
 that it's not a connection at all -- just a random abstraction created to balance out what is in 
 effect six different currencies running simultaneously.  

  You do need to spend wisely because buildings cost Simoleans in addition to social energies, though 
 you will likely never struggle with your economy. You can view stats on such things as public health, 
 crime, and pollution, but it just feels like there's no point because there's absolutely no challenge. 
 There's no tug of war between industry versus commerce, no real infrastructure to worry about (unless 
 you count energy-producing structures that power the whole map an infrastructure) , and no imposed 
 social class system. You may not have a police station, yet your city could go completely free 
 of crime. If you want a challenge, you have to make one. If you want, make a slum, and the crime 
 rate will rise. Or cause a purposeful natural disaster, such as a killer storm, at the touch of 
 a button. It makes things a little more exciting, but never all that engaging.  

  The building interface is done fairly well here, making it easy to turn buildings at 45-degree 
 angles; plunk them down; and trigger special building events, such as a karaoke bar's release party 
 or the asylum's invitation to hooky-playing Sims to go to therapy. Sims that visit buildings may 
 also take on a buildings characteristics. For example, if a Sim visits a meditation center, he 
 or she may turn into a monk. It's just a visual change, but it's fun to see a mime from your clown 
 school wandering around. This sounds varied enough, but in truth, this stuff doesn't make the gameplay 
 more engaging because you never need it. It's almost like your Sims are window dressing. They can 
 get unhappy, sure, but assuming you keep your social energy numbers relatively even, your Sims 
 need never be a factor.  

           A clock tower increases your authority levels. Why? Nobody knows.      

  The game 
 looks pretty and charming, depicting crisp, colorful structures. If you build a zoo, you can zoom 
 in to see swaying giraffes and a lounging tiger (and impressively, these models cast their own 
 shadows) . Or if you construct a soccer field, you can watch the players kick the ball around. Watching 
 your Sims walk around is also fun because of their cute exaggerated walks. But be prepared: Though 
 the frame rate isn't that stable to begin with, building a large city can slow it to a crawl, so 
 prepare to turn down your settings, even on a higher-end machine. We also experienced crashes to 
 our desktop on two separate machines, though a recent patch seems to have helped clear up these 
 issues for some players. The game sounds charming, thanks to the endearing Simlish exclamations 
 from your citizens and some quirky sound effects.  

  There are a bunch of maps to choose from, and you can create random ones as well. So if just want 
 to sit back and build a city on your own terms, you'll find a lot of ways to do it. But without 
 any real challenge, the welcome wears out quickly. Unlike most city builders, there's nothing to 
 keep you engaged, and SimCity Societies falls flat as a result.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (135 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: EpcotRulz
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2009 8:24 am PT
Review:  This game has a neat feel and a neat concept. This game shouldn't be called a City Builder but a 
 SOCIETY BUILDER. Yeah you're building skyscrapers and homes but if you dive deep into the game, 
 its all about the theme of what you want to base of your city on!! To me, that sounds a hell of 
 a lot cooler then just seeing my city rise from the ground. I am VERY BAD AT SC4!! I always need 
 a cheat or a Money tree to get me out of a predicament that I was in. Whether it was crime or money, 
 (mostly Money!) 
  
  But in SCS you continue to build stuff instead of just waiting for things to pop out of the ground. 
 In this game, it feels like you have total control of what happens in your city. It's not up to 
 your Sims; it's up to you, the player. The game has a lot more interaction the in the past SC2, 
 3, 4. You can click on your Sims to see what there doing, it's kind of like "The Sims" in way. 
 Instead you can't click on the sim to tell them to go to work, go home or go to a venue.
  
  so i guess you can say i like the new concept! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnOBX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 3:14 pm PT
Review:  So I only paid $5.00 for this game, and considering how many hours I enjoyed it before I realized 
 I wasn't having fun anymore, I'd say it was worth it.
  
  I played on the harder level where you can't just build willy-nilly. You have to collect taxes 
 to support your infrastructue. I did not delve into all the city types available for construction, 
 and I didn't find it very easy to stick to just one city type. Usually it was a mix of prosperity, 
 artistic, spiritual and authoritarian. 
  
  You start with 50K and have to balance living space with workplace requirements and finally venues 
 that keep your sims happy. It is not as easy as it sounds, but when you break down the choices 
 available, some buildings just don't make any sense to construct, so why bother?
  
  Building a sustainable city is a lot tougher than it looks. Keeping your sims happy is a challenge. 
 There are cheat codes to make it a snap, but I resisted these until the very end of the games "interest-life". 
 I will share three tips I found that helped make the job of building a successful city easier: 
 First, build happy homes. Any home that gives your sims a happiness boost just from going home 
 is a huge help. Second, build homes that the residents can "furnish". This might be a grill, an 
 antique, furniture, etc. High density living places don't have this option, only the individual 
 homes do. Finally when you get the "stock bubble" random event use the money to build build build. 
 (Powerplants are a good choice; very expensive) . Once the event is over your savings drop back 
 to around the point where they started, but now you can recycle all those buildings you put up 
 for cash in your pocket. 
  
  Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Electroctoo
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  It's definitely not a SimCity Series game. It's not a city developing game, it's a ready-to-plop 
 set of buildings that can make you really pissed off if you hate The Sims.
  
  As I said, this is a The Sims-style city building game. You just build your city as you want, and 
 start the clock. That's it. That's just it.
  
  The only thing that balances the disappointment is the amazing graphics (you gotta have a nice 
 computer, I do not, but anyway it was really nice) . Oh, there's another thing: you can control 
 the style of your city, and there are a lot of them. Industrial, Capitalist, Romantic, Fun, Cyberpunk, 
 they are very cool. And the streets, illumination and background music changes as you build things 
 of varied styles.
  
  Rent it first, to see if you like it or not. Or download the demo, but don't get too excited with 
 the pictures of the full game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhawk190
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  I bought this game with the understanding that it was not going to be exactly like the others games 
 in the series. I think that many fans didn't take off the blinders to read that part. 
  
  This game is not meant to be a Hard, time intensive, city simulation. It is meant for a market 
 of more relaxing pace, easy going, pick up and play right away type game, AKA what my wife likes 
 playing. I enjoy it for the fact that the game is light hearted and simple. Some days I just don't 
 want to micro manage everthing. That said lets get to the game.
  
  It is visually a fantastic game, sound is out standing. You can zoom in and angle just about any 
 direction. Sound cues are through out that help give you an idea that something is about to happen. 
 Granted there have been issues with crashing but from my point after the patches have come down 
 the pipe have fixed them. Though I think that when it hiccups now and again it isn't the game but 
 my computer acting up again. The game play itself is light hearted and focuses more on keeping 
 the city happy or content. Meaning you have to place certain buidlings within an area to keep from 
 having the workers go on a riot. The games free style is ok but you can never really run out of 
 money, unless there is a setting that lets you have maintenance cost like that which you have in 
 the scenarios. The scenarios are actually quite challenging and can be at times frustrating. But 
 over all add a lot of life to a game, it keeps track of how many days it actually took you to complete 
 the goal. So you can go back and try to beat your old time. (hey I still make up my own challenges 
 why playing halo and halo 2)
  
  Over all this was a good game intended to get a foot hold into an untapped market, the casual gamer. 
 Lots of companies are seeing this market as the next cash flow to keep them going and in some cases 
 allow for more R&D to make the games that us Gamers want and demand. So beyond the bugs that were 
 fixed with the patches, which I must say they fixed alot quicker than some games I have had in 
 the past, it is a really good game to just pick up and play with out worries of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  SimCity Societies is a new spin-off taken from the very popular SimCity series. However, this game 
 is not good enough to challenge it predeccesors, mainly because of problems in the gameplay.
  
  Here, you can build different types of cities. You can choose to have a city where fun is a 
 routine, to introduce dictatorship to you people, or to build a industrial city. The environments 
 where you can build your cities are very good and seem very realistic. Furthermore, the names recommended 
 for your city are very funny. Luckily, in an update which became available since May, there are 
 more buildings to choose from, and there are introduced six scenarios, which will ask you to build 
 some certain types of cities and there are some victory conditions which you need to complete in 
 order to win, while there are some defeat conditions at the same time.
  
  This new title introduces us the social energies. Social energies are a feature of a building. 
 Such energies are authority, productivity or knowledge. Some buildings use these energies, some 
 others produce them. However, the connection between the buldings and these energies is definately 
 unclear and sometimes pointless. It is also dissapointing to see that social energies and your 
 sims' happiness are not at all related.
  
  A positive point of the game is the visuals and the sound which features. The buildings and environments 
 of the game are well-made, while they are combined with a great soundtrack. It is very good that 
 the music changes if you build a certain city. Unfortunately, the graphics machine is a bit dissapointing, 
 as even with the best cards, the game stucks for 1 or 2 seconds in order to load the details (of 
 course this happens only in a high resolution and visual settings) .
  
  SimCity Societies is a game which does not have a deep substance, which I think is essential, but 
 its catchy graphics and awesome sound may attract the younger ones to a point of addiction (and 
 that's because small children do not care about the substance of the game at all) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TylerMeyer88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  When you first get this game, you will think "wow, this is awesome!". with the totally new gameplay, 
 graphics, sounds, styles, ect., you just can't wait to play it. i have to admit, it was at first 
 something i thought i would never regret buying. but after a while, it seems to turn into more 
 of a day job than a game (even though it's always a little more fun lol) . you have to keep all 
 the groups and types of people satisfied and keep within a strict budget (there is a sandbox mode, 
 though) . and there's parts where you just wait, and wait, and wait, and wait, and nothing really 
 happens in your city. Of course, it's fun to create your own town or city with pretty much anyone 
 or anything you want. 
  
  
  I can't really say wether to buy this game or not, it just depends on what you like and what you 
 don't, but you should probably rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazno1
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 10, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  I, like so many others was a big fan of the sim city series and had always appreciated every game 
 of the series until the people who made this "game" decided to shove a fancy looking new sim city 
 game down our throats claiming it would retain most elements from the older games while introducing 
 some new ones. Well everything that the developers may have kept was horrible at best and everything 
 new they may have added was just even worse. This toddler's toy provides for very little challenge 
 and tarnishes a long and loyal love for the originals. So if you're out there looking for a new 
 game and you happen to see this piece of you know what, PLEASE just buy it so you can just throw 
 it away later! Down with societies and bring us back a sim city with the original style of gameplay 
 and don't toy with us by just making even more expansions to this junk or this loyal fan may never 
 set his eyes upon another sim city title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wind-OF-s0rrOw
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting A LOT more from this games. I expect a less laggy game and less crashes. Right 
 when you get into the game and you forget about the fact it crashes... it crashes. Also it's WAY 
 to laggy. When trying to build something for example a simple house it takes 2 extra minutes. I 
 expected a lot more for it. I mean with the first one i expected that with 3D graphics. Besides 
 that I like it. If they fix the random crashes I might open it up again and play it. I love how 
 you can get stuff online. But I wish they had a multi player feature when you can challange someone 
 in a scenario. That would be interesting and maybe even enough to make me give a better review. 
 Also it would be nice if their was a mod pack included so you could mod stuff. I've been looking 
 and i still can't find one online. If the developers were to just polish it up and make it playable 
 I would be able to give this game a better score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinjia32
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 4, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  As I am a huge fan of the SimCity Series, SimCity Societies is completely disappointing. It's a 
 game that I am not proud of to own.
  I'll put it like this. It's Easy. That's all I can say. Also, this game makes no sence. Apparantly, 
 putting parks lowers crime, but a police station raises it. I don't know why. Why? Why would a 
 police station raise crime? The presence of Police makes you do bad things? I really don't understand. 
 Cities build up easy. There is not economic trouble. Nothing to manage. It's basically playing 
 MapleStory for hours on end. Snooze Fest.
  So, in short, don't play SimCity Societies unless you love easy games that takes 10 minutes to 
 master. Also, for 50 bucks, it's not worth my money. SimCity 4 Deluxe is 20Bucks, and you will 
 have much more fun playing that game.
  DON'T PLAY THIS GAME. EVER.
  
  I have nothing to say. It's horrible.
  3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 16, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  Now when you think "Sim City" you think of building a city by laying out all the zones, placing 
 facilities and so forth. There has always been one challenge...
  
  Build a city and keep it going for as long as you can.
  
  When I started up SC Societies... 
 It didn't feel like your traditional Sim City game.
  The Societies seems to be more about "Social Experiments" rather than actually running a city.
 
  In a way all that is good to play around with, but in the end it just doesn't cut the mustard 
 as "Sim City Game".
  
  I honestly don't how this installment is going hit "Classic" status like it's predecessors.
  
 
  Here's how the Sim City franchise stacks up
  
  1 - Sim City 4 Series
  2 - Sim City 2000
  3 - Sim City 3000
  4 - Sim City
  5 - Sim City Societies Series
  
  
 Sim City 4 may not have the scenarios 2000 does but you have the challenges Sim City is known for 
 and can still "Cut Sick" at the same time, all on a grander scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lions24
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Okay so i love this game a lot. Its different from all the other sim city's but thats a good thing. 
 graphics are overall amazing compared to other simcity games, game play is smooth. not to long 
 to learn how to play. its a little to easy if you compare it to the other games. and the only down 
 side about this game is the frame rates are pretty bad, but if you have a gaming computer no worries 
 i played it on my one gaming computer worked amazing and looked amazing. and i also played it on 
 my "everyday" computer and still looked amazing but frame rates dropped noticeably. but overall 
 great game. i say play it. love it. enjoy it!!
  also with the right mods, updates, the game is alot better. you just need a open mind on this game, 
 yes alot of people say its a copy of city life, but its really not, and look city life they dont 
 even make it anymore they did away with it. and made a whole new series called cities xl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  This is a kind of games where developers should get a clue and plant their milestone on where they 
 should stop with a type of franchise, and the franchise they should at least put on hold for sometime 
 is Sim City.
  
  I have loved the whole series ever since i was younger and loved both sim city 3000 and Sim City 
 4, even though both very familiar, both still very good. Sim City Societies on the other hand was 
 the final straw that they could pull out of EA's giant bung hole. 
  
  Sim City societies once again grants you passage to becoming mayor and you must build a city however 
 you like with certain societies such as artistic or lawless places for your sims to stay. 
  
  The graphics are in fact the best part of the game, the whole visual style of it make up for 
 its greatest flaw which is the easy gameplay. 
  
  The previous Sim City's allowed you to create massive water systems underneath your cities and 
 build power plants and create a sea of pylons... on societies you cant even build pipelines. The 
 game was so easy, places wouldnt be used unless you built a garden next to it, people wouldnt go 
 to work because a theater wasnt built down the street, it was easy... and unrealistic. 
  
  In previous sim cities people got angry with you because you spent the entire cities budget buying 
 yourself houses and building things people didnt need, and increasing their taxes... people didnt 
 like you on societies because you didnt give them a tiny deli market. 
  
  Societies is like a much toned down version of sim city , excluding its graphics, its much like 
 a game for kids. 
  The could have made societies so much better, but decided to show off what they could do visually 
 and not provide the key feature! GAMEPLAY!!!!!
  
  Overall - enjoyable in parts... but its like a dumb version of Sim City 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmansm
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Simcity Societies takes a fresh new approach from the past Simcity games released. Past Simcity 
 games had been made by company called Maxis, whose originator is Will Wright, a gaming genius who 
 has made games likes of The Sims and Spore. This time a newer company Tilted Mill got the chance 
 to take Simcity to a fresh new prospective and give gamers a streamlined and simplified version. 
 The idea was to get new and casual gamers to the series who have not played Simcity or any city 
 building game for that matter. This time there is no zoning, no RCI meter, no real budget depth 
 and no zoning and has being replaced by plopping down buildings of various categories and functions. 
 There are quite few buildings available in the start and more are unlocked, as you get further 
 into the game. The budget is usually non existent since its really hard to go into red unless you 
 do something really drastic. The economic depth or micromanagement of things is not really there 
 and is not aimed for people who are into deep city building simulators.
  
  Each building you plop has a negative or positive effect on social energy. Social energy are factors 
 a city need to function in a balance way and are six in total ranging from Creativity, Authority, 
 Prosperity, Spirituality, Knowledge and Productivity. Keeping a balance on these factors is not 
 really hard as few buildings can raise the bars and everything chugs on nicely within the city. 
 There are 'decorations' added to the game which sort give a boost to the social energy. They don't 
 really need to be properly placed and you can pile them up anywhere you want. It does not really 
 add anything but is there to balance out the six factors mentioned. It would have been better if 
 these factors played a major role in construction of the city. Same goes for power plants and such, 
 no power lines are needed, just plop it down and your city will get power. You can build cities 
 with various themes like 'romantic' or 'cyberpunk' but really don't do much overall. There is no 
 limitation to the theme so you can build your neighborhoods with different themes in mind. Buildings 
 have special function attached to them as well like karaoke bars releases party and . Your Sims 
 might take on characteristics from the buildings that are placed in your city. For example if you 
 place a clown school, your Sim might turn into a mime. It is fun to see different kind of Sims 
 roaming around in the city doing different things of all sorts. 
  
  Your Sims need to work and go out for entertainment but that is not hard. You just build work places 
 and they will work, a house to live and build a few entertainment venues and they will be happy. 
 The connection between things like transport, entertainment, shopping to other factors is not linked 
 at all which is really a shame. Its like you don't need to plan anything at all, just build anything 
 anywhere and its ok. There are stats available for crime, pollution and other things but really 
 they don't matter at all since there is no challenge or depth to them given in the game. In the 
 end all these things appear to be there just for name sake or maybe to give players an impression 
 of little bit of realism. The only challenge will be if you want to create it yourself. Like if 
 you make a slum, crimes will take a slight increase. And if there are no slums your city, cities 
 will remain crime free forever. These sorts of things really take away the challenge, which could 
 have made the game more appealing and challenging. 
  
  Graphics in my opinion are quite good. The colorful cartoonish like graphics suit the game quite 
 well with full 3d views and different zoom levels are given but I would have preferred an even 
 further out view of the city. But keep in mind as the city grows, it starts to lag really badly 
 and scrolling turns out to be quite painful. Sounds effects are ok and you hear the usual sounds 
 heard when zoomed in on the city. Music is quite diverse but sets the mood well in the game. It 
 is usually mix of new age and funk sort of type which gives a calming effect.
  
  All in all, I would rate this game 5.5 out of 10. In the end it turned out to be something which 
 does not really have a long lasting play value, not really appealing which has no real target to 
 achieve and lack of strategy in all parts. Veteran players will get bored with it really soon as 
 there is really not much to do once you have unlocked all of the buildings and your city is generating 
 a decent revenue. But I suggest people new to Simcity should give it a try just so they can get 
 the feel of city builders and later on try on something which is bit more challenging and has stronger 
 lasting value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanbezic
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 31, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Childish, but at the same time textured and quite colorful. There is no real problem 
 with the actual buildings themselves, but the frame rate lags on even higher end computers, creating 
 endless frustration. Not only this, but (developers from hell, Tilted Mill) tacked on a very cheesy 
 menu bar and controll screen, which only frustrates an experienced simcity fan. 
  7/10
  
  Gameplay: Frankly, this spinoff is insulting. EA has just insulted me aswell as thousands of simcity 
 fans. What happened to the good old days of maxis, actually owning their own company and creating 
 masterpieces like simcity 3000. The whole experience seems unfulfilling, and there really isn't 
 any gameplay to worry about - aside from "societal values" which dont even work might I add. 
 
  3/10
  
  Sound: This is a "city builder isn't it?" one may ask. Well, if it were a city builder - it may 
 actually have had the chance to be good and actually have decent city sound effects and not just 
 sims screaming and laughing constantly. There is absolutely zero ambiance that coordinates with 
 the idea that you are building a city. They did add some songs from past simcity games that never 
 get old, but add to the insult that they've been added to this game.
  2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nosuchsol
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  What happened to the Sim City game that use to make it fun to micomanage? I think that the game 
 lost something when you no longer watched the buildings grow out of nothing. I found that I miss 
 striving to get skyskrapers and max out my land capacity. Even when SimCity4 created a micromanage 
 heaven (or hell.... hmmm... Afterlife) they had to take a step backwards and give the fans of the 
 game something between SimCity and The Sims. It's almost an intermediate game that you would give 
 to a child who's learning to play simulation games. It's not without it's 1hr of fun though. You 
 can sit down with the game and make a few buildings, watch your characters get beat up or robbed, 
 finish off your doritos then head off to play some Mass Effect or Crysis. This just isn't the polished, 
 well-to-do SimCity that we've all come to enjoy. Get this game only if you're trying to complete 
 your SimCity collection. It'll gather dust, and you might want to re-install it at some point. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: croogix
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  We all know Sim City to be a game where you are the mayor and you must build and succeed at making 
 a large and envied city. Doing this involves processes like managing economy, health, crime, and 
 pollution. As the game furthers, more challenges arise, taking on the assumption that you gained 
 some experience earlier. Indeed, the sim city games were always challenging, ever since the first 
 one on the SNES. but now, with sim city societies, things have changed for the worse. The game 
 is easier, has a problem with it's graphics, it's glitchy, and it's over in a pinch. But let me 
 explain to you further....
  
  Everyone familiar with the series of sim city is aware that each time you sit down, it's still 
 hard. No matter how long you've played, you still ahve to manage a big city and lots of people 
 at once. One wrong move could crash the place, so it always kept you on your toes. In this rendition 
 of sim city, this challenging aspect has been removed. Why? Who knows? Maybe the developers decided 
 that their games were too hard and thought about making them easier? Maybe they thought it would 
 be more kid-friendly? Whatever they thought, it was a wrong move. This game is just too simple. 
 As long as you keep things balanced, and by things I mean the social energies, everyone, or most 
 of your sims anyways, will maintain their happiness and won't bug you. They no longer demand a 
 police station, in fact, it can sometimes not even be needed! Occasionally crime will be nonexistent 
 in your society. They also don't demand much in terms of health or education. This makes it much 
 easier to plan things out and make more money, because you're not spending it on civil services 
 as much as you used to. Frankly, making the game so easy to operate and so easy to manage has taken 
 out all the fun that the old version would bring. I relished the challenge of sitting down and 
 improving my city day-to-day and finding out what needed to be fixed. With this installment int 
 he series, this challenge is taken out, and you can practically sit and play with your eyes closed. 
 You can do virtually anything, as long as you keep it in moderation, and your city will flourish. 
 I dislike this quality, as it takes out over half of the entertainment value out of the game. I 
 was bored after playing this game for a mere 8 and a half hours, compared to the other versions 
 where I got bored around the 30 hour mark. Lack in challenge just makes it a drag.
  
  Now, onto the graphics problems. Sure, the 3D effects are nice, it has great detail, and even the 
 smaller things have shadows built in, but once your city gets big, this changes quite a bit. Why? 
 Frame rate. After your city gets big, things start to run all at once and speed slows down because 
 of it. This lowers the graphics performance drastically. Sims stop and stutter while walking, motions 
 look like a slide show, and zooming and scrolling is sketchy and awkward. It can take several second 
 to zoom in one level, and it can take you a couple minutes to pan where you want, since it does 
 it in sharp jolts and turns, so it isn't easy to get it right. At first when I saw the graphics 
 I thought "Wow, these are pretty good, since it's a big game and all that." . But then once my 
 city got bigger, which didn't take me more than half an hour, things got very, very, slow. This 
 was one of the things that made it so boring. I just didn't want to deal with slow graphics and 
 frame issues while I was trying to have at least a little fun. While the 3D was nice, it could 
 have used some fixing.
  
  Oh, and I almost forgot: the glitches. My computer crashed a couple of times while I was playing 
 my game, and me being me, I don't save until just before I turn it off. So naturally, I lose all 
 my progress, and I have to go back and do it all again in a slow environment, thanks to frame rate 
 again. Even though it doesn't take long to get back to where you were, you can forget a few things 
 that you did, and heck, it's just plain frustrating when your game crashes and you lose data. Thank 
 heavens for the patch that allowed me to play my game without crashing... at least for a while. 
 Soon my city got so big that the game crashed anyways, and it does every time I try to load it. 
 So that's it, my city can no longer be played because I put so much in it. Now that was frustrating, 
 if nothing else. So much for a patch, eh?
  
  Now, about the short run gameplay.... We all know that gameplay is the most important attribute 
 of a game, right? Right. But this game has none, right? Right. Seriously, sim city societies has 
 failed us dearly in terms of gameplay value. I don't know what went into the developer's minds 
 when they thought that making this game easier would do anything for the better, but hey, if that's 
 how they like it, then fine. They made one heck of a bad game because of that decision. I mean, 
 heck, if the game difficulty had been left alone and the unrelated social energies been left out, 
 then this game might actually have been bearable, even with frame rate and crashing problems. I'm 
 not kidding when I say that this was by far the worst installment of the sim city series since 
 Sim City SNES. 
  
  Overall the poor quality of graphics, mixed with the glitches and the undeniably easy difficulty 
 helped to make a good idea go horrible wrong. When I heard the title of the game I was intrigued, 
 but now I lay confounded at how they could let something that had such potential go so wrong. It 
 dismayed me greatly to see a sim city game go down the quality drain for the first time since the 
 90s. I look forward to the day when they stick to the old formula. Until then, sorry EA, but you 
 really sucked this time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LisaVonRhoman
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  All flash, that's it. Nothing else. Nada. I just sat at the computer placing this building here, 
 the other one there, watched people move, the end. Wait one moment... I thought it was a city builder, 
 not an urban dollhouse. It was more like building blocks then manage your own city. Where's the 
 fiscal budget, the property taxes, the protesters, the *Actual* pollution that has an effect on 
 the city and not just added for asthetics, the bustling non-linear highways that are conjested 
 at 5:00 p. m., the city officials trying to tell you that pavement doesn't breathe and that we need 
 more trees, et cetera? What disturbed me the most was the lack of growth. All you do is place buildings 
 in one spot and then watch the nothingness teem from the vacuity of pointless action. In real cities 
 there's development and consequences for the actions taken by officials. In Sim City: Societies, 
 reality seems to have perished and Tilted Mill substituted there own. You can't blame them for 
 trying their earnest at an inherently-Maxis production and falling short, but at least it wasn't 
 completely disastrous. The graphics were nice and the whole game had a jovial, cartoonish humour 
 to it. But I couldn't help but overlook these qualities to lament the boxy textures and insipid 
 gameplay. The fact is that this game could have been really good if it were to have just worked 
 out. And sadly, sometimes things just don't work out. Maybe it was a bad concept or bad planning. 
 And, of course, one has to remember that this is not SimCity 5, because if that was so, then they 
 wouldn't have named it SimCity: Societies. But with such a behmoth to live up to, it is hard not 
 to reflect on other SimCity games. I really hoped it would transcend all of the bad hype. It didn't. 
 That's not to say because it was some SimCity phony, but because it just didn't work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Latz
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  Franchise games should conform to the same rules as franchise businesses - keep the same (or very 
 similar set of rules) and upgrade on that ....
  
  instead of getting a simcity game with a new degree of complexity and depth combined with a new 
 graphics engine to bring the city to life we got a kids sandbox with a logical/illogical currency 
 system which just lets u build anything - and if u don't have enough money to build it - just build 
 some other building and then u can (??????) - the basic driving force behind this game, as is with 
 all EA games is the same with worn out watered down TV shows - lets make a show that everybody 
 will watch but no one will like cause its designed to fit everybody but be liked by nobody ....
 
  
  there's no substance to this game - the city will work how ever u build it, no sense of progress 
 as in simcity where the city blocks change on their own according to the prosperity of your city 
 - here u just build a building and its sits the same throughout the entire game ---------  boring 
 - it's the same thing that bothered me about city life and any of the newer city games....
  
  anyway - a huge letdown and another franchise gone bust in search of bigger profits while destroying 
 the very idea that founded it ...
  
  The fall of Simcity started the firs time u could read "simoleans" in the game and it seems it's 
 not going to stop...
  
  Isn't this the story with most EA games (thankful for the exemptions to the rule) - chasing more 
 profits and producing crap games....
  
  
  just an addon after reading some of the reviews by other ppl who say its a great or somethnig or 
 other - game - the common point they are making is this "this is not a game for fans of simcity" 
 (?!?!?!?!) - so the games is in itself a bust - why would you make a sequel to something that is 
 not meant for ppl who enjoyed the earlier parts .... (??) - this just proves me right when i say 
 they watered it down to be more acceptable to ppl who didn't like the game before - but they destroyed 
 it for everyone who did.......
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Des431
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  SimCity Societies has received some bad reviews over time. Mainly written by people expecting the 
 game to be like the other SimCity games. I haven't got any of the games so can't compare it to 
 them. The game play is apparently very different to other SimCity games. For example you concentrate 
 on balancing your social values instead of whatever you do in the other games. Which brings me 
 on the my next point. 
  
  The game is basically centered around one key idea. To gain and balance out social values to make 
 a city with a chosen atmosphere. There are several social values from Prosperity (a posh, rich 
 city) to Industrial (citizens do all the work and you get all the money, slum housing) . Each building 
 produces or absorbs one of these. So you have to balance out these in order for your city to work. 
 There are goals assorted to social values like Fun City and if you progress far enough towards 
 this goal your streets are transformed. For Fun City the roads are 'yellow brick' and the lampposts 
 are candy canes! Which is a very pretty feature. I also like the comical way people walk down the 
 streets. You can follow any Sim around the city as he/she goes around their daily business. You 
 can even change their names to your liking. Special Sims are great fun too. Certain buildings spawn 
 them and they range from Mime artists to Cops and Robbers. They can give your city a bonus or just 
 make your life difficult.
  
  You can change the difficulty setting on the but either way it is a very easy game to play. There 
 is the option to change whether you have unlimited Simolions but then it is just too easy. Or to 
 unlock all buildings, as you unlock most buildings over time.
  
  The game does acquire quite allot of time to get a decent size working city, but it is worth it. 
 As the visuals are my favorite in any game. They're not the latest realistic graphics but are very 
 good, almost comical. Which makes cities very pretty to look at. This is one of the reasons I brought 
 it. I love the Sims 2 but would really like to make a pretty city. This and because I wanted to 
 try a Simcity game is why I get it despite all the bad reviews.
  
  So I advise that if you just wants to make a really pretty looking city easily and don't expect 
 it to be anything like other SimCity games then this is a good game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IdleSloth
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 1, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  SimCity is a simulation game made by Will Wright, master of simulation games. since its debut, 
 SimCity has made players try to find a way to make a city run and function while keeping it's citizens 
 happy. Of course there is many reasons that people would hate this version of the game, and by 
 people I mean those fans that played the other ones first.
  
  1. Too simple
  
  Yes, this version is too simple. Although it might look more complicated with the introduction 
 of diffrent types of cities, its been stripped down to a fomulatic core. You have these enegries 
 that you city runs on, Authority, Enlightenment, Creativity, Capitalism and Labor. All you have 
 to do is keep these energies balanced, that was easy. And not only that, but it seems that income 
 isn't a big deal as it used to be in the other versions of the game. You no longer are trying to 
 find a way to fund a police station, raise the tax level without angering your citizens and among 
 other things and still make a profit, nope, instead all your income comes businesses, and no worry 
 about profits or anything like that.
  
  2. Too Laggy
  
  This one just has a habit to crap out on me. The game was so slow that i was forced to play the 
 game in a window, turn off anti-aliasing, reduce the resolution size, and lower the video settings, 
 just to get a mediocre frame rate. Maybe its because of the 3D textures, but I'll be damned if 
 this game isn't slow.
  
  In The end it seems that this game would be suited to some one who hasn't experienced SimCity, 
 or people who have, but has done a horrible, horrible job on it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghosts
Rating: 2
Date: May 26, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  When I first got Sim City: Societies, I was expecting the Sim City gameplay we got from all the 
 other ones, but with some kind of new social engine, or something. Come to my surprise, Its totally 
 different, and much worse. There is no Zoning, you build buildings 1 by 1. This takes out the aspect 
 of having to improve property to get bigger nicer buildings. You have to choose from buildings, 
 secondly, there feels like a gap between happiness and the social engine, the neighborhood, how 
 they look, or what kind of place it is, has nothing to do with happiness. Their happiness comes 
 from going to buildings like Cinemas, Or ice cream shoppes. This takes the fun out of having to 
 add parks or plant trees. On the good side, if you just want to make a city with no work, no thought, 
 and little effort, you can! To me, It was a complete disappointment, and a waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacupccU17
Rating: 2
Date: May 23, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  I was eargly anticpating the release of Sim Societies, despite all the upheaval about Tilted Mill 
 shunting out Maxis. 
  
  Unlike most others I was prepared to give Tilted Mill a chance!.......... : ( 
  
  This game 
 is in my opinion the worst title by EA in recent memory! 
  It's just so pathetic! 
  
  The game claims to be Sim CITY, untrue this game is not Sim CITY. It is just merley a commercialized 
 piece a **** the game is seems aimed at those who are more intrested in the Sims than Sim City. 
 I play both the Sims2 and Sim City4, and I think they are both Good-Great Games, But In my view 
 Sim Societies appeals to neither. 
  
  The System Requirments are very high for such an Unworthy Game, Even on a PC with 2GB RAM, 3 Times 
 the minimum Requirement, The Game runs slow and is choppy. 
  
  GOOD POINTS:
  
  The graphics are decent 
  
  
  BAD POINTS: 
  
  Pretty much everything else! 
  
  
 
  IMPROVEMENTS FROM PREVIOUS TITLE: 
  
  Graphics, No Taxes or Piping (FOR SOME) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjazz68
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I think too many gamers have judged this release by the standards of Simcity.
  I have often read that it has nothing in common with the simcity series. Actually this game stands 
 up against any of the simcity games and in truth has a lot in common with them. This is an amazing 
 take on the simcity game system in that you can really see how and why your city developes the 
 way it does. 
  You control how many people live there simply by placing houses, and you control how much money 
 you earn by giving those people jobs. It's that simple but you still have to balance their need 
 for entertainment, culture, art, productivity, wealth etc, all depending on when and where you 
 place certain buildings and objects.
  It's not all easy as some have said and there are options for the type of game you play in the 
 main menu, ranging from the mindless sandbox mode to impossible strategic calculating tycoon!
 
  This game had bugs which have mostly been fixed with patch number 4 and I have had no problems 
 running it at all although I must admit my graphics card does have 1gb of dedicated ram .
  I love this game to bits, I could never fathom simcity and hated how everything seemed to happen 
 under the skin, with this game you are so much more involved and it's workable without you needing 
 a degree in maths or economics and also, IT LOOKS INCREDIBLE!!!!! I can't say enough good things 
 about this game, I think that people have not taken the time to really learn what it is and have 
 approached it with expectations of it being something else. Their judgements have not been fair 
 in my view.
  
  If your system is over 2ghz in speed and you have more than a 512mb grapics card or thereabouts 
 then get this game,............. You'll Love It!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SweeneyTodd23
Rating: 6
Date: May 16, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  When EA first announced SCS, I thought it could have being another Expansion Pack for Sim City 
 4.
  
  The Game
  The concept of this game was challenging and gives you goals to achieve which I liked about this. 
 Could of added more buildings and categories. Tutorials was ok but could have being better.
  
  The Price:
  I would not recommend to buy it at any game stores whatsoever! Go to HMV as that 
 is the cheapest.
  
  Graphics
  Poor, what a sluggish game! This is a big issue to this game
  
  Sound
  Sound was average, 
 you get to hear traffic, constructions and Sim language . The music a bit irritating though unlike 
 in SC4.
  
  Lifespan
  By the time you build something that is required, you would most likely to be in debt already!
 
  
  Why buy it?
  Because its Sim City!
  You get to build!
  
  Why leave it?
  Poor graphics
  Not as good as Sim City 4
  Too expensive
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceyintel
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 12, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  
  This, truly great game in game play, developed by tilted mill, could have been a hit if it wasnt 
 for EAs greediness and rushed beta testing has brought this game to hell. It is just a very 
 sad tale
  First of all, EA, WE ARE NOT YOUR BETA TESTERS!!!! This game is loaded with tech issues, even with 
 patch 4. You truly rushed this, you announce this game in the summer, and release this game in Nov.? 
 What the crap is that? What, the sims 2 couldnt milk out another expansion pack by the holidays 
 due to maxis being busy at spore so you rush it on simcity instead? Even with patch 4, there seems 
 to be a memory leak ( I have 2gb) and the game crashes after 5 mins of game play (it didnt 
 crash on patch 2, although patch 2 was very sluggish) There has always been a mystery with people 
 with quad core cpus, like me, and vista. I dont know what the deal is, because Caesar 4, 
 which uses the same engine, runs perfect on my alienware. I have a geforce 8800 gt, Intel core 2 
 quad, and 2gb of ram, and this game refuses to run more than 5 mins with patch 4.
  The game play, the heart of the game, made by tilted mill, was truly wonderful. When I had patch 
 2, I could enjoy all of this I am saying right now. You can truly build the city of your dreams, 
 not a real life city, but your creative mind. This game is amazing and very addictive when you 
 get into your work, and build your masterpiece; rather it is a communist, smoged up, sad city, 
 to a peaceful village in a valley where everyone lives a life in harmony with their religious practices 
 and farming. You dont have to build the game wants to; you can mix any type of society, 
 such as I mixed spirituality and creativity to make a up class fun, religious city, which here 
 a link of my story http://www. tiltedmill. com/forums/showthread. php? t=16120. I had the fun of my 
 life building this city too .Tilted Mill, all I can say, you guys did a great job.
  Want to know what is sad, and this is for Tilted Mill. They, who held this game together with the 
 game play and graphics, get barely any credit by EA for making this game; the only credit they 
 get is a very small font that says tilted mill entertainment inc. on the back cover, 
 and THATS IT!!! They get no logo on the front cover like Sierra Entertainment let Tilted 
 Mill have on the front cover with Caesar 4. EA tries their best to make sure they get no credit. 
 Tilted Mill gets like limited rights, it is also funny how tilted mill does not let anything out 
 (barely) in the SCS area, but are very talkative on the children of the nile section, and I wonder 
 why
  To top this off for tilted mill, the minute all the sim city 4 babies hear about Tilted Mill is 
 making the game, and they are changing the game play direction, they marched into a ancient city-builder 
 forum and start rioting and insulting Tilted Mill, and telling them they want maxis back and get 
 lost. Or they can build them a modern, realistic, complicated game like sc4, only more complicated 
 and complex, ON AN ANCIENT CITY BUILDERS FORUM!!! I mean sorry, but what the hell is that? You could 
 have been at least nice about it, instead of posting sign this petition to get maxis back 
 on their forum. It isnt right, and all the people who used to go on the forum originally, 
 started to leave, since they didnt want to deal with all the crap going around. So not only 
 they get no credit for making the game by EA, the ones who know they are making the game destroy 
 their forum. I bet not even half are sorry for what they done.
  EA really messed this up on the marketing side, I dont even want to get into it, all I can 
 say is, EA, YOU FAILED TO DO YOUR PART.
  Sorry, to end this sad review, I rate this game on all the good (all by tilted mill) , and all the 
 hell as well ( all by EA and sc4 babies) . I hope you all can understand what I am trying to say.
 
  So overall, tilted mill, great job, EA, you suck.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgsag
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Read full review and score breakdown here:
  http://www. poland. us/strona,33,2225,0. html
  
  The Simcity series is one of the great franchises that's defined the PC gaming platform. Since 
 the original, it has been the premiere city-building simulation series. However, since Maxis announced 
 work on the revolutionary spore, the Simcity series has been left alone. Wanting to keep making 
 money off it, EA commissioned Tilted Mill to create their take on the franchise while "opening 
 it up" to more casual players. The result is Simcity: Societies, and unfortunately, it has quite 
 a few problems...
  
  One of the new ideals in the game is the addition of social energy which are influenced by what 
 buildings you decide to build. There are six of these energies, and as your city grows, you unlock 
 more building choices, which allow you to theme your city in several different ways. These social 
 energies are basically your guide, with the game merely requiring you to even out the energies. 
 Unfortunately, the connection between specific buildings and the social energies they modify is 
 often unclear, and sometimes makes no sense at all.
  
  Missing from this SimCity is a need to monitor your city's economy and conditions closely. Unfortunately, 
 there's no challenge or tug-of-war between agriculture and industry as in previous games. Things 
 like power stations have been overly simplified. For example, power stations now power the entire 
 city, without power lines; there is only one type of road, etc.
  
  The "focus" of Societies is the Sims that actually inhabit it. They are influenced by your city 
 and the buildings they go into, such as priests from churches, monks from meditation centers, mimes 
 from clown schools, etc. When you plop down a building, they trigger cool events, such as therapy 
 invitations and special sales.
  
  One strong point of the game is the variety and detail of the buildings. Some example of these 
 details are kids actually playing in baseball and soccer, or some animals walking around in a zoo. 
 Unfortunately, the engine powering the game is quite inefficient, and we often got extreme frame 
 rate slowdowns in large cities even with our test rig containing a Core 2 Quad and 8800GTX graphics 
 card. The sound is typical Simcity, with a nice urban soundtrack, and specific Sims sounds.
  
  Sure, Societies might try to make the series more personal with it emphasis on Sims, but its 
 drop of hardcore city management and logical building choices leaves a lot to be desired for the 
 average SimCity fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creepster32000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Where do i start this game is just total crap......... I mean the city building is there but its 
 the same game just less cool things to detail to my liking. This game looks an feels like it should 
 still be in beta stage an a closed one at that. I'd say after the first 2 hours this game get's 
 sicking. I suggest if you get to read this before opening the package grab your reciept an get 
 your behind back to the store an get your money back because this bugged out remake of sim city 
 - the great detailing is tee-total crap. I've already lost my game I suggest losing your's and 
 denie ever owning it. I'm sorry for bombing this game but i see no point in why it has been released 
 in such horrible condition. But, thats how my reviews are straight forward an straight to the dislikeing 
 an focusing on it and this game makes it too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norton158
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  This game is not one you can pen your mouth and saythis is amazing!". It is a very fair game, 
 nearly mediocre, and, besides that, very easy to play, in any of it's difficulties.
  I am not saying this is good either, but it could've been a lot better, with all the ads and stuff 
 I saw, definitely it could've went out better. Also, a positive point is the number of building 
 that there are in this game. It is over 300 if I'm not mistaken. Other than that, it lags like 
 hell ingame, thanks to all those "sims" walking around, something that not even the patch could 
 fix. It L-A-G-S when you make a big population. I didn't play much of the other SimCities but this 
 one, if people didn't told me it was made by Maxis/EA, I would've swear it's just a cheap rip-off.
 
  Also, for me that society feature is not used too well. You try making one kind of society at 
 first, and you're screwed. There will be always something missing, and another complaint is the 
 music... There is only one or so for every kind of society you create... 
  C'mon, it could definitely been alot better, it's a classic's name you put there, so please... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thevestboy
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Reviews leading up to its release focused on how cool the cities looked in screen shots. Well, 
 the game ended up exactly that. That is all it is good for, so if you like spending $30 to make 
 desktop backgrounds then this is the game for you. I am stuck playing SimCity 4 for probably the 
 rest of my life because it looks like nobody wants to pick up where "4" left off. I just about 
 tossed the game in the trash the first day cuz there is no refund after opening the game. Too bad 
 for me. After what Tilted Mill did to the name, the company should never get involved in any game 
 types that Maxis were gods at.
  
  If there is a company out there that can keep the play style of SimCity series before this mess, 
 PLEASE, no I'm BEGGING you guys to bring the SimCity name back from the dead and make it shine 
 once again. As for EA, you guys chose a poor partnership, sorry. 
  
  Summary: SimCity: Societies = a poorly thought out game that has lost the heart of Maxis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travular_17
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 9, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Prior to the release of this game, anything with the tag SimCity really excited me. Dating back 
 to the old school version all the way up to SimCity4, the game was totally beast. Cities, towns, 
 people, more buildings, more stuff, more people, more simoleons - YES! 
  
  Then.. there was SimCity Societies.
  
  I owned it for 27 hours and shipped it off to some unfortunate 
 soul in New Jersey who had browsed by my eBay listing. I don't know what the game is doing or even 
 how you play. The buildings are gross, the streets are only in squared off layouts, where are the 
 sims? I would rather Maxis retake the the SimCity name and make another game, and tell EA to focus 
 more on the Sims games they're good at. 
  
  Hopefully this most horrific game will inspire someone to do something. I want a new SimCity - 
 but one that encompasses all of the traditional features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsofwar1999
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I liked the idea of game play but the problem is that i don't like the style of product placement 
 and organization. the graphics are nice and the fluid style of sims walking. I liked how you didn't 
 have to zone areas but the auto road has to go. 
  
  The games organization left a lot to be desired. The game is full of bugs, glitches, crashes, you 
 name it. So you will be hard pressed to see the game work for once.
  
  The game is way too easy in fact once build something it take money out of the budget account but 
 you'll make money faster with the jobs you had. So it almost seemed like you were being refunded 
 the building with how much you spent.
  
  Building buildings, roads, and decorations are probably the only hardest thing to do. Want to build 
 a realistic city? Well your probably going to have a hard time with that but the roads are the 
 worst pain in the neck ever known. Thanks to the auto road problem that can maybe make your city 
 look like a weird mess of road.
  
  I am very sad to see this game like this. I wish that there was a patch that would heal the problems. 
 Too bad there is an huge amount of problems to deal with... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Love_ya24
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  The Simcity societies adds a new theme to the simcity games. This game adds the 3d element to make 
 the cities all more unique then before. 
  
  The Good: The graphics in this game are amazing and is certainly something they should do with 
 all the future simcity games. Also, there is a lot of options for how you want your city to look 
 to all the building that they offer you. Another good thing is that it's more real life then fantasy. 
 the people grow slowly and your city's population can be controlled!
  
  
  
  The 
 Bad: The game is very glitched up. there is random crashing and the patches they are giving you 
 isn't making the game any better. also, some people can't get it to install into there computer. 
 so they can't even play the game!
  
  Overall: This is a good game, but needs to get unglitched. it gets a 9 out of 10 only because there 
 is a lot of new things it gave you in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tim_Drake
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 12, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  I installed this game on my computer hoping to god that it would play, it told me it would run 
 but under all the graphic settings turned down. So as I play this game the main menu and all that 
 other good stuff runs perfectly fine, even loads up fast. But when get right down to playing the 
 game the game runs at 5 frames per second. Why? Well I come to find out I need a really really 
 good video card to play.
  
  
  So here is my short review about this game. The graphics might be all that but it plays nothing 
 like the actual SimCity games, it is indeed a total let down, if you have a ultra powerful computer 
 to run this game then you're likely to run the game at it's full capacity. The music is beautiful 
 but that was probably the only thing I decided to leave on my computer, I uninstalled the game 
 and left the music so I can listen to it whenever I open my music player. Don't buy this game unless 
 you're willing to trade it back in for a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Advocate
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 4, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  This isn't a SimCity Game. With high hopes and $45.00 bucks I ran off to my local Fred Meyer to 
 buy this game the day it came out. My high hopes were rapidly dashed shortly after installing this 
 game. It didn't take long for me to discover that I had made a horrible mistake. Despite what they 
 say, this is not a SimCity game. Sure it looks good, appears to be a SimCity game, but aside from 
 performing like a pig, even on my high end machine, this game is so very limited in scope and game 
 play that it could easily be a sequel to Masters Of Orion III rather than Sim City 4 Rush Hour. 
 (Which while a good game had a hell of a lot of problems and limitations.) but even on my high 
 end machine it performs like a pig. I could go into great detail about why this game isn't a Sim 
 City game, but why waste any more time on it. Simple put, this isn't a SimCity game so don't waste 
 your money. Wait for it ht the bargin bin or pick it up at a garage sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazman3434
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  All flash but no substance: It contains all of the origional core experiances of Simcity 4 and 
 Simcity 3, but they may seem unconnected to their origional purpose. New features include the energies 
 in the game like spirituality, prosparity, authority, and productivity. These energies are required 
 to run your buildings but they also dictate what your society will be like. There are two major 
 catagories of buildings, workplaces and venues. These will produce money for you to build with 
 and the venues will make sims happy. This adds to some of the many options you have. Graphics are 
 pretty good but they tend to drive your computer nutts. I just bought a new computer a few days 
 ago and it cant run the simcity society with full graphics. My older computer (from 2002) never 
 stood a chance. The energies might seem confusing like how energies are produced and consumed. 
 A historical monument will produce authority but a police station will consume it? From each type 
 of city like an authortarian (communist) society, or a capitalist city, you will see sims dressed 
 in different clothes, driving different vehicles, and having different behaviors. You will see 
 some of the same experiances in a regular basis no matter how your society works. If your sims 
 get mad they will stop working and try to find a venue. If they get angrey, they turn rouge and 
 start shutting down your buisnesses. So it all end the same: you build a big city and win a trophy. 
 The game is very easy but you can change your settings to make it a little difficult. Overall, 
 you will be dissapointed as an origional simctiy fan. I suggest you look into city life as a different 
 choise.. Spore will also probally be one of Maxis's greatest creations since it includes the evelution 
 of life, construction of first civilizations, and galactic conquest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SerenityWood
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 6, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  This game has real potential... The problem i have is imcompatability, and from reading the game 
 forums so are many others who bought it. Hardware and software incompatabilities seem to be the 
 flavour of this game, 2 patches and still not fixed, patch #3 suposedly on the way soon, lets hope 
 it fixes the 20 min GFX freezes and unable to load problems that seem to plague this game. 
  What i have managed to play in between reinstalling and patching, tweaking system settings and 
 reviewing Electronic Art's troubleshooting guide is good, GFX took nice, Sound is nice. other than 
 that i've only managed limited game play time because of the frustrating compatability issues, 
 my computer is generations ahead of the minimum recomended and i can't run it on my desktop, the 
 game time i have had has been on my lower spec Laptop.
  At this time i feel as though i have wasted my money.
  so please check on the status of the updates 
 for this game before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popsicle_sands
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 3, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  SimCity for the mass-market fails to deliver in this bug-ridden, system lagging disaster of a game. 
 Do not waste your money or time on this pile of crap!
  
  I was curious to check out SimCity Societies when it was announced. When the game came out I eagerly 
 went out to get it. To my great disappointment, the game is so buggy that its virtually unplayable. 
 I could manage about 15 minutes of gameplay without a crash. Then all my hard work would be whipped 
 out like clock work. Not fun atll. The first patch that was released made it even worse. Now the 
 game would crash within about 2 minutes. Patch 2 didn't do much to solve the problems. And the 
 game is still unplayable.
  
  But being a SimCity fan, I've kept trying to play. The few minutes of gameplay I do get in are, 
 well, easy. The challenge is gone. Its very easy to earn the 10 or so different trophies. The only 
 challenge is doing it before the game crashes. I'll be returning this and asking for my money back. 
 Its honestly not worth your time nor money. Avoid like the plague! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shystr3
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 2, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  SimCity?:
  
  This is not SimCity by any means, you no longer control such aspects as the budget, water flow, 
 utilities, and EA has completely eliminated the zones. Zones have been replaced by placing actual 
 residential, commercial, and industrial buildings and all you do is build power plants that automatically 
 make a power grid. The long desired god mode, regions and advisors that were in SC4 are non-existent 
 so basically this game is a step back for SimCity fans, a HUGE step back to the first SimCity. 
 The God aspect is gone or if its in there its impossible to find. Construction is a nightmare, 
 the game lets you know that you can't build on certain squares, but yet doesn't fix the issue when 
 building a, I don't know something important like a road up or near a hill!!?? Property values 
 are gone, fire/ police coverage is gone, well its there but not like any fan is used to, and there 
 are no advisors, but yet I get to see what the citizens think, like I wanted to play the Sims. 
 Every city you build has no effect on any other city, and so each city is now forced to be self-sufficient.
 
  
  Gameplay: There is no longer the ability to customize your city, and the game decides where it 
 wants to place things. For instance, previously you can be just stupid on how you laid down roads 
 and utilities but now you can't even lay a road without connecting it to the first strip you ever 
 laid, or the game decides that it will just loop the road to that current point without taking 
 any consideration for any thing you may want to place. You are stuck to feel zoomed in to the closest 
 setting even though you are zoomed out as far as it goes. Placing objects becomes hassling at times 
 by not aligning to a road, and because you are zoomed so far in, you have to find the cleared space 
 that you want to place something in.
  
  Sound: Is ok, not much here on variety for music, and ambient noise. Although, the sounds from 
 certain objects, like plasma screens, gets annoying because it lacks anything other than variety.
 
  
  Difficulty: Once you get the hang of the unique style it even lacks the challenge on the hardest 
 settings.
  
  The only good thing I could really say is about the graphics. Overall the graphics are great. You 
 can actually see small detailed objects such as the pollution is more than a cloud, and roads have 
 portajohns before they are complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenji_02
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  As you can tell from most of the reveiws, Simcity Societies is not a Simcity game, it is a new 
 kind of game that USES the simcity universe. SC: S had absolutely no dificulty and was indeed "a 
 cake walk" before patch 2.
  
  Patch 2 does not fix everything, but it is a great start. Patch 2 introduces the upkeep system. 
 Meaning almost every structure now costs money every day. Something to help offset the cost of 
 your soon to be enormous income. Not only that but in the patch it introduces three new dificulty 
 modes, each one with different challenges. In Basic you can only get one award per city. Since 
 you must earn the "Jack of all" award to unlock hardcore mode, this can be tricky. Not going over 
 200 of any societial value while getting a city up to 25,000 population AND keeping them all happy 
 is hard enough as is. But Basic also introduces a tougher system to keep your sims happy. They 
 spend more time at work and at venues (much more realistic than the previous 2-6 hour work days) .
 
  
  The rest of the game is still not quite a "Sim City" game, but it is a city builder. If you are 
 a fan of the sim city series without being a fan of the sim city economics, this is a wonderful 
 game for you! As it is for me ^_^! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashaiba91
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 21, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  I just want to punch the producers of Societies. Major disappointment.
  
  If you love sim city 4, dont get this game. if you love any sim city games, dont buy this game.
 
  
  This game is not a sim city. its a pile of garbage.
  No real strategy in the game, too easy. and get this... some buildings are good and bad. well any 
 idiot can make 50 good buildings and then succeed. Very buggy game engine. the game is backwards 
 in time. Sim City 4 was 10 times better than this game, you can do so much more in sim city 4 and 
 the graphics aren't that bad, and look at how old it is. It seems as if the producers had Societies 
 locked up in a cage for 10 years and finally released it. Don't waste your money on this. if you 
 wanna try it out just download it off bit torrent or something, its worth stealing, thats about 
 it. Those producers dont deserve a dime. They ruined the sim city series and i hope EA makes up 
 for it by making Sim City 5 or something.
  
  Very Disappointed... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxikyd
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 17, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Having played the various versions of SimCities over the decades, I am deeply disappointed by the 
 newest incarnation. Although the graphics are beautifully rendered, the game itself is too easy, 
 too cheesy, and intellectually suitable only for the under 12 crowd. Because of the excessive amount 
 in game information, it is less about creative choice and more about being an obedient drone. 
 
  
  Don't get me wrong. Societies is probably the most visually pleasing of the SimCity games. The 
 building designs are pretty, but pretty only works in beauty contests, and this game has very little 
 else going for it. It's like the perfect prom date, good-looking and easy. A bit too easy, in fact.
 
  
  Building cities is easy. Learning to play is easy. Everything about the game is, well, easy. The 
 challenges that kept me playing SimCity 2000 et. al., are nonexistent, and the charming building 
 graphics cannot make up for that lack.
  
  Going back to the prom date analogy, pretty and easy get old eventually, and it's nice to have 
 some substance to base the relationship on, even if the relationship is with a game.
  
  Another problem with the game is how slowly it moves. I don't mean game-speed itself, but rather 
 that performing tasks, moving the screen to different locales or moving/creating buildings and 
 even bulldozing, is ponderously slow. I'm running an AMD 64 3600+ with a 1650 Graphics card and 
 2G of RAM, and still had difficulties moving around until I dropped the in game graphics down to 
 their lowest settings, which rather defeats the purpose of having such "pretty" game graphics in 
 the first place.
  
  
  The learning curve for the game is about 5 seconds. The enjoyment curve is only slightly longer. 
 If you want to blow $30 on a great game, go elsewhere. If you want an excellent city building game, 
 go for one of the older versions of SimCities. If you really want to play this mis-incarnation 
 of SimCities, wait until it hits the bargain bin. At $29.99, it just doesn't have the bang for 
 the buck, and judging by its playability, it'll be in the bargain bin soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihmurria
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  At first it seemed alright, but now it crashes at least every 15 minutes. And my city isn't exactly 
 huge. Buggy and horrible, with no support available and no solution in sight. Don't waste your 
 money with this one, unless you hear of a new patch that might solve it. The last patch didn't 
 even address stability issues. The forums on the site are filled with people who have constant 
 crashing issues, and the manufacturer is doing -nothing- to address those concerns as far as I 
 can see. I am highly disappointed with this game that had so much potential. The graphics are beautiful 
 (while it's running at least) , the game adapts to what you're doing, and you have endless possibilities 
 in what kinds of cities you can build. And yet, being limited to a whopping 10-15 minutes of play 
 before having to reboot your computer due to it freezing or crashing ruins that. Again, don't waste 
 your time or money on this over-rated coaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commanderkai
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 13, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  I can't believe it. Simcity is dead to me, and I'm sure its dead to many people who loved Simcity, 
 Simcity 2000, 3000, and 4. Starting from the original, a great game was born, and as I grew, so 
 did the game, getting better and better graphically, strategically, and more creative and fun. 
 Until now. This game promised a lot, but I was skeptical. Rightly so I realize now, and I'm sad 
 to say that this franchise might be dead.
  
  We all remember the promises. "SOCIETIES, BUILD WHATEVER CITY YOU WANT!!!!!" Sure you can do that, 
 considering it'll still turn into an ugly piece of crap with more crime than any major city anywhere.
 
  
  I'll start with the good points
  
  1) Graphics. It had some nice.... ish.... graphics. Some of the details were quite nice. The drunks 
 stumbling around, some of the buildings that existed, some of the changes to buildings depending 
 on how you built your city... they were quite nice considering.
  
  2) Easy Map Creation. It takes a few clicks, and then you have a map to build. Simple enough.
 
  
  Now the bad.
  
  1) In-game Advertising. What the hell was with the British Petroleum or BP gas stations and the 
 extremely laughable hydrogen plants. What the hell was that? To be honest, that pissed me off on 
 so many levels. It just surprised and shocked the hell out of me.
  
  2) Too simple. Money is made too easy, two or three buildings will just gush in cash for you. Beyond 
 that, the only infrastructure you need is power plants and roads. Thats it. What the hell. Where's 
 the water, or the highways, or the garbage disposal systems? What happened to the harbor and airport 
 for trading with neighbors? It is all gone. 3) Crime. There is too much of it, even a small city 
 will have a crapload of criminals. No matter the amount of "police stations" (actually businesses 
 so I didn't consider it infrastructure) you have. Or no matter the amount of "Swat Team" squads 
 you send out. Its always there. 4) Strange society point distribution. Why does one thing give 
 you this and why does this other thing take it away. It honestly made no sense at all. Why does 
 a clock tower give you more authority? Nobody knows. A gas station takes some productivity away? 
 Okay. Why? Still not sure, oh and sorry Kevin VanOrd for using your examples since I'm not loading 
 the game up again. But still, if the distribution made more SENSE, it'd be better.
  
  5) Bugs. Slowdowns. Glitches. All there, all annoying, and all a pain. The game will slow down, 
 even on newer and more up to date machines. You can't stop it at all.
  
  6) Poor in game editing tools. Enough said. I can't flatten a little hill for no apparent reason. 
 I don't know why, but the lack of space in the game should give you some ability to maximize your 
 usage of it.
  
  7) Small maps. Continuing from 6, small maps mean small cities. And once again I can maybe cram 
 in 150000, which is honestly quite sad. I really wish I could make HUGE cities, like in Simcity 
 4 (you needed some extra buildings from third party sites, but meh) But this game kinda limits 
 your chances to make New York or Tokyo.
  
  Okay, enough of this. If you aren't convinced this failed as a game. Then its your money lost. 
 Not mine. I gave you a plenty enough warning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmstine
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun on its own terms. It was quite a bit better after the patch was downloaded, which 
 made it a little challenging at least. Before that is was pretty easy to go about building a city 
 and also pretty boring.
  
  It is completely different then the past SimCity games, but something I think people should try 
 out, especially if they weren't big SimCity players before. It has a few interesting and new quirks 
 of its own. Not great, but not the worst game out there.
  
  I was kind of missing the larger array of disaster choices, what fun is SimCity without getting 
 the chance to destroy all your hard work with a list of ridiculous options? 
  
  I really did enjoy the idea of creating societies (the HUGE difference in this game as compared 
 to the rest of SimCity games) and having the chance to shape the direction everything would go. 
 Neat concept.
  
  Missing old game play stuff, but loving the new 'societies' concept. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fsleeper
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 9, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  We all loved SimCity as it started small, but great at the time, and over time they stuck with 
 what was good and added more details, more control, higher quality, more zoom out and in, etc. 
 You had more and more you could do with buildings and roads and streets, etc - that looked ever 
 more beautiful and realistic. Now - this abomination hits the streets! We waited YEARS (literally 
 anxiously) and what do we get for our long, faithful waiting? The SIMS style buildings, forced 
 zoom to such a close up view, cartoonish coloring and ridiculous activity (SIMS 2 style) , no infrustrucure 
 evolution (small roads to freeways, etc, power grids, sewage, overall traffic pattern concerns, 
 etc) and all the rest we LOVED to deal with ripped away from us.
  
  Add to that, the performance for this lack-of-graphic / power disaster is pathetic. I have what 
 is considered by todays standards a God-Box and the game crawls relative to all the glory of Crisis 
 and others that are FAR more graphics intensive. I have no idea what the CPU is being spent on 
 but is not on the overwhelming complexity of the game for sure. In one sitting, day 1, I build 
 the end-all / beat all Capitalist city (which looked horrible as far as buildings and roads, etc 
 goes from years-ago comparison to Sim-City) . Next day I thought I would try again and recieved 
 the last of the achievable "awards" and completed the end-all / beat-all industrial city.
  
  How aggrivating. I guess it's a good game for an 11yo, which is why I at least rated it as 
 high as I did. SOMEONE could enjoy it. As for me - I'm trying everything I can to get my money 
 back. DON'T BUY IT or you WILL be let down in a hurry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinisawesome
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 8, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I knew i was going to get something a little bit different then the sim city's but i was not expecting 
 this at all! it was fun for like the first5 hours then gets boring really fast. also there was 
 no challenges that were hard, when a earthquake happened in sim city 3000 i would freak out and 
 send all my firetrucks to try and stop the flames in this there really wasn't that. also it could 
 have been my computer but the frame rate would drop out of no where, its annoying at the start 
 but i got used to it.
  
  the good:
  fun to play god and build your own society, graphics.
  
  the bad:
  not a challenge, did feel 
 like any other sim city 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J2TheB
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 7, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  When Simcity 4 came out, It was brilliant! had lots of depth and fun features which made it so 
 addictive, but wouldn't it have been even more fun if it was fully 3d?
  
  Well when I heard of a Simcity societies coming out in full 3d, I was excited, but the seeing that 
 maxis wasn't developing, raised and eyebrow and the fact that game was going to be exactly like 
 city life with the whole society crap, spelled disaster!
  
  And it pretty much is, lame and unpolished, and not to mention the drop in 
  frame-rate, and 
 don't expect your high-end PC to fix this problem, it feels like going through family photos rather 
 than watching a family video.
  
  Perhaps there was 1 mistake EA made, not employing Maxis as the developer. 
  
  But on the good 
 side, the game is something to look at, nice graphics and the Sims activity is plentiful, which 
 make for some short-lived entertainment of watching them get around their daily biz.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: idspence
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  In some ways this game was fun. But It was lacking some features that sim city 4 had. S. C. S. makes 
 you city more customizable than the old sim city 4 but it has dropped one feature I like, the nation 
 view. Also in the screen where you make a city you have no lower/rise terrain tool. Also you cannot 
 do anything with water. I like this game in someways but I think you would be better off getting 
 s. c.4. Some people like the game but others don't so I would have to say you may want to torrent 
 it first before buying the game.
  
  idspence161. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asgloki
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  after playing previous versions I was shocked by the lack of depth in this game. The Graphics are 
 very nice and the interface was well thought out but I found the road placing very buggy and while 
 building a city can be fun, after a while you wonder why you are bothering. It seems to me they 
 should have just taken all the best elements from the previous versions and improved on them. I 
 hope the developers learn from this and the next version is better, because I do love this franchise 
 and this game is still worth playing, as long as you are not looking for any kind of challenge, 
 because its really not there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndeko
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  There was a time when SimCity series were the greatest, then came SC4 which was a horrible game 
 (in a good way) . I really loved it, but it was extremely addictive. Plus Simtropolis member didn't 
 help the cause. I don't know about this version. Wish I bought something else in this holiday season...
 
  
  My machine has a difficult time keeping up with the graphics' demands, and the game feels as if 
 it is a bite off of City Life and other similar games. There is nothing intuitive like we are accustomed 
 with the experiences we've had with Maxis' masterpieces. I feel like breaking this version of SimCity 
 and revisiting my old pals: SimTower, SimFarm, SimCity, SC2000, SC3000 and SC4. 
  
  One question that lingers in my mind is will Maxis become the second Microprose, which in my book 
 has the best games, but somehow they messed up. Will this mean the end of SimCity series and Maxis?!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit that the only Simcity game I've played is Simcity 1. That was a while way back in the 
 day. Anywho this game is nothing like Simcity. It's more like City Life. But, that does not matter. 
 This is a fun game. You can build tons of houses, workplaces, and places for your Sims to have 
 fun. The game is not hard at all. It's like a huge sandbox game. Building up your city from the 
 beginning is fun however it gets boring after you have a huge city. So make a new one. This game 
 is a truely fun game with excellent graphics. I suggest if your not a die-hard Simcity fan buy 
 this game.
  
  -Helloiseeu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbyb2006
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Why is this even on store shelves? It clearly needs worked on, so much that it shouldn't have been 
 released. 
  
  The game is flashy on the box cover, images online, etc. - but on the inside, it's a pathetic excuse 
 for entertainment. Unless, you enjoy working on a lackluster game, attempting to install it, reinstall 
 it, over and over, still not having it work. 
  
  SimCity Societies is not worth the price spent on it, period. The graphics may look outstanding, 
 but it's clear that whoever decided that this game needed such odd demands needs to rethink this. 
 When I installed it, it took about half an hour for it to install not only the game, but stuff 
 required for the game - stuff I've never heard of used. When it's finally done installed, I run 
 the game. Everything goes fine selecting the terrain type, difficulty, and other options, but that's 
 just the beginning. When the game is loaded, it lags badly; the words on the bottom jerk their 
 way across, the mouse movement is fast but the objects that are being placed aren't, and lastly, 
 it freezes up. I struggled for 15min with the game, and my output was a strip of road, two condos 
 that didn't land in the right spot, and a bank. But then, it freezes up, and I repeatedly try to 
 quit the game, but it takes forever to do it, and when it does, my desktop freezes up. I eventually 
 have to resort to pressing the restart button and holding it until it shuts down and starts over. 
 
  
  After re-installing the game, installing the patches, uninstalling unnecessary games/music/programs 
 for more space, refiguring the settings, etc. - the list goes on, and none of it does a thing. 
 I play it again, put it in enough housing and retail stuff for about 200 people, and finally shut 
 it off before I get a headache from the slow-movements. 
  
  Check your bargain bin in a few years... if they even still sell this junk in stores by then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapnzaba
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I love the Sims and Simcity and i am a hardcore fan. This game IS NOT simcity. Yeah, read the title 
 i don't care. It says "Simcity Societies". NO! Mark out Simcity from the title. The title is now 
 Societies. That's what the title should be. The graphics are fine and you can zoom in pretty close, 
 but the problem is, you can't zoom out far. You can if you go to the ptions menu, but you still 
 can't zoom out to view all of the city. As for city building this game is unique. Tilted Mill punch 
 Simcity's great gameplay in the face and made new gameplay, OK gameplay, but not as good as Simcity. 
 In the game Societies (as i know call it) you have "Social Energies". But these seem to be very, 
 very random. Why the heck does apartments produce prosperity, i don't know! and why the crap does 
 a park have creatity? I don't know! Why does a butcher shop do this etc. I DON'T KN0W! Without 
 the patch, the game can really be buggy and the game could crash. With the patch it does fine. 
 (On my computer that is, i've heard some people's game still crash even with the handy patch) . 
 fooling around with all the tools and stuff in this game is fun and some buildings even have special 
 abilities! But it is NOT simcity. It is only and will always only be: just Societies.
  
  6.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushroom_idol
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  The Simcity Societies is simcity 5 people, but you probably don't like that. today i'm going to 
 review that game, from two view points. the good and the bad. lets start with the good.
  
  The Good: the graphics in the game are really good and you can make any terrain you want. they 
 have a lot of items to choose from and the diffcultly of the game makes you feel like a real life 
 city.
  
  The Bad: the zoom has a glitch in it and you can't ever see the whole city. i really don't like 
 that. and the game can crush every 30 minutes to an hour. the game for me doesn't crash that much 
 because i heard that the patch for the game came with another crashing bug.
  
  Overall: overall, the game is really good and you should give it a chance :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khoo1992
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  SimCity is been for a long time, but this game is the latest installment of the SimCity family, 
 and is a disaster!!!
  
  The gameplay is quite entertaining, even though the game lacks features like previous SimCity game. 
 The gameplay is waaayyy too easy, even for beginners.
  
  The graphics is okay, is what you expected from this kind of genre of games.
  
  The worst part 
 of this game is the bugs in the game. The frame rate of this game is a total disaster. The game 
 is choppy, even you have high end PC... After a long while playing, the game will simply freezes 
 and doesn't move at all, only the background music is working...
  
  I'll give this game a 5/10. Although this game is overall still enjoyable, the bugs and freezes 
 will remind you thinking of "Another unfinished game by EA". Fresh but disastrous!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: semplew
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 18, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  I played it for about 5 minutes and thought my god what has EA done getting this company to make 
 a Sim City game!! Maxis are the only ones who truly know how to make a good city builder set in 
 our time and for example City Life and other games which are not that good anyway but are a lot 
 better than this disaster. The graphics are good but the game is so slow and crashes every five 
 minutes on my PC so that does not help. The game play is just so hard as well and this just makes 
 it frustrating even more.
  All in all it is definitely not an enjoyable game and I think I should now stop talking and go 
 play Sim City the original game as it is a million times more enjoyable than this! All I can say 
 is WAIT FOR SIM CITY 5!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyDeadIsRising
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 17, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I would like to let everyone know my opinion of the game. Besides the obvious technical errors 
 that prevent me from playing it for more than 5 minutes (Yep, sure sucks) , I just don't think this 
 game is really that much of an improvement over the former ones. If I had to rate this game, I 
 would only give it 2 out of 10 and here is why:
  
  1.) Why am I limited to such small building space and a maximum of only about 100,000 people? That 
 is just so lame. I would have liked to build *huge* cities such as real life London or Tokyo that 
 have 12 million+ people. I was hoping that, FINALLY, I might get the chance to design such a city 
 after all the previous versions of the game that wouldn't allow me to do so. Unfortunately, I was 
 wrong. I don't know they can't create a game with great graphics but also find a way for us to 
 create very large cities that are more true to real life. But for now, I can only dream of designing 
 a city with millions of people.
  
  2.) There is really no budget with this game which I think is a let down. I enjoyed the previous 
 versions of the game that allowed you to raise or lower taxes, much akin to a real like mayor.
 
  
  3.) Why can I not manipulate the terrain in this game? If you can and I'm wrong, I apologize. But 
 so far, I don't see any way to do that. Personally, I just want a huge slab of FLAT land to build 
 my city on. I don't care about lakes, rivers, mountains, rocks, etc. I like to build *large* cities 
 and things like that just get in the way.
  
  4.) It should be easier to control the citizen population. It's far too easy by building a large 
 city to have citizens go, rogue . I think that's kind of ridiculous because in real life, in real 
 cities, there are slum areas and not everybody is happy but they don't go crazy and destroy the 
 entire city, shutting down buildings. This is just another reason why it seems like you're penalized 
 for building large cities.
  
  5.) Pollution has far too much of an impact on the happiness of the people and the stability of 
 the city. Again, this is just another reason why this game penalizes you for building large cities. 
 In real life there are very high levels of pollution in large cities but that doesn't cause the 
 people to go rogue and demolish everything. I think you should be able to build huge industrial 
 cities without having too worry that much about pollution. Having a city with about 100,000 people 
 crying about the pollution level is ridiculous, considering London, England, has over 12 million 
 people with a heck of a lot more pollution....
  
  6.) WHATEVER HAPPENED TO THE ARCOLOGIES FROM SIMCITY 2000? I really liked those. I thought it was 
 a great idea. I think they should have been included in this game, it would definitely allow you 
 to build larger cities.
  
  In conclusion, I cannot express how let down and sad I am over this game. I really think it could 
 have been done better. The fact that I can only build a city with about 100,000 people maximum 
 is just stupid. How incredibly LAME. Oh well. I think a lot more effort should have been put into 
 this game before it was released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RatTrap
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  I'm only reviewing this one because i made the mistake of getting it without reading the reviews 
 first. I got it from Toys R' Us when it was on sale for $25 which was the reason i got it.
  
  Review:
  Everything they promised the game to be for months leading up to the release, it 
 has failed to be, first of all.. it takes like 1 work place to fund your entire city for the entire 
 game, making money is easy.. in a few days, you can have like 100K.
  They they promised you can make any city you want, and theres like 10 differnt types.. its true, 
 you can do that... But it has no effect on your city really, and its really boring, it takes a 
 long time to get to the really nice looking buildings.. and its alot of boring building in the 
 mean time, as the city really takes care of its self, fires go out on their own, dont matter how 
 many police stations you have as your crime rate will always be disturbingly high.. just for a 
 laugh i built nothing but houses and police stations, and i made money easies, and my crime rate 
 was very high... and i had police stations every few inches.
  
  Anyway all in all the game is broken and boring, its not even worth a rent, and even the half price 
 i paid for it was to much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimmonsP
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 12, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  The Sim City name has always been a highly respected city building one. Sim City 4 was one of the 
 best, if no the best, city building game ever made and this new game, "Sim City Societies" is not 
 worthy to hold the Sim City name.
  
  Despite this game being pathetic in comparison to its predecessors, it has areas of enjoyment which 
 would make this an average game on its own. Seeing how the city react to certain buildings you 
 put down is a very enjoyable experience. How the city grows is quite enjoyable and the environment 
 is quite good. 
  
  The graphics are a complete let down aswell, the textures are mainly disappointing and are a huge 
 step back from Sim City 4 in major areas. The gameplay has also taken a good step back and there 
 are extreme frame-rate issues with the game on top of all of this. Sim City 4 was known for its 
 realism and this game isn't realistic however it is quite original and I'll give it that. The people 
 and cars textures though are quite nicely done and so are the shadows but the lighting itself isn't 
 all that good.
  
  The game's difficulty is also far too easy and not just in comparison with Sim City 4. It is just 
 far too easy on it's own and there just doesn't seem to be a point to any of it.
  
  Overall this game does not deserve to be branded with the Sim City name and is a game that shouldn't 
 even be considered. There are small good parts to the game but overall it is a total let down and 
 does not compare to any other Sim City that has come before. So what should you do if you see this 
 in store? Avoid it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_911
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  In the Simcity Socieites, you are just basically creating a city and see it grow with population. 
 you can start with small towns or go to big towns and cities. it's very greatly graphics, but for 
 some reason that has to come with a price that i don't really like.
  
  The Really Bad: the game crashes to much! that is the worst thing that any game can have. i think 
 that ea games should take the game back in and debug it and decrash it. that's the worst ea game 
 ever. i love the simcity series, but this game is a really big let down.
  
  The Good: the game has good graphics and the populations don't go out of control. i like having 
 contronl over the population.
  
  Overall: this is a good game, but isn't a 10 out of 10 worthy. the crashes and the bugs bring this 
 game down a lot. if it wasn't for that, i would totally love the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dudenaish
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  If there's one thing to bear in mind when purchasing this game, tell yourself at the till that 
 this IS NOT Sim City 5. If you bear this in mind then hopefully, like myself you won't be too let 
 down with this reasonable attempt at a society simulator, rather than a city simulator. Treat this 
 as a chance to see how your way of running your own country would be, something I've always daydreamed 
 about, really this isn't so much a game as a toy for your imagination. If you come into this game 
 with the mindset that it's not trying to be the next SimCity then it is ok, but nothing groundbreaking. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torch672
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 7, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  No relief in sight. Ea forum is begging users to find the problem. and stabbing at solutions.. hence 
 they have no idea so no patch anytime soon. Another game put out for christmas without enough reseach.. 
 Avoid it by all costs. Game could be somewhat entertaining and i mean somewhat, but most people 
 will never know, because of crashes. Seems to work on low end laptops for some reason. If you want 
 a game that requires no effort or thought and just want to plunk down buildings and loojk at sims, 
 go for it.... I promise you will be bored very quickly. They went from one extreme to the other 
 with simcity4 to simsocieties 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aronnyc
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 6, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  I played through the tutorial fine, but the main game crashed so much that I gave up trying. For 
 what I can see, it's quite pretty, but whatever's causing the crashing and freezing isn't just 
 happening to me, so obviously it wasn't properly tested in QA. Note to EA: Don't release a buggy 
 game. Delay it if you must (all games are delayed anyway) , but don't pull an Outpost and release 
 a game that crashes for most its users. We gamers know how to hold a grudge. And the only thing 
 that might annoy us even more is denying that it crashes often and refusing to help.
  
  Having said that, I do congratulate you on having the guts to change the SimCity formula. That 
 you failed in this case is a shame, but I still applaud your effort. Now, at least, you know you 
 shouldn't have tinkered with what was working. I'm guessing that you made the changes because SC4 
 had already been so perfected that, beyond cosmetic changes, you weren't able to come up with anything 
 and different.
  
  I hope you'd either release a patch that fixes all the bugs, or release another SC game in the 
 future that both works and is fun.
  
  Sorry this didn't work out. I'm guessing you will lose a lot of money. I am not sorry for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkeefe
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  At a time when I anticpated the next sim city to be absolutely awesome, imaginative and breathtaking, 
 due to the huge advances in technology, instead they did the usual EA approach. Change it a little 
 or change it totally, and in the process destroy it. Ah for the days of Moraga, CA and the programmers 
 who actually gave a darn. But I guess they are all retired now. 
  
  I anticipated huge advances in the AI, hoping for less menial invovlement like buiilding roads 
 etc. A "Mayor" of a city does not build roads, he manages a city. Thought they have modifeid that 
 stuff some, it still sux. This game stinks. Please do not waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdbtracker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  In the beginning I feel I was mislead about the game. the level of immersion was not what I had 
 been expecting beause of the hype. As soon as I gave up on the hype and began to immerse myself 
 in the game experience i noticed i could change things mod every building and person and create 
 my own city out of the box. Alien cities anyone?
  The basic game allows you the capability of creating cities that match real major cities, small 
 towns, villages. Check the sturdiness of your city cause a catastrophe. see how your city planning 
 helps or destroys the lives of your sims. increase crime, establish a dictatorship, the shapes 
 of these socities are there, but their not trumpeted out with a character of their own, you simply 
 see it. It would be nice to develop that kind of character out of the game. 
  This is a game were you have to leave who you are at the door and bring out your evil side to exploit 
 the little guy, Start editing the files, create your own mods and you start to see the possibilities 
 of the game. create a model of the ghetto, beverly hills... and mod the files of buildings to bring 
 out the characteristic of those places. want to establish a martial arts society with roving clans 
 of warriors? a military outpost. now if we could only add some violence! who knows maybe we can.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adammale
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 3, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  i love simcity games especially done by maxis will wright... but when it was handed down to unwirthy 
 of it, it turns out so bad that i hate myself for believing all the hype about it. disastrous camera 
 view perspective, why can't i see all the details in one monitor? the gameplay is so upset. i know 
 there are some positive side about it but when you really deserted the real fans of the game series, 
 you are out of luck. do not buy this game. it is so worthless that i have sent it back to where 
 it belong... rubbish bin... i hate you for spoiling simcity game for me... will wright, please produce 
 the real simcity game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellysontheroad
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  I had such high hopes for SC5 - the regional approach in 4 and the resources/physical barriers/transportation 
 features of RTC3 could have worked together to make a fantastic SC5. Instead they ignored their 
 fans, threw everything away, and delivered nothing. In short they pulled a Microsoft. 
  
  It's not just SC5 either  there's been very little new in the RTS world for years and years. The 
 creativity is gone, the game play is gone. All thats left is graphics and marketing. It's too difficult 
 for a good idea to get to market, and if it does, it will have lost all meaning by the time it 
 gets there.
  
  -Looking for a new hobby- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duffduwg7575
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  I always had a hard time playing SimCity 4, Managing money and having no sense of purpose. You 
 sat around for an hour, after you managed to get the income to out weigh expenses. Then the money 
 creeps back ad you do it again. Having the money creep back. This isnt a review for SC4 so ill 
 go back to Societies This game does that same thing again. Just a little less annoyingly. Plus 
 I wish they could stretch for some missions or something. The achievements are okay but not that 
 great. Some are a little hard but others can be done in seconds and buildings are always unlocking 
 it seems. I recommend this game for people that really don't like challenging games but other then 
 that. Its really cut and dry. I have a new Laptop, Video card- HD2600 512 V Ram, 2.0 Ghz AMD Turion 
 64 x2 (Dual Core Processor) , and 2 Gigs or RAM. The game barley ran on high. I though i met well 
 passed the minimum requirements. The Patch didn't do much ether to fix anything. Hope my words 
 helped you guys a little 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wellisonmalaco
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Definitly, this is a diferent Sim City. I've always hated Sim City. Why? I'm just too noobie to 
 play it. I didn't have the patience to wait for that citys to grow. Most of the time, my city treasure 
 was empty and i had a lot of problems with terrain values.
  
  But then, Societies came.
  
  The whole point of it is making diferent kinds of cities, and Societies does that very well. 
 The bug problems certanly decreased with the first patch, although, some of them are still annoying. 
 For exemple, everytime i try to save the game through the menu, the game crashes.
  
  But, it's still fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ob1e713
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is just terrible... where do I begin... it has basically no interaction... no goal no real 
 progress... the game is a terrible attempt to merge the sim city series with the sims... I am a huge 
 fan of EA nation but this game is terrible and it just looks like they were trying to throw a game 
 out there to make a quick buck before the holiday's... which is not what I expected from one of 
 the best game producer's of all time... I mean the graphics stick... the buildings show no imagination... the 
 gameplay flow makes absolutely no sense... just terrible terrible terrible.
  
  
  
  hope this helps... ps if you didn't get the drift this game is not worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyman365
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off game play has been completely altered. You have to build every house and building, 
 not just zone it like in the past. It's very hard to find a building because they're all under 
 like 4 tabs, there's no utilities other than power plants. Only transport options are roads, buses 
 or subway. There is not tab for fire department etc, they're just under the buildings tab. The 
 overall game play is weak, having to build up points to build things. Just not impressive. I think 
 that the designers focused too much on the customize your city ie. entertainment, coporate etc. 
 and didn't put enough time into the actual game play and building. DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY ON IT!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: js0823
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure to which audience the developers and publishers were aiming for. It's a kid style 
 game. Nothing less. I don't even feel like describing each category (graphics, sound, gameplay etc) .
 
  
  I played it with the new patch that is suppose to fix bugs (which by the way was horrible) . The 
 game engine seemed to eat my computer more than Crysis did. The framerate was way below Crysis. 
 I was able to normalize the framerate to the point I could play with. Not exactly what I was hoping 
 for.
  
  The gameplay? It's not as bad as other people say they are, but they definitely need some major 
 work. In the interview I believe they said according to the road we take, the city will change 
 itself to fit your image, such as industrial type, arabian type, or whatever. Well those are all 
 bluff. Instead, you get choices of themes of buildings you can choose from, and you simply build 
 those. Nothing grows like it used to in previous simcity. There are no zones which the game will 
 populate it with people and buildings. Instead, you build each and every building. Houses, factories, 
 ice cream shop, you have to build it all. There is no feeling of watching the city grow. The city 
 grows when you build those buildings. That's it. There are no city simulation here. It's like the 
 old game called Simtown.
  
  It's a total disappointment for those who were waiting for the new simcity we could all build our 
 city on. It may look good for 10 years old kids who wants simcity in sandbox mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth36
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  With this game, sure, you can have fun designing the city, since it does provide a variety of buildings. 
 In that side you can go and do something fun, like entertaining the game instead of you getting 
 entertained. The game is to challenging in my case, i love simulation games and i go sometimes 
 to the extremes.
  
  Graphics and Sound are good with the package but comes with a bad engine to support it.
  
  
 Lets just say that the game should be given another name, maybe for that it could receive a better 
 score, who knows. As also ive seen some aspects of the game like City Life, even so i played City 
 Life and im not thrilled about it but still play it. Even im waiting for Cities unlimited, hopefully 
 it brings something good and new to the table hopefully they improve something about City Life.
 
  
  Will Wright and Maxis should reclaim the name Sim City, bring something better than this. And i 
 don't mind returning to my Sim City 4 game. Which i still play. 
  
  Now, this is not for the hardcore city builder gamer, this is just a basic game with many building 
 to design a city, thats all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ambc2000
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  Once you get into this game its quite good really. Ok I agree it's not SimCity and shouldn't have 
 that in its title. What I would say is that the game has amazing detail. From the very very pretty 
 animated graphics to the sheer amazing number of different types of buildings on offer. The sound 
 effects are really delightful too.
  
  I admit the game is easy - hopefully this might be tweaked by a patch. It does get more difficult 
 as your city grows and you have to balance out several factors. Some more in depth SimCity style 
 decisions and play could be added on by an expansion I guess. However, I don't think this is the 
 whole point to the game. After you've been playing for a while you get strangely addicted and just 
 want to keep on adding a little bit more to your city.
  
  The engine does need some fixing but I haven't had too many problems since I applied the first 
 patch.
  
  I'm really enjoying building a city how I'd like it to be built. You can build anything form small 
 agricultural town up to an Orwellian nightmare straight out of 1984  let your imagination go wild!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFDmh2223
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  EA has produced a crapy game, Why you might ask, because they failed to listen and communicate 
 with fans. All the ideas of what the sequal to simcity should or could be is out there. They just 
 did not listen or care about the great ideas that the fans wanted. There are multiple Simcity 5 
 websites with tons of ideas about improvements to the next in line game. You don't need to hire 
 some new design team to redesign an already successful game. They have failed to please the fans (customers) 
 with this approach, resulting in a total let down not only for us but proabably for them aswell. 
 They made a game that is not going to be a blockbuster like it could have been, it is going to 
 be average at best only because it bears the name Simcity, something that it is not. In this tragic 
 process they have lost customers, fans, money, and possibly a classic game series. Simcity was 
 a money train that is for now off the tracks. They tried to pull the wool over our eyes with this 
 poor rendition, just to get a product on the self for the Holidays. I new it was doomed when they 
 changed design teams and it as released on time. It is a shame they made such an obvious bad decision. 
 Boycot this game. Show them that just because they label and make it look like food, you cannot 
 mask the the smell of crap if gives off or the taste of poop that fills your mouth when eaten (played) . 
 You can not polish a terd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndresChile
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  Is a very different "Simcity game", but is fun, with great graphics and lovely buildings, I recommend 
 it. 
  
  It is easy to play and after some time it becomes very addictive, always it is very entertaining 
 to create cities, and especially if it is in your hands to do that your sims are happy. 
  
  The buildings are very interesting and nice, the complexity begins when your city grows, since 
 you must be dependent on many variables, for example that exist sufficient sources of work and 
 places of entertaiment in order that everything works well and is very recomforting to see for 
 the controllers that your city is growing well and prospering, it indicates you that you are doing 
 a good work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogoldgoal
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  I understand how much difficulties EA the publisher was facing when they were preparing to package 
 this game for markets. They know this game would be a completely different from what the SC fans 
 expect. That's why they don't call this Simcity5. This game was created for the less hardcored 
 city-building fans, it is in the level between Sims and Simcity, you can monitor individuals' status, 
 while at the same time managing the city using simple commands.
  
  So just sit back and relax while playing this game. (But the awful framerate ruined my enjoying 
 mood) They should at least tune the hardware requirement s to allow more casual pc running this 
 game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioflag
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This is quite frankly one of the most disastrous game i have ever played.
  First of all let me say that the game is titled SIMCITY Societies but it was clearly titled in 
 this way to rip-off customers because this game is not only really bad but it's really not Simcity.
 
  About the game, the gameplay should be rated 0 or 1, it's really astonishing how developers could 
 have created a city simulation game without any sort of gameplay. You have simply to build and place 
 palaces because in the game there is no objective to reach, you will never have problem with money 
 because when city grows you will also make more money..... there is really no way to lose money, 
 so there is no challenge, and you have just to balance the different energies.... but even in this 
 case there is no real purpose in balancing them.
  Graphic is too cartoonish for me but some people could like that, about lon gevity i don't think 
 you'll use it more than 10 hours because it soon become boring, sound is acceptable. The game is 
 also in a really bad state considering it crashes on almost all computers.
  In conclusion, don't buy this game because you are just wasting money, it's a clear rip-off, you 
 should buy this game only if you have some children between 5-10 years which like to play with 
 legos or in general could like a game like that, the total lack of gameplay would really bore every 
 people over 10 years.
  Tilted Mill should be really ashamed to have developed the game in this way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 24, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  this game lacks every thing orginal sim city had, no thanks im glade i didnt buy it, I tryed it 
 on freinds computer personaly, I played it for 4 hours, and I still have on idea how zonning works 
 or anything.
  
  this game has nothing to do with running or manning a city or mannging one.
  
  game is total 
 lacking every thing that was in orginal sim citys.
  
  ill stick to sim city 4 theres no really city building management like in that old classic.
  
 
  what happens in this game is you get kool points pretty much u build a candland building u get 
 a cool point which can be used to buy a candland house.
  
  thats how game works pretty much.
  
  redient come iwht the house period. so if u buy a two 
 story house u get that type of family no matter what they dont go or leave or come house dosnt 
 change or upgrade or devlovpe.
  
  u see a two story house u buy it u place it thats that, power plants can go any where on map. theres 
 no power lines magic happens u place a power plant 400 miles away magaicly it lights up ur town, 
 no sewer or waste to deal with, this has nothing to do with managing a town, it has to do with 
 building a socirty its not a sim city game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  When EA started showing previews of Simcity Societies months ago, my first reaction was that they 
 should have chosen another name for it. I still believe that after playing the game and reading 
 other gamers reviews. 
  
  EA obviously wanted to attract people to this game by giving it the name of one of their most successful 
 games. It's unfortunate because now the game is being destroyed by Simcity fans (with good reasons) , 
 giving it very bad publicity and possibly discouraging people from buying it.
  
  Lets hope EA intend to produce a demo which will allow people to try it and see if they like the 
 game or not.
  
  Now let's talk about the game itself. First, it's not Simcity. The only thing Societies has in 
 common with other Simcity is that the game concerns a growing city. Everything else is different.
 
  
  Societies is, in my opinion, a dream city building game. The goal is to build the city you want 
 to see. Period... nothing more... no big budget to balance... no micro management... no pressure 
 from your advisers... you just place buildings (homes, workplaces, venues) and try to keep people 
 happy (or unhappy, if that's what you want) . And when you are tired with the city you just created, 
 you start another one.
  
  If you want the challenge to build a city, you won't find it here. In fact, if you rely on the 
 challenge to play and replay the game again and again, stay away from Societies. The logic behind 
 the city creation has nothing to do with reality. Why would certain buildings use some type of 
 social energy while others produce it? I believe the requirements for each building is just a way 
 to tell the player to diversify the type of building to place, like "if you want a police station, 
 you may want to place a court of justice" or "don't build just homes, build some workplaces, and 
 some venues".
  
  Everything is in place to let you create the city you would like to see. The visuals are beautiful. 
 Whether you want a creepy city, an industrial city, or a peaceful city, the visual will always 
 try to give you a good sense of the aura of your city. 
  
  And that's what saves this game and why I keep playing it. It's fun to look at what you create. 
 It's like playing with LEGO blocks. You create something, you look at it for a while and then you 
 start all over again from scratch. If you don't like that kind of game play, stay far away from 
 this title.
  
  Conclusion: This game is beautiful and fun to play, but I would not recommend it to most gamers. 
 This is not Simcity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keralis
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this one but OMG im so dissapointed with it! I couldnt recommend 
 this to anyone.
  
  First of all there is no powerlines, waterpipes, undeground trasportation which was quite abit 
 of fun in the old series. And the EA stamp is all over this with their The Sims games feeling another 
 way for EA to get more money of a product which has been so great in the past!
  
  I spent some hours to really like the game but i cant! There is so much missing from the old series. 
 Why make a great game so crappy and take away all the fun?
  
  I vote 1.0 in score , EA you greedy basta*ds! Xmas is closing in feeling abit of grinchy arent 
 you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muon1416
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  Hopefully this doesn't come off as a tirade, but it probably is.
  
  What's Wrong With This?
  
  When Will Wright said that he wanted to simplify the Sim City series 
 because, to paraphrase, it had worked itself into a dead end and was too complicated for newbies 
 (too much micromanaging) , I was able to sympathize with what he said. My understanding of the incredibly 
 complicated mechanics of SimCity 4 are somewhat derivative of previous versions in the SimCity 
 series. Even Will Wright himself has pointed out that the SimCity series allows users to be urban 
 planners. Let's make it clear here (at least let me make it clear in my own words) that those disappointed 
 with this game are primarily disappointed by the mechanics.
  
  The editor's review of the game pointed out that the game has no challenge. In line with this, 
 one user in a thread noted that you could walk away for a few hours and nothing would have changed: 
 'it doesn't simulate'. I couldn't agree more... simply because I went to lie down in the middle 
 of the game, fell asleep, and found the game still running a couple of hours later. Then I went 
 to play again, and it crashed.
  
  Going back to the original spirit of the series, this game has next to no resemblance to an urban 
 planning simulator. City Life by MonteCristo does a more true job of being faithful to the series 
 (even the team from MonteCristo said it was not a competitor to the SimCity series but a holdover 
 for those SimCity fans until SC5 came out) . Urban planners, at least to my recent knowledge as 
 a student at an polytechnic institute with many friends in many different engineering disciplines, 
 don't point to an area and say, 'a slum should go there and we should put all the rich people over 
 here.' Residents in SimCity Societies just appear and float around in the ether that is your city.
 
  
  The joy of playing a Sim game, as Mr. Wright has once said, is being able to see your creation 
 grow. Sims grow, cities grow, and in Spore, societies and species grow. Last I checked societies 
 DO NOT grow in the fashion that SimCity Societies runs. I think this is the kill-joy of this game. 
 The way the game runs just feels WRONG, or at least doesn't feel right. Might be fun if you're 
 looking for a game that has nothing to do with simulation or if you've got a hyperactive imagination 
 and willing to pretend that cities work the way they do in Societies. The RCI (residential, commercial, 
 industrial) demand indicator and the complexity that came with SimCity 4 existed for a reason - 
 these are the mechanics of the real world.
  
  If there is any challenge to this game, it's the learning curve: trying to forget how reality actually 
 is and learning how to the world of SimCity Societies works. Oh, yeah, and trying to configure 
 the game just right so you can run it higher than 24 frames per second on a modern machine and 
 for longer than half an hour of actual game play.
  
  I will concede to the fact that it's a very pretty game and the filtering system for infrastructure 
 is handy, but I can't say it's got the best GUI I've ever seen. I felt rather restricted by the 
 interface and felt like even after several hours of play that the interface was just getting in 
 the way of being able to enjoy the game.
  
  The next time I'm looking for a silly game for my little cousins to play, I'll chuck the game at 
 them and hope their parents won't come knocking at my door scolding at me for torturing their kids.
 
  
  
  A Hope for the Die Hard SimCity Fans
  
  All hope is not lost. There is a chance that the big man himself might point his ship back in the 
 SimCity direction after Spore and we will truly have an SC5 that will truly be the game many of 
 us have been hoping for. Spore introduced (or rather, will introduce when it's actually released) 
 scalability, the ability to look at as much or as little as you want; you, the user, can choose 
 where you want to spend the most of your time and your simulation will not suffer or atrophy in 
 those parts you decide not to focus on. THAT is what Wright did to solve the micromanaging problem 
 (something I think many *software* developers should learn from...) and THAT is what we were hoping 
 for from SimCity Societies. NOT a parody of the series that has made itself a place in history 
 by focusing on innovative simulation mechanics and playability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h3rb
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  After reviewing the horrific forums at EA's site and attempting to find a solution to what appears 
 to be a problem for almost everyone, I've decided that I'm not going to get much help with it.
 
  
  I would love to provide a review about this game that is complete and gives credit for actually 
 playing the game for longer than 30 minutes. However, I can't. The game won't run longer than that 
 for me. It crashes, and takes my whole PC with it. I think I might actually enjoy it if I could 
 play it. Alas, it's just not been properly QA'd. 
  
  Sim City Societies is just not finished, and performs poorly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: postal1984
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  How to not make a SimCity game:
  
  Take out nearly all infrastructure
  Take away zoning
  Get rid of region mode
  Make it look like a cartoon
  Give the sims 'energies'
 
  
  read: SimCity Societies
  
  An absolute waste of a franchise. I have heard people say that Will Wright said he wanted the SimCity 
 franchise to go in a different direction, but I cannot imagine this to be the outcome. 
  
  SimCity 4 had some flaws, but the amazing fanbase helped smooth out many of those, and add a dimension 
 to the game that is unprecedented. It goes to show that many people ARE interested in a REALISTIC 
 urban simulation. There is a market out there for a modern city building game, and SimCity Societies 
 completely misses that market while helping to destroy the most well known and popular city building 
 game series. 
  
  Anybody who is interested in a realistic city building game should check out a new game being developed 
 called Cities Unlimited. This company is actually taking opinions and suggestions from the community 
 on what they would like to see in an urban simulation game. So anybody interested in urban planning, 
 architecture, or just a well made simulation game should go check CU out, it is shaping up to be 
 the next generation of SimCity games since the SimCity franchise is obviously in the toilet now 
 thanks to this 'new direction' and pretentious out of touch developers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keg23665
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  As an avid SimCity franchise fan, I had been looking forward to Societies release this past week. 
 I was never able to get into "The Sims" and was looking forward to the city building days of old, 
 updated for 2007.
  
  After about 2 hours of gameplay, I was utterly disappointed. So much so in fact I ejected the game 
 disk, erased the game from my PC, and proceeded back to Best Buy to return it. 
  
  The gameplay was, in a word boring! Societies has very little in common with any previous SimCity 
 title, and seemed more like a "Sim-Small-Neighborhood" than a SimCity.
  
  I won't reiterate what is already provided in the Gamespot review, except to say it is defiantly 
 on point regarding SC Societies. I would suggest any prospective buyer read the review before spending, 
 or more appropriately, wasting your money.
  
  As for me, I have reinstalled and am enjoying a nostalgic revisit to SimCity4, and I will be waiting 
 for EAs next (and hopefully better) attempt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowfox121
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  After purchasing Sim City Society's two days ago I felt some enthusiasm as it was installing. I 
 found myself saying things like "despite the poor hipe for the game and a lot of changes this game 
 could be at least okay..." but I was wrong. First off the fact that you can no longer link the 
 cities together and create a massive region of thriving metropolitan is very sad. I used to sit 
 and play sim city evrey now and they and just update my well put together region and it would take 
 thought! But not with this game I can be on the phone, playing xbox, talking on aim, ect while 
 playing and still create an amazing city with ease, and barely any thought, This game is basically 
 just "make a city look nice and have no replay value". All in all I could go on for a long time 
 about this game, but I wont, I am very very disappointed at this take off of a very prominate game, 
 and I am an optimist!!! If only Maxis did it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarnaath
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  SCS does not compare favorably to SimCity4, and for that alone it will suffer bad reviews. But 
 the real problem with the game is that it crashes. I can get maybe 2 hrs in on a brand new map. 
 But after filling in 25-50% of the map with populations from 10k-30k the game crashes after 30-40 
 min. Autosave is supposed to be a nice feature, not a lifeline.
  
  Assuming they get this thing patched and working, SCS isn't a bad game. It's not great either. 
 It's casual city building. Everything is pretty easy. It's easy to make money, it's easy to solve 
 crime, transportation, and pollution by spending money on the right buildings. Sim happiness is 
 only a minor challenge and depends mostly on venue placement and capacity. It's easy to figure 
 this out too.
  
  The graphics are great, and watching your city evolve into an authoritarian city, or a cyberpunk 
 city, or what ever, is cool. But it's all just eye candy. If you are looking primarily for eye 
 candy, and want to design an awesome looking city that has an interesting layout, this game will 
 satisfy. Since you have total control over what building go where, you can let your imagination 
 run wild and create what you want.
  
  SCS appears to have been designed to be highly moddable. This could be it's saving grace depending 
 on how people decide to mod it. Unfortunately the modding itself is broken in some ways and only 
 partially works. It's not well explained by either EA or Tilted Mills, and the community hasn't 
 figured out all the ins and outs yet. But it's still quite early (the game has been out only a 
 week) . I see potential here.
  
  My rating is based on the game after installing first update that's available on EA's site (so 
 the most current version) . Game stability is so bad I took off 2 stars. If it was working and playable, 
 I'd give it 5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrhart24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  There isn't much to say. I almost completely agree with the official review here. I gave it an 
 extra +.5 just for entertaining me for 10-12 hours. It is a cute game, good graphics, fun to play... 
 but after a couple hours, there is nothing there.
  
  I can tell you what though. The endless hours I put into SimCity4, learning how to make a city, 
 growing them on easy, then medium, then hard, will not be found here. I have no real idea how many 
 hours of my life went into SimCity4.
  
  Oh well. Good graphics, good sound, the themes are cool, fun to play, but it's over before you 
 know it because there is no depth. I earned all the medals and awards after maybe 6 to 8 hours 
 of game play time. And not to mention that after a couple decent city blocks, your FR will drop 
 drastically.
  
  So, it might be worth $20 and a weekend of entertainment when the price drops buuuuut... if you 
 are like me, you will stick your SimCity4 disk back in and patiently wait for the "real" next SimCity5. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikki21
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  What the hell where they thinking with this game, its not even worth calling Sim City, its should 
 be more like "City Building for Kids". I played trough the tutorial and i was so sad when i played 
 it because i loved the Sim City franchise but this was total rubbish. I wish EA had never made 
 this game and left the franchise with Sim City 4. Its like they were just trying to make something 
 to make money on such a popular franchise and it turns out they destroyed it. And i can't find 
 any more words for how bad this game is so i have nothing else to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senorcardgage09
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I started playing the original sim city when i was in kindergarten. I'm 22 now and I've damn near 
 lost faith in the franchise. 
  This game is trash- forget that it wasn't even made by maxis (as long as spore kicks ass, maxis' 
 lack of involvement can be forgiven) , tilted mill has made plenty of games better than this garbage.
 
  The framerate is ridiculously unstable even with a mighty rig and it crashes randomly for seemingly 
 no reason at all. The graphics engine itself is good looking enough, but what's the point if there 
 doesn't even appear to be a modicum of stability
  The Gamespot review got it right when they said SSC was too easy- there doesn't seem to be any 
 point to the game at all except to unlock new buildings and meaningless trophies.
  I lost faith in EA after the fifteenth sims expansion, but this is ridiculous: a game released 
 in beta form with no gameplay to a loyal fanbase. We don't deserve to be treated like this, but 
 then again EA has always had a strange way of repaying customer loyalty
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moosejr
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This is not the Sim City that I and many others grew up playing. If you want to play Sim City go 
 back and play Sim City 4 Rush hour. The creators of this should only have looked back on the successes 
 of the older games and improved upon them. Instead the developers completely revamped the game 
 and ruined it. The only redeeming quality I have found is that the city becomes molded to how you 
 create it. If you place a lot of governmental buildings you will have a police state and so on. 
 This is a neat feature but it cant salvage the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NTX82
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Oh my... this game is the worst SimCity ever made: (
  If we check back the previous games... how can we call this game SimCity??
  Ok... the graphics 
 are cool, the sounds are also on the spot... but where is that "thing" that makes SimCity the best 
 city simulator on earth?? One thing is for sure... I want Maxis back, those guys can do this game 
 as it should be.
  The game is easy, I miss the challenge to save the money to invest in important things to the city, 
 the zones... the huge type of roads... and even the simple look of the game (Simcity 4 is great, 
 and at the same type we have the "classic" interface look) .
  Please... if you are a SimCity fan, think twice before buying this game... I warn you... this is not 
 SimCity... its just another sim game.
  
  Suggestion - If you dont have SimCity 4, buy the game. Its cheap and way better!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0s3rx
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  Though this game is far from polished, far from perfect, and most certainly not like any other 
 game in the franchise, if you take away all those facts and look at it for what it is, a charming, 
 snappy, and entertaining game, you can easily enjoy it. Though I much prefer micromanaging everything 
 in my city, this game leaves you without the constant irritation of relying on taxes and fluctuations 
 in those taxes and allows you to enjoy your sims being happy with what they're doing, or miserable 
 in their little, simulated lives. This game gives you hundreds of more options that were not available 
 to you in previous SimCity games, and the social energies aspect is a new view in games that I 
 have not seen before. Though I will miss the Region building, and was desperately hoping for that 
 aspect in a more advanced game like SimCity Societies, I believe I will be able to enjoy this game 
 as is. I don't recommend this for any die-hard SimCity fans, though I do recommend it to anyone 
 who is new to the franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm currently in the process of uninstalling this 'alpha' version of 'Sim City Societies' oh wait, 
 this is RETAIL??? Someone could have fooled me, i'm playing something that is clearly no way near 
 good enough for general release with the insane amount of bugs and sheer stupid amount of crashes, 
 especially in larger cities when the game can crash within just a few minutes of loading.... still 
 in the uninstall process.... current time to take to uninstall... nearly 1 hour!
  
  The 'game' in itself is actually quite good and very additive if you could just only play it, combining 
 the elements of the original Sim City and throwing in a lot of multiple tile sets ranging from 
 cuteness through to down right evil pollution causing buildings allowing you to shape your society 
 from happy go-lucky sims or Crime Lords, just wish I could play more to discover the hidden depth 
 to Sim City Societies.
  
  Any Sim City fans who haven't checked out this yet should wait until solid fixes are in place, 
 even the first patch hasn't solved anything, if anything.... caused more problems. 
  
  Even the uninstaller seems to have bugs.....: sighs: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jplz603
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Save your money for something else! One out of the 4 PC's I have installed SimCity on (all of which 
 exceed the system requirements for the game) have been able to actually PLAY the game. As for the 
 rest of the computers, the game fails to even start. Once I was able to play the game I wished 
 EA had left off the SimCity franchise with SimCity 4. This game was such a disappointment, I have 
 to wonder just what Tilted Mill and EA were thinking! It's like playing a buggy version of Monopoly 
 Junior when you think your buying Deluxe Monopoly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexis101
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I had a bad feeling about this game. Im a SimCity Fan since the first of the serie. And when I 
 heard that EA was giving the title to another develloper than maxis. I fear the worst! But I decide 
 to try the game anyway because I do like some other city building game where you plant building 
 instead of zoning like the settlers... But after playing the tutorial of Simcity societies i knew 
 I hate this game. 
  
  Ok there is a lot of building (mayby to mutch , can get confusing!) , but where's the challenge 
 ? Simcity series have a hudge communitie of fan that like the game because each game was more and 
 more challenging... Whats the point of playing a video game if there is no challenge ? Just play 
 another Simcity and use Cheats! 
  
  In Simcity 4 maxis bring something very intersting with the neightborood thing. But it needed some 
 finishing, some new features. After SimCity 4 I was hopping that they will worke on that. But no... 
 Instead they release a new game with less challenge than all of the other Simcity and less feature 
 than the second title of the serie. 
  
  The only good point of this game is the number of different building, but since I don't like the 
 new caroonish like graphic it's not a good point for me. 
  
  Anyway , My advice is : Don't buy this game , if you still feel like playing a Simcity reinstall 
 Simcity 4 with rush hour and hope that EA will give the series back to Maxis and that they will 
 make a Title in the spirit of the other Simcity!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IboCino
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Its fun to play thats all it offers Ladies buy the game Gentleman clean your SC4 disc and enjoy 
 the best game ever made. Titled Mill transformed the game from a city building mayor/tycoon game 
 to a  game. No rail roads, no high-ways. School is for kids to 
 hang out?? and the hospital is probably just for old men to drink coffee?? and not for treatment. 
 The good part of the game is that is does have sharp graphics (although it crashes a lot) And the 
 best part of the game is that it wants me to play SC4 more and more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blank2k2
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  This plain & simply isnt a SimCity game.
  It lacks everything that made SimCity addictive & fun.
  
  How even EA could put the SimCity 
 label on this game i have no idea, if they called it something else then fair enough, its a basic 
 user-friendly game the young daughter could play when she wants a break from The Sims.
  
  
  The main things i loved about SimCity was building 100s of differant roads all over the place 
 making it look like madness, planning the water & electrical cable placements etc, sorting taxes, 
 getting "deals" from neighbouring towns, selling water/electric, watching my banged out rust bucket 
 factorys evolve into big powerful buildings, 
  
  And this game has none of the above.
  
  its simply: 
  "Place Power Plant." (Dont worry about laying cables, theres no option, nore 
 water stations or pipes.)
  "Place a House Gain [+3 Creativity] "
  "Place a workplace [-3 Creativity] " 
  "Build a differant house & gain [+3 Prosperity] " 
  "Place 
 a workplace [-2 Prosperity] ".... 
  
  And repeat the above until ur bored. (About 1:30hours for me, including tutorial.)
  
  How this 
 is labeled as Sim City i really dont know.
  I'm just going to call it "Societies".
  
  BRING BACK MAXIS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordkosc
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Seriously , this is crap, the fact that someone got paid to make this shows you big companies will 
 make anything to make a quick buck. 
  
  Cons:
  UI horrible
  Models horrible
  Pretty much everything was horrible
  Cars are a joke
  The Sims feature for people is useless
 
  Roads are straight lines, like back in 1991... =o
  Even on highest quality settings on a 8800GT game looks as if it was designed 5 years ago.
  Its 
 pretty much impossible not to make money
  Controls are very non-intuitive
  Sorting buildings is stupid
  Bridges are limited to 1 type, seriously.
  Worst implementation 
 of 3d I have seen in the last 5 years
  No weather effects
  Disasters for the game are super LAME
  
  Pros:
  The water was pretty
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matkwan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  UI makes it hard to track buildings and Sims. Glitchy road building, especially at junctions. No 
 grid reference. Variation in homes design superfluous as all give same benefits. Should include 
 sorting for happiness benefit too. Game will loose intrigue once all achievement awards and medals 
 attained. Check and balance too simplistic with each building having only 2 factors. You will end 
 up with city with limited variation of buildings. No bridges, ports or airports. Lack of feedback 
 from AI to guide you in city building. Advisers have been removed. Would be great if AI could biograph 
 identity of each Sim eg where it lives, where it works, where it visits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kionox
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I want to start this out with a question... What the HELL were you guys at EA thinking!? Removing 
 Maxis from the SimCity games was probably one of the single biggest mistakes you guys have ever 
 made! I'll give Tilted Mill the benefit of the doubt, in that it was their first attempt. But, 
 after the legacy Maxis left on the Sim type games, it's like dethroning the king. 
  
  If you liked RollerCoaster tycoon, you might actually like this game. Its similar because you actually 
 have to plop every building. For you hardcore SimCity people, you know that in the history of the 
 game, it has always been ZONES, well, not anymore. I don't know about you, but micro-managing a 
 city, especially when it gets big, is not my idea of fun. Building every building, and having them 
 depend on personality aspects of other buildings shouldn't be what building a city is about. I 
 mean, the totally changed the point of the game. The first 4 games (SimCity - SimCity 4) was focused 
 on two main things, population and you bank account. SimCity Societies doesn't focus on anything, 
 its just a loose cannon. 
  
  In more detail, the video runs pretty smooth, and the buildings look nice, but thats probably the 
 only plus in a world of minuses. Oh, and you know how in SimCity 4 we had about 5 or 6 different 
 transit systems to build. Well, forget that. You have a dirt road, a city street, a bus stop, and 
 a subway station.
  
  In all, the game gets a 4.5, for very bad gameplay and direction. One point of advice? Don't waste 
 you money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Outsider1580
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Yes there are problems with the graphics, just disable Shadows and you'll find there are no more 
 Frame rate problems. That is mostly why this game got such a bad review, and the difficulty can 
 be raised, also try building an Dictator city, then tell me it is easy. It is somewhat like CityLife 
 released a few years back. But in honesty each game in its own right is different enough to enjoy 
 them equally. Also SimCity Societies is really not at all the same as SimCity. Many many different 
 options and less cumbersome road management and overall operation of the City. The SimCity games 
 should be called Sim Government and this game should really be called SimCity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jswallow
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Fortunately, this isn't SimCity 5, and I'm still hoping that said game will appear one day.
  
  This is essentially Caesar or Pharoah or Children of the Nile wrapped up in SimCity wrapping 
 paper, which of course is hardly surprising as the producers of those games are responsible for 
 this.
  
  The game is way too easy, I've never run out of money yet. The graphics leave a little to be desired 
 - every now and again my screen flashes for a couple of seconds while it churns away drawing stuff.
 
  
  Gameplay-wise, it's interesting to get new buildings added to your build options depending on how 
 you're playing and it can be fun to see what happens when you deliberately choose to build a slum 
 town for example.
  
  But ... would I recommend the game to anyone else? Probably not ... go and find SimCity 4 or 3000 
 in a bargain bin and play those instead. You'll get more enjoyment out of those. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defaznd96
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Not as bad as the reviews state, but certainly not worth $50. The game play is addictive but not 
 nearly as in depth as previous versions. It is interesting to see the individual buildings, but 
 as they really have no solid effect upon the game, you are left feeling as if what is the point. 
 There is no real challange to making money in this game, as by merely equaling out all the different 
 aspects, you make tons of money that become difficult to spend all at once. The hardest part of 
 this game is making cities that are difficult to run, not what the game throws at you. Lastly, 
 graphics get extremely sloppy as your city gets bigger and amazingly choppy unless you turn down 
 all the video controls. I am currently running a single chip 3.0 + mhz set up with a 512 mb game 
 card, and 2+ gb of ram. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomo1657
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:38 am PT
Review:  I have clocked hundreds of hours in to various SimCity games since I got my hands on the black 
 and white SimCity for Macintosh 6 almost 20 years ago. I'm sad to say that SimCity Societies isn't 
 much of a game than a pretty city designing kit.
  
  A big part of the fun in SimCity lies in watching your city grow as your plan succeeds. I could 
 spend hours of fun trying to grow sky-scrapers in your high-density commercial district by increasing 
 land value and attracting high wealth residents, setting up a good transport system to support 
 the commuters, etc. 
  
  In Societies you build buildings individually, and the only obstacle to building them is whether 
 you have unlocked them. Once you have unlocked a building you can fill up your map with hundreds 
 of mega-towers as long as you have the one-time fee to place them. 
  
  Yes, buildings need social energies to "activate" but that can be done by placing a bunch of energy-creating 
 decorations anywhere in the map. They don't have upkeep cost and don't need transportation. Even 
 refusing to use decorations, enough buildings generate social energies cheaply that it's not difficult 
 to pump them up.
  
  Once the buildings are built and powered, the next task in a SimCity game should be to make sure 
 residents have suitable work, and workers suitable residences. In Societies the buildings seem 
 to fill up to maximum capacity automatically as long as there's any kind of work somewhere in the 
 whole map. A wealthy condo in the midth of slums somehow prospers without any high wealth work 
 in the map. It's way to easy to keep people happy; just plop down tons of buildings which generate 
 happiness as well as various social energies. No upkeep for them required, of course.
  
  Choosing power generators is supposed to be a balanced decision between pollution, cost, and efficiency. 
 In societies there's no upkeep of stations and everything is so cheap that there is no reason to 
 choose dirty generators except to add extra challenge to yourself and activate the CO2 alarm.
 
  
  Transportation is also usually a big part of fun in SimCity; I love playing train track sims, too. 
 In Societies all roads are horizontal or vertical like in SimCity Classic, and very few choice 
 of road types. Trying to re-create a real city is impossible, and traffic issues are almost non-existent 
 so why even bother planning transportation?
  
  It's not all bad, though. Since planning is not required in Societies, you can concentrate on making 
 your city look pretty. There are dozens of buildings with various styles. Zooming in and navigating 
 around your city is quite entertaining especially during disasters. With many types of homes, work, 
 and facilities it's easy to re-create a flat suburb or a town while consulting Google Earth. 
 
  
  Each city could take hours to fully develop from scratch. Unlocking all buildings could be an objective, 
 but the game gives you permanent objectives to unlock decorations which give you free social energies 
 and money, too. Unlocking those would require at least several hours of game play. These days I 
 consider being able to spend 50 hours on a $50 game without getting bored good value, and Societies 
 will be satisfactory on that benchmark.
  
  Performance wise, my Athlon64 3200 / GeForce6800 system built 3 years ago for Half-Life 2 can't 
 handle large cities unless all the effects are turned off and all details are set to low. It still 
 looks pretty good, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Afko
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  The price is really high for this. This company destroyed it for good. They will need some time 
 to get on there feet after this one. Am really disappointed about this game and the price they 
 gave it on release. Low frame rate.... u can actually see the colours seperating to each other .. i 
 mean ... its 2007 !!!! ... and also bad gameplay, easy and it gets boring REALLY fast !!!! I do not 
 recommend it for now. If it gets to those low prices buy 3 for 9.99 then u go for it and have fun 
 for a day or so. ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s1lentHomer
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Wow they just messed up a perfect game of sim city.... This isnt a city building sims, this is 
 a company puting a name with good rep to make money. first no zoning... what kind of city sim doesnt 
 have zoning???? also you need these stupid little skills to build bunch of stuff.. Why the hell 
 would you need creativity points to let people in a building? then you dont even have to connect 
 electicity from the power plant to the city.... it seems like they were aiming for ages 2 to 5..... 
 sim city rep is destroyed untill they make a better sim city 5... i say again dont buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caramelsosweet
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  For the record, I'd like to say that I'm pretty easy to please when it comes to gaming. I don't 
 need a whole lot of complexities that take me a week or two to figure out - to be satisfied. 
 
  
  That being said, this game is a HUGE dissappointment. 
  
  I think this may be my first review EVER. I'm rarely compelled to right a review about anything 
 (i. e. games, movies etc) , but I couldn't pass up this opportunity to chime in. 
  
  I would first like to know WHO WAS IN CHARGE HERE!!!
  And did they never play a Simcity game 
 before?
  
  I realize it's not supposed to be anything like simcity BUT you can't even compare the meat behind 
 this game to another simcity game because there is no meat here.
  
  I could list 30 things wrong with this game but I'm not gonna do it because even if they attempted 
 to improve this game, they wouldn't get another penny of my money.
  
  
  For those of you who don't like what I'm saying, please know that I spent 4 days reading reviews, 
 playing the game, reading more reviews, and playing some more, buying the eguide, playing some 
 more, to really make sure that this guy was THAT bad. And it is!
  
  Sincerely,
  -Loading-In-Simcity4-to redeem-this-brand-in-my-heart
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallschirm1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  This is a game that in any point isn't similar to the Sim City 4 franchise, so just because you 
 loved Sim City 4 (or those before that one) it don't necessarily means you like this title. The 
 game is an easy one, that's nothing to say about that but that isn't necessarily a bad thing. I 
 love playing Civ 4, Settlers, Sim City 4 + much more, this game lacks the depth that those other 
 games have but it have some plain city building fun. And actually i like it. It's too bad EA have 
 chooses to miss use the Sim City name on this game, when it's so far out from the franchise. People 
 who did not like sc4 could like this game but turn away finding sc4 too hard and complicated. And 
 on the other side people who loved the deapth of sc4 will be very disappointed. Buy this game if 
 you want' easy and plain city building and stear away from it if you want great depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcalera
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  This is not SimCity... and 50 bucks! Im very very Sad... im installing SC4 right now.
  
  Ve a little honest and start giving our money back... will gladly return your game... 
  
  EA 
 Games is my favorite... I have at least 30 Original games.... this thing is the reason people is 
 searching for the game on all those sites that promote piracy, if i knew this was coming... i honestly 
 wouldnt ever bought it...
  
  Its not fair... i do not earn big bucks... my laptop took me forever to pay... so i started saving 
 the minute i learned about this game... and you betray our trust whit this... man im beggining 
 to forget im sad... and start to be really angry... RIP OFF!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruca
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Thought it all looked great when i started the game... good details, good graphics but i didn't 
 get any FEELINGS playing this. Its just like building a theme city and focusing on the look of 
 the city rather than on the actual city. Played it a bit to see what the game has to offer and 
 it has almost nothing... used to enjoy all SimCity games, but this one simply sucks. Everything 
 about it it's too easy and a bit too "following trends" like other similar games. 
  
  I got bored after a few hours of play but decided to give it another shot... the boredom was still 
 there cause i can't see any interesting aspect of the game... yeah it could be fun to waste a few 
 hours on it but where's the "proud" feeling after building a huge city? It looks like a theme park... 
 very disappointed by EA... i was expecting Simcity Societies and NFS ProStreet to be HITS.... well 
 they sure HIT the ground... THEY DISAPPOINTED MOST OF THE GAMERS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rucola
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This is far simpler than previous simcity games. There is no discernible relationship between a 
 players actions and their advancement in the game. My cities kept growing despite increasingly 
 daft decisions by myself. This 'game' is far far too easy, I had 2-3 hrs gameplay out of it before 
 realising that there wasnt a great deal more to do. I gave it a bit more time but it failed to 
 come up with the goods. This feels like a cynical arcade style rip off of the simcity series. I 
 would avoid it at all costs. Your money is much better spent on Simcity 4 which is still way more 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacardirazm
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 17, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I have always enjoyed building games, placing things to be aesthetically pleasing, while accomplishing 
 goals. When I first heard of how this game was going to work, I was excited. Take the SimCity type 
 gameplay, but add more creativity and theme driven cities. It seemed like the perfect mix. 
  When I finally was able to play this game though, I was disappointed. Way, way too simple. This 
 game is pretty much driven only by your desire to create a mood and theme of a city. The only challenge 
 I ran into was trying to decide what would look best where.
  While this game has no challenge, it still is decently entertaining to simply create a city, even 
 with no infrastructure. The range of most professional critic's views have this one about right, 
 5-6. Certainly won't appeal to most gamers looking for a challenge, but for those looking to express 
 some creativity and make a city on canvas, this gives you just that.
  I feel that a large portion of these user reviews giving this game a 1, are people bitter about 
 what this game is compared to previous SimCitys. From pretty early on, it was stated that this 
 game was being created by someone other than Maxis, and that the whole premise of the way the game 
 worked would be reinvented. That being said, I think it's only fair to judge this game on its own, 
 not to held next to previous installments. I almost feel most of these "this game is a one!" reviews 
 are by people who've not even played it yet, seeing that there was so many people saying this game 
 would suck before anything about it was released other than Tilted Mills would be in control, and 
 the social energies theme. The game does not fail on that basis, it fails on their execution of 
 trying that out.
  Looking for a game like previous SimCitys? This is not it. But anyone looking to just play around 
 with making different types and feels of cities, go for it. It's my opinion though, to wait until 
 the price of this game drops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mglas72
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Just the fact it's another EA game should have rung warning bells. Add to that it is developed 
 by Tilted Mill i never had much hope for this one. Very quickly you work out this game was never 
 developed as a serious game, and is really aiming to cash in on the Sims craze. It may work for 
 a few initial quick sales, but this will not be on shelves or installed on computers for long. 
 I don't know why Maxis was not involved with this title or why Tilted Mill was even acquired by 
 EA. Just proves that you hardly get your money's worth when you buy anything with the EA logo on 
 it. After just a little while i removed this from my computer and re-installed Sim City 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianwattb
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Just started playing it and i love the realism of the towns and how they looked but ultimely this 
 has cost them
  
  We live in a sad age now where visual gameplay seems to be the focus and not the game engine. SimCity 
 was born of a age that game engine was the pirority! 
  
  This graficaly remake of this belovered series has meant that we have lost the core aspects of 
 what made previous SimCity's sit aside from everyone else.
  
  Where has water piping gone? 
  Where has laying done the subway line or that train line gone?
 
  Where has my advisors gone? (Yes there were annoying but they added another level to the game)
 
  
  Ok i do like the lovely graphics and the whole controle that i get with setting down my own buildings 
 but it simply lacks depth already am bored with it and ive just done the tutioal. Never was this 
 the case with previous SimCitys.
  
  Maybe am being unfair just starting to play the game but i honestly believe that the guys have 
 got it wrong. 
  
  A long waited seque to SimCity and this title simply reminds me that the old formula was the one 
 they should of stuck with!
  
  Dissappointed where a title could of offered so much more!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrquebeccity
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Total, but really i say TOTAL disapointment. 50$ for this ? 
  
  After reading the press releases, seeing the pictures and everything, i thought i'd get my money's 
 worth. Did not !
  
  I've just tried to play (should we call this play ?!) for the last days, going through many scenarios. 
 The game has good basics, excellent graphics, nice movement for the camera. But nothing else. Big 
 Empty. 
  
  The game itself felt like a mix of many games... Billionaire, The Sims 2, just name it. But no 
 Sim City the way i'm used to. No tax control, police, school and hospital stuff hard to find. Where 
 are the highways ? And Trains ? Neighbour deals ? 
  
  The game may be good for a newcomber. But for the Sim City franchise addict that I am, this is 
 a full disapointment. 
  
  Back to SC4 as for me and i'll try to send my game back to EB Games for a full refund ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pothy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  SimCity Societies is not a great game. Pretty much every review out there shows this. There is 
 no depth to it, no substance. But still, it has its strengths. For one thing it is incredibly detailed 
 and beautiful to look at. It has no real 'campagin,' but there is a fun in and of itself in simply 
 building an authoritarian, smog covered dystopia. I choose to view Societies not as a game so much 
 as a tool. A fun tool. But a tool. So it's worth your money if your a casual gamer looking to kill 
 the odd hour. But otherwise, keep your money and spend it on something else.
  
  Crysis, for example? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katbob
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of Sim City for years so was stoked to finally get my grubby mitts on this game. 
 Fired it up full of excitement and .... nothing. It was like someone had cancelled christmas! Nothing 
 grows and evolves, it's just plop and play. There are themes but you are unable to have a city 
 wholly of one theme as you need to satisfy certain requirements to get a fire station, police whatever 
 (not quite sure how fighting crime works to be honest but I do know that you need some ugly great 
 building in the midlle of your gingerbread hamlet if you want to reduce crime rates.) Once you've 
 balanced the work/play/housing needs - which takes a couple of clicks you can pretty leave your 
 PC and do something less boring instead. 
  
  I loved being able to alter terrain with SC4 - that's gone. You get what you're given and like 
 it. Oh you can make it tropical or desert Whoopee do! I liked being able to micro manage all aspects 
 of my cities, that's the point of being God - not any more. The more I've played the game and been 
 led by the nose into playing the game the only way it's to be played the more I'm beginning to 
 think that I'm the one being controlled. I've gone from off roading going where I will, to pottering 
 along on a kiddy railway, following the track and not to fast at that. 
  
  Not sure what an EP will add to this game, hmm SimCity Societies Coma - that'll pep it up a bit.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Without a doubt I saw this one coming, as soon as I heard that Maxis would have nothing to do with 
 this game, I knew this was another one of EA's poorly thought out money making plans. Not to make 
 a great game, but make a great sum of money. No doubt that's why they took a game that really had 
 really little to do with Sim City but used it name, to again make great sums of money. I sure some 
 poor kid will see the title and think "if it says Sim City it must be a great game". Unfortunately 
 he/she would be completely wrong, and their goes his/her $49 up in sim smoke.
  
  First off this game has a lot more to do with the Sims, then Sim City, even the little sim people 
 talk in Sim language, and it looks and feels just like a Sims game, with the same "nothing to really 
 do in the game" feeling that you get playing the Sims. The interface look the same too. This is 
 a beautiful looking game though; I don't think anyone can say that the Sims, and now this game 
 are bad looking games. The buildings and the cities are very, very detailed, right down to street 
 level. There are a lot of little things going on in each building that you put down. You can tell 
 that Tilted Mill put a lot of effort into the game graphic engine. The problem is that's pretty 
 much it. There isn't anything to really do in the game. The game is as shallow as a puddle on a 
 hot sidewalk. 
  
  Now don't get me wrong, mindless entertainment has it place in the World, just look at American 
 Idol. The problem is that there really isn't any reason to play the game. There aren't really any 
 goals, or anything to accomplish. In Sim City you could build your cities to be huge complex metropolises 
 were you had to have a skilled hand to keep everyone happy. In this game, you could have hands 
 of a monkey and you would still do just fine. Honestly I walked away from the game still playing, 
 and came back 2 hours later, and there wasn't one single thing change, other than time in the game. 
 The city doesn't grow, the sims doesn't grow, the building doesn't grow, pretty much nothing grow 
 in this game other than your frustration and boredom.
  
  I could go on and on about this game, but the sad truth is that it's not even worth talking much 
 about it. This really remind me of so many games that EA have pretty much ruined in the quest of 
 making as much money as it can, on little talent and little direction. What I mean about direction? 
 Well think about it, someone had to actually present this idea to their boss, and then that boss 
 had to present it to their boss, and then there is funding blah, blah, blah. You would think that 
 someone would have asked "what the hell do you do in this game for fun? "What are the goals, what 
 does players suppose to do after the first hour or so?" How a game like this can be made in today's 
 world of fiscal responsibility I can't imagine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joshua777777
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  If you are an avid SimCity fan, then you won't even recognize this title once you get into the 
 game. Not that it's innovative or anything; In fact, I have yet to find anything that I would consider 
 an original element. Individually plopping buildings into place has the feel of trying to make 
 your settlement look pretty in Ages of Empires. All of the buildings have different effects that 
 alter the look of your city, but these different building types are really nothing more that positive 
 or negative effects that the government and reward buildings had in the previous titles. i suspect 
 that the difference between this game and the last game is the product of the game developer's 
 incompetence. They could not figure out how to meet the challenge of creating a beautiful, 3D rendered, 
 city that utilized the traditional zone system. And so this is what we got. Garbage.
  
  Whoever thought that abandoning the zoning principle that made Simcity so great was an absolute 
 imbecile.
  
  The effect of this new game is more like playing SimCity 3000 with all the cheat codes on, where 
 you have unlimited money (I believe the code for this was to open the text window and type"callcousinvinny" 
 ,or something like that) . Anyway, if anyone has ever done that, they know the type of pointless, 
 and unfulfilling, experience that this offered. This game's experience is much the same. There 
 really is no challenge, and the massive and dynamic feel of SimCity 4 is completely lost.
  
  The game looks pretty, but that was to be expected. In fact, about the only thing that the 
 new SimCity title offered, was an upgrade in graphics from the old games. If this interests you, 
 download the screenshots and put them on your screen saver. Don't buy this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1LowSDime
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Usually, when it comes to reviewing games, I like to break it down into various sections, such 
 as Graphics, Sound, Gameplay, and so on. However, with this game, I simply cannot do it.
  
  This is not like the previous SimCity games. I've been a fan of SimCity since the I played the 
 original one on the computer. Then SC 2000 on the PSX, followed by SC III: Unlimited and SC IV 
 w/Rush Hour on the PC. When I heard that this game was next in line, I made the mistake of jumping 
 to the conclusion that it would be just as fun.
  
  Graphically, the game looks good, with a lot of pleasing visuals and detaisl to boot. Unfortunately, 
 that's all it does. Gone is the original premise of building your city from the ground up; laying 
 zones and watching them grow into unique, individual items. Now, all you have to do is plunk down 
 a pre-made building. Don't even ask me how the "Social Energies" rankings work, no one knows how 
 to make sense of them. Laying down power lines, water lines, or various roads are gone. You only 
 get two styles: dirt and pavement.
  
  Also gone is the "What year to start" option. This was a nice incentive to try something different. 
 The earlier the year, the more you were forced to use dirty power plants. Not in SC Societies. 
 You're given a good deal of options from low-tech coal plants to high-tech fusion plants. This 
 also takes away from a challenge.
  
  Speaking of a challenge, it used to be that you tried your best to balance out everything to make 
 money, provide items for your Sims to produce a better desirability, and generate more money. Now, 
 making money isn't that hard. Instead of a yearly income, you get a weekly income, and it is based 
 on how happy your Sims are. The happier they are to work, the more money they produce. Add in a 
 couple more items that they want, and they'll be even happier, giving you more money.
  
  The biggest disappointment I find of this game is that you can no longer have a city that "grows". 
 I always enjoy watching buildings sprout up from tiny grass lots to cottages to mansions. But, 
 SimCity Socities takes away that fun and lets you play a Pick-and-Play type setting.
  
  If you're a fan of the SimCity series, don't do what I did and assume that it'll be another great 
 addition with a twist. It has a twist, alright, but it'll twist you in the wrong way. Avoid this 
 game unless you really want to be disappointed from the way the series took. I hope that if there 
 is another SimCity game, it'll be SC 5: Back to the Original.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanstorm
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game now for a few days. I can see where a lot of people would be ticked off. 
 There's a real danger in taking a well established franchise and attempting to improve and update 
 to a better game yet still retain the original character. In that regard, I agree that EA dropped 
 the ball. 
  
  Having said that, as a stand alone I think the game is pretty good. Bottom line for me is it's 
 a heck of a lot more forgiving than any of it's sim predeceeors. Ive played it on a two year old 
 dell m1210 from a purchased CD $49.99 and went online and downloaded the patch. So far the game 
 runs without a flaw. There's a massive amount of bldgs and I have yet to master the city character 
 system or really understand it to be honest. However, it's entertaining as heck, the graphics are 
 good and it is very customizable, maybe too much so. There's so many choices, unlockables come 
 flying at you, the transportation systems have been dumbed down as have the power systems. Is that 
 a good thing? Not for this franchise where half the fun was striking that balance and still trying 
 to make some money. 
  
  Bottom line. if you're a die-hard sim fan, you probably will hate this game. But if you approach 
 it with no expectations and just enjoy it as a city builder with some nice touches, you're in for 
 a good ride. I give it a solid 6.
  Is it worth $49.99? I like it and I'm a huge fan of EA, but I gotta say no. Wait for it to drop 
 to $29.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smitchler
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Yeah i bought this game thinking it would be a change of pace but still have the simcity side to 
 it but that has all gone down the tube. I think EA needs to think twice before leting other developers 
 develop a previous devolopers games exspecially a long running franchise i hope that maxis can 
 finish spore and will wright can make the simcity that we were looking forward to and not a mock 
 of something totally different like tilted mill has done. When the simcity series is back on its 
 feet with maxis running it then it will be a game for everybody unlike this new one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LCCsolobono
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  ok... starting with my simcity background
  played simcity1 for pcs and snes (great)
  got addicted and lost tons of hours (in great fun) with simcity 2000
  punched the air with happiness 
 while playing sc3000 and watched the evolution
  absolutelly loved simcity 4 and rush hour, played for more than 3 years (and still playing)
  
 
  now... sharing my first day of experience in scs
  got my hands on societies at  game over my friend
  
 
  at first i tough wow.... this game looks nice, a beauty!
  skipped the tutorial...
  started my first town.... what the heck!? where are the regions??? ok... i can take it... back to 
 sc3000 style.
  as always, went to built a energy source, ok cool... lots of power plants as usual.. wait... where 
 are the energy lines?? ok... i didnt liked them anyway
  went looking for water plants... where are they??? what??? no water?? ook... weird... back to simcity1
 
  right.... time to build a basic transport for the city.... transport menu... roads... dirt road.... train??? 
 no train??? back to sc#.... ops... train was in all simcitys..... damn... i loved them.... annoying... no 
 highways, no one way roads, no nothing... only stupid roads with the size of a 4x4 building and 
 terribly awfull to manipulate
  started to get pissed, build the road... and a subway (that connects itself...)
  
  time to add 
 some buildings..... no zonning... i can live with that.... poping builds here and there... managing 
 the senseless right-bottom screen "numbers" and jobs... good, not that bad
  
  time to take care of education, crime and others...
  no map for them, almost no data, just regular 
 buildings, no area of effect........ god it pissed me off
  
  went to the statistics.... almost nothing... no taxes, almost no data (again) NOTHING compared to 
 SC4 (or simcity 1)
  
  anyway... started time to  getting money... and lots of it! wait..... i 
 have no budget... how is this possible?? the buildings doesnt have a monthly cost.... EASY AS PIE 
 almost a god mode at regular game
  time passed.... cash coming (simoleons... at least the name of the money is still there) ... the city... well... static... nothing 
 grows, nothing get trashed, just as i built it....... where's the fun?? in simcity4 i think, ill 
 not even talk about airports, trash management, ports, city laws.... its not worth it
  
  conclusions: (or 10 reasons to not buy it)
  1-EA ruined the game that was so great with maxis 
 by making a crappy company manage it (the same that made the not less crapy Caesar 4)
  2-It shouldnt be called Simcity, maybe "HEY, MAKE A CITY MODEL" or "simsandbox"
  3- any 5 year 
 old that knows how to click a mouse can play it and become bored after 30 minutes just like anyone 
 else
  4-Easy... too easy
  5-Shallow
  6-bad gameplay
  7-Disappointing
  8-bugged (my game crashed 5 times EVEN after downloading th patch (btw released before the game... weird)
 
  9-slow
  10-limited
  
  sorry for typing/english mistakes, not in a bad mood after playin it
  Leandro Chiarello
  going 
 back to simcity 4, civilization 4 and football manager 2008, really good games
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peet85
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I was always a big fan of SimCity games... I remember when SC 3000 came out, it was fascinating, 
 I could play it for days. Then SC4, but only with the Rush Hour expansion. And then this. I don't 
 know what to say.
  
  It was fishy from the beginning. I mean, did you notice the size of the game? Compared to today's 
 huge games, often 2 dvds large, it is surprizingly small. The main menu looked way to childish, 
 but I still wanted to believe that it can be good.
  
  No. This game is not. It's an awful stepback from the past SC titles. It lost everything what Ioved 
 in them. There is no real transportation network, only 2 types of roads, no water system, no real 
 goals to achieve. Instead you get a bunch of "culture" types which are bound to the structures 
 you build.
  
  I mean this game is NOT for the old SC fans. I think EA and Tilted Mill, and mainly EA, just wanted 
 a big name to bring in some cash. That's it.
  
  I'm installing SC4 right now. It is a recommended therapy. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hollaman123
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  This has to be the most horrbie thing ever created, not only does it ruin the genre of simcity, 
 its a disgrace to all pc games!!!! NO CHALLENGES, the people in the city dont care what you do, 
 they dont complain, they dont care where they work (slum houses residents can work in office buildings!!) .
 
  
  
  You basically just drop thins down in this game and see what happens, they dont even show it getting 
 built, and after they are built you just go on waiting to make more money and then keep expanding, 
 nothing else happens, is this even a game??
  
  
  Tilted mill was a TOTAL failure at making this, its nothing but cartoonie and unrealistic to a 
 city. Its like they rushed this game as fast as possible, i mean they dont even have like highways 
 and stuff, just one type of paved street. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genaral_Zap
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to create and manage your very own society?
  
  If so, you need to wait for that game to come out, because Simcity Societies is all about placing 
 a few buildings and push a few buttons here and there... but only if you want to push a button.
 
  
  in order to make your society run you need to manage the following: NOTHING
  
  if wish to, you can do the following: manage your sims mood, but you don't have to, it barely has 
 any notable consequences for you, in fact you can just ignore everything in this game and make 
 a living hell for your sims and they'll still make your society run more or less than if they were 
 happy.
  
  The Tutorial will help you getting started and so you will quickly learn the game basics step by 
 step.
  
  once you are ready to stand on your own feet, you start a new game, you first pick your map you 
 want to play on, you can create your own maps thanks to the build in map generator where you can 
 choose between the terrain type, layout, water coverage and so on.
  
  now we are ready to create our society!
  
  first we need power, we can choose between many 
 different types of power sources, place the power plant wherever you want to, doesn't matter if 
 you place far away from your society as you don't need to manage your power network, or water net 
 for that sake. 
  
  now we can randomly place different houses around the map, you don't need to place roads, only 
 if you want your sims to travel faster from A-B .
  
  but these houses runs on "social energies" so that means you need to place a building or sculpture 
 which can provide the needed social energy, again you can place it wherever you want, layout is 
 barely important in this game, it hardly pays of to plan your expanding
  
  now the time has come to provide your sims with workplaces
  doesn't really matter what kind of 
 workplace you place, even if your sims has a high chance of becoming ill or injured it doesn't 
 mean anything in the long run or even at a short term.
  
  after a hard day of work your sims need entertainment 
  again place some random venues here and 
 there, doesn't matter if it is a theater or a some lousy bar where your sims get drunk and get 
 into fights, because it has no consequences of importance.
  
  now we might want to earn some money so we can repeat the above mentioned steps in an eternity.
 
  
  money is basicly earned through workplaces, happy and healthy sims are more productive than if 
 they were unhappy or ill.
  but you don't really need money, in fact money is so unimportant that there is no option to borrow 
 money. money can be spent on buildings and their special actions. these action can boost your sims 
 mood, increase the income from a building, putting out fires and so on... keeping your city safe 
 from disasters is the only thing you need to keep your society safe from.
  
  conclusion:
  SCS had a lot of potential. you could had had a game where you had to manage a society and it problems 
 such as inequality, crime, education, tax, infrastructure, health, and so on
  
  instead SCS is a "build your very own theme park" game for the 3 year olds 
  
  Simcity Societies 
 is an extremely dumbed down version of the very first Simcity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dellitoso
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  This isn't Sim City. This is some pathetic attempt at a 3rd grade learning tool for disabled kids. 
 It is so ugly, so boring, so pathetic to play. I had hopes there might be some redeeming value, 
 but there is none. You can't zoom out, there is all this New Age crap you have to worry about in 
 terms of how the citizens "feel" and their "spiritual" well-being, it looks HORRIBLE, it looks 
 like crap and the graphics are pathetically dumbed-down and just downright creepy and unsettling 
 to look at. The graphics are totally unrealistic and look cartoonish and nothing is to scale. 
 
  
  Do not give EA a dime of your money. I'm going to try to return this crap myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natuo
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  At my younger days. I've enjoyed Maxis broad ranges of simulation of products. SimTown is one of 
 them, even my little sister enjoy it due to it's simplicity and those big and brightly colored 
 icons. SimTown didn't have the complicated stuff with placing powergrid and waterpipes network. 
 
  
  Now, those memories came back to me after playing "SimCity" Societies. Those simple interface, 
 bright and big icons (You can see those big smile and sad face quite well from here) , and choosing 
 what kind of building you want to place. This makes me wonder if EA and Tilted Mill was aiming 
 for younger gamers under the age of 12. Then I look back at the game cover to make sure they didn't 
 make any typo for this "SimTown 2.0". I just couldn't believe they made the mistake naming this 
 game using the name "SimCity". 
  
  The first thing I notice when starting the game was the lack of menus in the main screen. And dear 
 God, don't get me started with those smilies icon for the YES and NO button. As I mention before, 
 this game lacks those infrastructure grid as SimTown would. Zoning isn't there anymore, which is 
 a welcome new for those who doesn't like random building popping up. 
  
  Transportation system isn't a hassle since you wouldn't figure out too much how to lay down effective 
 network coverage. Oh yes, speaking about transportation system... did I mention there's no highway? 
 You only get asphalt road and dirt road. No harbour, no airport. 
  
  All this due to the map size which is a quarter of what SC4 was. Come to think of it, it's the 
 only map size you will get in the game. You only get a limited choice of disaster. No, sorry... 
 they fired the giant rampaging robots. 
  
  Furthermore the only challenge in the game is maintaining your Simians happiness. No, sorry they 
 throw away the budget also. There's no way you can go into debt. Because they don't have any maintainence 
 cost at all. You get your tax on daily basis instead of monthly basis.
  
  It is a casual game, but too casual for my liking. Ah well, at least my nephew would enjoy this 
 "SimTown 2.0" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zardoz2003
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Wow..... did they ever take a good game and completely ruin it . Being an old fan of Simcity, I 
 installed a leaked version just to see what improvements this next installment would have. I was 
 surprised to say the least !!!! This looks more like Zoo Tycoon meets the Crash Test Dummies. I 
 used to know PHD chemistry majors that enjoyed Simcity. Well now, we have a version for 3rd graders 
 that probably will be bored with it after fifteen minutes. IF I want to do any city building I 
 guess I will have to get my copy of Simcity 4 Deluxe out or get the next City Life 2008 that's 
 out. It's a shame to see EA screw this game up so bad that it's hardly recognizable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mypcpros
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I really went into this game with an open mind after hearing all of the professional reviews. I 
 have played all of the SimCity games since the very first one. They've all been good and I wasn't 
 expecting too much from this one since I heard they were virtually changing the way the game used 
 to be played. 
  Here's the problem. On Windows Vista with the new Nvidia DirectX10 video cards, this game crashes 
 more than a teenage alchoholic on crack. I really don't know any other way to put it. I work on 
 computers for a living and it seems to me that there's something wrong with the way the game renders 
 pictures and movement in Vista/DirectX10. 
  I can't get into play it longer than 20 minutes at a time. During those 20 minutes here and there 
 I can see a decent game but then the "bonk" sound and the invevitable crash.
  Why release a game nearly a year after Vista and DirectX10 has been out only to know it wasn't 
 ready? (they had to have known - read the bulletin boards about similar users having this exact 
 issue) .
  I'd love to focus more on the game and really wanted to but until they get this crashing fixed 
 - what a waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anach
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  The reason I play the other SimCity games is because I enjoy the micro-managing, city building, 
 with it's humourous take on realism. Not only is it about balancing your budget, but it's about 
 planning for pipes and powerlines. Making sure you have everything, and everyone covered, of every 
 possibly scenario.
  
  Societies is not that game. It's someone's deluded attempt at re-inventing a game, but in doing 
 so have made the game something entirely different, and not something fans of SimCity will enjoy.
 
  
  The only thing in this game that resembles the previous SimCity games is the title.
  
  There is virtually no planning. If you need to raise a certain mood, you just place a bunch of 
 similar structures to build up points. Anywhere on the map. The same for power. If you need power, 
 just build a powerstation, anywhere on the map. Dont worry about linking it to water or electricity, 
 as there is none of that. 
  
  I'll wait for SimCity 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boaster
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is *NOT* SimCity in the way that those of us who loved SimCity came to think of the game. 
 Gameplay has been dumbed down, and things have a very cartoonish look to them. I haven't had any 
 stability problems as others are reporting, but this game just doesn't draw me in. When SimCity 
 4 came out I stayed up all night building my City. With SimCity societies I was looking at my watch 
 trying to get through the tutorial. I'll play it some more over the next few days to see if my 
 opinion changes or if the game reveals some depth I have yet to see, but early results are not 
 encouraging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobchoi1
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Is it me or is this game not that good. I feel that the games has an almost finished feeling to 
 it. The land editor isn't very good. You can't zoom out and take a look at your entire city. The 
 game isn't really a game about a growing metropolis its placing buildings. I don't know why EA 
 had the team who did "children of the nile" make simcity. They have so many buildings that after 
 the initial "that's kind of cool" feeling, it becomes very annoying trying to find the building 
 you want to place. And another thing that I thought was stupid (at leas t in the was this lousy 
 company who ruined a game I loved did) was the theme city/buildings. Some of the themes are alright; 
 however, who wants a ghost town. They basically turned me away from simcity. I can't wait til a 
 real simcity game is made. (Oh, and there are a lot of bugs. The game crashed quite a bit) . The 
 addictiveness of the REAL Simcity is not in this game. I played the game for about 5-10 hours but 
 after that I didn't feel like touching it again. This game has no draw to it. The fun factor just 
 isn't in it. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. I was lucky that I know someone at a gamestore and was able 
 to return it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: q3c
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a new installment in the SimCity series for a while now, and seeing this 
 title as a successor to the wonderful legacy is just sad.
  
  It seems that the team responsible for expansions to "The Sims" and "The Sims 2" series had a huge 
 influence on this project. Gone is the fun intricacy of classic SimCity titles. It got replaced 
 by a simplistic "influence" system that is just no fun to play.
  
  The game mechanics were dumbed-down and rewritten - I can't even see any echoes of the good old 
 SimCity playstyle. 
  
  No serious SimCity player would consider this game to be a part of the series. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
