-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SimCity 3000 Unlimited
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/simcity3000unlimited/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  8, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 872 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Maxis
Genre: Modern City-Building
Date:     May 16, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's best suited for those who haven't played much SimCity 3000 yet, though some of its scenario-editing 
 features are better for hard-core SimCity fans. 

 SimCity 3000 Unlimited is the latest game in the classic urban-planning simulation series. It provides 
 a host of peripheral additions to its 1998 predecessor SimCity 3000 but remains essentially identical 
 otherwise. As such, it's best suited for those who haven't played much of the previous game, although 
 hard-core SimCity fans may appreciate its new scenario-editing features.   

  Fortunately, the core game has survived the passing months with all its charm intact - the bright 
 pastel colors and intuitive interface design remain good looking by contemporary standards, and 
 SimCity 3000's isometric perspective and simple, tile-based terrain are still perfectly suited 
 to the gameplay. In fact, the game's stylized 2D graphics are anything but pass. Similarly, 
 SimCity 3000's great sound effects and cool jazzy music score still sound first rate, and since 
 there are plenty of different tracks and they all tend to hum pleasantly in the background, you 
 wouldn't think to turn them off even if you've poured hours into the original SimCity 3000.   

 
  Then again, if you played a great deal of SimCity 3000 last year, then you might find that SimCity 
 3000 Unlimited's additional in-game features collectively don't provide enough new material to 
 restore your interest. The more sadistically inclined SimCity players will quickly notice that 
 Unlimited adds several types of disasters that can befall their fair metropolis either at random 
 or at their whim, whichever comes first. These include everything from a ravaging plague of locusts 
 to a brimstone-like rain of superheated space junk. The new disasters are fun to watch, they look 
 good, and they manage to lend a real sense of danger and urgency to the game without being too 
 heavy-handed or serious. Although more-casual SimCity players will prefer never to encounter these 
 ill events, veterans of the series will enjoy having to use new types of tactics to deal with and 
 compensate for the new bad things that can befall their cities.   

  SimCity 3000 Unlimited offers several new types of terrain that you can build on, but in practice 
 all you'll get is a color swap. For example, you can build your city on whitish, sort of snowy-looking 
 scenery, but it's a purely cosmetic effect that isn't even very noticeable. However, the game also 
 provides two new sets of buildings that you can choose from instead of the standard urban/suburban 
 houses of its predecessor. These European and Asian building sets look good and help breathe new 
 life into the game for long-time players, and the building sets are generic enough that they're 
 suitable for representing cities throughout their equivalent real-world region - especially since 
 the game also includes a huge library of national monuments and famous buildings that you can place 
 liberally throughout your city if you choose to. So between the European and the Asian building 
 sets and the variety of terrain, you'll actually gain a good bit of flexibility in personalizing 
 your city. You can try to re-create a snow-covered suburb in Japan, a quaint French village on 
 the Mediterranean, and more. Too bad your various city-advisor characters, who frequently offer 
 planning strategies and such, don't change depending on your city's building set. Fortunately, 
 the advisors are cosmopolitan enough as it is. Otherwise, as with the terrain, switching building 
 sets has no actual effect on gameplay.    

 Indeed, very little in SimCity 3000 Unlimited actually affects the flow of the original game. As 
 before, you're responsible for zoning residential, commercial, and industrial areas; providing 
 them with power and plumbing; and generally helping your citizens improve their standard of living 
 by providing education, transportation, recreation, and safety. SimCity 3000 added the aforementioned 
 city advisors to help you along the way, and together with the useful and often funny news ticker 
 at the bottom of the screen, they do a great job of helping you stay on top of all your many responsibilities. 
 You're provided with a constant stream of optional advice that'll generally keep you from ever 
 getting stuck or frustrated when things go wrong.   

  Since the core game was left unchanged, SimCity 3000 Unlimited provides most of its new gameplay 
 material in the form of 13 scenarios, which are scripted challenges that you'll have a limited 
 time to complete. Some are more difficult, and some don't even let you pause play, in order to 
 heighten the tension. They cover a variety of serious and not-so-serious situations in both real-world 
 and fictional settings, from a rampant crime problem in Moscow to a World Cup preparation in Seoul. 
 Collectively they're an insightful simulation of the sort of damage control that a real mayor might 
 have to do. In addition, SimCity 3000 Unlimited provides less experienced players with extensive 
 and specific tutorial scenarios covering a wide range of subjects. New players will also appreciate 
 the concise and informative, and often amusing, 200-page-plus wire-bound manual that comes with 
 the game.   

  However, new SimCity players probably won't bother much with SimCity 3000 Unlimited's various design 
 tools, which let you script scenarios and also construct buildings. They're elegant programs that 
 are much easier to use (thanks in part to the manual) than most game-editing tools. But even so, 
 the game packs a lot of content as it is, which is why you might not feel inclined to make your 
 own scenarios and so on. The game also provides a prominent online link to Maxis' web site, which 
 lets you swap cities and scenarios with other players and generally interact with other SimCity 
 players. Maxis has done an impressive job creating infrastructure for an online player community 
 with its recent games.   

  But regardless of SimCity 3000 Unlimited's tools and scenarios, the bottom line is that the real 
 pleasure of SimCity has always been that it lets you build a huge metropolis from scratch. As such, 
 if you're a SimCity fan who's not interested in solving other people's problems in the prefabricated 
 scenarios or making your own material for the game, then you can let Unlimited pass you by. Otherwise, 
 like its predecessor, SimCity 3000 Unlimited is a great game to play if you haven't spent much 
 time with the series yet.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dunbrine47
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Sim City 3000 is the best in the series in terms of difficulty and fun.
  Not to slam SC4 (Good game but had it's annoyances) but SC3k excels in certain areas. The budget 
 is easier to maintain then in SC4
  (Think Not having to deal with being nickled and dimed with things like parks) and I like the way 
 you zone things in SC3k (Even though everything is randomly placed) there is NO FORCED GRID.
  Instead of hundreds of tiny cities in a region to deal with ,you only have to deal with one ,thus 
 holding your attention longer.
  This was the last (And greatest) SC to come out before the franchise killer known as The Sims (Not 
 to slam that either) .
  _+ _+ _ ++_ _ _ _ + _+ _ _ +_ +_ _ + _+ _+ _+ _+ _+ _ +_ +_ + _+ _+ _+ _+ _ +_ +_ + _+ _+ _+ _ 
 +_ +_ + _+ _+ _ +_ +_ + _ _+ _+ _+ _+ _ +_ + _+ _+ _ +_ +_ + _+ _ +_ + _+ _ +_ +_ + _ +_ + _+ _+ 
 _ +_ +_ + _+ _ +_ + _+ _ + _+ _ + _+ _+ _ +_ + _+ _+ _ +_ + _ +_ + _+ _ +_ + _+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clutzyaj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Face it, not all games age well, but in some cases, they can out do their new up and coming sequels. 
 Sim City 3000 Unlimited is one of those games.
  
  Although it may seem at first like some simple addition to Sim City 3000, the game goes above and 
 beyond what most sequels provide in games. First off, you get two new building sets, one based 
 of European design, and the other off of Japanese design (although it is defined as Asian, it has 
 more Japanese/Modern influenced buildings) . Indeed, the little shops and houses pop up in random 
 places within their zones as usual, but they still look good. The new building sets don't change 
 some buildings, but it is a nice refresh from the American building set (although it does share 
 some buildings with the European set) and have skyscrapers that look a little different, and when 
 the buildings repeat themselves, it's not really to bad looking.
  
  Gameplay is essentially the same though, you'll have to build various zones, transportation systems, 
 infrastructure, and public buildings in order to make your city functional, all the while keeping 
 your budget in balance. Of course, the game has plenty of cheats, but indeed, some people do like 
 to play fair.
  
  Along with building sets, you can also change the terrain and flora that appears in the city. So 
 now you can have that redwood forest for you nice little Euro town in the snow region, or build 
 a replica of a Nevada town with Joshua trees. Also, you can choose to start your city in the years 
 1900, 1950, or 2000, all of which will give you or limit what kind of structures, power plants, 
 and transportation systems you can build.
  
  The advisers and those who wish for change or have an issue with your city are all drawn up political-cartoon 
 characture style, indeed, a little goofy for some tastes, but all in all, still giving you sound 
 advice for somethings and warnings of disdain for others. Still, they do not age, do not change 
 with the building set, but merely just represent your office as a whole. Indeed, SC4 offers far 
 more realistic characters for you to work with.
  
  The game's soundtrack is very impressive indeed. Most of the New York City style jazz and Asian 
 inspired pieces seem to fit too perfectly at times, but some of the new age tunes just really don't 
 fit at all. Luckily, you can turn off which piece of music you don't like the most.
  
  The sounds are also acceptable, considering that they are still used in some of the modern Sim 
 City games,. Car horns, wind, the disasters, and many other noises don't get too repetitive, but 
 sometimes seem a little too subtle in some situations. This is especially true for when you hear 
 stuff from your highways and downtown commercial districts, or have space junk come plowing down 
 into you suburbs. 
  
  There's also some nice extras that allow you to customize the game. The Building Architect Plus 
 program allows for you to construct your own buildings, and even allows for uploading of custom 
 textures and props. Of course, if you can't really build your own structure, you don't have to. 
 The Scenario creator is also in, allowing you to try your hand at creating a scenario similar to 
 those in the game. Of course, it requires scripting, understanding of what city you're going to 
 be using, and a little programing knowledge to use, sometimes at the point of being too difficult 
 to use. Still, these extras aren't really necessary to get the full joy of the game, unless you 
 want to see a building with a Krystal billboard on it appearing in your city, or try to challenge 
 others to keep a city alive after a severe disaster, then you can go for it.
  
  There's an awful lot of stuff to cover, not all that I could explain here, but luckily, this game 
 has a nice thick instruction book (yes, a wirebound BOOK) that's filled with the info needed as 
 well as Maxis' attempts to get you to chuckle a bit.
  
  Overall, Sim City 3000 Unlimited is still a good, solid game for those who found Sim City 4 Rush 
 Hour to deep yet are disappointed by Sim City Societies. Indeed, even if you already have Sim City 
 3000, ignore what GS said, Unlimited is full of things worth trying it for. Besides, it's been 
 around for over 8 years, so it should be cheap. The website may even have users willing to exchange 
 cities, scenarios, and buildings still! If you want to build the ultimate city without extra hassle 
 (or having people think you're an egotistical freak) , then Sim City 3000 Unlimited is certainly 
 something worth grabbing for.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koopatroopa1015
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  SimCity 3000 gave people the chance to develop massive cities and become the leader of running 
 a town. SimCity 3000 Unlimited does, too, but with even more. Along with controlling the transportation, 
 financing, power, water, law, services, and everything else associated with city planning, you'll 
 also be able to design buildings with Building Architect Plus, and put them into your city. You 
 can also create your own scenarios for use in the game with the Scenario Creator. Those are the 
 two biggest new features. In addition, you can use real-world terrains, and play scenarios and 
 starter towns instead of loading a city or starting from scratch. There are new cities and locations 
 to build off of. It does get frustrating sometimes, but it's never enough to ruin the game. Everything 
 involved in city designing is taken even further with SimCity 3000 Unlimited.
  
  While the game is straightforward, it's always a fresh challenge to develop a superb city. It'll 
 take a lot of skill and a little luck, but it's always fun to see what happens. And the graphics 
 are nice, and rather colorful and clear. The SFX are various, very realistic and amazing, and the 
 music is just something to die for.
  
  It's definitely worth your time and money. It offers even more than previous versions of the game, 
 and it's always fun and entertaining. I recommend this game mostly to those who enjoy business 
 tycoon games. They'll get the most out of this intense simulation. But everyone can enjoy it.
 
  
  If you enjoyed earlier versions of SimCity, then you'll certainly like 3000 Unlimited. It's got 
 so much to offer, and its extras make this one stand out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damo566
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Watching a city grow from a single road to a giant metropolis is one of the most rewarding experiences 
 you can have. And Simcity 3000: Unlimited gives you that experience in all its glory.
  
  While its not the best sim out there (or is it?) Simcity lets you take the reigns of the council, 
 and put it to the test as you build houses, roads, railways and communities, and watch over them. 
 And watching over them is all the more rewarding with this game, as the graphics revamp from the 
 blue dots of Simcity 2000 has made a wonderful entrance. While the things going on in the streets 
 are only representations, they do a damned well job of it, and its fun to just lie back and watch 
 trains chuff away or cars driving in and out of tunnels.
  
  The graphics are the main change with this game. Compare the closest zoom in Simcity 2000 (4x) 
 to the closest zoom in Simcity 3000 (8x) . The new zoom increase is there so you can watch as different 
 cars and trucks drive up and down your roads. The movement brings back the "Sim jump" feel, shared 
 also by the RCT2 series and Locomotion. And even though the cars are only a representation, they 
 do a good job telling you what is going on. An outback road on the edge of a city would have the 
 occasional bus drive around on it, while a road nearer the centre would be chock full.
  
  The trains keep to their lines surprisingly well, and I can spend months (well, in-game months 
 anyway) just watching a train make its journey, and watching the many obstacles it has to pass. 
 One of the new graphic sets are people, and its fun to watch people flocking around your newly 
 built museum. Also, the game has taken to 3D, meaning that it wont just flip the images like Simcity 
 2000, there are four sides, and they are all rendered. Also, you can make your own buildings with 
 the architect program, and import these anywhere you like.
  
  One of the great features is the scenario editor, which allows you to script your own objectives. 
 And we can't forget the Snapshots, can we? Simcity 3000 lets you take pictures of your city, and 
 stores them in an album, accessible in or out of the game. This is great for capturing the moments 
 when two boats are driving water over one another, or when a jet is just taking off.
  
  One of the bad things is its bugs, but these are mostly eye candy bugs, that don't really effect 
 the game. Suck things are helicopters getting dragged into whirlpools the way boats are dragged, 
 even though the choppers are in the air. And other bugs the user is able to stage. One of these 
 is the "No, you first" bug. This bug appears when a train tries to go over a road, but a car is 
 in the way. That car is there because it is in a line of cars waiting for the train to move out 
 of their way. This usually results in the train suddenly vanishing, which is Simcity's way of saving 
 itself.
  
  Graphics and eye candy aside, Simcity is a great game at heart. Its pretty hard to master, and 
 most people have their moment in the sun just before the bottom drops out of their finance. But 
 whether you're a newbie or an expert, this game will bring you back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmandes
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  It was a long wait since simcity 2000, simcity 3000 is a huge improvement compared to simcity 2000, 
 in term of both graphic and sound. The game has expanded the number of building available to player, 
 ranging from bustops to even wonders that you could lay. On the topic of wonders, player will be 
 able to build famous landmark from all over the world right in your fair city. In addition, player 
 will also be able to make deals with neighbour regarding sale of garbage, water or power, where 
 a city can alway sell power or water to another city and vice-verse, even garbage can be sent to 
 another city for a price to be dispose of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_LordSauron
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. Some more violent people might think this is garbarge because it's not their 
 style, however, that's a war of opnions.
  
  This game is beautiful. Good tools allow you to easily manage your city. A well-crafted city data 
 veiw allows you to effectively analyze your city's needs. Because I'm writing this review now, 
 in 2006, and graphics have progressed a long way, I don't think I can accurately rate the graphics 
 quality of the game, however, I'll do my best.
  
  This game was made in the age of DirectX 8... or 7, I forget which. Either way, 3D accellerated 
 graphics chips were mainstream, and there wasn't a lack of graphics power in the normal system. 
 So why wasn't this game totally 3D? I have to mark it down for that. I know it's audience wasn't 
 the high-end hard-core gamers, however, by using some more mainstream 3D renderers Maxis could 
 have gotten more efficiency out of the graphics subsystem, which I thnk would allow them to increase 
 the overall graphical quality of the end product.
  
  Gameplay doesn't suffer in this game though. It's still amazingly fun to play. It is very mouse-centric 
 though. I don't like their system to scroll around the map, either, however, despite these things, 
 I still think this is an extremely good game. Well worth your money.
  
  On the compatibility side... It works with Windows XP in compatibility mode, however, not that 
 well. My disk is rather scratched, so that could be the problem, however, I have to note that sound 
 did not work for me. Music did, but normal in-game noises were not present like they were for me 
 under Windows 98. I think it's that the disk was scratched because I remember the game working 
 under another install under Windows XP on my old Athlon 1400.
  
  I hold to my statement though: the game lost none of its enjoyability when it lost sound. It's 
 just that good. It's... genuinely fun. Again, some people may think differently, however, that's 
 due to differences in our taste and preferences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ahp12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Even though it is pretty old by now, I still happily take this game out and play for many hours. 
 Even though it doesn't have flashy graphics, I still enjoy playing it. Why? Because its play value 
 is very high. With its funny advisors, and it complex, yet easy to learn building options, this 
 game easily is very addictive. 
  
  As already said, graphics wise this game isn't top, but you can tell if a street is too crowded, 
 or what kind of area it is. 
  
  Sound is very good, it always changes as I move from one city area to another. While industrial 
 areas have a lot of hammering, commercial and residential areas have a lot of car noise. 
  
  The controls are easy, seen that you can do anything with just a mouse. 
  
  All in all, 
 a good game for any SimCity fan. And anybody else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 25, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Simcity 3000 Unlimited was very difficult for me. It took me four or five times to get things right. 
 Once I found out how to play I had a really good time. If you can get your city population over 
 10000 then your city will make it. Simcity was very hard at first but once you get used to it is 
 not that bad. The sound isn't fantstic and the same thing goes for the graphics, but the gameplay 
 is very fun. I really liked Simcity 3000 Unlimited but there could be other adjustments to it to 
 make it be perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macbertoni91
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  This game is  this one is worth playing if you ever get bored you 
 can just go to maxis. com and download some new buildings or even build your own heck this game 
 even has scenerios so you can try to beat them and unlock new rewards. or even download new scenerios 
 and play those.
  
  If you ask me this game deserves an expansion. i just cant wait to get my hands on sim city 4.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  This game is  this 
 one is worth playing if you ever get bored you can just go to maxis. com and download some new buildings 
 or even build your own heck this game even has scenerios so you can try to beat them and unlock 
 new rewards. or even download new scenerios and play those.
  
  If you ask me this game deserves an expansion. i just cant wait to get my hands on sim city 4. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endakol
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:05 am PT
Review:  Sim City 3000 Unlimited was a great game. It was not just an addition to Sim City 3000, but it 
 was a hole new game with two brand new sets of buildings and just about every part of the game 
 could be changed or customized which was amazing. In this game you could design your own buildings 
 for your city or put them online for your fellow gamers to download. There are new disasters to 
 cause if you want, but there really is no point in this if you want to progress in the game it 
 is just for fun. The sound in this game impressed me mainly in the disasters because the sounds 
 of collapsing buildings and exploding space junk was very realistic. The graphics in this game 
 are amazing because the sharpness of the buildings and the detail makes the games graphics never 
 look old. This game has high replay value and I strongly recommend people to buy this game you 
 will not be disappointed. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20916509067928458071193322800176-Darkside_Devote
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 8:16 am PT
Review:  this is the best game ever. creating your city is extreme i have hade this game for 3 years and 
 i am still playing it today. it is so extreme you must buy. i admite it can get anoying at times 
 but remember if you go bankrupt just watch your city get destroyed by the natural disasters you 
 can cause. the graphics is pretty good. all though if you zoom in to cloose it does get a bit blurry. 
 but that dosn't affect the overall enjoyment of the game . extreme fun i would recomend these series 
 to anyone. any sim game is always a blast to have around. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoJo10
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 17, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: It about making a virtual city and then managing all of the parts of it. You have to 
 take care of the budget, business deals, where to dump your garbage, which zones to make, which 
 to stop making, do you need police and fire stations, schools, etc, etc. If you're new to the game, 
 it comes with tutorials, so you won't be left wondering how the heck to make your city work.
  
  Graphics: They're old. It's an old game. But they don't take away from the game in any way, 
 shape or form.
  
  Sound: Excellent. Tunes are awesome. Many different songs - and they don't get repetitive. You'll 
 actually really like listening to the music.
  
  Value: Totally worth buying for only $10.
  
  Tilt: If you haven't played Simcity 3000 or Simcity 
 4, I have some advice for you: go buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opima
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 17, 2005 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Overall, I really did enjoy this game -- when it would work! I have a top-of-the-line computer and 
 this is the only game that gives me such a hard time to play.
  
  The graphics are great, I really like the fact that I can zoom in and out of my city. The sound 
 was impressive as well, not many games can I say that about.
  
  What frustrated me the most was trying to build the city on a budget and try to make money. Unless 
 you are the first to build electric plants and water plants no other communities will deal with 
 you. If you raise taxes, everybody leaves. So, I just hunted down some cheat codes to use and it 
 made the game easier, and more fun, to play. Having to jump back and forth from below ground to 
 build water lines and subways to above ground gets to be a major pain -- but a necessary one.
  
  The interface of the game could use some work, I wasn't impressed with that in the least. Trying 
 to build farms I found was especially difficult as well as coastal marianas.
  
  I would really like to try Sim City 4, but I'm afraid of having the same problems as I did with 
 this game not working well on my PC. When I can play it I really do like the game and the idea 
 of building and managing my own town/city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolbmann
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 18, 2005 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Create and control your very own urban empire with SimCity 3000 Unlimited. 
  
  The recent release of the Unlimited version of 1999's bestselling PC game, "SimCity 3000" by Electronic 
 Arts, builds upon previous titles to satisfy even the most imaginative of virtual-gubernatorial 
 desires. 
  
  A player's role in SimCity is to act as virtual mayor of a small town and develop it into a bustling, 
 self-sustaining metropolis. 
  
  "SC-3000 Unlimited" introduces hundreds of new building options. From the roofs and windmills of 
 a Dutch farming village to the skyscrapers and pagodas of Tokyo, every structural detail can be 
 actualized into comprehensive cityscapes. 
  
  In addition to the building models offered, "SC-3000 Unlimited" features the new "Building Architect" 
 tool that allows players to conceive their own structures from the ground up. Players also can 
 create seasonal landscapes with customized trees and terrain. 
  
  "SC-3000 Unlimited" offers players 13 new game scenarios. Virtual mayors can fight crime in Moscow, 
 reunite East and West Berlin or rebuild a city after an ecological disaster. Limited only by one's 
 imagination, players can create their own scenarios with the new SimCity "Scenario Creator" and 
 trade them over the Internet. 
  
  The extreme complexity of this top-down classic may scare away a few Sim-novices, but "SimCity 
 3000 Unlimited" best bestows the serious tasks of civic authority that Sim-fanatics have been craving. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2004 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Well, SC3KU is a remake of the previous SIMCity 3000 game. SC3K itself has to be, 
 in my own opinion, the best of the SC games. Maxis took there award winning series of SC games 
 and brought it into the modern world with much improved graphics, sound and gameplay. A short while 
 after SC3K was made, Maxis released the "Unlimited" version of the game, which was essentially 
 the exact same game, with additional features to really help you dive deeper into the world of 
 SC. The main things which were added, was a building creator, so now you could even MAKE the buildings 
 that would appear in your city yourself. Also, a scenario creator so you could make your own scenario's 
 and share them with the SC community. And finally, you could choose between differant sets for 
 the buildings, giving them many differant looks.
  
  Gameplay: As always, your goal is to create a thriving, wealthy metropolis. You lay down the infrastructure 
 for the city, building powerplants and water pumps, along with laying down underground pipes to 
 carry the water to the city's populous. You build the roads, schools and other fundamentals, and 
 then lay down space for housing, commercial and industrial zones. The sims will move into your 
 city looking for work and a good life, and will build there homes and workplaces to there own wills. 
 As with the previous SC game, you have a council of people to help govern your decisions, giving 
 you advice on how to reduce polution, increase money, and encourage people to move to your city.
 
  
  Story: ............................
  
  Graphics and Sound: The graphics are just awesome. You can zoom right down and see the small cars 
 and pedestrians walking thru the streets of your city. The buildings look very good, and you have 
 to zoom extremely close in to even see any pixilation at all, unlike SC2K where you had it even 
 at the farthest zoom setting. The sounds are fairly good. The bkgd music in the game can be addictive 
 to listen to some times, but that just add's to the effectiveness... since SC games are addictive 
 by nature... more then crack.
  
  Replayability: If there is one game you want to play many times, its this one. SC3KU is a fun SC 
 game to play, even to the most stupid or hardcore gamer.
  
  Final Recommendation: All in all, i give SIMCity 3000 Unlimited a 9.5 out of 10. Its a great game 
 that most anyone can enjoy. It doesnt require a great PC to run, and is good for many hours of 
 play, or just a few minutes. If you have any interest in SC games, this is the one id recommend. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
