-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SimCity Societies: Destinations
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/simcitysocietiesdestinations/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tourists and attractions deepen the core gameplay.
 Strategy mode provides some nice challenges.
 New disasters, buildings, and events.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Relationships between social energies and structures are still arbitrary.
 On the simple side.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  7, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.8, 4 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 167 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Tilted Mill
Genre: Modern City-Building
Date:     Jun 23, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This expansion to last year's underwhelming city builder is surprisingly good and makes a number 
 of important improvements. 

  The Destinations expansion pack for SimCity Societies does more than you could have expected: It 
 makes a decent game a good one. This is no mean feat, especially when you consider that the gameplay 
 hasn't seen a drastic overhaul. Yet the additions and the changes make significant enhancements, 
 and in turn, Destinations accomplishes something that the initial release couldn't: It draws you 
 in. If you didn't like the original Societies, this add-on may very well change your mind.  

           Beware of the fire-breathing ornithosaurus.      

  The main focus of the game hasn't 
 changed. You build a city by placing roads and plunking down structures of various sorts around 
 them. To increase your population, you must build homes. In turn, your population requires jobs, 
 which must be filled if you want to stuff your coffers. Unfortunately, your Sims want to be more 
 than just productive; they want to be happy. And what better way to be happy than to shop for toys, 
 ride a roller coaster, or belt out a tune in a karaoke bar? The more entertainment venues that 
 you provide, the less likely your citizens are to become unhappy and "go rogue," as the game so 
 pleasantly describes it.  

  The twist on these city-building standards is Societies' six "social energies," such as authority 
 and prosperity, which are essentially additional currencies that you must keep an eye on. Structures 
 may either add to or subtract from your total of a given social energy, and like before, the connections 
 between buildings and the energies that they affect are unclear. For whatever reason, a trailer 
 park will increase your levels of productivity; a town square makes your city more prosperous. 
 In turn, if you find yourself in a deficit of a particular energy, you might suddenly be forced 
 to scatter around a bunch of billboards or baroque fountains. It feels a bit arbitrary, and Destinations 
 doesn't tweak energies in any noticeable way.  

  On the other hand, it does a much better job of keeping you distracted from these idiosyncrasies. 
 As you can imagine, travel is a key focus of the expansion, so on top of juggling your population's 
 social and economic needs, you also want make your city more attractive to visitors. Visitors need 
 bigger, more dramatic attractions, such as ski resorts and brooding castles, to keep them happy. 
 In some cases, you build these destinations; in others, the landmark is already on your map, and 
 must be visited by your own Sims before you can open it to travelers. The mechanic seems simple 
 enough, but by implementing a succession of traveler star ratings, it gives you a sense of focus 
 and progression that was lacking before. This is an excellent layer of gameplay, deepening things 
 without detracting from the game's intimate take on the genre. There are other key considerations 
 as well, such as tourist transportation. That airport may look like a great way to invite sightseers, 
 but it'll take a big bite out of your budget.  

           Building skyscrapers on hilly ground isn't the best move.      

  The expansion (along 
 with the pre-expansion patches) has also introduced other important key elements, such as the Strategy 
 mode. The original Societies was too simple and streamlined to keep you involved for long. Strategy 
 mode tackles this issue head-on by providing you with economic sliders to adjust and various policy 
 choices to make. These new features don't add the kind of complexity that we've seen in standard 
 SimCity games; Destinations is still a relatively casual reimagining of the series, and thus feels 
 a bit stripped. Nevertheless, these additions (along with others, such as new events and scenarios) 
 extend the game in important ways, making it more enjoyable, more challenging, and more customizable. 

  On top of it all, the visuals are still lovely, but the engine performs much better, though it's 
 still prone to a little chugging as you scroll across a city that is crammed with structures and 
 decorations. With all of this content and more -- new city themes, disasters, and so on -- SimCity 
 Societies: Destinations improves a game that had plenty of room to grow, and in the process, makes 
 for a likable, charming experience that you can get lost in. It has its flaws, but it hits more 
 than it misses.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AkSniperM6
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 7, 2009 5:10 am PT
Review:  The only people I can imagine enjoying this game, are ones who haven't played very many others. 
 I don't know what other games the developer has created, but my guess is not many good ones. To 
 be fair, I didn't go far into the game because I felt there was no reason to. As soon as I saw 
 bouncing smiley faces over the sims I was turned off. The game producer needs to understand that 
 perceptions of new games are based off what has come before, unless they are targeting new players 
 that don't know better, which could be the case here. That is why new players should use sites 
 like this to find games that are worth spending time on. The un-installer has been running the 
 whole time I have been writing this and it's still not done. 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanirama
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  This game is a slap to Will Wright and the great developers at Maxis. I don't know who signed off 
 on this junk, but this game is utterly terrible to those who played SC3000, SC3K: UL and SC4 and 
 SC4: RH. 
  I can understand trying to take it in a new direction but driving off the highway is not a good 
 new direction. 
  All the elements that made up earlier Simcities are missing here. 
  no zoning per se, no real transport option, missing road options etc. etc. etc. just plop buildings 
 here and there and you're done. there is no thinking, figuring out how to solve problems etc. 
 
  You are not really a mayor in this game but more of a spiritual counseller. its got some goofy 
 hippie societal thing but its not properly explained how it works. many things are entirely different 
 than prior Simcity. 
  Overall, I was turned off by the game and its cartoony look and feel. 
  I was expecting a beefier, 
 much improved SC5 version of SC4: RH. 
  This was a total letdown.
  
  a poor 4.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaupelle
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  This just dont feel right, i felt let down when i bought the game societies.
  
  but whith a small hope that the exspansion might change
  the gameplay, and the difficulty i was 
 let down.
  
  im haveing a challenge playing simcity 4 rush hour
  no challange playing societies.
  
  But if its a way to introduce simcity to new sim players
 
  well ok, preteens perhaps. but sertainly not for long
  simcity fans, and the exspansion makes no difference to
  the game.
  
  i strongly advise people 
 who want to learn simcity start with simcity 2000 or simcity 3000 then simcity 4 rush hour-.
  for a plaesent learnign curve.
  
  But on a positive note, there are some engine improvements 
 i had some crashes and such with societies with the exspansion im crash free, and game runs smooth.
 
  
  For PARENTS well i can recomend the game for your children in their pre-teens, maybe teens.
  
 my nephew is playing it he is 7 he finds it entertaining, im just to old or to mind set on the 
 original style city building a more relistic point.
  
  have fun, Vaupell 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceyintel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  
  Destinations has added lots of gameplay that could enhance your cities you made before the expansion 
 pack, and it has introduced new gameplay that can make even more societies. This expansion truly 
 adds more strength to the "build the city of your dreams". There are now monuments, which you can 
 have 3 in a city, and you have a whole list to pick from, from a rain forest to a Greek temple, 
 whatever fits your plans for you city best. The monuments do add a lot to the game, they act as 
 venues (well, cost 2.5k to make it a venue, and then there are more upgrades for the monument after 
 that) , There are tons of ways to make your tourist town unique, from a tropical rain forest spiritual 
 paradise, a mountain resort town with a ski lodge, a safari town, and you can mix anything together 
 if you like to make very different societies, and the creativity this game allows you to express 
 is what is soo good about it.
  
  Yes, this game is very enjoyable to play, and could get you "into" your work, but almost every 
 issue with the vanilla game of course exist in this. EA being retarded? Yep, that is still here. First 
 of all EA, why is there only digital download or fork out another $10 for the society box which 
 has all the games that of course most of us already have? This could only make the people who hate 
 downloading mad EA, this also effects dial up users, Hughes. net users (who have fair access policy) 
 and this could also effect your sales. In other words, YOU MAKE LESS MONEY!!! And isn't that all 
 you care about EA? Have you ever thought of those people being mad and not going to spend an extra 
 $10 for society box, also store-sightings are also a major sale, because not everyone sits on your 
 website or forum and read official announcements all day, they play the game, and turn off their 
 computer. When they will walk in the store, they will see new games on the shelf that catches their 
 eye, and they buy that. Since this is only digital download, you have no sales from store sightings. So 
 not only you are greedy EA, you also make the stupidest marketing decisions, and if you haven't 
 already made enough people mad (Sim city 4 fans!) with your horrible marketing decisions. Look at 
 my review of the vanilla game, to learn about EA mistakes there, or start browsing the web, I'm 
 sure you will find tons of hate for EA due to this game.
  
  Tilted Mill has released 5 patches for this game, and that is wonderful, they made this game a 
 little stabler to use by each patch, and added more game play to some of the patches then some 
 of you get from a Sims 2 expansion pack! But there are still problems this game still has to overcome. With 
 the new destinations, all modded content text are gone. If you have a flower pot from modded content, 
 destinations won't have the name of the flower, so when looking through the building menu, you 
 will have buildings but with no text or effects, and if that building was supposed to have an bad 
 effect, like crime increase, you won't see that, and if you build tons of them, sucks for you. There 
 are also still issues where sometimes placing down certain buildings may crash your game, i heard 
 a few people complaining about that. Sometimes the game has "floating buildings" which gets really 
 odd, and now a few buildings in destinations seem to add a "platform" which destroys appeal for 
 some cities.
  
  This, i don't know who to blame, Microsoft, tilted mill/EA, or nvidia. The geforce 8800 series seems 
 to choke on SCS and crash 5 minutes after loading after vista sp1. Nivida has yet to release a fix, 
 so everyone who has a 8800 card can't play the game any higher then "lowest" , even though the 
 8800 series can play crysis on MAX settings and get a good 15-20 fps. I can't take points off the 
 score for this, because i don't know what company is there to blame.
  
  SCS graphics and music has little to no change, but they are still great, the new society filters 
 still have songs that match even though they are from another filter, same with the roads.
  
  So overall, destinations has effected the game both directly and indirectly, which if you liked 
 the vanilla game, then this expansion will only enhance your fun and creativity, but if you did 
 not like the vanilla game, there is nothing "revolutionary" in this game that could "save" it in 
 your point of view like rush hour did to Sim city 4. But if you liked the game, then go ahead to 
 the EA download store, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
