-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SimCity 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/simcity2000cdrom/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  1, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.2, 8.1 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,700 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Maxis
Genre: Modern City-Building
Date:     Feb 28, 1995 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is the most popular sim of all time, cranked up to a high-tech gloss and packaged with all 
 the popular expansion sets. This is the most popular sim of all time, cranked up to a high-tech 
 gloss and packaged with all the popular expansion sets. The original SimCity gave players the opportunity 
 to create and oversee the growth of a living city as well as all its problems: crime, pollution, 
 zoning demands, power outages, traffic foul-ups, and the occasional tornado, nuclear meltdown, 
 or wandering monster from the sea. Less a game in the usual sense of the word than 
 a sort of electronic ant farm, SimCity let players see how they fared as mayor, architect and town 
 council. Now SimCity 2000 adds adjustable topography to the fun, using a terrain editor which can 
 create mountains, valleys, ravines, etc. (The new types of terrain also permit the construction 
 of hydroelectric dams and water towers.) Necessitated by this new addition is a new viewing engine, 
 which rotates the player's municipality in 90 degree increments, so that new mountaintop university 
 doesn't block your view of the burgeoning slum down below. As the town progresses through the decades, 
 the sheer size and technological sophistication of your creations become more and more outlandish, 
 and the resultant metropolis ends up looking like something out of Blade Runner. It can take quite 
 a while to become familiar with Maxis' Sim series, and even longer to actually succeed at long-term 
 city goals. Once you get beyond the learning curve, however, the cycle of planning, construction 
 and urban renewal leads to a rewarding creation. And, as always, hard-won cities from earlier versions 
 of the game can be imported for alteration and experimentation.   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: the_ghost_ops
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  _
  
  _
  One of the best game that I ever played when i was young and i still own the game!!!!
  _
 
  
  _
  And that how i know the game. Its because my dad friend bought Sim City 3000 and look that i love 
 the game so he gave me Sim City 2000 to pass the time XD. 
  _
  
  _
  And 
 in the game once you know how to do it you win the game each time and get to the big building and 
 then you destroy all the town with disaster and you start over again. And the best disaster is 
 to make a nuclear reactor blow up!!!!
  _
  
  _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4ya
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Sim City 2000 is exactly what you would ask for in a mayor/architectual game and an hours burner. 
 At the Main Menu, if you go to New City it will start you off with some cash depending on the difficulty, 
 time of birth of the city (The newer the date, the more inventions will be out) . Of course, you'll 
 be in an empty wasteland in which you build a city, you're in charge, choose from a small rural 
 town to a huge city, mountainous or flat, wet or dry, river or coast, etc. The hardest part in 
 this game is without a question to make money after spending quite a bit in the beginning. Begin 
 Scenerio allows you do work with a city already in the midst of a disaster like, earthquake, rioting, 
 pollution, monster, hurricane, flood, etc. Edit Terrain is just like Start A New City except you 
 get to edit the land, river or coast, mountainous or flat, etc. The Urban Renewal Kit allows you 
 to edit buildings and build your city by scratch which can take A LOT of time if you plan on building 
 a city the size of New York City, instead of laying out zones (Which you can also do) , you can just 
 put down houses, factories, office buildings, etc. just right that second. Sim City 2000 is without 
 a question worth buying even if you haven't played it. The graphics and sound are a little aged 
 but it was made in 1995 so cut it some slack. Sim City 2000 is definetly the type of game that 
 you will have on your mind when you turn on your computer or decide to pickup a controller, even 
 if you don't want to play it, it's still there, glued to the back of you're mind.
  
  I hope you have the time of you're life playing Sim City 2000, just like I did in the 8 years I 
 have owned it, it is probably one of the first games I have played and I remember cleary my first 
 time playing it and having a blast, I was almost 8 at the time. I am postitive you'll love SIm 
 City 2000, so if you don't have it, buy it. You likely won't have much luck finding it anywhere 
 else but a pawn shop, but if you can find it anywhere, BUY IT!!! It is cheap now probably less 
 than $10, it is pretty old, which could make it easier to find a friend or people pawning it now 
 that they may have a newer Sim City, and for less than $10, you got a steal! I have you liked my 
 review and have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atilaoe23
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  This is the first video game I ever had. A friend gave it to me. It came in a big box along with 
 Sim Copter. The two games were so cool. You could actually make a city in Sim City 2000 and then 
 play it with Sim Copter.
  The graphics for Sim City at the time (1997 was when I got it I think) were great. 
  
  The 
 building look great. More along the line in the future you get some really cool high-tech buildings. 
 The terrain was not that special and the water was basically blue but the game still looked good. 
 
  
  The game play is the same as all the other Sim City's. I still have no idea how to make money. 
 A fun thing with this game are the disasters. Any disaster that you could imagine was there. 
 
  
  With the special edition you got the Urban Renewal Kit that was pretty cool because you could make 
 huge cities and even design buildings.
  
  Overall it was a very fun game that could keep you busy for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic-J-Snake
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  SimCity 2000 is a virtual city building game that has several features to make your dream city! 
 You start off with a randomly generated (or custom made) landscape that features things such as 
 hills, rivers, lakes and mountains. Then you mark out roads, rails and eventually, highways and 
 airports and shipyards. The variety of what you can do is near on limitless! Also there are disasters 
 such as Earthquakes, Floods, Fire Storms just to name a few but you CAN turn them off if they start 
 to get a bit annoying to you. It also has speed settings so you can pause time (not in real life 
 obviously) , slow speed, normal speed, fast speed and, for the Windows version, a super fast speed 
 setting. You could learn a lot about some politics because you play the mayor of whatever you named 
 your city. All in all, I think it's a good game but they could make a SimCity game where you could 
 design the buildings and stuff. Bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I remember when my best friend got this game..... well he got the box and the manual but not the 
 disks until he pulled his grades up. He was telling me about the features and everything and how 
 great everything sounded. Neither of us had played the original Sim City so this game was like 
 a whole new genre to us.
  
  Finally after a couple weeks he got the disks and we were just blown away by this game. At first 
 we had the most fun loading in one of the pre built cities and using the various methods of disaster 
 to story the city. Eventually we would go on to build real cities and see which one could get the 
 most successful city going.
  
  All in all Sim City 2000 is a great game. City management is top notch and the ability to pre build 
 the terrain your city will be laid on is also another great feature. As already mentioned, you 
 can load in pre built city's to either continue/expand their growth or simply just have fun destroying 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Although it appears the sun has set on the SimCity franchise, it was a series that caught many 
 in its spell in the years immediately before and after the turn of the millennium. And whilst my 
 personal favourite of the series was Simcity 3000 / Unlimited, it seems more appropriate to me 
 to give its predecessor a mention in the Memory Lane series as it was the catalyst to my city-building 
 phase of gaming that lasted quite a few years. SimCity 2000 raised the bar considerably on the 
 first title (not surprising given the time between releases and the associated technological advances) 
 and provided a free-form 'cause and effect' sandbox of an environment for gamers to approach as 
 they see fit. And it was not uncommon to find yourself in the wee hours of the morning honing and 
 tinkering your carefully crafted metropolis, such was the absorbing nature of the title.
  
  The graphics were smart and presentable for their time, with a wide range of residential, commercial 
 and industrial structures available as time and technology progressed. These all looked fine for 
 their day and despite that fact you could have a densely populated city, everything seemed to fit 
 in a sensible and ordered way. The interface was simple and unobtrusive and the underground component 
 (usually a tangled mess of piping in my games) was also clear and concise. Graphs, charts and records 
 were all presented in a sensible fashion which kept you in the loop of the issues at hand.
  
  I'm reaching the remember the soundwork, but I do vaguely recall a semi-catchy ditty or two 
 that hummed whilst you played away and a series of ambient noises, that were usually hints of what 
 needed to be actioned in the relevant area. Sound was not expansive but it did the job quite well.
 
  
  The gameplay was both deceptively simple and devilishly deep. What started as a grid of green terrain 
 transformed into a bustling metropolis as your zoned, inserted infrastructure, provided services 
 and imposed ordinances. From there, you just watched the city grow. 
  
  There are three levels of zoning (industrial, residential and commercial) , important utilities 
 (water, roads, electricity and later recycling and public transport) , public services (police, 
 hospitals, government structures  you get the picture) and then the gloss  parks, public interest 
 structures and other bits or eye candy all thrown in to mix as you created your empire. Planning 
 was essential and also took some time to master as poorly placed zoning early on would either restrict 
 the city growth or require some serious razing action  which is never well received by the masses. 
 You have the budget to balance, to keep the sectors of the population happy and to establish trade 
 links as well. 
  
  As a result of all this, there is a significant learning curve to the Simcity franchise and any 
 person creating for the first time would no doubt be daunted with not only the number of options 
 but the amount of interactive maintenance required to keep the place ticking over. One simple oversight 
 (say, not enough water to a residential quadrant or lack of public transport to the commercial 
 sector) pushed the city back years (or hours in game time) as you then had to right the wrong.
 
  
  Ordinances played a key and complex role to the development of your city and ultimately required 
 trade-offs  at times against natural instincts. As in real life, there are competing interests 
 in a growing community and some ordinances (perhaps of the green style) are not appreciated by 
 certain sectors of the community that are all about growth and progression. Add to that the issues 
 of taxes and expenses, and all of a sudden you have some tricky strategic decisions to make.
  
  It is worth noting the in general you don't build the structures. Whilst community based needs 
 are standard, the bulk of the commercial, residential and industrial buildings are created and 
 updated (to more flashy and present buildings if you are doing well, and vice versa) automatically, 
 with the PC simulating a building process. It's a neat touch.
  
  With so much going on at any one time, it was genuinely difficult to keep a tab on all issues at 
 hand, especially once the city hit the high six figure population. At this stage, game speed was 
 probably at turtle-slow, just so you could react to issues quickly and effectively as any pro-active 
 probing was probably out the window by this stage. I was also not a fan of the futuristic buildings 
 that were introduced. It transformed the city from something can probably actually exist to something 
 out of 'Meet The Jetsons'. I also had problems in keeping a busy and growing commercial sector, 
 but that may have more to do with my playing style than any fallacy on the program itself. 
  
  In the end, SimCity 2000 was as open-ended as games came at the time it was released. Ultimately, 
 the only thing this game MADE you do was build a power station at the beginning. The rest was entirely 
 up to you. You could go for the Industrial stronghold, the quiet and peaceful American dream or 
 the difficult and demanding corporate empire. Or anything in between. The little touches that were 
 provided along the way (I always liked to see how my football team fared each year) provided another 
 layer of satisfaction as you built and managed your own city. And then you could summon a tornado 
 to destroy the whole thing. 
  
  In all honesty, I didn't actually own Simcity 2000. It was a free title that came with the PC that 
 my parents had purchased in 1997 - a title they knew nothing of. However, on the long weekends 
 and spare time I spent there for R & R, a reasonable slice of that time over an eighteen month 
 period (a period I was actually without a PC) was building cities with this title.
  
  SimCity 2000 was great introduction into city building games and was where this revered franchise 
 started to spread its wings. There were still some wrinkles to be ironed out and it wasn't a game 
 for everyone, but for those who wanted to create and watch the effects of that creation, this was 
 as good as it got over a decade ago.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prtofdacrowd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply addictive, you want aliens you got it, you want big pixelate fires that spread 
 rapidly, thats there to, you want to have no clue what to do, you guessed it, its in this game
 
  
  Never understood this game as such as it was very hard to know what to do or even get anyone to 
 come live in your currently multi coloured town with just roads and power plants.
  
  Still the path of destruction is a fun one to take in this game with tornadoes to aliens to nuclear 
 holocost, this game is still being played by me-llions of people today, instant classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bakalou
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  From my early computer gaming days, I remember this game as one of the few games I actually liked 
 and played almost nonstop. SimCity 2000 even allowed you to cheat by allowing you to design a city 
 partially before even playing with the city in the real game mode. Out of any sim from Maxis I've 
 played, this one's by far the best. Far better than its prequel (SimCity, obiviously!) , SimCity 
 2000 was even a little bit better than the SimCity that came after it (appropriately named SimCity 
 3000) . I mean, what other city sim allowed you to draw your own entirely new building? It's quite 
 possibly the best classic sim ever made and definitely the game that gives Maxis the right to enter 
 the gaming arena. Enough said about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspirini
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  Very nice game without being boring and full of silly videos etc.
  It needs to think a lot of your next moves and if u really try hard u
  can get millions of people 
 at your town. Too bad u cant do it at
  Simcity 3 and 4. You organize your power plants , your water ( pumps)
  structures and channels 
 and then u start building your town just like
  u want it. I love that u can set diffrent zones and c them growing . For sure this is a nice old 
 game that several people really loved
  and still have cool things to say about :) It is really amazing h a game
  can make u play it 
 hours and hours without having GBs of videos
  and sound which really don't mean much at new games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurse_tsunami
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 28, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  I can't count how many hours I've wasted in SC2K tweaking my cities so that they were just so! 
 It made the jump from a 2D environment in the first game to 3D and looks very good for it. There 
 are many new options available for building, including new road options. The graphics, while now 
 of course dated by today's standards, were quite good at the time. A few things I didn't care for 
 in the game were the lack of variety in buildings and the necessity at later stages to use futuristic 
 super habitats to raise your city up. All in all, if you ever stumble across a copy and want to 
 peak at the SC line's past, I'd give it a whirl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Sim city 2000 is easy to get in to. When you play this game the first time it's the most fun, especially 
 if you are figuring it out on your own. You get to build and manage your own city. This is a lot 
 of fun and very addictive. You also get to put a metro (subways) in the ground and there is much 
 satisfaction in planning, building and seeing it work. You also have to buy police stations, fire 
 stations, schools, hospitals, prisons and lots more. This time you see your city in 3d from a birdlike 
 perspective, it's really nice, especially in 1995. The game plays easy, you can do it all with 
 the mouse and it's easy to control. At a certain point though, if everything went well, your city 
 is being consumed by these Jetsons-like futuristic skyscrapers. This is the last step of the city's 
 growth and it makes every game you start end up more or less the same. This, plus that you might 
 want to have a social life, makes that the game doesn't have much replay value. Anyway, the first 
 game is a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomasp94
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 10, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Yes I know there was a SimCity Classic but in my opinion SimCity 2000 was the start of the Sim 
 catagory of games. This classic was the first to have a 3d map, you weren't just looking strait 
 down anymore. The graphics were awesome for the day. The fact that you could start your city from 
 nothing, turn it into a raging metropolis, and then destroy it with natural disasters was great. 
 I could sit and play this game all nite. Maybe that was why I never got my homework done! If you 
 have never played SimCity 2000 take the time to get it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 5, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Before the popularity of The Sims franchise, there was SimCity. SimCity 2000 was essentially the 
 same as its predecessors, the player assumed the roles of all the officials who would typically 
 inhabit a city hall in his pursuit to create a successful town.
  
  The game starts with open land, which the player can customize with hills, mountains, and waterways. 
 Then the fun starts as roads can be laid, and buildings can be built.
  
  The player controls all aspects of the city, establishing a tax base, and building the necessary 
 infrastructure, to include police and fire stations, hospitals, schools, and electric power stations.
 
  
  The player must also create businesses, so the residents of the city will have jobs.
  
  After the city is thriving, various disasters will occur, including fires, tornadoes, and riots. 
 After the disaster has passed, the player must rebuild the damaged areas of the city.
  
  SimCity 2000 was a fun game, and was very easy to become immersed in. Later releases offered more 
 options and had better graphics, but SimCity 2000 was a good purchase when it was first released 
 in 1995. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rambolito
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 18, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I recall to have spent some time to find out how to start off once the game was installed, I didn't 
 have the booklet and internet was still in it's infancy. So clicking and trying eventually learned 
 me to build a plant first after which I could start designing my own city.
  
  I suppose I don't have to explain what the game is about. Your progress is shown from a 3D top-view, 
 which you can rotate or zoom in or out on. Make sure that roads don't have dead ends, try to connect 
 them to neighbour cities so your population can increase (or they all can flee) . Keep your people 
 happy by building a library, university or a park, etc. Increase your business by building a harbour 
 and airport.
  
  At first don't make your city too large with long roads and tracks, the maintenance costs will 
 kill you. Tip: Switch off 'Disasters', I hated to see how an alien attack destroyed half my city!
 
  
  The graphics are detailed en looking good, everything looks best when zoomed out. Sound is ok. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goliath_unit
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 8, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  SimCity, a very popular city builder game franchise, and arguably one of the most addictive games 
 of all time. Many SimCity fans just get hooked on for hours. It is just so hard to imagine why 
 this game is addicting, it just is. I'll take a look at the second installment, SimCity 2000.
 
  
  SimCity 2000 allows you to start a city either in 1900, 1950, 2000 or 2050, with different technology 
 in each. You first must lay down your Power Plant, then roads, jobs and houses, as well as many 
 more buildings to get your city up and running, while avoiding major issues like crime and bankrupcy. 
 Choosing what buildings you put down can change your city. For example, lets say that you're cheap, 
 and choose to build no Fire Stations, Hospitals, Police Stations, Schools etc. Though your city 
 will be weak in those categories, and maybe a lower population, you will still have a strong city 
 as far as money goes. Put those down, it may be vise versia. There is enough replay value in this 
 game to make it worth the money. You can build a city that you would want to have a large population, 
 you may want a small town with a low population, or you just may want a town suitable for tourists.
 
  
  With all this replay value in, the Learning Curve also jumps in. It may sound easy, but the learning 
 curve may be long for some people. You may not know everything that works for the city. You may 
 not know how to get people in your city. You may not know how to get your zones fully prepared 
 for full population. That said, once you get past it, it is just a very simple game that you will 
 enjoy.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for it's time, but then again not overly great. Some of the buildings 
 designs are done well, will a good amount of 2D detail. However, some aren't so pretty. You will 
 notice that the ground has no detail in it at all. It is just a flat, light brown plain. Also, 
 fire doesn't look like fire at all. It just looks like a red and orange blob that's spiky. Nevertheless, 
 most of the game's art is still done quite well.
  
  As for the sound, that is where SimCity 2000 trips on the wire. I face many problems with the sound. 
 I hate it when a game is dead silent, but when the sound is turned on as well as the music, it 
 is just too loud to listen to, and it isn't pleasant to listen to either. They are just loud, repetative, 
 soundtrack. Also, the sound effects aren't worth listening to either. The destruction of buildings 
 is one of the games worst sound effects, and when you've got a massive hurricane coming through, 
 the sound is as annoying as it can get in any game you've played. Yes, there are many flaws in 
 the sound.
  
  Also, there is a sense of unrealism in the game, especially when it comes to disasters and newspapers. 
 First, your Power Plants blow up 50 years. Like, come on. Do you hear on the news that the power 
 plant is going to explode in one year? What would happen if a nuclear power plant exploded? When 
 a hurricane comes in, you will notice that buildings blow up from water. Most hurricanes destroy 
 buildings with high winds, and just basically screw up buildings. Also, there are many, many mistakes 
 in the newspapers. Lets say that a tornado goes through open land. In the newspaper, it says that 
 it swirled in the heart of your town, causing millions of dollars in damage and a thousand deaths. 
 Wow, I never knew about the invisible town that was there. I really didn't. Also, when they publish 
 something about an earthquake, it would say the scale was was 143, while the highest is actually 
 12. Also, it will say a story about 8000 people dying in Chicago due to a tornado, yet when you 
 open up the story, it says no one died, but 8000 people got injured. What if they published that 
 in a newspaper. In spite of this, the game has enough positives to it to keep the score higher.
 
  
  There are also missions you can play. Some are real and some are fake natural disasters. You will 
 find some like Hurricane Andrew, Hugo, San Francisco earthquake of 1989 and many more. You must 
 take over the city and get it to a set goal. Even though the goals are repetative, these may be 
 worth playing. However, they do not cash in full addiction, so this may not be the best for most 
 people, and just stick to normal mode.
  
  But in the end, SimCity 2000 is a highly addicting game that should keep you hooked for a good 
 long while. The graphics may not look clean, and you may hate the sound, but this game still keeps 
 in many positives to keep it enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enjoi291
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 23, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  I have had this game for many years, i must say, i havent ever got bored of it, i can play it days 
 on end, the qoute "the ultimate sim" goes well with this game, and many people can agree.
  
  Although graphics are on the iffy side, you will have great fun, creating, destroying, and 
 fixing up your very own city, watch your city prgress into a major capital of the world, i HIGHLY 
 recommend this game.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game is AMAZING, you will have fun for hours on end, and it is a 
 game in which everyone will enjoy, i can tell you that much, please buy or rent this game!
  
  (ps. kind of short, but it gets the point across, check out my other reviews for more in-depth 
 reviews) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted to be the mayor of a sprawling city? Wait, ever wanted to be a god-like figure in a 
 sprawling city? Even though that sentence sounds bizarre SimCity 2000 places you in the game as 
 the "mayor" but in fact the game provides much more variety when it comes to what you can do. This 
 game is rooted in cement as the best game in the serious, a sleek game that was beautiful for it's 
 release date, and an engine that allowed you to keep track of all the problems and various different 
 situations that the game could present.
  
  SimCity 2000 is a charm to look at. Despite the fact that cars look like little matchboxes zooming 
 around on square wheels, which could theoretically cause some horrendous accidents, everything 
 is pretty and sharp. Pixelage and graininess is minimal, and the colors are fresh and vibrant. 
 Although you never see people waltzing along on the streets of your City, buildings are presented 
 with clearness, allowing you to tell what everything is. Some effects are static and bizarre, like 
 the animation of a giant robotic eye; its level of articulation is akin to that of a dead spider. 
 Never-the-less SimCity is a beautiful game, although zooming in as close as possible might cause 
 some loss of retinal activity.
  
  Sound is minimal but satisfactory; you'll hear everything you need to hear. The music is altogether 
 another problem, something like the sound of a man wailing while a dog rolls around on a keyboard 
 with a harmonica strapped to his back. The first instinct is to turn the music off as quickly as 
 possible, and it's a wise thing to do.
  
  Now back to the pros, you'll hear your city move, trains go woo (or some such) , cars beep, factories 
 let loose some well created sound, and most importantly, the sound of destruction is satisfying 
 and pleasing, everything from a common fire to a giant tornado, even a stray alien invasion.
  
  This game is fun. That was a short statement that sums up most of what you'll be doing in SimCity. 
 The only problem is that it does grow old, lack of variety in the gameplay wears out the longetivity 
 of the game, but you'll enjoy what you get for a long time. The interface is easy to navigate, 
 not a confusing maze of buttons that threaten to ruin your city with a single click. Building is 
 controlled by tabs and clicking. Advisors allow the newbies a little room to learn as they play 
 the game the first time around, as the game does require some practice to master. Disasters all 
 have solutions in some form or another, building sufficient fire stations will douse any fires 
 in example. Keeping your citizens happy will be a high priority, this can be done with safety and 
 recreational activities, like building parks, which brings up another feature of the game; It's 
 easy to tell what will do what, factories will provide income, parks will provide "happiness" and 
 so on. Overall SimCity 2000 is an easy and fun game to play, although you do need to take a few 
 games to familiarize yourself with it.
  
  SimCity is highly recommended for those who enjoy building Sims; otherwise it isn't much of a choice 
 for others who prefer action-oriented games (which a large percentage of gamers indeed do) . But 
 take a try anyway as it will be certain to please you to some extent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 27, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  It may not have the graphics and the city sounds that the games that followed did, but Sim City 
 2000 had all the elements that have made the series great.
  
  The object of the game is to build a successful city. You can choose to start from the ground up 
 or select a premade map and expand on it. You construct highways, roads, residential, commerical, 
 industrial, and city structures like parks and police departments. There are natural disasters 
 that occur like earthquakes and alien attacks.
  
  The game is a little flawed in the frame rate when there is a lot going on screen, but it is solid 
 and just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SEEDman_X
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 2, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  
  I cannot understand why GP only gave it a 7.2. This game is way underrated in my opinion. It has 
 amazing graphic and game play. Most importantly, the fun level that it created was far beyond the 
 other ones in the series.
  
  In my opinion, this is the most addicting SIM game of all time. I can only remember the countless 
 hours that I spent playing this game. The newer ones do offer better graphic. However, in the same 
 time the gameplay and fun factor did not have the great leap forward that some players were expecting 
 to see. 
  
  Over all, I give it a 9.4! Definitely a game on my top 10 list of all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FronzenShock987
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 26, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  Yay, finally I've got one of the oldest and the most popular Sim City game. At first I thought 
 it would suck but when I played it, It has changed my mind!
  
  Ok, first of all this game is about constructing your own city. Making your city popular, earning 
 money, and spending them on buildings. Very exciting once you've have built your own city. But 
 very hard to construct your own city. Usually take about a few days to built a fully city. The 
 only thing that I hate about this game, is the earthquake, buildings getting on fire, and the UFO 
 attack! Really annoying! But when you turn them off, it makes the game less boring.
  
  The only way to improve this game to be a 10.0, is to change the UFO attacks, building getting 
 on fire, and the earthquake, to robbers. The robbers I'm talking about is making your city less 
 popular. Or unlocking some secret buildings ( which was not on the list of my problems) . 
  
  But still one of the best game ever. Your dream to be a president is now unlocked! But not 
 a president for a country! Hope everyone enjoys this game more than me! Very fun game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalsound00
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  an extremely well put together game. complete freedom of everything - building the terrain, the 
 streets within the city, the zoning (being careful to keep all sims happy) . 
  
  this game lacked nothing at it's time, now we've got updated everything for the sims, and it's 
 still great, but this was the classic. i never considered the first sim city to be anything too 
 admirable, even though it broke the glass and started it all. But as for the 3D viewing and extensive 
 detail of gritty necessity of building an actual 'city', simcity 2000 owned it.
  
  my marks in school dropped because of this attraction 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fistfull_of_me
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the first computer games I ever played. I wasn't really old enough to understand 
 the mayoral duties or any of that stuff. I did understand, however, how to make my cities look 
 really cool. Now that i've grown up, and played many a 'Sim' game, i understand what its like to 
 become a maroy and either destroy, or let my city thrive.
  
  'Sim City 2000' lets you change the whole landscape to how you want it to look. You can make hills, 
 rivers, valleys and pretty much any bump or lump you can think of.
  
  There are more buildings to choose from this time around. You can get better colledges, fire stations 
 and police stations. You can make marinas, tunnels, power plants, and even make huge highways. 
 
  
  The sound is great, the background music can get a bit irratating, but i guess thats to keep you 
 fro playing too long. There are sounds for when you build a structure and sounds for when ou smash 
 with the bulldozer tool.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for an early sim game such as this. you can rotate the camera so you 
 can see almost every angle of you great city. so now nothing is blocked out by big buildings anymore.
 
  
  There is enough in this game to keep you coming back for years to come. This is a true gem and 
 you shouldn't miss it for the world, or the city for that matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThieveryCo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Sim City was one of the first game I played on the PC, when I was too young to understands all 
 the management aspects of a city and the impacts of my decisions on the game. But when Sim City 
 2000 came out, I was older and had more experienced in my backpack. This is when I really discovered 
 what Sim City was all about. Also, this game let you build your zones with customizable sizes instead 
 of standard rectangles that you could just flip around. Many new features were also available, 
 like building subways and bus stops. This game is totally awesome and is a great game everyone 
 should try. You get addicted really fast to this game and just can't stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globenstein
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Simcity 2000 is a classic, a real one. Once you start playing this game, you won't be able to leave.
 
  
  The gameplay is fantastic. You can edit the terrain in any way you like: valleys, mountains, islands, 
 rivers or even volcanoes! 
  The variety of buildings is not immense but you'll love the feeling of building and imagining the 
 city of your dreams.
  There is also the evolution of time, which allows you new features as time passes such as new power 
 plants, airports, subways and also new buildings from a city hall to a futuristic arcology.
  
  Many disasters can also be encountered and dealt with from worker's riots to alien attacks. 
 But if you prefer the calm of construction only, you may also deactivate the option.
  
  The graphics are okay. What can be disappointing is you cant really zoom in into your city. Also 
 the music can get quite annoying but the sounds can really add life to the decor of your town.
 
  
  In overall, I'd say this game was and is still very innovative. In my opinion, SimCity 2000 deserves 
 to be the best of the series and a true classic for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kq167
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This game was a surprise to me. I bought this game in garage sale for $2. Before I even Innstalled 
 it on my computer I judged the game. Thinking that for a political game (i hate politics) I would 
 hate it. I installed it and to me surprise it was simply amazing. the sound and graphics may not 
 be perfect but the gameplay was astonishing. Just the fact of building and fixing my own city was 
 amazing.
  
  The first thing I did was making myself the richest person alive with a cheat. Usually cheats take 
 out the fun in the game. But not in this one. Being able to fill up the hole map with all the money 
 in the world was amazing. It took me about two weeks but it was worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 21, 2004 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Wow.. SIMCity 2000 really took a step forward for the SC games. SC2K is one of the 
 greatest SC games to ever be made, despite its low graphics. SC2K was the next step up after the 
 original SC game, and did an incredible job of helping to bring this gaming legend to life.
  
  Gameplay: As with the other SC games, it is up to you as Mayor to build up a mighty, fluroushing 
 city with your own 2 hands. You build a powerplant to power your city, water pumps to deliver water 
 to its populous, fill the city with roads so the Sims can get around, and begin building homes, 
 stores, workplaces, police stations, fire departments, airports, everything that the Sims want 
 and need in a city. You can alter the fund information, such as how much money the police department 
 needs to operate, etc, to save on the cities money, and you can consult a team of experts as to 
 how you should improve your city, or what your doing wrong. SC2K is a very fun game, and as with 
 the other SIM games, you can get highly addicted to it.
  
  Story: ... havent you been paying attention? Its a SIM game, you dont need a story. Just build your 
 city to your hearts desire.
  
  Graphics and Sound: Well, the graphics. I have to admit, as low-tech as the graphics are, they 
 work so well with this game. Your entire view of the city is an overhead-corner diagonal view ( 
 your looking diagonally down from one of the corners of the city ) , which allows 3D-ish building 
 structure in a 2-D enviroment. For the sounds, there isnt much from the theme and the small effect 
 when you plop down something or bulldoze something else.
  
  Replayability: Damn right. SC2K doesnt require much in the way of system resources as it was made 
 around '98, and due to its highly addictiveness, this will surely be a game you'll play many times, 
 just to perfect that favorite city.
  
  Final Recommendation: After careful review, i give SIMCity 2000 a 9/10. Its a great, classic game, 
 that will entertain even the highest level of gamer. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
