-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SimCity 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/simcity4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 15, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 8.5, 51 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 4,329 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Modern City-Building
Date:     Jan 12, 2003
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though not as polished as it could have been, SimCity 4 is still a complex and detailed strategy 
 game that can entertain you for hours on end. 

 Long before game designer Will Wright created the best-selling computer game of all time, The Sims, 
 he created SimCity, an innovative game with a clear, compelling premise: You're the mayor, and 
 your goal is to plan a city from the ground up (and from a godlike vantage point) and then nurture 
 it, eventually turning what starts as a sleepy little town into a bustling metropolis. SimCity 
 was challenging and plausibly realistic and even had a surprising amount of humor, especially for 
 a game with a seemingly mundane subject. About 15 years have passed since the original SimCity 
 was first released, and while the classic SimCity series is still well known among PC gamers, it 
 has only reached its fourth full installment. And SimCity 4 for the most part isn't a huge departure 
 from its predecessors, either, not that it really needs to be. The game does have a number of new 
 features and a few additional layers of depth on top of the preceding SimCity 3000, and its visuals 
 have been impressively overhauled. However, due to the presence of some stability and performance 
 issues, as well as a few noticeably lacking features, SimCity 4 doesn't seem as polished as it 
 could have been. On the other hand, it's still a complex and detailed strategy game that can entertain 
 you for hours on end and even teach you a thing or two.           SimCity 4 is similar to its predecessors, 
 but it offers a number of interesting new features.    

  One of the biggest changes to the gameplay of SimCity 4 is evident from the start. Immediately 
 as you begin the game, you're presented with a view of SimNation, though it's not much of a nation 
 at first. SimNation is divided up into numerous smaller square segments, yet each of these in fact 
 can hold an entire city of your making. These cities can even interact to some extent, exchanging 
 surplus energy, water, and such for cash. At any rate, getting started is as easy as clicking on 
 any SimNation square, naming your city, and appointing yourself as mayor, and you're off. But before 
 you begin, you may wish to take the step-by-step tutorials of the game's mayor modethe heart 
 of SimCity 4and the god mode, where you can terraform the land to your heart's content, 
 making the terrain as flat, as hilly, as undulating, or as improbably strange as you like. It's 
 easy to use the terrain-morphing tools found in this mode, and while it's perfectly viable to just 
 pick one of the ready-made territories to start your city in, it's tempting and straightforward 
 to custom-tailor your own.  

  Once you decide it's time to get started with your city, you may find the early going to be very 
 familiar if you've played any of the previous SimCity games. You'll start by plopping down a power 
 plant, preferably one that doesn't create too much pollution, and then laying down some residential, 
 industrial, and commercial zones, then giving them some time to incubate. Laying out zones is as 
 easy as dragging rectangles using your mouse, but SimCity 4 tries to make things even easier on 
 you by automatically inserting streets, giving larger zones a gridlike pattern. This is a mixed 
 blessing, since these auto-built streets often don't line up as you try to construct adjacent zones, 
 leaving your city with bits of wasted space here and there, at least until you get used to dealing 
 with this feature. And since city maps in SimCity 4 are smaller overall than in previous SimCity 
 gamesprobably a necessary limitation due to the fine level of detail you'll see down to 
 individual houses and simsthat wasted space could be a big missed opportunity for your city. 
 Plus all the extra roads can really hose your budget early on. The auto-roads feature really should 
 have been optional.           You'll have to start small, but think big.    

  As in SimCity 3000, the three zone types each have several different density options, so light-density 
 residential zones are likely to sprout small houses or low-income apartments, while high-density 
 residential zones could turn into tall, fancy condominiums. Denser zones are costlier to put in 
 place but pack in more people, which means more tax dollars. But in SimCity 4, it pays to start 
 slow. The early going can be very challenging at first (and there are no difficulty options available 
 to ameliorate this) , as you'll naturally wish to immediately add all the amenities you'd want in 
 a city: running water, schools, hospitals, police stations, or a football field. At any rate, a 
 fledgling town needs only the basics, and a continuously updating news ticker that's part of the 
 interface will keep you informed about whether your sim population needs anything you're not already 
 providing. You'll eventually get a feel for how to get people coming into your town without driving 
 your budget too far into the red. The goal, of course, is to make your newly established city profitable 
 as soon as possible, since that's when you can start expanding in earnest and finally afford that 
 hospital or police station you've always wanted next to your football field.  

  Having to contend with the constantly shifting demand for the three zone types while continuously 
 adding better services and transportation options for your population and while also keeping an 
 eagle eye on your monthly budget adds up to some involving gameplay. SimCity 4, like its predecessors, 
 succeeds at being an active, hands-on game where there's usually something interesting you can 
 be doing. Even if you're waiting to rake in a certain amount of funds, you can use that time as 
 an opportunity to scrutinize the many different statistics and charts available to you or to correspond 
 with your various advisors on how to proceed. Or you can use the handy query tool to click around 
 your city, gleaning all kinds of information, including a few amusingly pointless statistics. You 
 can even just sit back and observe your city at the closest zoom level. See those crime-scene-style 
 chalk outlines near your football field? Those mean you probably should spring for a new police 
 station thereabouts. All this is not to say SimCity 4 is a fast-paced game, because you can play 
 it at the rate you want. It's possible to pause the action outright and build as much as necessary 
 before starting the clock back up, and you can freely switch between three different game-speed 
 settings.    

 SimCity 4 has a sleek, attractive interface that's highly reminiscent of the one found in The Sims. 
 Though all the different buttons are unlabeled and not necessarily intuitive, detailed pop-up tooltips 
 appear when you float your mouse cursor over any of the options, and it won't be long before you 
 figure out where everything is. Just as the interface effectively lays out all the information 
 and building options you need to be the best mayor, the game itself now grants you a much finer 
 level of control over some aspects of your city. As in previous SimCity games, you can raise and 
 lower the tax rate to bring in more money or increase demand. However, taxes now are broken down 
 first by the three zone types and then by economic class, meaning you can opt to heavily tax your 
 arrogant high-tech industries while giving your humble farmers a break, and so on. Additionally, 
 as in previous SimCity games, you can adjust the budgets for your police and fire departments and 
 such, but now you're able to do this locally as well as globally. Does that inner-city precinct 
 have a lot more on its hands than that suburban one? Then you can probably afford to cut the latter's 
 budget, but maybe not the former's. To some extent, the game now forces you to micromanage your 
 city in such a fashion, though it isn't strictly necessary.           If your budget's in the red, 
 you can always summon a rampaging giant robot to take your mind off things.    

  SimCity 4 also lets you spring up a volcano in the middle of your downtown, for all it cares. Like 
 previous games in the series, disasters are very much a part of SimCity 4 and are liable to strike 
 at any time, especially some of the more plausible ones like fires and riots. Unfortunately there's 
 no option to disable random disasters from happening, so expect your big cities to catch fire often, 
 even if you have lots of fire departments in place. Instigating these terrible events yourself 
 is also possible via a handy disaster menu. The game's rather brief manual suggests that you can 
 opt to play the game as sort of a cruel dictator, raining down fire and brimstone whenever your 
 sims displease you, but really the only right way to play SimCity 4 is to play it straight and 
 do what's right. Sure, you can get yourself into serious debt and then take up an offer to build 
 a toxic waste dump in your town to help foot the bill, but you'll just end up paying a bigger price 
 later on. Goofing around with disasters or blowing all your money on a Hollywood sign can be a 
 fun diversion, but it isn't really the point of the game.   

  Neither is the new MySim mode, which lets you import your characters from The Sims into the bigger 
 world of this game. It's true that you can gain a lot of useful information about your city by 
 transplanting one or more sims into homes of your choosing, as they'll frequently provide constructive 
 criticism through the news ticker, but why follow one little person around when you've got 50,000 
 of them that need taking care of? As such, the MySim mode seems like an afterthought. The game 
 also promises cooperative multiplayer support, but this isn't actually ready yet. Experienced SimCity 
 players might also go in expecting to have numerous prebuilt cities available from the get-go, 
 as well as stand-alone scenario options, but none of this is present in the game. The game does 
 include regions modeled after real-world locations like San Francisco, New York, and Berlin, yet 
 these are almost entirely barren landscapes -- you'll need to build the actual cities yourself. Previous 
 SimCity games also included challenging scenarios, such as having to deal with the aftermath of 
 San Francisco's devastating 1906 earthquake. However, SimCity 4 offers only the standard free-form 
 game mode. You'll of course be able to download plenty of player-created cities, but it's somewhat 
 disappointing that the game itself seems rather bare-bones.           The MySim mode lets you import 
 characters from The Sims and see how they deal with big-city life.    

  It also seems rather rushed, in that you'll likely run into obvious performance issues during play. 
 At worst, the game might not even boot up -- incompatibility with the anti-aliasing features of certain 
 video cards can cause this to happen. Crashes to desktop also aren't entirely uncommon, and graphical 
 glitches crop up from time to time. Plus the game just runs sluggishly as you start to really build 
 up, penalizing you rather than rewarding you for managing to build a big city. Though you'll witness 
 some incredibly detailed graphics at the closest zoom level, transitions between zoom levels are 
 ungainly, and you'll see a mosaic effect gradually wash over the screen. The game's camera can 
 also be unusually unresponsive while you scroll around your city.   

  SimCity 4 really does look impressive otherwise, and there's a lot of variety and a lot of funny 
 little details to be seen. This is the first SimCity game that lets you see your city at night 
 as well as during daylight hours, though you still won't get any seasonal effects, unless you count 
 tornados. The game also sports a lot of really great audio that gets more and more detailed the 
 closer you zoom in to street level, while a surprisingly good soundtrack consisting of a variety 
 of jazz-inspired tunes plays in the background.   

  SimCity 4 has one of the highest pedigrees of any PC game and does a fine job overall of living 
 up to its name. It's too bad that some players will invariably get soured on the experience due 
 to some of the bugs and the missing or underdeveloped features and options. But most will find 
 in SimCity 4 a deep and enjoyable strategy game that's flexible enough to be played at any pace 
 and entertaining enough for all audiences.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (85 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kevinjia32
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I usually badmouth games that really are poor, but to be honest, I almost have nothing to say about 
 SimCity 4 that's bad. 
  
  I've played this game hours and hours and hours, year after year, since I have bought the game 
 in 2005. I will say this right now. You will never get bored, unless you know what you are doing.
 
  
  Somethings that Simcity 4 has to offer is gameplay. You will not get bored if you know what you 
 are doing. This game, takes hours, after hours of planning, your city unfolds infront of your eyes. 
 From humble beginings such as small houses, or low apartments, to HUGE corporations such as, Barthelet 
 Corp. Chong Inc. or even monsters such as Pedriana Pharmeceuticals. I can not say anything about 
 the gameplay. It's simply excellent.
  
  Graphics. For a game that came out in 2003, the graphics are quite nice. Enough said.
  
  Longevity. 
 Once you start, you don't stop, you can build and build and build, each time with a different twist. 
 Bored? Download some different lots from hundreds of websites with over 2 trilabytes full of downloads.
 
  
  Polish. This is the only part that I am not satisfied with. There arn't any prebuild huge cities, 
 unlike SimCity 3000, no scenarios or stuff. 
  
  Overall, this game is excellent if you are great with economics. Trying to balance books, expeneditures 
 etc... I give it 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theafiguy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  Sim City 4 is the most recent [numbered] game in the Sim City series. Although certain aspects 
 on the series are no longer in tact, this game is a massive improvement on 3000/3000 unlimited. 
 Being a huge fan of the series, I hard a very hard time getting into the game being so used to 
 the interface with 3000 and 2000 but after I got a hold of it I found it to be more rewarding that 
 other of the past installments.
  
  The most obvious new feature is the Regional View, where you can see multiple cities in the Region 
 [basically a nation] where all of the cities are laid out in their glorious beauty. There are three 
 different city sizes, they are slightly smaller than previous versions but it's a better thing. 
 Instead of building rapidly as before, you actually have to build fairly slowly unless you've got 
 the formula down to a science. Choosing the right city size also means that you have to build the 
 right kind of city in them; the smaller cities are more useful for suburban and industrial areas. 
 Medium cities work very well for Manufacturing and some larger business districts; then the larger 
 cities work perfectly for high tech and high rise office buildings.
  
  Once you actually choose your city then you are introduced to the God Mode. The use of the terraforming 
 tools in this mood lets you build the land of the city as you want it for free, until you exit 
 it. It pays off to spend a good 10-15 minutes in just that mode to make the land just as you want 
 it. If you just want a barren landscape then you got it, if you want mountainous terrain with lots 
 of treesdone. There are a surprising amount of options that you can run through with God Mode.
 
  
  Once you get into the Mayor Mode then you can actually start creating your city. One of the first 
 things that I noticed was the fact that there were a lot of different versions of civic buildings. 
 There are about 4 police stations and 2 kinds of jails and 3 forms of fire protection buildings. 
 When it comes to the education buildings, there's an almost ridiculous amount of options. Most 
 are locked in the beginning but once you get further into the game then you'll begin to unlock 
 larger schools. The main difference with the schools is that there is actually a difference between 
 Elementary, High, and College schools available. 
  
  There are still the normal 3 different zone densities, with the notable exception of Industrial 
 who now has 4 different forms, agriculture now being separate from the rest of the industry zones. 
 It's a lot harder to actually get high density zones to actually work in the game on smaller cities. 
 The greatest thing is about this game, if you like complexity, is that the way that you lay your 
 buildings out actually affects the way that your zones develop. Almost every single thing that 
 you do in the game will have an adverse affect on another part of your city. I have found though 
 that sometimes, one formula will work in a city, but if you do the exact same thing in another 
 city of the same size it won't work. It's a good way to keep you on your toes but it is kind of 
 frustrating. 
  
  In SC4 there is a much more refined taxing system than in SC3, not to mention that not many people 
 actually bother you saying that taxes are too high unless you almost never adjust them. You can 
 adjust more and more to the certain people of the city rather than just residential, commercial, 
 and industrial. You can tweak the taxes to where the rich pay more and the poor pay less. It's 
 a better way to refine the system so that the city will develop just how you want it. The amount 
 of information that you have available at your disposal is almost overbearing, you can monitor 
 practically anything that you could think of. The only one thing you'll notice in the information 
 systems is that traffic is almost impossible to alleviate once you start building avenues. 
  
  The graphics in the game are absolutely stunning. Once zoomed in you can really see the detail 
 and beauty in each in every city. There are enough building styles to where you'll be surprised 
 a lot through your first few cities, beyond that it's all about making the greatest city to ever 
 happen on the earth. However this is the obvious problem with game as wellyou'll find that scrolling 
 around the city will cause some serious graphical dips. There's an almost mosaic effect at first, 
 similar to the problems in Mass Effect with its bump mapping. 
  
  Sim City 4 is a great improvement and a very amazing offering to the Sim City series. It's not 
 an entry level game but if you've played Sim City 3000 or even any one before that then you'll 
 have enough of a grasp on the game and how its played. With the better graphics and the incredible 
 amount of depth, this is [in my opinion] the best Sim City game to ever be coded onto a disc.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kludermor
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  This is definitely not an action game, but there is so much to do if you like city planing.
  
  It can be a little difficult for newcomers and it takes some patience to learn and master. 
 But when you do, you can do whatever you want: Build you own home town, make a dull farm town, 
 build a bussing metropolis. The choice is yours.
  You set your own goals and work on your city to reach them, and then set new goals. The downside 
 is, that you never really finish the game.
  
  The different Sim City communities on the net, gives you the possibility to tweak and expand the 
 game for years to come. There is tons of content to download for free, and you can create your 
 own content to share with others. If you get stuck or need adwise, there is always someone to help 
 in the forums.
  
  The game is now more than 4 years old, but the graphics still seems nice and crisp. And you really 
 need a modern computer to run the largest cities with all the details on max. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mInDsHiFtEr
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  The first thing to note about this simulation is the amount of governmental knowledge you can learn. 
 It challenges you to not only understand the dynamics of city planning and management, but to utilize 
 the understanding of residential, commercial, and industrial growth in order to structure a city 
 that produces the most efficient market. 
  
  This game has three modes of play with each containing a variety of tools and functions for it's 
 central purpose. They include God, Mayor, and Sim Mode. 
  
  God Mode allows for you to design the terrain to your own liking with tools such as valleys, mountains, 
 canyons, etc. It also allows you to create disasters if you feel the urge. Mayor Mode includes 
 several city features of which fall into one of the seven basic categories for building and maintaining 
 a city. The seven categories include landscaping, zoning, transportation, utilities, civilities, 
 landmarks, and parks. Within each of these categories are several structures to strategically place 
 around the area based on it's function and/or value. The only drawback I can protest to in this 
 mode is the inability to rotate structures when placing around other objects or spaces. Really 
 limits the control of the game, and putting it lightly, makes you want to blow your brains out. 
 This mode also has a panel for analyzing your city's supply and demand. This is a lot more useful 
 than one would think. Sim mode is the simplest of the three modes, but a pretty unexpected addition 
 to the game's focus for creating a city atmosphere. It does, however, have a unique quality with 
 lots of potential for future Sims. Basically, it allows a player to create their own individual 
 person. They can tell you how well they're maintaining their job status, so you can have a more 
 specific idea where to take your city. This mode also allows for the operation of certain vehicles, 
 and exploring various missions for that type of vehicle. I, personally, like the helicopters, but 
 they all get old fast. 
  
  Overall, a pretty in-depth game that will keep you entertained for hours-on-end with its vast array 
 of tools that allow for a nearly endless manipulation of city design. The limitations on structure 
 placement and blurred graphics when zoomed in make it a less than vivid experience, but well worth 
 the $20.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  If you ever wondered how is the feeling to be a mayor, you should play this game.
  It is the greatest simulation of all time, and mainly the greatest SIM game of all.
  For some 
 players it's hard to keep the budget up above zero, but for me it was not the problem. I'm not 
 that kind of guy who spends all of his money on stupid and useless things. Your money should be 
 spent careful and useful.
  In this game I like the music. Not much, but it is very good. The sounds are not bad. The gameplay, 
 like I said, for me it was easy, but for the most of the players the game is hell.
  
  Everybody should try to play this game! It is like Hide-and-seek on PC, must be played at least 
 ONCE :D: D!
  
  For difficulty I'd say very easy: I played once, in a smallest of all blocks (when choosing territory) , 
 I had budget of more than a 5.000.000 simoleons, in +5.000 monthly, and had Enormous buildings 
 like skyscrapers, university, and had 2.000.000 citizens in the small block!
  
  I played it for more than 200 hours.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakednb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games you go to sleep thinking of way's to
  make a better layout for a shopping area, or where to place train
  stations and so on.
  Now, 
 I've played many tycoons and ton's of strategy/city building games, and
  usually ended up enjoying myself, but after a while there is a limit to how many things you can 
 place differently and so on. With SimCity 4, there is no limit, and if you ever feel like your 
 running out of options you can go on-line and download millions of mods, components and others.
 
  The original game is maybe a bit dull compared with the expansion, but as soon as the expansion 
 is up and running (Rush Hour...) your in for a ride.
  
  The Game:
  one of the big changes with this one is the adding of a "region", where you have 20-30 maps, each 
 one a city on its own, and they all interact with each other (via airports and such..) . you create 
 the land via the editor which is simple to use, then when your done, you switch to the city tool, 
 name it, and your off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazman3434
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  (sigh) simcity 4......
  
  Im pretty much reflecting on it. This is one of the first games I will miss and feel remourse for. 
 After finding that simcity 1000 disk and installing it on my computer many years ago I loved it. 
 It was origionally supposed to be a gift for a family friend but my mom forgot to give it away. 
 I will forever remeber the annoying music. It was the FIRST game I have ever played. It lacked 
 crude violence and bad taste. Eventually, I bought simcity 3000 and shortly after 4000. Simcity 
 4 was filled with so many details and options. It had beatiful graphics. EA did a nice job. They 
 made an impression of epicness from small towns to huge cities. The music was beatiful too. I sculpted 
 landscapes from cliffs to rolling plains and built cities on top of them. It took me a long time 
 to build those large cities until I learned the trick. City block after city block, listening to 
 my advisors, and looking over it. I became greedy, building missile facilites and toxic waste dumps 
 or I would give away to build farmers markets, hospitals and schools. The expansion was great also. 
 The avenues and transportation options just added to the fun. I will miss you Simcity 4. Now, the 
 city buiding games are just like tycoon games..... Oh forget it. I will rant about that later. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonny_zoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  Sim City 4 is the fourth game in the cim city series, and it is a pretty bloody good game, it looks 
 very well detailed in the way it looks and it is very recommendable to almost everyone.
  
  In this sim city game you will have to build a city from the ground up, but this is executed differently 
 to past Sim City games, insted of selecting a landscape from a list and building your city that 
 way with naighbouring citys already on it's borders, you insted have to build an entire region 
 from scratch.
  
  When you start building your city you will like in other Sim city games zone areas of land for 
 development for example you can zone your residentual
  areas and industrial and you can zone at different densities of development, but as your city grows 
 you can build airports, transportation systems and much more.
  
  Although this is a good game, it's downside is realy when buildings start to ware for no real reason 
 which can somewhat be annoying when yoou are trying to build a worth while city, also having to 
 build the whole region from scratch is different but difficult for your first tme playing.
  
  Dispite those minor issues this game is a game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dada222
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  SimCity 4 is definitely an unusual game. All the SimCity games are ; there's no actual goal. What 
 you have to do is to develop a town or city, that is economically strong and has its citizens happy. 
 The game does never end. That is of course excellent because you won't abandon this game just because 
 you've achieved a goal.
  
  Gameplay
  When you first start your city, you can terraform it before it becomes inhabited. The terraforming 
 tools are excellent, they vary from 'cliff'' tools to hill ones. 
  Once you're done terraforming, you can 'incorporate' your city, that is, to loose the ability to 
 terraform it massively and free of charge, but also to be given the ability to build roads , buildings 
 and whatever else your city needs. You can name your city and yourself (the mayor) , and choose 
 from 3 difficulty levels; easy grants you faster development and 500k simoleons (the currency used 
 in the game) , medium slower development and 200k simoleons, and hard 100k and slow development. 
 Then, you get all the stuff you need unlocked; everything you may use as far as transportation, 
 education, power etc etc are concerned are here. 
  One of the most important tools are zones. In case you don't know, in the SimCity 1-4, you cannot 
 build homes or stores or factories right away; you have to zone first. That means, you choose a 
 zone type, for example a medium density residential or a high commercial. Then you ought to build 
 it next to a road (or avenue or highway etc) in order to make it accesible. The inhabitation of 
 the zones is dictated by two factors; the first is the demand. If there is the demand for houses, 
 you should zone residential zones. If there are too many houses build but there are no workplaces, 
 then the commercial and the industrial go up. If you build them, you may then build more houses.
 
  The second factor is the desirability. Desirability is dictated by local circumstances, for example 
 the existence of police stations, fire stations and schools increases desirability. 
  Another crucial part about that game is wealth. There are three different types of wealth, the 
 low, the medium and the high one. Wealth, is too dictated by two factors; the desirability and 
 the demand. You can decrease the demand for a specific type of zone by taking certain actions, 
 for example, if you build many schools and police stations, there will be a high wealth demand, 
 at first for houses, and then, as soon as you have enough high wealth citizens, they will require 
 better jobs, so the high wealth commercial and industrial demand will go up, and afterall you'll 
 have a big educated rich city. 
  As far as economy is concerned, new players will find it very difficult to balance their badget. 
 That's why most of them throw the game out of their window, frustruated. My advice would be to 
 check internet tutorials on that. Economical management involves the tax control (taxes are your 
 main income) and funding adjustment. The latter means that when you have built a school that requires 
 200$ per month in order to accomondate 200 students, but in fact there are only 5 students, you 
 lower the funding in order to pay the amount of money needed just to suit the number of pupils.
 
  Finally, there are many other tools, like graphs and disaster tools that are extremely convinient. 
 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are full 3D, but with the ability only to shift between 4 angles, for performance 
 reasons. The graphics are great, with a lot of detail to explore and overal creating a great optical 
 effect.
  
  Performance
  Unfortunately, the game lags mercilessly unless you have a high-end computer (and imagine that 
 the game was released 5 years ago!) . A strong graphic card, Ram and proccessor power are required 
 in order to enjoy simcity. The system requirements that are mentioned on the box are lies, terrible 
 lies. My computer met them, and ran horrible ( I had to upgrade) . I'd say the real system requirements 
 are: Proccessor power: 2gh, RAM: 512mb, Graphics card: 128mb. 
  
  Sound 
  The sound rocks. There are plenty of excellent tracks, mostly of alternative genre, that are going 
 to satisfy most players. Even if one doesn't like them, there is still the option of using custom 
 music.
  
  Conclusion
  SimCity 4 is a must for anyone interested in building a city. That is, for everyone who has played 
 a SimCity game before, or has spent most of his/her Age of Empires time building houses and creating 
 a nice city without troubling about the military aspect (like me) . Be warned though; the gameplay 
 is rather 'boring' and 'dull' for players who demand action and bangs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wacko342
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  By the time i am typing this the graphics are out of date, quite pixelated, and another game has 
 already came out to wipe out this prequal. this game, developed by EA, is a wonderful game.
  its difficulty ca easily be set by difficulty settings, which , you may not think contrast that 
 much, but trust me, they do. fopr example, on Easy you start off with $500,000 MONEY, this has 
 to be spent on EVERYTHING from making sure road segments are repaired, to keeping power stations 
 up to keeping schools running to everything you can think of, this game offers an insight into 
 what being a mayor may be like.
  one of the qwonderufl things abotut his agme aswell is thast, from the region map, you can see 
 every individual city and even create a landscape with the god terraforming tools, which is a valuable 
 asset, as the landscape differs the way in which you have to play the game., for exmaple hi, treahcerous 
 mountain, you may have to find anopther path, or place a rilway underneath it, or water, build 
 a massve bridge across,.
  
  creating massive metropolis's is a massive challenge wuthout the help of mods, but it is good to 
 find a somcity community and download extra buildings, as the maixs buildings are extremely vanilla, 
 a good exmaple of a community, with thousands of files to downlaod to make your city the most aesthetically 
 pleasing as possible.
  overall this game enhances everything from SC 3000 and is a great simulation game worth buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinisawesome
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Wile Sim City 3000 Focused on a certain area and you would build up that area until you reached 
 maximum occupancy and then you get the self satisfaction of "winning". 
  Sim City 4 had that but it was diffrent, it added a more complex system of building your city, 
 you had to think more about expansion then trying to earn cash right away. 
  Another part of the game was the money making system which i freaking loved in this one. In 3000 
 you would slowly get more and more money each month wile in Sim City 4 it was more realistic and 
 challenging. When you expanded you had to think about school funding, hospital, and all that stuff 
 because even with a large population you could be losing more money then making.
  
  The Good:
  Great Graphics for a Sim City Game, Very realistic thinking, Import own music easily, 
 Regions were satisfying to look at when done, Fun building dynamics.
  The Bad:
  Wheres the Disasters that happen on there own? : (
  
  colin out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Sim City 4 is similar to its predecessors, but it offers a number of interesting new features. 
 One of the biggest changes to the game play of Sim City 4 is evident from the start. Immediately 
 as you begin the game, you're presented with a view of Sim Nation, though it's not much of a nation 
 at first. Sim Nation is divided up into numerous smaller square segments, yet each of these in 
 fact can hold an entire city of your making. These cities can even interact to some extent, exchanging 
 surplus energy, water, and such for cash. At any rate, getting started is as easy as clicking on 
 any Sim Nation square, naming your city, and appointing yourself as mayor, and you're off. But 
 before you begin, you may wish to take the step-by-step tutorials of the game's mayor mode -- the 
 heart of Sim City 4-- and the god mode, where you can terraform the land to your heart's content, 
 making the terrain as flat, as hilly, as undulating, or as improbably strange as you like. It's 
 easy to use the terrain-morphing tools found in this mode, and while it's perfectly viable to just 
 pick one of the ready-made territories to start your city in, it's tempting and straightforward 
 to custom-tailor your own. 
  
  Once you decide it's time to get started with your city, you may find the early going to be very 
 familiar if you've played any of the previous Sim City games. You'll start by plopping down a power 
 plant, preferably one that doesn't create too much pollution, and then laying down some residential, 
 industrial, and commercial zones, then giving them some time to incubate. Laying out zones is as 
 easy as dragging rectangles using your mouse, but Sim City 4 tries to make things even easier on 
 you by automatically inserting streets, giving larger zones a grid like pattern. This is a mixed 
 blessing, since these auto-built streets often don't line up as you try to construct adjacent zones, 
 leaving your city with bits of wasted space here and there, at least until you get used to dealing 
 with this feature. And since city maps in Sim City 4 are smaller overall than in previous Sim City 
 games -- probably a necessary limitation due to the fine level of detail you'll see down to individual 
 houses and sims -- that wasted space could be a big missed opportunity for your city. Plus all the 
 extra roads can really hose your budget early on. The auto-roads feature really should have been 
 optional. 
  
  You'll have to start small, but think big. As in Sim City 3000, the three zone types each have 
 several different density options, so light-density residential zones are likely to sprout small 
 houses or low-income apartments, while high-density residential zones could turn into tall, fancy 
 condominiums. Denser zones are costlier to put in place but pack in more people, which means more 
 tax dollars. But in Sim City 4, it pays to start slow. The early going can be very challenging 
 at first (and there are no difficulty options available to ameliorate this) , as you'll naturally 
 wish to immediately add all the amenities you'd want in a city: running water, schools, hospitals, 
 police stations, or a football field. At any rate, a fledgling town needs only the basics, and 
 a continuously updating news ticker that's part of the interface will keep you informed about whether 
 your sim population needs anything you're not already providing. You'll eventually get a feel for 
 how to get people coming into your town without driving your budget too far into the red. The goal, 
 of course, is to make your newly established city profitable as soon as possible, since that's 
 when you can start expanding in earnest and finally afford that hospital or police station you've 
 always wanted next to your football field. 
  
  Having to contend with the constantly shifting demand for the three zone types while continuously 
 adding better services and transportation options for your population and while also keeping an 
 eagle eye on your monthly budget adds up to some involving game play. Sim City 4, like its predecessors, 
 succeeds at being an active, hands-on game where there's usually something interesting you can 
 be doing. Even if you're waiting to rake in a certain amount of funds, you can use that time as 
 an opportunity to scrutinize the many different statistics and charts available to you or to correspond 
 with your various advisers on how to proceed. Or you can use the handy query tool to click around 
 your city, gleaning all kinds of information, including a few amusingly pointless statistics. You 
 can even just sit back and observe your city at the closest zoom level. See those crime-scene-style 
 chalk outlines near your football field? Those mean you probably should spring for a new police 
 station thereabouts. All this is not to say Sim City 4 is a fast-paced game, because you can play 
 it at the rate you want. It's possible to pause the action outright and build as much as necessary 
 before starting the clock back up, and you can freely switch between three different game-speed 
 settings.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  When looking back at the best simulator games, city building games have never been fully appreciated. 
 Is it because there are so few of these games, or just because no one cares about building cities? 
 But, take a look again. You will see that there is one particular series that reach the epitome 
 of city building perfection. You could do anything with your city, whether that be making it the 
 ritziest place in the country, or turning your city into a slum filled wih criminals, with only 
 bad intentions for your city. What game series could this be? The SimCity series, and along comes 
 the latest installment: SimCity 4.
  
  SimCity 4 is a game like no other. It manages to mix strategy, city building, and even some comical 
 moments making it the best of the best. Your goal is to build a city from the ground up, and manage 
 things such as funds and taxes to maintain a good budget for your city. So, how do you make people 
 come to your city? First, you have to enter a mode called the God Mode. Here, you have to terraform 
 the landscape of your city, creating towering mountains, desolate islands, and huge bodies of water. 
 When your have created the land, and adjusted it to your liking, you then begin the city building 
 process. First, you have to lay out what is called "zones". There are a couple different types 
 of zones; three to be precise: residential zones, commercial zones, ad industrial zones. To attract 
 people to your city, you need to lay out a good balance of residential zones for places to live, 
 commercial zones to distribute office jobs and services, and industrial zones to distribute industrial 
 jobs. But, just because you lay out the zones doesn't mean that people will come.
  
  Like in real life, people won't move in to your city if you don't provide power. Simple enough, 
 you just need to build a power plant. But eventually, the people will start to complain, asking 
 for police and fire stations, schools, and hospitals to be built in the city. Obviously, you can't 
 build all of these so early in the game, as you can not afford it, which brings up another problem 
 with SimCity 4. There is no real goal in SimCity 4; no missions, no objectives, nothing. SimCity 
 4 is pretty much just a giant sandbox mode. Sure, there are a couple of cities that are already 
 made when you start the game, but not nearly as many as you would expect from this game. None the 
 less, you don't need goals to have fun, so it isn't really that big of a flaw.
  
  When the time comes, you're city population will leap to incredible heights. Then, people will 
 start to complain about how long it takes to get to work, and your building may begin to become 
 abandoned. Which brings up a second problem; the learning curve. SimCity 4 can be extremely difficult 
 for newcomers, and you can't just play the game like an ordinary game; you are constantly having 
 to do boring work, like adjusting taxes, increasing funding for utilities, and other things like 
 that. You also have to build many mass transit vehicles, like trains and subways. The citizens 
 of your city become very picky over time, and you can never seem to fully fulfill the wishes of 
 your citizens. But, over time, if you create a good setup, your will satisfy your citizens. By 
 the time you have experienced all of this, you are on your way to creating the perfect city, with 
 all of the high rise building, landmarks, and towering office skyscrapers you could possibly imagine.
 
  
  You can create a big, bustling metropolis like I previously said, but if that doesn't satisfy your 
 wishes, then you can always destroy your city, just for fun. SimCity 4 allows you to unleash catastrophic 
 disasters on your city. Do the people in a particular building complain too much? Send a giant 
 robot to blow the building up. Feeling like causing some mass destruction? Plop a volcano in the 
 middle of the downtown area, and watch the buildings collapse. It's all up to your imagination. 
 But don't get too caught up in destroying your city; you are trying to build a good city, not destroy 
 one.
  
  Undoubtedly, SimCity 4 plays good. But, take a close look at your city. It appears as a busy, thriving 
 place when at a stand. But, scroll a little to the left or right to see that everything bogs down 
 to a slow state. The reason? SimCity 4 simply cannot keep up with fast movement, due to the bad 
 framerate. This becomes an even bigger problem when your city grows to very large sizes. If Maxis 
 would have only released SimCity 4 a little later, they may have been able to fix this problem. 
 Never the less, SimCity 4 does look good, and the level of detail in your city is amazing. There 
 is always something to see in your city; you can watch the police chase down criminals, or go to 
 the scene of a car accident. Literally, your city never stands still.
  
  While SimCity 4 is fun to play more than anything else, it does deliver some wacky orchestral pieces. 
 Not to say that the music is bad; it is very good. As your city develops, the orchestral pieces 
 will play. Some times, the music almost seems to fit the mood of your city; if your city is very 
 busy, the music might be up-beat. If your city is going through some tough times, the music may 
 be sad, and quiet. But, most of the time, the strange orchestral pieces don't see to fit the moment.
 
  
  At first glance, SimCity 4 may not seem like a very serious game; but, take a deeper look, and 
 you will find a gem of a video game. The amount of depth in SimCity 4 is incredible; there is always 
 something happening in your city, even when your city is only composed on small suburbs. You can 
 adjust everything to your liking; funds, taxes, literally anything. You can also add personal touches 
 to your city, like giving names to buildings and places. Put it this way: when it comes down to 
 it, the possibilities in SimCity 4 are endless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skater1314
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Sim City 4 is fun because you get get to make your own cities but it takes to long to get sky scrapers 
 and when you do it get hard to do the car driving missions; what they should do is remake this 
 game and make it where you can look at the screen any way you want and when you do the car plane 
 boat missions you can be in the cab ; because when you just look at the angle it gives you ; you 
 can't see whats ahead of you like a car or something; you should be able to move the camera like 
 in sim city sociaties ; also the sky scrapers you should get alot quicker because it takes forever; 
 I wait for one for a whole day in real life and nothing is being built at all. If I where able 
 to do all those things this game would be alot more fun; I bet if these people that make this game 
 would sell it better if they did all these changes to this game; it would probably sell tripple 
 what has been sold so far.
  
  
  please comment
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wicko92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, you design your own buildings and look after cities - like yours. You can 
 build landmarks like:
  
  THE EMPIRE STATE BUILDING
  CN TOWER
  THE TOKYO TOWER
  THE SPHINX
  THE BANK OF CHINA TOWER
  And lots lots more!
  
  You can get speical presents 
 as well! You can get people into your town, you can build your own region (like I'm doing) and 
 build more than one city!
  
  Okay, now here we go a bit further - all cities need: Fire Stations, Police Stations, Edcuation, 
 Health, Waste, Power, Water, Roads, Homes.
  And remember you have got $100,000 cash to start but with all of this above might get down a bit...
 
  
  So look after you city well, but the game isn't tough on you like you've only got $50,000 to start 
 with so it's okay.
  
  Anyway - End of Review
  Overall Score: 8.4 (Great) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-1024
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  With all the City Building games that have come out over the years SimCity 4 has been the best 
 to date. It far surpasses the recent release of SimCity Societies even though it's graphics are 
 far inferior to SimCity Societies if you want a down on teh street level of viewing the city.
 
  
  However, if you like the eye in the sky view I have to honestly say that SC4's graphics are far 
 superior to SimCity Societies. What they say is true, the graphics don't make the game, it's the 
 gameplay. And SC4 abounds with gameplay and has a lifespan that may reach into the next decade 
 as well.
  
  When I play SC4, Im constantly busy, my mind is constantly moving, planning, doing something. Whether 
 that something happens to be planning out my next zone, or thinking up ways of re-zoning my current 
 zones, or trying to analyze why the traffic patterns are the way that they are. But on the rare 
 occasions that I don't "have" to do anything, it's a real treat to zoom down a couple of slots 
 and just watch my city evolve right before my eyes based on my guiding the citizens of my city. 
 My influence over my city really feels as if I've got some influence over my city.
  
  When my one city is built, I have plenty more to do, I've got a whole region to fill up. Do yourself 
 a favor and search out some real screenshots of the game, you'll likely find one where the entire 
 region has been filled with buildings, huge skyscapers in one area, and farmlands in another. The 
 amount of creativity of the gamers that play SC4 never ceases to amaze me and that's solidly because 
 Maxis produced a solid game to withstand all time.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Theres little else I could ask for in a SimCity game. It's fun, and yet it makes me think out my 
 next move in the city.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  From the eye in the sky view the graphics are actually quite beautiful, it's only when you are 
 at the closest zoom level that you get the terrible jaggies, and of course the screen resolution 
 is capped at 1600x1200 but there are ways to force a higher resolution if you like.
  
  Sound: 9/10 
  The music has always been a strong point in the SimCity franchise and SC4 does 
 not disapoint in this area.
  
  Longevity: 10/10
  It's been over 4 or 5 years since release and it's still as fun to play today as it was 4 or 5 
 years ago.
  
  Modability: 10/10
  All one needs to do is to go to places like simtropolis. com or sc4devotion. com to find the thousands 
 of buildings that the users have created to see that this game *IS* the most moddable. SimCity 
 Societies has nothing on the modability of SimCity 4 and having this modability and the strong 
 fan base is what keeps SC4 fresh throughout the years.
  
  At $39.95 it was still a bargain, but at todays average price of $10-$20 it's a downright steal. 
 Don't walk, you need to RUN to your nearest retailer that still has a copy of SC4 on the shelves 
 and purchase it today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martin-2-5-9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  Simscity Lets you own your own Town, Instead of the Sims where you have your own house, You now 
 have your whole town!
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Nothing Special, But like I say in other Reviews, At least they dont Require all the latest Graphics 
 and Drivers.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  With Lots to do, And Fun With A Challenge Behind the gameplay. Its very Impressive! Make your own 
 Town, Make Your own Buissnesses, Make shops. Or You can just set a Volcano on the city, Or Lightning, 
 Or Even UFO's.
  
  The downside to this gamee, Is the Installation Time. It Took me 1 hour 30 Mins (Approx) , The game 
 gos Painfully slow every once in a While.
  
  But whats worst, Is once youve made a Succesfull City, with transports, Attractions, Homes, Shops, 
 Buisnesses. What do you do after that???
  You just have to watch your city, And keep watching, And every 10 Mins or so, Something happens, 
 As small as A rating going down by 0.1.
  
  I do think this is a Good Game, Its Good fun.
  My Overall rating has to be 8.5.
  
  Difficulty: Easy
  Time Spent: 10 Hours - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prophet_Posse
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  i have been a long time fan of the simcity series from the very first. and i think this is the 
 best one. however i hated this game at one point because there was no terrain generator, so i played 
 and loved simcity 3000 instead. 
  so i decided to mess with the terrain myself and try it out. heres my review.
  
  Graphics: 
 not too much of a big step from SC3000 {in terms of 3d, but thank god they didnt do that} but still 
 really nice high res buildings and less of a fuzzy look to the houses/offices's ect. 
  
  Story: not much of a story at all of course, just plan out your city and watch it grow...
  
 
  Gameplay: same old simcity, lay down streets, plop down either low/medium/high density of buildings 
 that consists of  not much has changed except new content of course. 
 like you can have one way streets and avenues. new rewards and all that.
  
  additional comments: Great game i love it. oh and dont let the 2d screen shots fool you, you need 
 a good PC to run this game i have 512 ram and 3 GHz and a decent n-vidia card and it still lags 
 just a bit, i would get something better than what i have if you play this
  
  Some tips
  !. make 1 power plant first on any corner of the map.
  2. then zone for low density industrial 
 next to the plant.
  3. zone for low density residential away from the plant but not to far so they have power.
  4. then 
 just a few low density commercial around the houses.
  5 DO NOT build too many schools, police, fire stations. because it will drain your money.
  6. check 
 you budget and keep plopping zones until you make more money then losing it.
  7. once you make tons of money, then you can start building anything you want, just watch your budget.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron_clark
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  First of all, the game's graphics have taken a huge redesign and I must say a brilliant decision. 
 In my opinion the main improvement which made it the great game it is today.
  It can take a while to completely get the game and fully get everything perfect but it is worth 
 it.... and the good thing about this game is that you don't have to be addicted to the game to get 
 into it.
  I highly recommend this game, even though it is nearly 5 years old, it is still a good game and 
 I would select it over SimCity Societies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_raven01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Though revisiting the series' basic challenge to design, establish, and nurture a balanced, living 
 community of virtual citizens, SimCity 4 players are able to mold their microcosms as never before.
 
  
  New landscape creation tools allow players to build mountains and valleys, rivers, and forests, 
 so they can create an ideal environment even before the first street is laid down. The SimCity 
 is now part of a larger community, along with other cities in the region, and once neighboring 
 cities are connected by transportation networks they can trade (or compete) for important resources.
 
  
  SimCity 4 also borrows a few ideas back from it's all-time best-selling progeny The Sims, allowing 
 players to follow the personal life of one of their SimCity citizens.
  
  Enhancing and augmenting mainstay SimCity features while adding new perspectives and possibilities, 
 SimCity 4 is designed to appeal to players new to city management as well as to veterans of the 
 classic series. 
  
  Megalomaniacs love to play god. The SimCity series makes ruling a world fun, even for people not 
 obsessed with delusions of grandeur. The genius of SimCity, however, has always involved what you, 
 as the mayor/god, can't control. Any buffoon can destroy a city with the help of tornados, Godzilla, 
 or a flood. Getting the stubborn "sims" to follow your lead, however, is a tricky assignment. SimCity 
 4 offers complicated budget, business, and transit systems along with the expected (and great) 
 gameplay of the SimCity series. With the fourth installment of a series, however, players should 
 wonder if there's any reason to keep playing.
  
  The biggest change from SimCity 3000 allows players to construct a metropolis of interconnected 
 cities within "regions." Want a neighboring city to be a giant landfill? Build one. Need more water? 
 Build an aquifer next door. Having neighbors offers immediate benefits for a city's industrial 
 and commercial businesses, too, since they will be able to easily export and import products. The 
 concept of a megalopolis is intriguing, but in practice it's mostly boring. Building multiple cities 
 is time-consuming, and the need for city after city squelches the individualized personality of 
 each borough. It's interesting to incorporate a new town's geography into the design, but individualized 
 city plans were possible in earlier incarnations of SimCity too.
  
  When zoning, as in SimCity 3000, mayors can choose from low, medium, and high density zones. High 
 density zones are more expensive and cause traffic problems, but bring in more tax money. Deciding, 
 early in a city's life, how to zone can be difficult. The medium density zones seem to be the best 
 bargain, allowing moderate density without too much expense. Later in a city's life, with highways 
 and developed mass transportation systems, high density zones are an attractive option.
  
  City finances are the biggest challenge for any mayor, and SimCity 4 ups the ante with expensive 
 city services and "rewards" that inevitably cost money. Sure, a soccer stadium is nice, but the 
 resultant $400 per month is pricey. Players can attempt to market their city to high-wealth citizens 
 and businesses -- a good plan -- but it's tough. Wealthy denizens want the best health care, education, 
 services, and, to top it off, low tax rates. Pollution, garbage disposal, decaying power plants, 
 and other fun byproducts of civilization will regularly torment mayors as well. Of course, SimCity, 
 SimCity 2000, and SimCity 3000 were challenging as well, but SimCity 4 may be the toughest yet. 
 The additional headache of coordinating multiple cities and their respective needs, while interesting, 
 adds a new element of challenge.
  
  The SimCity San Francisco earthquake or Godzilla-attacks-Tokyo scenarios were always fun. Unfortunately, 
 SimCity 4 has little to offer beyond the basic city building modes. Options include regions of 
 the world, like Paris, but players will have to construct the famous cities themselves. One new 
 feature, called "My Sims" allows users to import Sims into their city. If they don't have any specific 
 Sims, generic Sims can be created and imported. It's not terribly exciting, though; your Sims will 
 find jobs and complain about various things, but seldom provide any new information.
  
  With such an impressive pedigree, much is expected of SimCity 4. The impeccable gameplay has been 
 tweaked, giving the same great urban cycles with just a little more challenge. The graphics, especially 
 the new nighttime displays, are dazzling, and the regional options are impressive. However, SimCity 
 4 lacks scenarios, ready-made cities from the developers, and some new features -- the first person 
 "streetside" view was discussed during development, but is absent. Whether or not players enjoy 
 SimCity 4 for extended periods will depend on how much they like the basic city-building the series 
 has always offered. Not too much has changed. 
  
  Marvelous detail, especially on the highest zoom level. However, the graphics do cause the engine 
 to chug along when scrolling, and zooming in and out causes problems as well. 
  
  Beeps, honking, sirens, explosions, and other city sounds. Nothing too impressive, but the noises 
 add a needed touch. For players who love city building, there's infinite play. However, scenarios 
 and pre-made cities would have added a great deal of gameplay.
  
  The original SimCity came with a mammoth textbook full of advice and information; SimCity 4 offers 
 plenty of information, but doesn't go overboard... too bad, because the overkill of the original 
 manual offered quirky enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padrepride
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  I borrowed Sim City 4 from a friend, after he declared it was too hard. I endeavoured to prove 
 my gaming skills. It turned out that he was right... at first. Sim City 4 is a lot like most Sim 
 games. With selecting a plot of land to create your empire. You are thrown into GOD mode where 
 you can alter the landscape, weather, time of day, etc. Then there is the hubub of the gameplay 
 in Mayor mode. From there, you control everything in your city from power to plumbing. I played 
 the old Sim City games and was pleasantly surprised with the driving missions and the unlockable 
 buildings. To elaborate on my friends accuracy on difficulty, it is very, very hard to make money 
 in the game. You end up wanting to charge a lot on taxes but then no one wants to live in your 
 city no matter how nice it is. To make money, you must do the driving missions which makes your 
 mayor rating go down. That is my question mark in the game. What does mayor rating actually do? 
 I mean, I have the worst rating you can have, yet the RCI [residental, commercial, industrial desirablility 
 of the land] is still way up. I like the graphics in this game, on par with The Sims games. My computer 
 can't seem to handle the game as it frequently lags and then spontaneoulsy crashes. The sound is 
 excellent, with a stimulating musical score and noises from your landscape. I do wish the Sims 
 would actually speak English not their nonsense.
  Overall, I really like Sim City 4, and am looking forward to the next Sim City game in the ever 
 expanding franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TSBFan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing SimCity for around 15 years, but this was a completely different experience than 
 all the rest. This game truly brought something new to the table: a functioning collection of cities, 
 otherwise known as a metropolitan area. It makes for a much more realistic simulation of an area.
 
  
  I am still getting into the possibilities of this game. The game is open-ended. There are custom 
 lots and custom terrains. There's the classic element of making your own custom city layout, but 
 brought to another level with the new regional connectivity. You can place signs, and name just 
 about any lot or building in your city. It's truly up to the player how to play the game, outside 
 a few basic rules.
  
  There is the new function that gives a zone a direction , which can be either a blessing or curse 
 depending on your goal at the time. The automatic street generator is a handy little feature at 
 times, but can get in the way at others. I've found it best, sometimes, to just let the game build 
 the streets, and pave over them with bigger roads as needed,
  
  Those used to having giant commercial skyscrapers show up, when their town is 15K or so, will be 
 disappointed. This game requires a huge regional population for such buildings to be placed. However, 
 residential towers are sometimes ridiculous in their occurrence. Thus, I rarely use the densest 
 residential zones unless I really want a jump in population, and am pressed for space.
  
  Another key difference in this SimCity game from past versions is the distinguishing between jobs 
 and people . Industrial and commercial zones are no longer seen as population sources (even though 
 some do live in these buildings in real life) but rather listed as jobs . This works into the commuting 
 system, which is highly detailed, and useful. You can get instant feedback on how well your zones 
 are placed, and whether you need more jobs in a particular area. You can also look at your transportation 
 maps to see how well-used certain transit routes are.
  
  There is the time-honored advisor system, as well as the newsreel. Both of these prove as useful 
 as they were in past games. The game is very user-friendly.
  
  One warning about this game is disk space used on saves. If you plan on making a giant metroplex, 
 such as greater Los Angeles, be prepared to spend a few hundred megs of disk space. Also, this 
 game takes more time due to having to simulate each individual city. If you have these two resources 
 (time and disk space) in ample supply, and love SimCity games, it's well worth it. Otherwise, either 
 get an older SimCity game, or make micro-regions.
  
  Another fun feature in this game is the ability to make neighborhoods for Sims 2. If you play Sims 
 2 a lot, SimCity 4 is highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Intense
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  Without a doubt one of the best 'God' series ever made, SimCity 4 is by far the best of them all. 
 Let's break it down:
  
  Gameplay
  
  This aspect of SimCity 4 is a mixed bag. It's relatively simple to get to grips with the basics 
 of building a city, and in no time you'll find yourself with a small village with a few houses, 
 a school, some shops and maybe even some industry. However, the big killer of this game is actually 
 developing something more than that. Almost anyone who's ever played this game will tell you that's 
 it's difficult to make money. No money obviously means no more development for your city, which 
 in turn will become a frustrating experience when your outcome quadruples your income and you eventually 
 become bankrupt. It's well worth it though if/when you can find the key to making money.
  
  Graphics
  
  At one time this game pushed the PC to it's limits with it's relatively high specs, 
 but these days it runs relatively well on most computers less than three years old. The graphics 
 are nice to look at, and everything down to minor details have been captured. A big city looks 
 fantastic, and when you zoom in you can watch all the little people going about their daily lives. 
 No complaint can be made here.
  
  Sound
  
  Nothing much to mention here, the music that accompanies the game is relatively bland and unimaginative, 
 and sound effects, while unspectacular, do the job nicely. You can import your own music into the 
 music folder of SimCity 4, which is a nice touch.
  
  Value
  
  Considering the game is four years old now, you can pick it up for around &pound;10 - &pound;15, 
 and there's even a double-pack featuring this game and its expansion pack Rush Hour that you can 
 get for around &pound;20. Considering this game can keep you playing for literally hours on end 
 it's well worth paying for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reingleif
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Well I like simcity, I always played the 2000 version for MAC.
  When I saw the SC4 going out, I thought wow I&acute; ve played almost al SimCity games, but that 
 should be the best . But...
  I was a bit wrong, no not a bit, more than that, it was a simcity with no big differences from 
 the 3000, some bad sounds, and I felt the mnaxis and EA teams developers could have done a bit 
 more polished game. As I read in another reviews I saw many people were thinking my way, a game 
 that was missing something, that made it a solid copy from 3000.
  Well the RushHour expansion made it a bit better, well actually I loved riding a tank or Heli and 
 blow up high skyscrapers yeeeaaaahhhhh, but I didn&acute; t understand why they didn&acute; t introduce 
 some buildings in the original, that kept me thinking.
  
  Gameplay: almost the same before, very easy, many options for you to choose from
  
  Graphics: 
 well something just was not right or missing, i didn&acute; t like citizens look and buildings were 
 just no as impressive as the great 3000
  
  sound: didn&acute; t like it at all, very repetitive, music was not good, not as the series involving 
 and classic music and sounds from this great series = (
  
  Value: With this do they mean price ??? cause if its like that i found it a bit expensive, but 
 in the deluxe edition you can understand it
  
  Overall: well maybe they should make the demo, cause you may not like it very much, but its a fun 
 option that&acute; ll keep you some weeks or months having your high rises growing, and people thinking 
 taxes are jus to high XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duraxx
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 29, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty fun; hell, all the simcity games are fun (if you don't think so this one wont 
 change your mind) . If you've wanted to try one of them, or any sandbox (i. e. no winning) game, 
 then this is a good one to start with.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 Overall fun gameplay, basically the same as prior versions. Some old problems are 
 fixed including added realism (cities must grow slower, schools have radius of effect) , true neighbor 
 city relations, and a path query tool (tells you who is traveling to and from the selected spot) . 
 However the mass transit system (other than buses) remains ineffectual b/c sims still fail to use 
 it. Furthermore, some buildings have a crime **** causing massive crime regardless of the police 
 presence. The game is also a resource hog in more developed cities causing slowdown even on higher-end 
 2006 machines (the game is from 2003) . Graphics: 8/10 Other than graphical artifacts that occur 
 in more developed cities, the game looks looks good, especially for a simcity game.
  
  Sound: 5/10 Fairly blah sound effects with elevator music playing in the background.
  
  Value: 
 9/10 This game is all about value. There is so much to do, primarily because there is no winning. 
 Want to create an interconnected sim-nation by having one city devoted to industry while another 
 be a sleeper-community. Feel free. Want to tweak the city to be the perfect balance of everything. 
 Go ahead. You can even download mods online and try out other people's scenarios. This game can 
 suck 100+ hours of your time easy w/o feeling like much of anything.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 8/10 I have liked all the simcity games and this one is no exception. It is quite 
 fun and I played it for 100+ hours easy until I eventually exhausted my need to just build things. 
 If you want a game that isn't going to stress you out too much or you simply want to try a sandbox 
 game, this is a great start. Note: To prior fans/experts of the series, many of the new additions 
 make old strategies (such as school farms) ineffectual. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kennybenny15
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I love this game but the only thing that I don't like is that the buildings will take forever to 
 get tall. Actually If you have played this game before the buildings hardly get tall at all unless 
 you buy the ones that are monuments. This game will make you say, wow , but it is still missing 
 many things like tall buildings and more. This game is no good without tall buildings. I mean it 
 is Sim City 4 and they need urban city like buildings. You can also upload sims fro the sims and 
 play them at there homes in the city. Well I hope Sim City 5 the revolution will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonhartt
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 25, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  Sim City 4 introduces big changes to the Sim City series originally created by Will Wright. I personally 
 prefer sim city 3000 to this game.
  
  The good:
  - 3d graphics
  - Terra-forming landscapes have been made easier
  - Day/Night cycle
  
  The bad:
  - UI is 
 copied from The Sims , to gain access to one building, you need to go through more clicks
  - News ticker is replaced by a news box which is boring
  - More options to micro-manage everything
 
  - The advisers have the same face??
  - No challenging scenarios to play with
  - Music doesn't sound as nice as the previous game
  - Roads do not automatically join together 
 sometimes
  - Roads are added automatically when you zone sectors, so the freedom to build anyhow you like 
 is decreased
  - Rewards &amp; opportunities, as well as the newer utilities buildings are laid out in the game 
 menu, they should be hidden and be shown to the player when he receives it (just like in simcity3000) , 
 so as to make the game more interesting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RKOM
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  SimCity 4 is a masterpiece, not just as a Sims game, but also the game's features. I mean, who 
 wouldn't want to create their own city?
  
  SC4 has alot to do with strategy, like where to put things and what would be the best option, etc. 
 It's a little bit of a challenge (but not difficult) but it is addicting at the same time.
  
  The features are really cool. You can go in God-Mode and unleash natural disasters or even 
 aliens and robots. You can also form the land a bit. So this is a really fun aspect.
  
  I recommend this game because it's very long, you can go hours without getting bored. It has alot 
 of fun features and objects. This game is very revolutionary compared to the last in the series, 
 SimCity 3000. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackez
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  SimCity 4 is a good simulation game but a little hardy for casual players because it have a learning 
 curve of about 60 minutes and it takes a lot a management ( thats the goal of the game ) .
  
  Graphics are just ok, nothing to acclaim here.
  
  Sounds is just good.
  
  Gameplay 
 is really good but can be boring after 1 or 2 hour of playing, because it's always the same thing... 
 contruct and managment. Well in the 4th version ( i have deluxe ) you can drive in cars and helicopter 
 and plane and..... thats cool , and you have little missions to unlock new goodies for your city. 
 Well because his cheap price ( i pay $19,99 CA for Deluxe edition ) , it makes a good value buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djacint0
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 18, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I will not focus on the graphics and sound quality, or gameplay of the game. For it's purpose, 
 the games features suits the player's needs quite well, in my opinion.
  
  What I found most amazing about this game was its ability to bring the household together . Due 
 to its nature and purpose, Sim City 4 is one of those rare games that pleases everyone! No one 
 is capable of just sit down and watch someone else playing this game; or sit down and yawn while 
 someone else is playing it! Or get up, go get a cup of tea and watch TV instead.... No! you shall 
 not resist the temptation! You'll want to get in! You'll feel like jumping off your seat and start 
 building your own nation!
  
  I spent a few hours by myself, trying to build mega cities and expand my development. And It won't 
 take you too long to get a hold of all the tricks to become a true land developer . This is a great 
 feature that allows not so enthusiastic PC game beginners to actually keep they enthusiasm for 
 the game!
  
  Loved it! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile1992
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  Simcity 4 is like SC3000, with better graphics, great music and sound effects, improved gameplay, 
 and of course, with more stuff to play with.
  
  If you havn't played the earlier SimCities, this game might feel quite hard at first. Keeping the 
 town running while you're keeping the people in the town happy is really tough work. Fortunately, 
 there are tutorial towns that will teach you whats the game all about.
  
  When creating a city, you start with a blank area, whitch you can freely edit in god-mode. Then, 
 when you're finished adding mountains, lakes, trees and animals, you need to name your city. Then 
 you'll start constructing your own metropolis. It'll take lots of time to get a city with hundreds 
 of thousands of people in it, and like I said, at first it's hard to get hang of it.
  
  So, what else? Simcity 4 is an awesome game, and its 3 - 4 years old now, so you'll get it (with 
 the expansion Rush Hour in Deluxe pack) for 10 - 20$. Endless fun for that cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renorlibrado
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 4, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Want to build your own city from scratch? Wanna have them all filipinos or having them all blacks 
 have crime everywhere? Just kidding, but this game is not racist at all its just so addictive. 
 You want tall building for your sims to work have sex or just plain do nothing? Then this game 
 is for you. There are so many many modds or addon to put it your plugins folder at simtropolis. net 
 but yeah, this game is cool. I want to become mayor and help the citizens of the city. So if you 
 want training in a city as a mayor or city manager, play this game or if you wanna be a city planner 
 you can make all the roads for your citizens. You can also let loose your inner ARISVAL PALLATAO 
 by wrecking havoc on your city by throwing tornadoes, earthquakes or an alien invasion at your 
 command! Nevertheless once you mastered this game, you can get all emo because you just realized 
 in reality that you never accomplished anything and did not get laid in the time you sacrificed 
 for playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubiseewaba
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 14, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Sim City 4 is a great game. First of all you get to create your own city which is very great and 
 you control it and try to make it into a thriving metropolis. If you have Deluxe Edition or Rush 
 Hour Expansion Pack you'd know that the game enables you to operate cars, trucks, motorcycles, 
 airplanes, boats and even tanks! The controls on this game are way better than the previous Sim 
 City games. This game is going to keep you occupied for weeks and you'd only get bored of it if 
 there is a new game you got and you wanna try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugh000270
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  Sim City 4, which has a completely improved graphics than its past games from Sim City 3 to 1. 
 Its new features of being able to be god like is also fun although still their are some bugs that 
 can also be found in the past Sim City games.
  
  The Good for me: New graphics of the land and buildings. New features. God like mode allows a player 
 to be able to terraform and add animals in the game except for humans.
  
  The Bad for me: Some bugs from previous Sim City games still exist. A little hard gameplay: Rating 
 goes down sometimes, some residence will start to have no jobs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superdude028
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Simcity 4... just plain amazing. If there's one thing that Maxis and EA Games can do right, its 
 produce games like this that have us drooling control freaks entertained for hours on end.
  
  Where do i begin? There are loads of ways to construct your cities. Manage power, schools, 
 health care, recreation, homes, businesses, facilities... everything within the city is yours. 
 Newbies also have a panel of advisers they can turn to, but they are all one-dimensionally minded, 
 so they may give terrible advice at times. You can also manage trade and routes between the cities 
 in the region, all yours, of course. The fun doesn't stop there. You can play God. Watch in delight 
 as you save your game, go to God mode, and unleash a deadly volley of storms to level your city. 
 
  
  The game does have minor flaws. The game can be a bit of a drain on your CPU, especially with the 
 expansion pack. The game can be buggy at times. But then, I was playing this game on a poor laptop, 
 which is self-explanatory. Also, it takes a while to learn all the basics. A newbie's city will 
 fail the first time, so it will take a while.
  
  Overall, Simcity 4 is outstanding. It is an impossible task to find a control game better than 
 this. Besides the Sims, of course.
  
  But that's a different story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natester10
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 19, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Simcity 4 is the latest installment in the Simcity series by Maxis. The updated graphics, and some 
 new gameplay aspects are a great addition, but sometimes the game can look pretty bad, and loading 
 times are pretty long, expecially as your city starts to become larger.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Simcity 4 is just like the older Simcity games, except with a few new features that are added into 
 the game. This game is extremely difficult, and if you build even a little too much, you will quickly 
 be consumed in debt. You must start small... very small. Once you have started to build your community, 
 it becomes quite addicting, and you will find yourself having a blast making your city. Overall 
 it can take quite a while to build a big city, a few weeks really. Which is great, giving the game 
 a lot of replay value... after all, you can make a city inside a region, and you can build dozens 
 of cities in that region. There are a few real-world regions, with accurately made terrains of 
 cities like San Fran, and many more. Of course, we all know how annoying it was to put in roads 
 when we made large zones, but no longer is this a problem, as roads will automatically be added 
 into it, making transportation possible, and also letting the city building idea become a lot easier.
 
  
  Of course, as before, you have to keep your city full of power, and water, as well as educational 
 areas such as schools, collages, museums, libraries, etc. Also, you will need to add hospitals, 
 police stations, fire station, and the like pretty much everywhere in your city, to keep your residents 
 safe. Some new special buildings have been added such as the Space Port, and the Tourist Trap (oddly 
 named) and many more to keep your city interesting.
  
  Just like before, you have advisors looking at nearly every aspect of your city, so you don't have 
 to. for example, if you don't have enough parks in your city, expect a mouthful from your environmental 
 advisor.
  
  You can move in a sim to a part of town, and see how he/she likes it there, and watch them get 
 jobs and succeed, (or fail) in life withing your community. This is a great way to find where the 
 bad spots are in your city, and so you know what exactly to improve on.
  
  Just as in previous SimCity games, you can add landmarks to your city such as The Alamo, The CN 
 Tower, and The Empire State Building. While they resemble the actual building quite well, it may 
 feel odd having a building in your city that is already somewhere else in the world.
  
  Loading times can be quite long, as well as the time it takes to save. You will definately be noticing 
 this when your city becomes much bigger, and sometimes, you may be waiting a minute or two, which 
 doesn't sound long, but it is.
  
  While the game has improved since Simcity 3000 Unlimited, there are still things that need to be 
 fixed in order to make this game near-perfect in the gameplay department.
  
  Graphics
  
  In Simcity 4 we see a majr improvement in the graphics, however, they can take a long time 
 to load, and often, when you zoom in to an area with buildings, houses, etc. you will find them 
 to be quite pixelated for a good long time, as the load and render. This does not look pretty and 
 can definately ruin a bit of the game for you, but if you have the patience (and the time) to wait, 
 it shouldn't bother you.
  
  For the first time in the SimCity series, we can see a full day/nighttime conversion, which is 
 great, and it's really neat seeing your city light up in the night, it really looks great. However, 
 if you don't like it because you prefer daytime because you can see where you're building, this 
 can be turned off.
  
  The disasters look nice, such as the lightning and volcanos, and even UFO's!?!
  
  While the 
 unpolished look of the game can be ugly, there are some nice touches, once the whole map has been 
 rendered. When it is all loaded, it really is a nice game, you just have to wait a bit.
  
  Sound
  
  The good old strange style of music the Simcity has brought for many titles is back, 
 and it sounds ok. Definately could have used some more variety, and the songs could've been shorter. 
 Often you will hear some of the same songs repeat over and over, which can get a little tiring 
 after a while.
  
  However, it's not that bad, it's just that there could've been more tracks, and a bit of more variety, 
 but if you liked the music from the old games, just as I have, then the new stuff should be pretty 
 good to your ears as well.
  
  The sound of your city is top-notch, and just really makes your city feel alive.
  
  Overall
 
  
  Overall SimCity 4 is a game that could've used some polish, but it is still an enjoyable experience, 
 and I would definately recommend picking it up. While the game can be very hard, once you get over 
 that (or you use cheats) , and really get your city growing, you will have a blast making bridges, 
 houses, even Military Bases and neat things like that.
  
  Simcity 4 is definately the best in the series so far, and is a light into the future of this series. 
 Pick this one up, if you can find it, it's more than worth the money, and will keep you busy for 
 months if you enjoy it enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harveyherridge
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  This game can entertain me longer than any other because of its never- ending city building which 
 can go on virtually forever. It also gets better the more you play because the challenge of building 
 the perfect city of one million, along with lots of small towns that can be built with the amazing 
 region system. Seriously, if you like this game after an hour of playing it you will love it after 
 one- hundred as the challenge keeps you improving and therefore keeps the fun rolling allong. If 
 you have the game then i reccomend downloading as many extras, made by sim city's own fans of the 
 game at simtropolis which can take the gameplay up to a whole new level and the amount of extras 
 available will double the time you play it. For three years ago the graphics are still good in 
 this era and must have been revolutionary from three years ago. The sound is different but still 
 very good. The limitless features and gameplay is the thing that made this game so revolutionary 
 though, it will suit all hardcore fans of this genre.
  Lets hope Sim City 5 is just as good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasfight54
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Simcity4 is VERY realistic. That may just be the first thing you notice. Demolishing buildings 
 may not be realistic as of the set-off, but the fall of the building is awesome. Honestly, the 
 sound in this game SUCKS. It's really the forgotten of the game. I cant stand it either. It's not 
 decent, it's mediocre- at best. I just don't get why Maxis didn't finish out the game with a custom 
 soundtrack, or some building music.
  
  This game is worth the money, when I saw this game I was like, give me my money, mom. I don't even 
 like to spend, how ironic. A game where you spend millions.
  
  Difficulty is where the game also lacks. This game is so hard. It's unbeleiveably hard. On easy, 
 it's decent, it's still very hard. Now, if you start out with a few pipes and power lines, you'll 
 suceed. Just ask my cities. Now, you may have a crime infested city with poison air supply, but 
 hey, as long as we're racking up the simoleons and residents, who cares?
  
  Simcity4 IS NOT for people looking for a easy, yet fun experience. It isn't for hardcore people, 
 but it isn't really a family game either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainCrazy
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 7, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This game has been out for a long time now so I'll avoid explaining in detail all of the aspects 
 of gameplay and instead give my general analysis of how the game has faired after all these years.
 
  
  Upon release there were a lot of bugs in the code and some missing content. There were stability 
 issues where the game would and sometimes still crashes. It is also a resource hog but the graphics 
 are very clear and detailed. The Rush Hour expansion pack filled in the holes left by the original 
 such as adding many more mass transit featuers like ferries, route query tools, more bridges, vehicle 
 types as well as proper transitions of highways to roads.
  
  There were 2 patches released for SC4, the last one being in 2004. Although they fixed the most 
 serious technical problems, there has been almost zero official support from Maxis since then. 
 It's prety sad that a 3rd party site like Simtropolis has to do all the work producing new bug 
 fixes/mods/downloads for the game. They do this not just becasue they love Sim City, but due to 
 the fact that there are some core design flaws with the original game released by Maxis.
  
  For one, there is a problem with the demand cap preventing the highest commercial skyscrappers 
 from developing, sims don't travel properly across your transportation networks making it very 
 difficult to create region-wide cities that share resources. There is just a lot of frustrating 
 random occurance in the game that make you wonder what is going on.
  
  Despite 3rd party site's wonderful mod community, Maxis still hasn't made a random terrain generator 
 for regions or cities. Instead they hobbled together a horribly laggy java applet online that uses 
 real US terrain. I tried using it but after wasting 20 mins waiting for it to load a terrain that 
 I liked I found that it only generates a city terrain, not for the whole region.
  
  It's true that there is a good terraforming tool out there but it's a bit of a pain to install 
 and nobody should have to go through a lot of work for a basic feature that should have been included 
 with the product.
  
  I may sound hard on this game but I'm only pointing out the flaws. Of course this is still the 
 best city simulator you can find. The terrain editing tools in God mode allow you full control 
 to shape the landscape to anything your imagination can come up with and you can create cities 
 more realistic than ever before thanks to the detailed graphics and large variety of buildings. 
 I also love how buidings can be constructed on slopes now which greatly adds to the realism.
  
  If I had to rate this game during it's release, before any patches or mods I would only give 
 it 7 but the mod community has really improved this game and evolved it into something much better 
 than the original code Maxis released. Many mods are easy to install and will add many clever new 
 features and fixes than you'll wonder why they were never part of the original and I highly suggest 
 you to check them out. The scores for this review reflect the original product plus the 2 official 
 patches since I cannot give credit to Maxis for content they did not produce.
  
  Sim City 5 is in the works now and I'm very excited about that as I'm sure the rest of you are. 
 We will have to really keep on the developers backs though to make sure they don't repeat the same 
 mistakes again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Condor23
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  You've played sim city 3000 and you might think this one plays the same. But it doesn't play the 
 same at all. When you start you play as god, this is where you set the shape of your landscape, 
 add water, trees, mountains, craters and even animals. When your done with that, you choose your 
 mayor name and choose from; Easy, Normal or, Hard. The gameplay is strong, setting taxes, all the 
 business stuff, building bridges, roads and highways is lots of fun.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Massive improvement since Sim City 3000, buildings look a lot better, along with the cars but the 
 best imoprovement is the disasters, the tornado looks like it came from the Day After Tomorrow, 
 but the giant robots look like crap to me.
  
  SOUND:
  Has some nice soft music imported, but the only sound you really hear is the cars, fire, people 
 etc. But those sounds are preety satifsfying.
  
  VALUE:
  Building your dream city is very hard indeed, and building cities never gets old cause of the neat 
 features added into the sequel of the best city building game on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Science2000luke
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 1, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the greatest strength of SimCity four is that it has great depth. While youre playing it, 
 you notice new problems encroach upon your city and thus you're forced to develop innovative solutions 
 by affecting your city's growth in any number of ways.
  
  For example, say you have a pollution problem in city A because of the heavy industry. You may 
 want to relocate the heavy industry in another area so you can make city A clean for commerce and 
 residents. Or, you can develop city A's commerce, thus encouraging high-tech industry to replace 
 polluting industries. There are a seemingly endless number of ways to improve your city; all depends 
 on your imagination and creativity. Yes! Sim City 4 is a game that lets you see whether or not 
 your development strategy is worthwhile in the long run! If you like exercising your mind, then 
 you'll love this!
  
  Besides the depth of the game's administrative capabilities, it offers great graphics, wonderful 
 music that's enjoyable to listen to while seeing skyscrapers rise, and the maxis charm -- a great 
 sense of humor. When you achieve a certain quality of education, population etc. you'll be rewarded 
 not only with pretty and useful buildings but great humor that goes along with their descriptions. 
 Those are all great things that make you happy.
  
  Although Sim City 4 a is a difficult game, for you need to take account of many, many things as 
 your city grows, and it needs a powerful computer for quality game performance, its strong points 
 shine past its negligible weaknesses and, in the end makes you happier for having played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feras_wilson
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  Hi!
  The simcity 4 game is good when i played it but it has some problems in the news or the people. 
 They want the best. Example: No road connection either if i have a road. Playing simcity 4 will 
 learn you many things.
  
  Thats My Text not more than that. PLAY IT NOW! SIMCITY 4 + Rush hour will be funnier. Please play 
 and see. Thanks For Me! -- --- -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - -------------------------------------------------------- 
 s s s s s s s s s s s s s s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxibhoy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 17, 2006 2:27 am PT
Review:  Simcity 4 is a great game. Probably the best in the Simcity series. However, sometimes this game 
 can be your worst enemy. It's not allways kind to the user and there are quite a few bugs which 
 can be frustrating. In other words, it's not as polished as it could of been. Even with the addiiton 
 of Rush Hour. Overall though, the positives far outshine the negatives and the end result is a 
 interesting, educational stragegy game for everybody. One of the best things is the improvement 
 of graphics in this game. It's even more entertaining to zoom in and see your city from every little 
 detail. Sound and Design are also improved and the humour is still there. ~Gameplay~
  9/10 - Watch time literally fly by as you control every detail of your virtual metropolis
  
 
  ~Graphics~
  8/10 - Definetely an improvement over previous versions of Simcity. There are bugs that can ruin 
 it though, sadly i have been the victim of these bugs which need fixing in the next game. ~Sound~
 
  8/10 - Like, graphics, it has improved. But i don't think the improvement is as notable. ~Value~
 
  9/10 - This is highly addictive, it's one of those games that never gets old, you'll have fun 
 playing it more than 3 years later like i am. Head over to Simtropolis. com to find new scenery 
 and new buildings. Anything you want to keep the game fresh. ~Overall~
  8.5 (Great) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evilpaintball13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 20, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great strategy game that makes you build your own city. It IS the best in the series 
 and nothing else can beat the fun creativity of Sim city 4. Although it has some technical difficulties 
 it is still a great game. I recommend this game to anybody who likes being something like a god 
 of an army or a city. This game doesnt take too much memory on your computer. There are only a 
 few problems with the game. 1. it has a mosaic effect when you zoom into a big city. number 2. 
 it starts to slow down if your computer isn't a good one. number 3. the graphics might turn bad 
 if you zoom in too closely. number 4. the roads are already prebuilt in the zones which might turn 
 out bad because sometimes the roads dont line up. Overall it is a great game and I recommend it 
 to anybody who like s to play strategy games. Hope you find my review helpfull.
  
  Nick
  
  and dont forget to try other games in the series if you havent already 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Next to Emperor: Rise of the Middle Kingdom and City Life; SimCity 4 stands tall and proud taking 
 away the Best PC simulation award by halofreak3487 . Let me explain why.
  
  The Gameplay is accurate and really gives you the feeling of managing a city. You can expand your 
 city, connect two other cities, raise taxes, check graphs and such for profit outcome, and more. 
 The city grows gradually and the main focus in this game is your population. As your population 
 grows you can build structures such as your house, citizens would want a statue about the mayor 
 and gives you a sense of achievement that no other game gives. I enjoyed the graphics in SimCity 
 4. It was enough to satisfy me but, i expected a little bit more. None the less, their were no 
 slow downs or any weird encounters while managing a city. Although one complain i heard was that 
 once you start operating a megalopolis, it really starts to slow down.
  
  I love the music in this game. It helps me to think and relaxes me, and most importantly, it fits 
 in with the game. The sound from traffic, construction, crimes, and such are really good. Any more 
 it would've felt real. Because SimCity has been around for quite a bit of time now the game is 
 obviously worth a great deal of value. Since this is one of the only good city simulation games 
 out there it's coming from a person who has spent many hours creating and managing a city to tell 
 you that it is a great buy. Although their are minor flaws, the hardly ever get in the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Simcity 4 is a nice city building game, with a good value.
  It gets boring too soon though.
  Here is why Simcity 4 is not a supergame:
  
  Gameplay:
 
  +Nice building options
  +World map mode.
  -Harder then its predecessors.
  
  Graphics:
  +Looks like The Sims graphics engine
  -Some stability problems
  -Sometimes just 
 closes itself (returns to desktop without reason) .
  
  Sounds:
  +Old Simcity sounds
  +Nice soft music
  
  Value:
  Great replayability, but just gets bored too soon, because you 
 have to maintain a good stability in building your city.
  And it takes hours before your city is stable.
  
  Tilt:
  +Nice first look.
  +Good presentation.
 
  +Simcity 4 intro movie.
  -Simcity 4 intro movie a bit weird.
  
  Thats my review, cya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schwagnah
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  SimCity is the epitome of city simulation! Thats what I thought after playing this game. SimCity, 
 the original, really opened my eyes and allowed me to realize the possibilities of this game. Then, 
 SimCity 2000 hit the shelves, and I was blown away! For the first time in my life, I realized that 
 the SimCity series could be some of the best games ever created, and I was not disappointed with 
 SimCity 4. 
  
  Gameplay|Control
  For those people that have never played SimCity before, let me enlighten you. The goal of the game 
 is to start your own city and try to make it grow into a Manhattan-esque, sky-scraping capital. 
 But the game does not limit your game play to just that. Sure, you can build a large city, but 
 you can also build a rural town, a farming community, and if you really want, you can build a wilderness 
 paradise. The great thing about SimCity is that it allows you more freedom than any game on the 
 market, including Grand Theft Auto. The main reason for all of your freedom is the very easy to 
 learn menus. On these menus you can control what type of power you city will run on, where to 
 put schools, how many police stations you want, how much tax you collect, and even the flow of 
 water from your plant to your residents. Its the fact that you control everything that makes this 
 game so special.. 
  
  SimCity 4 has a very easy menu system to learn, and the most exciting menu is God-Mode. The God-Mode 
 menu lets you form your terrain in any shape you want. You can have islands, plains, mountains, 
 and forests; whatever you want, you can make. God-Mode is easy to use because it offers so much 
 freedom in what you want your land to look like. After you create your land, you have to start 
 building, and thats where the city tools menu comes into play. Using this menu, you can basically 
 do anything a real city would do; lay rail, build highways, make power plants, and the like. On 
 the same menu you can also control the tax you collect and the amount of money you give back to 
 the community thru community services, such as, Little League teams, Crossing guards, and more. 
 But the actual building of the city is truly harder than it may seem, but the menu system is easy 
 to understand, so even if the city building is hard, the game will still be engaging. Its all 
 about your style. If you like big buildings, go build a metropolis, if you like rural communities 
 go build a town. Whatever way you want your city to look like, it can be done in SimCity 4; it 
 just takes some amount of practice and time. A third menu lets you input the Sims that you have 
 from The Sims (the game) , into your city. While this sounds very fun, it is actually very gimmicky 
 and annoying. There is no goal for the Sim to accomplish, so your Sim will simply exist in your 
 city with not much to do. This is the only real complaint I have with the game play, but one thing 
 I really thought was amazing was the Region. 
  
  The new Region concept has basically changed everything about your neighboring cities. You can 
 connect your cities via highways, roads, and rail and view your whole region of cities with the 
 region map. And the great thing about connecting your cities is that you can make trades and deals. 
 Lets say City A doesnt have any room to dump their trash, but City B is a small town with a large 
 dump; then City A can make a deal with City B to send their trash and some cash over the border. 
 This makes things much easier for you, especially when you plan to build many cities. All in all 
 the game play mechanics of SimCity 4 go beyond any SimCity game ever created. 
  
  Graphics
  Another great thing about the game is the amazing views that you can have over your 
 city. The aerial views of your city can be absolutely gorgeous because of the stunning graphics 
 of the game. Lakes look like lakes, trees look like trees, and buildings look like real-life buildings. 
 You can also see the shadows that buildings cast on each other. Maxis have done a really excellent 
 job in making the game exceptionally beautiful. The only complaint that people might have is the 
 possible slow frame rate on slower computers, but even that doesnt hinder the game play too much. 
 But Overall, the visual achievement arised within the SimCity franchised has increased once again 
 and looks incredible. 
  
  Sound
  The sweet sounds of jazz and mid-speed techno really help set the mood of the game. City building 
 is fun by itself, but with the added orchestrated tunes, the game is simply a delight to play. 
 The sounds of the city are absolutely first-rate. If you listen closely, you will be able to hear 
 cars sputtering, police sirens wailing, and I think I even heard a baby crying. The games sound 
 is something that was sent down by the gods and should be treasured by all human beings. 
  
  Replay Value
  SimCity 4 can virtually last you thousands of hours because you can create 
 something different each time, but the game can get tiresome after many hours of play. The game 
 has no ending, or final match, it is just a battle to build what you want, where you want, and 
 that is why the game can last exceptionally long, but still provide a great experience. 
  
  Conclusion
  Heres my final recommendation: if you enjoy simulation, or you plan on being a city 
 planner one day, buy this game. If you dont enjoy simulation, then I do not recommend this game 
 for you, but if you can, borrow it from a friend and try it out, it might be something youll enjoy. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalionix
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  I personally hold Maxis in very high standings. I have owned and played every Maxis game to this 
 date. The best of all of them (in my opinion) is the SimCity series. SimCity 4 it beautiful. I 
 love the region addition, the fact that you can have multiple cities in one massive area and the 
 interact with each other. You can sell water, or power, or make one city with alot of jobs and 
 another next to it for the population. Your sims will travel to the next city to work. Subways 
 and airports are a great way to bring more sims and business to your city. I absolutely love it. 
 This one is a must buy. It's almost 3 years old and I play it quite often. You learn more and more 
 everytime you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CLatham91
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 25, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  This game has been a fun to me, but it takes too long to have a city to grow real big. The buildings 
 build too slow and while you're waiting for it to grow, more and more problems appear on the screen. 
 My main goal is to build towering buildings (a downtown) and that never seems to happen. I love 
 it but it just won't pretty much happen for me. I spent a lot of time on a city, but it takes so 
 long that I'll end up building a new city. Then before time, my money ends up getting short, and 
 they people in my city end up getting mad and want more money. Then the next thing you know is 
 the pollution gets bad and the little trees I plant would'nt help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Database72
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 21, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  This is a city builder if I ever played one. This game is fun for those who have the need to construct 
 and expand. The game includes a tutorial that can help you learn the basics of city building if 
 you have never played this series before. The game has a sort of Regional system that is sort of 
 like a large map with many different types of spaces in which to build your cities to create a 
 working network of cities. Now the game also give you a new set of fun god powers that allow 
 you to destroy your city or just harm it a little for those with the need to destroy. The game 
 gives you a lot of challenges to face, I always kind of thought this as an educational game as 
 you deal with budgets and step by step building techniques to get a city properly working.
  
  This game has brought me much joy for the past couple of years and still is. I find it good 
 to have around when I just dont feel like killing something or destroying and army of some sort. 
 If you like an addictive game with many possibilities, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -_locky_-
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 19, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Sim city 4 adds alot of new things from number three besides just graphics. You have the ability 
 to make your own region and make multiple cities within that region. Basically the whole game has 
 always been about creating the biggest possible city while keeping your funds up.
  
  Theres new rewards to get and everything comes with the MAXIS humor that comes with nearly every 
 game it makes. MAXIS has even made the sims part of the game. You get 4-5 sims you can place in 
 your city and you can watch them as they move up in your city. You can check anything from what 
 they work as to how old they are. There's a few heads from the sims 1 to chose fromand they aren't 
 very varied but ah well, it'snot a major part of the game.
  
  The graphics are quite good but it would be better if in god mode you could add snow to your mountains 
 or add deserts or make your cliffs look more rockier then just plain grass. The day/night option 
 can add many beautiful views of your city whether it be your thriving metropolis at night or a 
 train crossing a bridge over a deep river in the sunset. 
  
  It will seem hard to resist building everything at once at the start but you just have to learn 
 to wait and build neccessary things when they are neccessary.
  
  All I would change would be the graphics to make them better, to add a more varied choice of buildings, 
 bridges and to see lots of different building instead of the same old over and over again and perhaps 
 make it a bit easier but thats about it.
  
  Theres not much else to say except this is a really deep game that will be played for hours on 
 end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webmessia
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 16, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  SimCity 4 is an amzing game with great graphics. day and night, shadows, waves and clouds and more 
 visual effects that give your city a sense a realisum like never before. I personaly think that 
 the biggest new feature is God Mode. Like in Sims SimCity has Modes. God, Mayor and Sims Mode. 
 In the god mode you can change the landscape, flora and fauna. And some times, even those non violent 
 game lovers, just love to trash yout city with disasters. I somtimes feel like Striking lightning 
 on my city, setting forests on fire or sending down a gaint evil killer robot. so even those gamers 
 who just have to blow stuf up, you can still enjoy SimCity. A huge library of music, calming, techno 
 and jazzy, plays as you manage your city. Plus the added bonus of having your own music playing 
 in the background. So instead of listing to clming music, you can listen to LOUD GREENDAY! or 50 
 CENt, or any other music you feel like hearing. things not so good are stuff like always losing 
 money because of more costs than in SimCity3000. Value for money 
  new 20, old 12.
  This is an other review by webmessia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mananabanana
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 27, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Long before game designer Will Wright created the best-selling computer game of all time, The Sims, 
 he created SimCity, an innovative game with a clear, compelling premise: You're the mayor, and 
 your goal is to plan a city from the ground up (and from a godlike vantage point) and then nurture 
 it, eventually turning what starts as a sleepy little town into a bustling metropolis. SimCity 
 was challenging and plausibly realistic and even had a surprising amount of humor, especially for 
 a game with a seemingly mundane subject. About 15 years have passed since the original SimCity 
 was first released, and while the classic SimCity series is still well known among PC gamers, it 
 has only reached its fourth full installment. And SimCity 4 for the most part isn't a huge departure 
 from its predecessors, either, not that it really needs to be. The game does have a number of new 
 features and a few additional layers of depth on top of the preceding SimCity 3000, and its visuals 
 have been impressively overhauled. However, due to the presence of some stability and performance 
 issues, as well as a few noticeably lacking features, SimCity 4 doesn't seem as polished as it 
 could have been. On the other hand, it's still a complex and detailed strategy game that can entertain 
 you for hours on end and even teach you a thing or two. 
  
  SimCity 4 is similar to its predecessors, but it offers a number of interesting new features. One 
 of the biggest changes to the gameplay of SimCity 4 is evident from the start. Immediately as you 
 begin the game, you're presented with a view of SimNation, though it's not much of a nation at 
 first. SimNation is divided up into numerous smaller square segments, yet each of these in fact 
 can hold an entire city of your making. These cities can even interact to some extent, exchanging 
 surplus energy, water, and such for cash. At any rate, getting started is as easy as clicking on 
 any SimNation square, naming your city, and appointing yourself as mayor, and you're off. But before 
 you begin, you may wish to take the step-by-step tutorials of the game's mayor mode -- the heart 
 of SimCity 4-- and the god mode, where you can terraform the land to your heart's content, making 
 the terrain as flat, as hilly, as undulating, or as improbably strange as you like. It's easy to 
 use the terrain-morphing tools found in this mode, and while it's perfectly viable to just pick 
 one of the ready-made territories to start your city in, it's tempting and straightforward to custom-tailor 
 your own. 
  
  Once you decide it's time to get started with your city, you may find the early going to be very 
 familiar if you've played any of the previous SimCity games. You'll start by plopping down a power 
 plant, preferably one that doesn't create too much pollution, and then laying down some residential, 
 industrial, and commercial zones, then giving them some time to incubate. Laying out zones is as 
 easy as dragging rectangles using your mouse, but SimCity 4 tries to make things even easier on 
 you by automatically inserting streets, giving larger zones a gridlike pattern. This is a mixed 
 blessing, since these auto-built streets often don't line up as you try to construct adjacent zones, 
 leaving your city with bits of wasted space here and there, at least until you get used to dealing 
 with this feature. And since city maps in SimCity 4 are smaller overall than in previous SimCity 
 games -- probably a necessary limitation due to the fine level of detail you'll see down to individual 
 houses and sims -- that wasted space could be a big missed opportunity for your city. Plus all the 
 extra roads can really hose your budget early on. The auto-roads feature really should have been 
 optional. 
  
  You'll have to start small, but think big. As in SimCity 3000, the three zone types each have several 
 different density options, so light-density residential zones are likely to sprout small houses 
 or low-income apartments, while high-density residential zones could turn into tall, fancy condominiums. 
 Denser zones are costlier to put in place but pack in more people, which means more tax dollars. 
 But in SimCity 4, it pays to start slow. The early going can be very challenging at first (and 
 there are no difficulty options available to ameliorate this) , as you'll naturally wish to immediately 
 add all the amenities you'd want in a city: running water, schools, hospitals, police stations, 
 or a football field. At any rate, a fledgling town needs only the basics, and a continuously updating 
 news ticker that's part of the interface will keep you informed about whether your sim population 
 needs anything you're not already providing. You'll eventually get a feel for how to get people 
 coming into your town without driving your budget too far into the red. The goal, of course, is 
 to make your newly established city profitable as soon as possible, since that's when you can start 
 expanding in earnest and finally afford that hospital or police station you've always wanted next 
 to your football field. 
  
  Having to contend with the constantly shifting demand for the three zone types while continuously 
 adding better services and transportation options for your population and while also keeping an 
 eagle eye on your monthly budget adds up to some involving gameplay. SimCity 4, like its predecessors, 
 succeeds at being an active, hands-on game where there's usually something interesting you can 
 be doing. Even if you're waiting to rake in a certain amount of funds, you can use that time as 
 an opportunity to scrutinize the many different statistics and charts available to you or to correspond 
 with your various advisors on how to proceed. Or you can use the handy query tool to click around 
 your city, gleaning all kinds of information, including a few amusingly pointless statistics. You 
 can even just sit back and observe your city at the closest zoom level. See those crime-scene-style 
 chalk outlines near your football field? Those mean you probably should spring for a new police 
 station thereabouts. All this is not to say SimCity 4 is a fast-paced game, because you can play 
 it at the rate you want. It's possible to pause the action outright and build as much as necessary 
 before starting the clock back up, and you can freely switch between three different game-speed 
 settings.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frenchierr
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 24, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Sim City 4 is the upgrade of the past sim city's, this new sim-city building includes all the features 
 in a modern city with thousands and millions of habitants, fron train to metro to hight ways to 
 coal plants and nuclear plants ext, SimCity 3000 and Sim City 4 are verry similar, some updates 
 in graphics and other than that SIMCITY4 realy makes u feel like a MAYOR of the city since people 
 come and ask you stuff, like if you want to build this or trade with them EXT like seling your 
 garage or impoprting ext... the monuments you could build are prety cool from the twin towers to 
 the TOUR EIFEL EXT... 
  
  your city could become SO BIG that my biggest city called metropolis has over 10 million inhabitants 
 and i tried to save it in my hard drive and noticed it was of 1GIGA which is 1,000 MB mega bites!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirkover
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  When looking back at the best simulator games, city building games have never been fully appreciated. 
 Is it because there are so few of these games, or just because no one cares about building cities? 
 But, take a look again. You will see that there is one particular series that reach the epitome 
 of city building perfection. You could do anything with your city, whether that be making it the 
 ritziest place in the country, or turning your city into a slum filled wih criminals, with only 
 bad intentions for your city. What game series could this be? The SimCity series, and along comes 
 the latest installment: SimCity 4.
  
  SimCity 4 is a game like no other. It manages to mix strategy, city building, and even some comical 
 moments making it the best of the best. Your goal is to build a city from the ground up, and manage 
 things such as funds and taxes to maintain a good budget for your city. So, how do you make people 
 come to your city? First, you have to enter a mode called the God Mode. Here, you have to terraform 
 the landscape of your city, creating towering mountains, desolate islands, and huge bodies of water. 
 When your have created the land, and adjusted it to your liking, you then begin the city building 
 process. First, you have to lay out what is called "zones". There are a couple different types 
 of zones; three to be precise: residential zones, commercial zones, ad industrial zones. To attract 
 people to your city, you need to lay out a good balance of residential zones for places to live, 
 commercial zones to distribute office jobs and services, and industrial zones to distribute industrial 
 jobs. But, just because you lay out the zones doesn't mean that people will come. 
  
  Like in real life, people won't move in to your city if you don't provide power. Simple enough, 
 you just need to build a power plant. But eventually, the people will start to complain, asking 
 for police and fire stations, schools, and hospitals to be built in the city. Obviously, you can't 
 build all of these so early in the game, as you can not afford it, which brings up another problem 
 with SimCity 4. There is no real goal in SimCity 4; no missions, no objectives, nothing. SimCity 
 4 is pretty much just a giant sandbox mode. Sure, there are a couple of cities that are already 
 made when you start the game, but not nearly as many as you would expect from this game. None the 
 less, you don't need goals to have fun, so it isn't really that big of a flaw.
  
  When the time comes, you're city population will leap to incredible heights. Then, people will 
 start to complain about how long it takes to get to work, and your building may begin to become 
 abandoned. Which brings up a second problem; the learning curve. SimCity 4 can be extremely difficult 
 for newcomers, and you can't just play the game like an ordinary game; you are constantly having 
 to do boring work, like adjusting taxes, increasing funding for utilities, and other things like 
 that. You also have to build many mass transit vehicles, like trains and subways. The citizens 
 of your city become very picky over time, and you can never seem to fully fulfill the wishes of 
 your citizens. But, over time, if you create a good setup, your will satisfy your citizens. By 
 the time you have experienced all of this, you are on your way to creating the perfect city, with 
 all of the high rise building, landmarks, and towering office skyscrapers you could possibly imagine. 
 
  
  You can create a big, bustling metropolis like I previously said, but if that doesn't satisfy your 
 wishes, then you can always destroy your city, just for fun. SimCity 4 allows you to unleash catastrophic 
 disasters on your city. Do the people in a particular building complain too much? Send a giant 
 robot to blow the building up. Feeling like causing some mass destruction? Plop a volcano in the 
 middle of the downtown area, and watch the buildings collapse. It's all up to your imagination. 
 But don't get too caught up in destroying your city; you are trying to build a good city, not destroy 
 one.
  
  Undoubtedly, SimCity 4 plays good. But, take a close look at your city. It appears as a busy, thriving 
 place when at a stand. But, scroll a little to the left or right to see that everything bogs down 
 to a slow state. The reason? SimCity 4 simply cannot keep up with fast movement, due to the bad 
 framerate. This becomes an even bigger problem when your city grows to very large sizes. If Maxis 
 would have only released SimCity 4 a little later, they may have been able to fix this problem. 
 Never the less, SimCity 4 does look good, and the level of detail in your city is amazing. There 
 is always something to see in your city; you can watch the police chase down criminals, or go to 
 the scene of a car accident. Literally, your city never stands still. 
  
  While SimCity 4 is fun to play more than anything else, it does deliver some wacky orchestral pieces. 
 Not to say that the music is bad; it is very good. As your city develops, the orchestral pieces 
 will play. Some times, the music almost seems to fit the mood of your city; if your city is very 
 busy, the music might be up-beat. If your city is going through some tough times, the music may 
 be sad, and quiet. But, most of the time, the strange orchestral pieces don't see to fit the moment. 
 
  
  At first glance, SimCity 4 may not seem like a very serious game; but, take a deeper look, and 
 you will find a gem of a video game. The amount of depth in SimCity 4 is incredible; there is always 
 something happening in your city, even when your city is only composed on small suburbs. You can 
 adjust everything to your liking; funds, taxes, literally anything. You can also add personal touches 
 to your city, like giving names to buildings and places. Put it this way: when it comes down to 
 it, the possibilities in SimCity 4 are endless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nag
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Sim City series are pretty nice done and really addictive games. Like the others I have some difficulties 
 to avoid being in the red with my finances, but when I reach it, I release some disasters. With 
 that, everything is destroyed, and my frustration is gone. Seriously, the graphics of this Sim 
 City are awesome and the tools for building your piece of Earth give you a lot of liberty. Commands 
 are basics so everyone can enjoy this game. Finally, the only negative thing I've found is the 
 way your money will so quickly disappear. But, this part is the most important, because if we had 
 all the money we wanted, the challenge would has not been here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReuF-San
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 14, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  Like the previous versions of Sim City, you main goal is the same: build a huge metropolis, keep 
 you citizens happy or else they will leave your city. The graphics have much more detail than in 
 Sim City 3000. You can zoom out all the way to see the entire city, or you can zoom all the way 
 in to see individual buildings. Sim City is much more vast this time around allowing you to control 
 an entire region instead of just individual cities. Again, it is also very time consuming and it 
 takes some efforts to get your finances balanced. Since I had seen it all before, I put the game 
 aside quite soon, looking for more action
  A good sequel, but I put it aside too soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syrennobre
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 7, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  SimCity 4 is the return of the famous simulator SimCity (owned by Maxis) . In this game, the player 
 as two roles: God, in this mode you can shape the terrain as you like\need (dont worry you have 
 infinite simoleans (Sim money) ) ; and Mayor, here you build your city with a limited range of cash 
 and loans. As an bonus Maxis includes in this game the brand new Sim Mode, in this mode you can 
 import a Sim for the another production of Maxis, The Sims, or choose one for the pre-defined list 
 of SimCity, and choose a house for him in your city to live. This mode gives you a new experience 
 in this type of simulation, because you can know what is happening in a specific zone of your city.
 
  SC4, bring all type of tools to make the job of Mayor, easy (you have all the tools to know exactly 
 every detail of your city: criminality, fire risk, pollution, etc) , fun (you can do everything 
 you want, build, destroy, etc) , complete (you control all departments of the City Capitol) , and 
 realistic. 
  There another relevant change since SimCity 3000, now theres no isolated cities, when you began 
 the game, you have a region with various squares than allow you to build your cities. This gives 
 you everything you need to really connect your cities with power cables, water pipes, airports, 
 sea docks, roads, highways, etc
  
  Now lets talk about the technical issues of the game:
  Graphical: Very Good (for the time the 
 game appears) ;
  Soundtrack: Good (It lets you choose your own musics) ;
  Learning Curse: Its very familiar for the repeaters in this city, but is difficult to make a city 
 really make money (Its the same in reality soo! Try to fund a city in reality and making profit!) .
 
  
  This game has three different packs in the market:
  SimCity 4 - The original game
  SimCity 4: Rush Hour - The expansion pack 
  SimCity 4 Deluxe Edition  The original with the 
 expansion pack with some extras (its cheaper believe me!)
  
  SYren Nobre
  03-05-2006
  Portugal, Europe
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EscoDaddy14
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 23, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Ive been addicted to the Sims series since it started. The Sims, The Sims 2, Sim City, Sim City 
 3000, and now Sim City 4. 
  
  The graphics of thise game are a major improvment over the last installment, naturally. When you 
 zoom in the buildings are much smoother and more detailed.
  
  The sound category doesnt offer too much, because its a city, what noises do you hear besides sirens 
 and other city noise.
  
  Some new features that are fun, are the police missions. You can actually control a police patroller 
 and do certain missions to improve your Mayor rating and stop pathetic criminals in their tracks!
 
  
  Overall if you love the Sim City series, and you like new features and a fun game pick this game 
 up. It will give you some good kicks, without kicking a hole in your wallet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guybrush0788
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Built on the old SimCity systems, there's no reason for an overhaul as you've always 
 had everything you need. Difficult to succeed for beginners, but once you're moving you accelerate 
 quickly. However, a godsim fan looking solely for the game rather than the experience could do 
 the same with earlier versions or other games. The best improvement (and only major change to the 
 franchise) is the addition of MySim, importing your own sims into the city, and some good if superfluous 
 entertainment in the disasters.
  Graphics: This is what the game excels at. You need a beast of a machine to run it at optimum, 
 but it dazzles, all the way from cityscape to street level. The most painstaking detail has been 
 taken and it shows. This is where the disasters and special events really come in to their own.
 
  Sound: Very close behind graphics - and so forming an engrossing environment for the gamer. Like 
 the graphics, there is ridiculous attention to detail, but some of the more often heard sounds 
 can grate a bit. A nice touch is the sound dampening as you zoom out.
  Value: For the impatient, there are always cheat codes to create and destroy at will. For the patient, 
 this game can vary between an interesting diversion to eating up hours of your life. You have been 
 warned
  Tilt: Although not much different to previous incarnations, this new addition forms a more aesthetically 
 engaging atmosphere, lending its appeal to a wider audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awesomer_TV
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 3, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Sim City 4 is a decent game worth playing. You get to design a city of your dreams with all of 
 the neccestities. But sudden twists, and high demand make for a troublesome city. There are so 
 many possibilities that make up the game. It has some exciting parts also.
  I think that you should play the game. It gets boring quickly though as it is very hard to mage 
 a city without cheats. For most people, they may think Sim City 2000 or Sim City 3000 are boring 
 and dull. But this game does have some new featurs added. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_weightman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Can you even remember the first Sim City? I do... about 10 years ago I was playing the two-dimensional 
 time-waster. Bounds and leaps later, we have been blessed with the latest in the series from Maxis 
 (by way of EA Games) .
  
  Before you start your quest, you are God. Not metaphorically, but actually. You get to create any 
 type of land you wish to. You get to "weather" your land, add animals, create valleys, mountains, 
 and whatever else you can think of. God does not believe in money, I guess, so all of the landscaping 
 you desire is free of charge.
  
  You get to place your own Sims into the game, give them fancy homes in nice neighborhoods. This 
 episode is a lot more complex than the previous. You have to bo aware of more things at one time, 
 constantly giving attention to the smallest detail.
  
  I would not recommend this game to someone who doesn't have a lot of time to learn and enjoy this 
 classic. Yes. Learn it. Enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgiy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  As with previous SimCity titles, SimCity 4 places players in the role of a mayor (or several mayors) , 
 tasked to populate and develop the tract of land. There are, however, many differences between 
 this game and previous versions, the largest difference being that cities are now located in regions 
 that are divided into segments, each of which can be developed. The regional play concept adds 
 a whole new dimension to this sequel of SimCity.
  
  Neighbor cities played a large role in the previous version of the game, SimCity 3000. For example, 
 neighbor deals could be established, where a city could exchange resources such as water, electricity, 
 or garbage disposal for money. In this version, the player may develop several dependent cities 
 at the same time, eventually populating the entire region. Additionally, the simulated city can 
 now be seen at nighttime as well as during daytime.
  
  The functions of civic buildings have been overhauled in SC4. Facilities that had previously provided 
 citywide coverage (educational facilities and hospitals) have now been modified to provide a more 
 limited coverage, as it has been with police stations and fire stations in previous SimCity titles. 
 This would require players to plan the best locations to effectively provide sufficient civic services 
 to Sims (e. g. placing schools in or around residential areas) . SC4 has also introduced a feature 
 to adjust funding for individual buildings, allowing users to specify how much money should be 
 spent to supply services in accordance to the population. Maintenance expenses for public utility 
 facilities (power plants, water plants and garbage disposal services) were also introduced in SC4.
 
  
  Zoning and building size have also been improved. Buildings are now classified into several wealth 
 levels, zone types and "stages" (building size and density) , which are affected by the region's 
 population and the city's condition; commercial buildings, for example, may be divided into commercial 
 services and commercial offices, with the former typically in higher demand and better suited for 
 less educated citizens. In addition, the game better simulates urban decay and gentrification; 
 buildings originally constructed to occupy higher-wealth tenants can now support lower wealth tenants 
 (or vise versa) in an event surrounding factors forces the current tenants to vacate the building; 
 this allows certain buildings to remain in use despite lacking its initial occupants. Also, for 
 the first time in the series, buildings and lots can be constructed on slopes.
  
  SimCity 4 can be used in conjunction with Maxis' popular game The Sims. Sims can be imported into 
 the city where they will report what they think of the area they are living in. SC4 comes with 
 21 default Sims for those without a copy of the game. Moreover, SC4 does have a control interface 
 very similar to The Sims.
  
  Graphics in SimCity 4 are rendered using trimetric orthographic projection whereas SimCity 2000 
 and SimCity 3000 were rendered with dimetric projection. According to an article on the history 
 of SimCity, published on its official site, free camera movement was considered, but rejected for 
 use in this version and a locked perspective camera was retained from earlier versions. Like The 
 Sims, SimCity 4 incorporates both 2D and 3D graphics in the game; buildings and static props are 
 presented as sprites wrapped around polygons, and a majority of other elements have incorporated 
 full 3D graphics, such as the natural landscape, moving vehicles, roads and railways.
  
  Upon selecting a specific segment in a region, gameplay is divided into three "modes". The first 
 of which is the God Mode, which allows players to design or terraform a selected tract of land 
 where the city will be built. God Mode also allows players to trigger disasters, including tornados, 
 earthquakes and robot attacks. Terraforming tools are disabled after the city is named and founded.
 
  
  The second of the modes is the Mayor Mode, the fundamental mode of the game where the actual city 
 building is conducted. The mode allows players to insert necessary structures and facilities, such 
 as roads, civic buildings, zoning and power stations, for the city to attract its intended tenants 
 and grow.
  
  The final mode is the MySim mode which enables players to create MySims and closely assess citizens' 
 needs. The mode primarily involves the deployment of Sims into the present city, where they will 
 reside and provide feedback on the areas surrounding their home, commute and workplace.
  
  This is a absolute must for all SimCity players, that for some reason, havent picked this game 
 up yet. DO IT
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rometotalwar999
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  It's SimCity again, and this time, it's in 3D! Sounds great eh? Actually, no. Let's look at the 
 different aspects of this game.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Oh my god, Maxis sure know how to mess things up to the very extreme. The panels are all differnt 
 now! If you were a hardcore fan of SimCity 3000 (Like Me) you're gonna have to figure your way 
 out of this one. The 'Neighbour' panel seemed to have disappeared. Everything is located differently 
 now. And there are no more humourous news box. Such a pity And the grid need to have roads directly 
 in front of their house! In SimCity 3000, you can have several grids in front of one road, now 
 it's one grid to a road. I don't understand, can't Sims walk to the road?
  
  Graphics
  
  Although it's in 3D now, the graphics still suck when zoomed in to the maximum, even with the 
 max settings. And this game is a resource hogger. Don't get it unless your system is designed for 
 high-end gaming.
  
  Sound
  
  Holy crap. All they give you is 'Tit tit' and 'Ring ring' sounds. No innovative ideas unlike The 
 Sims 2 which has a fabulous music!
  
  Value
  
  At the beginning, your spendings will ALWAYS be more than your income. Even you can overcome that, 
 the game gets extremely repitive after building serveral cities, unlike SimCity 3000 which offers 
 challenges
  
  Tilt/Overall
  
  When the game gets repitive, and if yours is an average system, the first thing you want to do 
 is uninstall it immediately and throw your computer outta the window. If you want great management 
 games, get SimCity 3000 which offers reasonable graphics for all kinds of system. Stay away from 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamezRlife21
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  SimCity 4 for the PC was one of my lille brothers favorite games. He loved it so much i decided 
 to give it a try. I started out with a small city, and thought it was kind of boring. All of a 
 sudden an alien came down from the screen and started to destroy my city. This, of course, made 
 me want to play more and more, and i am still playing it to this day. Dont get me pegged as some 
 kind of loser, i usually like action/horror games but this was a nice change. The graphics were 
 surprisingly good and the sound made this game even better. The gameplay was non stop and was very 
 fun. You get to build an entire empire the way you want, and customize it to your liking. There 
 are many of options, you can be a safe, friendly environment type of person by making electric 
 power plants, or be a smog hog and build nuclear power plants, there is an unlimited possibilitys 
 to this game. This is one of my brothers games that i actually liked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwolf92
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 6, 2005 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Within minutes of completing your masterful city you have the ultimate option of simply deleting 
 it or BLOW THE LIVING CRAP OUT OF IT!!!!!!!! Yeah disasters are back and bigger than ever with 
 giant robota, volcanoes, earthquakes, alien invasions, god powers, and a ton more. All the tools 
 are in place to make your city a stunning vista or a steaming hellhole. Graphics present all of 
 the overhead action very smoothly and the gameplay is great. Music fits the tone of everything 
 and the sound effects are terrific, you can hear every little car horn and building crumble as 
 you reek havoc on poor unsuspecting victims. I say attempt at own risk cuz it can suck up a lot 
 of time (didn't happen with me though) . So if you wanna crush everything that you've worked so 
 hard on then go play with legos but if you want a really really really fun game than get this now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oivegotbigballs
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 9:35 am PT
Review:  you can drive cars trucks palnes trains and other things such as a bus you can even drive a ufo 
 im not making you buy it im just saying if you liked the rest you will like this and if you dont 
 you will be sorry because this game is the BEST i mean BEST sims ever made if you wanna learn more 
 read another review or do as i suggest BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!! i wanna play in 24/7 im not lying 
 itsgraphics are amzing it could have a bit better gameplay but its still and awsome game so please 
 give it a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battousai188
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Sim City games have never ceased to amaze and challenge the minds of many. And with Sim City 4 
 it deffinatly takes it to a new level. Each and every new installment adds tons of new features 
 buildings and detail to the game. Sim City 4 hits almost all those details you could want but still 
 lacks some things that could make it a perfect sim. It would have been nice to see ultra futureistic 
 structures like the ones found in Sim 2000, ot even more things like seeing something like NASA 
 sites or race tracks or large amusements parks would add some extra flavor to the game, but who 
 knows maybe later down the line the little details that are often overlooked in the previous installments 
 will be hit and make the game that much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominic_daluz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 1:26 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game, I played it for about an hour, then I gave up. After having 5 cities ending 
 up with -28000 in the treasury, I HAD to find help. Something many overlook is local funding. I 
 never owned simcity 3000, but I used to play simcity 2000 a lot and in that game, I never had to 
 adjust funding. The only thing I adjusted was taxes. Now in Simcity 4, I unfortunately did the 
 same thing. Always check the capacity of a certain service and adjust funding accordingly. I used 
 to lose 1000 simoleans a month, with some funding and tax adjustments, I was making a smooth 1200 
 simoleans a month (I was just starting wih a city w/ about 1500 citizens) . So if I were you, I 
 would buy this game w/c is relatively cheap nowadays and read some FAQs in gamefaqs. com ro learn 
 all the tricks of the trade to avoid frustration. The graphics are amazing, the city is alive with 
 activity! It is unimpressive from very far a way, but zoom in and you will find children playing 
 in the park, pedestrians flocking to a new movie studio, fire trucks going to infernos... this 
 game is quite deep. This game merits more that 50 hours of gameplay. When you are sick of building 
 cities, you can always destroy your hard earned creations with a tornado and a few meteors! This 
 is fun, believe me. Give this game a chance, and I am sure, if you like simulation games, and after 
 building your first successful city, you will be hooked for quits some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathlordii
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I remember sim city 2000. Those were the days, it was exactly as it should be during that time. 
 But this game was made in 2004, not 2000 and by the graphics you realy cant tell the difference. 
 Yes it is a good seriese but if you only change a few things who realy cares. If your into this 
 sort of game i do encourage you to buy it, but if you dont have much enthusiasm in this sort of 
 stuff i tell you this, dont waist your time here. Been there done that is all i can say about this.
 
  
  I mean i do enjoy making a huge city and making a huge tornado go right down the center and blow 
 everything up, but you can only do that for so long. I give this game a 5/10 because of the lack 
 of graphics and sound. Also because of the small advancments between this and sim city 2000. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aldrian
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 21, 2005 2:28 am PT
Review:  Fancy graphics, high resolutions (read: high requirements) and 'The Sims' Inspired features is 
 basically what's new in this game. Probably looks fascinating to kids with fast computers, but 
 if you'r a bit older I'd recommend to play around with the goold old Sim City 3000 (Gold) Instead, 
 which is alot better and well worth the money even today. 
  
  If you, or the kids, are into 'the Sims' kind of games, then this will be nothing but a dissapointment, 
 get the Sims instead...
  
  This game actually reminds me of the recent movie 'Madagascar', where they attempted to make a 
 "family"-movie by having childrens cartoons doing adult jokes, and didn't succeed in either one 
 of the tasks.
  
  I didn't bother to get the Rush Hour expansion, so if that thing makes it better I don't know. 
 Conclusion: Save you'r money and boycott this EA monopoly abling them to take good games and reduce 
 them into mere moneymachines.
  
  Regards
  Andy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesuspotpie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 10:01 am PT
Review:  This was the very first game I picked up with my PC, and at first I semi enjoyed it, but when I 
 really started undersatanding the game I fell in love with it. This is the sequel to Simcity 3000, 
 and this one blows it out of the water. The graphics are nice crisp, and clean with good effect's, 
 the sound is excellent in that area's that have high traffic you can hear the car's, and in ghetto's 
 you occaisionally hear gun shot's, or sometimes see a fight in the middle of the street next to 
 a graffitti marred building. It's the little detail's that really immerse you into this game, and 
 boy there is alot of them. The only complaint I have with this game, and it's not even really a 
 complaint is that you need a good 1 GB of ram, and a Ok GPU to run it on high settings once your 
 city's size starts getting big, and if you don't have a GPU that you bought extra, just a Accelerator 
 chip once you start bulding a metropolis you might have the game crash. Another cool Feature though 
 about this game is region's. There is 3-4 regions to build onto, and you can interlock the city's 
 with train's, and hiway's to make practically a whole country, not just one city. Also there is 
 real life landmarks to use like Big Ben, and can even donwload more online if you register your 
 product. I work at a game store, and it surprises me that when I talk about this game no one understand's 
 me.
  In short if you have a medium range+ system, your a opn minded gamer and you like games like The 
 Sim's you should enjoy this, hell I think this game owns the sim's but whatever.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elemonkey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 15, 2005 9:00 am PT
Review:  I love playing this game. I have owned it since its release day over 2 years ago and I still enjoy 
 playing it. I have spent countless hours building up cities and it has been a very rewarding experience. 
 
  
  Gameplay: For the most part, the game play is rather good, But if you are trying to build up a 
 city without using any sort of cheat code it could be just a little difficult. Building a New York 
 City style city can be a challenge for most players including myself (even after playing it for 
 2 1/2 years) . The transportation system is just a little screwing and can become irritating. The 
 user interface in this game is great and it does not take long to learn where everything is located.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics for SC4 are terrific. They are nothing like the graphics of the previous 
 games in the series. But this comes at a price, be prepared to have a lot of RAM.
  
  Sound: The sound is pretty good. Good music and gameplay sound effects.
  
  Overall this game 
 is awesome and if you enjoy city building games then this is for you (its pretty much your only 
 option anyways lol) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris_53
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 11, 2005 1:05 am PT
Review:  SimCity 4 is the forth main step-up in the city building series. A rush hour expansion pack was 
 also released. And now a deluxe edition is now available in games retails near you. 
  
  First I would like to start by saying that there been a huge improvement in graphics and visuals. 
 The level in detail is more impressive, things like when buildings are being built you can see 
 it getting bigger with all the construction and cranes around it and if you have the city detail 
 and texture quality on a high level you can see the people working on the construction site. You 
 notice that buildings become dilapidated if conditions aren't right for that particular building, 
 it really is a much more detailed game than the other SimCity games. This is good in most ways 
 but this really can bring your system to its knees, you do need a powerful machine with well over 
 256MB Ram and a Pentium 4 with at least 2.0 GHz. 
  
  The game pretty much plays like SimCity 3000, You zone areas, build power plants and water facilities 
 and transportation systems, There is also a god mode where you can create mountains and valleys. 
 When you zone areas they will automatically draw in roads. It's a useful feature as you can zone 
 bigger areas. The problem here is that roads often don't connect so you have to go to the roads 
 menu and connect them yourself. But you can use shift and alt to alter the ways the roads are built. 
 
  
  You have different types of roads in this game, you have streets which are draw in when you zone, 
 there is roads which can handle more traffic and have a higher speed limit then streets. Avenues 
 which are similar to dual carriage ways, and one way streets. Another thing new to SimCity 4 is 
 the region play where you connect your cities together. The game offers a lot of entertainment 
 and it will keep you playing for a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daqua_99
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 27, 2005 8:04 am PT
Review:  Sim City 4 is a great game with most of the basics mastered and still sticks to the great Sim City 
 gameplay, but adds more functionality and ways to get information about your city.
  
  From when you start your city, you get into a region instead of the menus which appeared in the 
 previous versions. You click on your piece of land and once youve clicked play, you can start 
 to create the landscape for your city and its surroundings. Remember to press the pause button; 
 otherwise the date will continue to go whilst you are creating your city. The only mode which you 
 can access is the God Mode, which allows you to create mountains, gorges, cliffs, valleys, lakes, 
 rivers, mesas and plateaus. Once you have created your landscape, you can add trees, animals and 
 erode/soften to land. Once you think that your city surroundings are up to scratch, click on the 
 Mayor mode and select the cities and mayors names. Now you can begin to create your city.
  
  Sim City 4 is a game with catchy simmish music, great-quality graphics and simple yet interesting 
 gameplay. I really like the My Sim mode, because it gives you the chance to let one of your original 
 sims loose into the city and get up-to-date news and opinions from him or her and this can really 
 help in the long-run.
  
  There are a lot of extra features which have been added to Sim City 4. The most obvious of these 
 is the graphic enhancement, which makes the city seem more realistic and allows you to get deeper 
 into the feel of your city. Another enhancement is the amount of options which you have in the 
 Mayor mode to build in your city, as you can do so much more than what you could in any other version. 
 The new ways to see city information is really good, as it is very detailed and though  you can 
 see everything from commute time to amount of garbage in your city for over 100 years ago!
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8/10
  
  The gameplay is really as any other sim city game is  it is to create 
 a city and control every aspect to it, but Sim City 4 makes this more enjoyable as it gives you 
 more options and ways to find out more about you city. Also, you can create a certain city type, 
 for example, if you just want wealthy sims in your city, you can do things that will encourage 
 them and discourage other types of sims and businesses/industries. The new region feature allows 
 for you to have different areas for residents, and other cities for the sims place of work.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9/10
  
  Superb graphics with very detailed design and added things that just 
 make the game look good like kids playing on roads and sims walking to work. The graphics where 
 great, with the addition of the day/night cycle being excellent, as you can see your city with 
 every little light on and cars with their high-level beams on. The only problem is that occasionally 
 the computer was running slow because of the high-quality graphics.
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  
  Great sound with no real drawbacks other that these tunes where so catchy and yet annoying at the 
 same time. Sound effects where really good as well, as you can hear the honks of horns and the 
 voices of kids playing football.
  
  VALUE: 9/10
  
  Great value at only $20 when it became a classic not to long ago.
  
  This is a great game with 
 all going for it. I experienced a little bit of problems like crashing, but downloading a patch 
 and that fixed it. All over a great game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kruegersc4
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  As SimCity is in its fourth generation, you may think it would get old, but for strategy lovers, 
 it just gets better. 
  SC4's gameplay is very in depth. It is much harder than previous games, but once you learn it, 
 you'll probably love it. You can do so much to make your city better and more realistic, plus you 
 can go online and find new content.
  The graphics are amazing in this game! The buildings and props are very detailed, and all the cars 
 seem to have a place to go. I am still am amazed at the graphics after SC4 cam out 2 years ago!
 
  There is so much I haven't done in SimCity 4 two years after its release, I am still playing it 
 today. All fans of strategy should definitely get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwisdom
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 18, 2005 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Will Wright is most likely known now for his work on "The Sims", the worlds best selling computer 
 game of all time, the people simulator. But before you were playing with little computer people 
 and learning simlish, there was another game that Will Wright was proud to call his own. And that 
 was Sim City.
  
  This is the 4th iteration of that classic series, a game where you are put into the shoes of the 
 Mayor and were given the prospect of designing and running a profitable city. Success was and is 
 measured in population growth, and while still an important factor, Sim City 4 goes much deeper.
 
  
  In fact, this is the deepest game of the series. Much like the previous games, you start with building 
 a Power plant, and nearby industrial, residential and commercial zones. As in Sim City 3000, this 
 is further multiplied by the density of each zone, from light, medium and high density.
  
  However, a new feature to the series which is unwelcome is the auto roads feature. Previously you 
 would create a zone, and then run streets and roads through it at your disposal. This has now changed. 
 As you "click and drag" your zone, streets will surface, and sometimes they are not as helpful 
 as you would initially think. Certainly this makes it easier for casual gamers, but the game is 
 fine without this option and unfortunately, you cant take this option off.
  
  However, this isnt too big an adjustment, and you will get used to it. Another new feature is the 
 "God mode" allowing you to terraform the environment to your liking. This is a major feature, but 
 naturally, to make it easier on yourself, you will just make all the land flat and remove all or 
 most trees. A desert wasteland if you will.
  
  This makes starting up easy, but then you get to the real meat of the game, and you will find yourself 
 constantly having to worry about meeting your cities needs. You can pause the game at any time, 
 and make adjustments then, or even speed up time if the economy is slow, however the default is 
 at normal time. Having to contend with many of your cities needs is actually taxing on you, however 
 there are advisors who will give hints on what you should be doing.
  
  However, the game is made harder by it's interface. It will take some time to understand and recognise 
 what each button is for, as none of them are labeled. The interface is similar to that of "The 
 Sims", but sticking with what worked there does Sim City 4 no favours.
  
  Micro-management is more prevalent here then in previous games, making it quite hard to get into. 
 The tutorial modes are rather light and dont factor a lot into the game. It will be some time until 
 you realise you can do business with other cities, and that you can tax each threshold differently. 
 You could heavily tax the rich yuppies while giving the strugglers a break and vice versa. This 
 isn't explained to you, and makes the game clearly harder than it should be.
  
  Of course, as with previous games, you can take out your deepest desires on the unwilling citizens. 
 If you wish to build a giant volcano downtown then do so. There are random disasters as well, and 
 there isn't an option to turn these off so from time to time, you may have to contend with things 
 like fire and flooding. But the best part is destroying the city yourself. Yes, you can create 
 your own disasters, and there are some funny ones like the Robot Attack and the aforementioned 
 Volcano.
  
  But this is just a fun diversion from a hard game. Naturally, your role as Mayor requires you to 
 create and manage a sucessful city, so destroying it by disaster will only make things harder.
 
  
  The graphics are a step up from previous versions, and the ability to zoom right in is a good option, 
 but unfortunately the transition between zooms is not smooth, and you will see the game take on 
 a grainy effect before it is smoothed. Likewise, the game begins to slow down when you really start 
 to build up.
  
  Another problem is the fact that there are no scenarios in this game. Previously, you could choose 
 to play one of the scenarios that came packaged with the game, and try and help a fledgling city 
 become all it can be, however, in Sim City 4 this isn't the case. The game feels rushed, as without 
 the scenarios, you're left with the rather steep free form mode which doesn't explain itself very 
 well.
  
  The sound is similar to that of previous games and while it isn't bad, could have used more variety. 
 Sound effects are for the most part good, although there aren't many and again, this feels like 
 it's not pushing the boundaries.
  
  Overall, this is a mediocre entry into the great Sim City franchise. The game feels rushed and 
 not all features are explained as well as you would like, making the game initially hard. While 
 not a bad game, a few more weeks tweaking would have made this one, one to shine. As it is, it 
 is a good game that had the potential to be amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKimbley
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 18, 2004 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Simcity 4 is still the best SimCity game made so far with far improved graphics, and more detail. 
 More features such as being able to control more regions. The AI is still great the only problem 
 with the game is, it feels like it is not totally finished, for example the undo button is missing, 
 so if you accidentally put down a massive expensive power plant by mistake the is no going back. 
 The graphics will strain even the recommended system configuration the bigger your city gets the 
 slower the game will get, hopefully they will fix this in the patch. 
  
  You have to go very slowly at the start as making money is the hardest it has ever been in any 
 SimCity game, there all hard but this is the next step up, especially when parking fines and other 
 such revenue generating features are no longer in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johndoh4
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 6, 2004 4:30 am PT
Review:  First thing is first, Sim City can have some serious trouble ruuning on some machines. The game 
 has been known to suffer from some issues that can cause it to crash on some machines. You will 
 also need a much more powerful machine than what is stated on the box to run it sufficiently. However, 
 if you don't suffer from these problems than Sim City can be a terrific game. The graphics have 
 much more detail than in Sim City 3000. You can zoom out all the way to see the entire city, or 
 you can zoom all the way in to see individuall buildings. Sim City is much more vast this time 
 around allowing you to control an entire region instead of just individual cities. One thing worth 
 mentioning is that cities will not develop as fast if there aren't any other cities around. This 
 means that you will probably spend alot of time building your first few cities, but after you have 
 a couple cities that are well developed, neiboring cities will grow much faster. The sound in this 
 game is very good. The music tracks that are included seem to be mostly jazz. This music seems 
 to work well with this game. However, you can add custom tracks if you want to. The sound effects 
 are good also. You will be able to hear traffic noise, police cars, fire trucks and much more while 
 playing your city. I should also mention that Sim City 4 is just like its predicessors in that 
 it is very time consuming, so you should plan on having a lot of time on your hands before playing 
 it. Overall, Sim City 4 is a game that people will either love or hate. If you can avoid the bugs 
 that some people have experienced with this game, (including myself) then it is a game that is 
 definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 21, 2004 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: The next generation of the classic SimCity games has arrived in the form of SimCity 
 4. The latest incarnation of this Maxis classic does a fairly good job of expanding on the series, 
 greatly improving the limits and graphics of the genre, but unfortunately, it does have its problems. 
 
  
  Gameplay: SimCity, no matter how many years have passed, remains the same. Build up a huge, bustling 
 metropolis and watch over it, make it grow, as mayor. There have been improvments from SC3KU , 
 new buildings, better graphics and sound, new land shaping tools that give you more control then 
 ever before, and some kick ass, controllable disators. All in all, the game has been greatly improved, 
 but there are a few problems. One, SimCity 4's graphics require a fairly high end machine to run. 
 I myself ras a P3 733 Mhz, 256 MB of ram, 32 MB video card when i purchased the game, and SimCity 
 4 runs poorly when on its lowest graphical settings, so if you have a good PC, it'll improve gameplay 
 drasticaly. Secondly, SimCity 4 was released with numerous bugs and glitches that Maxis hadnt fixed 
 in time, so for approx. 1-2 months after the game went to stores, it was near impossible for the 
 game to function at 100%. By this time, several patches and an expansion pack have been released 
 which fixes the glitches and some of the performance problems, but in the end it would have been 
 nice if Maxis had delayed the game by a month or so and just worked out the bugs prior to release. 
 Another of my gripes is, money is hard to come by for awhile. As in previous games, if you want 
 to make some money, you could make garbage/power/water connections to neighboring cities, and make 
 deals with them to buy your water/power/landfil space, but in SimCity 4, you can make the connection, 
 but you have to CREATE the neighboring cities manually, there not just 'there' like in the previous 
 games, which sucks in that way.
  
  Story: Pay attention you, this is a SimCity game, there is no story  . .
  
  Graphics and Sound: 
 The graphics are absolutely stunning. The houses and cars have been giving amazing detail, you 
 can even see whales down playing in the water. I cant complain about the graphics, except for the 
 fact that you need a good pc in order for the game to run properly thanks to the graphics, but 
 that is excepted, since its 2003. The sound is fairly well done and fits in well to the game and 
 its actions. The music is nice, tho i miss 1-2 of the SimCity 3000 tunes, but that doesnt matter.
 
  
  Replayability: This game has definate replayability. It'll take awhile for you to get the hang 
 of making a huge metropolis with tons of money, but it'll be worth it once you see your happy little 
 Sims going about there daily lives.
  
  Final Recommendation: I give SimCity 4 a 7/10. Its a great step up from SimCity 3 in gameplay and 
 graphics, but the glitches and need for a high end machine really makes it hard to play sometimes. 
 All in all, the game has its problems, but it doesnt outweigh the fact that SimCity 4 is a great 
 addition to Will Wrights SimCity legacy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamesinclair
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 13, 2004 2:36 am PT
Review:  As said in the blurb, right now I dont want to write out a lengthy review, but leave you with just 
 this:
  
  If you buy it, get the expansion the same day. And download every patch known to man. THEN, and 
 only then, will this game work as it should. 
  
  If you liked Sim City 2000 or 3000, youll like this as well, although some changes might be disorienting 
 at first.
  
  As for my tilt, I would have given it a ten, but I dont feel it deserves a 9.4, like the system 
 would give it. An 8.8 is much more apropriate for this game. Again, more details will come sometime 
 this week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_carlster
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2004 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Sim City is simply the best Sim game ever created... I was really excited when it was first released. 
 The graphics are stunning. Its way better than its predecessors when it comes to graphics. It has 
 better features like neighboring cities and making a whole region out of intertwined cities. You 
 can trade goods, garbage and even jobs with other cities. The success of your neighboring cities 
 greatly affects yours as well. If the other cities needs a lot of workers, the demand for your 
 residential will be very high. There are new options in this game when it comes to landmarks, transportation, 
 etc. It is a very addicting game. You will find yourself in a dilemma wether to quit the game or 
 continue playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guruv
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 17, 2004 10:36 pm PT
Review:  What a cracker game. From the word go, the game was full of surprises. The change in the interface 
 mechanism and the creation of a region based model was nothing short of brilliant. To make the 
 game play more interesting, building two cities side by side and doing a trade is fun. What makes 
 the entire experience memorable is trying to balance out the vagrancies of a new city. It really 
 makes you wonder and think that being a mayor of a metropolis is not a joke. I mean imaging when 
 you get irritated by the constant demands of the citizens and to balance out the budget, the taxes. 
 By god, was it a taxing time. But thats what makes it fun. 
  
  The graphics were impeccable. Building advanced highways, railroads, tube stations, airports, sea 
 ports and ensuring your population goes up by large numbers is a certain challenge. Controlling 
 crime, pollution, managing roads, buses, subways etc. WOW! 
  
  This is a game which does not have a victory. You feel victorious if you have a harmonious society 
 with a thriving industry, jobs, education etc. Else you are in the pits of hell.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HighStakes-
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2004 11:33 pm PT
Review:  If you liked Simcity 3000, then you will love SC4. Before mentioning the good stuff, let me warn 
 you that you will be needing a really powerful PC just to play this game. There are patches to 
 download, and you should download them just so the game doesnt crash on some video cards! 
  Other than those issues, this really is an awesome game! You no longer have to worry about the 
 water pipes, because they are lot easier to deal with now. The town's are much more interactive, 
 because now you can have "Sims" walking around and giving opinions on your city. Things like crime, 
 fire, and roads are also a little eased because now they are not as demanding as they were in the 
 last few games. Budget is lot easier to deal with, and you can use the maps of differnt locales 
 to see where they need the most improvements. Gameplay wise, the only trouble i have is with traffic. 
 Traffic is a pain in the butt to deal with, and there is no real way to get rid of it! Other than 
 that, this is an excellent game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocuba
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 18, 2004 10:30 pm PT
Review:  The SimCity games have always been great. This new part to the series is no exception. 
  
  The overall gameplay is much like the others in the series except with further detail and more 
 power over the little things. Gameplay is involved and keeping your city "afloat" is a hard thing 
 to do. It requires some getting used to, something different from the seemingly easier cities of 
 past SimCity games. The whole idea of gaining population size, happiness and keeping a good budget 
 keeps you hooked though. 
  
  
  The graphics of the game are superb. I recall SimCity 3 being a big improvement over SimCity 2000 
 and SimCity 2000 over the original. There is once again no exception to this with SimCity 4 over 
 SimCity 3. The graphics are seemingly becoming more and more real and more and more detail is being 
 added. 
  
  
  The sounds of the game are great. At the more zoomed out levels you will hear blowing wind as if 
 you were high in the skies as portrayed at this zoom level. Zoom closer to the city and you will 
 hear the everyday sounds of a living city. Zoom in even closer to school areas and military areas 
 and you will hear the respective actions of the close buildings. The music is also quite catchy 
 and becoming accustomed to the jazzy styles known in Sim games is always an easy task. 
  
  
  I have received lots of gameplay out of this game and always get the urge to load it back up 
 and play it some more. This is always a sign of a good game when you can play it after your other 
 games get boring. 
  
  
  Overall, I can highly recommend this game to anyone. It is a very interesting addition to the SimCity 
 Series and one that will carry no exception to the success. My calculated GameSpot score is a 9.5. 
 Happy SimCity-ing!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
