-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SimCity 3000
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/simcity3000/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 10, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.4, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 2,297 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Maxis
Genre: Modern City-Building
Date:     Mar 15, 1998 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
SimCity 3000 is a stable, attractive, finely balanced game with just enough new features to satisfy 
 veterans of the series. 

 The city simulation that put Maxis on the map ranks with Pac-Man and Tetris as one of the greatest 
 games of all time, so certainly the Electronic Arts-acquired developer had big shoes to fill, not 
 to mention a big publisher breathing down its back, while working on the second sequel. Now that 
 the dust has settled, either against all odds or to no great surprise, SimCity 3000 is fun, thoughtful, 
 and satisfying, not to mention pristine and pleasant to the core. Soft, bright colors, an attractive 
 and intuitive interface, and stylized comic characters all fit together with an easy-listening 
 soundtrack to make SimCity 3000 a comfortable, relaxing place to be. Your city exists in an eternal 
 springtime; no matter how bad things get for your upstart town, at least it won't rain.  

 The graphics not only look good, but they tell you everything you'd want to know: You can see how 
 well a developed area is doing at a glance, as buildings that look expensive probably are, and 
 those that are ramshackle and sparse are probably worth a lot less. The graphics are much more 
 detailed than SimCity 2000's, but only along the same lines - that is, you can zoom in closer than 
 ever before, down where you can see individual pedestrians and automobiles, and everything looks 
 real. At the same time, there isn't much variety in types of buildings, nor do you get seasons, 
 nighttime, or anything specific. In fact, the difference between SimCity 2000 and 3000 is only 
 skin-deep - it's a cleaner, prettier game, but if you're familiar with the series, you'll know 
 your way around.  

 The game plays like it always has. You set up your residential zones, which you keep not too close 
 and not too far from your commercial and industrial zones, and tie everything together with roads, 
 power lines, and plumbing, and maybe rail- and subway. With three zone densities to choose from, 
 you can create suburbs or jam-packed urban jungles as you see fit, though high-density zones are 
 more expensive. In a nice, new touch, you can even create farmland with large plots of low industrial 
 zone along the outskirts of town. As your city grows, you need to provide it with police and fire 
 protection, and with schools and colleges as well as recreational and educational diversions like 
 museums, libraries, and zoos. Of course you need to generate revenue in order to fund growth, and 
 there's no good way to do that without taxes. High tax rates are tempting since they'll leave you 
 with plenty of money to spend, but then again your long-term vision may be for naught if no one's 
 going to stick around to tolerate your exorbitant tax demands.  

 But all that's SimCity standard fare. In 3000, you'll face decisions previously taken for granted. 
 For one thing, you need to worry about garbage. You need to zone for landfill, a necessary evil 
 if you hope to keep your city clean. Just don't expect anybody to live anywhere near your dump. 
 Zone landfill with room to spare, and you'll hear from the mayors of adjacent cities asking you 
 to take some of their share for a fee. You can also sell excess electricity and water to your neighbors, 
 or if you're at the other end of the stick, you can buy these resources from them as well. At other 
 times, petitioners will encourage city ordinances, from a public smoking ban, to homeless sheltering, 
 to parking fines. These have short-term and long-term benefits and disadvantages, and to help you 
 decide whether to enact them or not, you can consult your advisors who'll tell you frankly what 
 they think you should do. Your advisors are good at their jobs - their suggestions are usually 
 right, although once in a while you'll wish to respectfully decline their advice (sure, it's a 
 waste of real estate, but you know you want to build that exclusive country club) . You'll know 
 when all such decisions are at stake, or whenever anything's awry in your city, thanks to the convenient 
 news ticker along the bottom of the screen that'll keep you ever-informed, if not in good humor. 

 Things are bound to go wrong at some point. Your power plants and water pumps will grow old and 
 require replacement. Or worse yet, disaster may strike in the fearsome guise of tornado, earthquake, 
 fire, or even alien attack. You can disable disasters if you'd rather not deal with their consequences. 
 But the ultimate challenge of SimCity 3000 remains the same as it always has, and that is to keep 
 growing, and to keep growing better, while conquering the problems inherent to that growth. And 
 to that end, you have far more landmass to work with than in SimCity 2000, so you can keep busy 
 for a long, long time.  

 Along the way, you'll run into the occasional quirk. The news ticker and your advisors tend to be 
 extreme, one minute telling you your city plumbing is hopelessly inadequate, and the next - once 
 you've remembered to link that new city block with pipes - that your sewers are the nation's envy. 
 There are plenty of other too simple either-or situations, such as with traffic, garbage, and education. 
 Other design decisions are half-baked; while SimCity 3000 contains dozens of historical landmarks, 
 from the Kremlin to the Statue of Liberty, they are optional items that have no effect on your 
 city save that they take up space. You can place up to ten of them at any time, making the act 
 of doing so feel rather pointless.  

 Other frontiers remain unexplored - for instance, your role as mayor is never reevaluated, and your 
 city exists only on the macrocosmic scale, meaning you can't place a coffee shop by a book store, 
 and instead must remain content to watch your light commercial zone develop as it sees fit. You'll 
 become familiar with all the city ordinances soon enough, there aren't too many new technologies 
 introduced into the 21st century and beyond, and your advisors aren't going anywhere.  

 Given the facts, it's both tempting and valid to criticize SimCity 3000 for what it isn't while 
 futilely pointing in directions it might have gone. Then again, you need but recall the game's 
 torrid development cycle to know that its culmination in SimCity 3000 is probably for the best. 
 The game that began as an ambitious, full-3D renovation of the series was scrapped in favor of 
 something not so very different than its predecessors, no doubt because the old adage about not 
 fixing what ain't broke is, in fact, true. As it stands, SimCity 3000 is a stable, attractive, 
 finely balanced game with just enough new features to satisfy veterans of the series.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Bad_Boyl2
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  I don't think the game deserves the rating it has gotten, to start out with. It deserves a good 
 rating, no doubt. It is a good game, but its just overrated, it deserves a 7 at the maximum. There 
 were some strange menu designs that would allow you to exit, and in no way is it easy for newcomers. 
 This is only for people who have had quite some experience with these games. Don't start here.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  There was no story, just because its a city-builder it must have no story? That may be good or 
 bad, depends how you look at it. I'm looking at it from a angle in-between those two. Its nice 
 once in a while to have a game that doesn't give you a story, unless its boring. The city-builder 
 had many options of what to build as one. But as begginer (me) I was lost! The tutorial? That was 
 rubbish :P
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  Surely outdated, good graphics back then - but not better than the most just average. Cool music, 
 but didn't like the sound effects the game had. There could have been more, afterall its a city! 
 Not the countryside :)
  
  Overall it is a good game if you are familiar with these series. But if this is one of your first 
 city-builder games, than you've just wasted your time and your money : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joker_Wylde
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Im not entirely in love with the game. There is something about 2000 which just pips this. Maybe 
 its the nostalgia talking, but I felt the gameplay lacked immediacy in 3000. We waited so long 
 for it to appear, and the graphics were good, but the whole thing with the farms just threw me, 
 and I could never keep playing for more than 30 minutes. The score on the other hand, I could listen 
 to for hours! Some of the mellow jazz pieces sound like they were created by a master, rather than 
 a frustrated composer that had settled for videogames soundtracks. This was the turning point for 
 good sound and music in games, after this everything moved away from midi to properly composed 
 scores. I loved midi music, and still do, but there is something slightly childish sounding about 
 it. This felt like a grown up game, and perhaps it was too grown up for me when I first played 
 it. 
  Overall, I felt it was too slow, and the graphics, while pleasing, are easily outdone today without 
 looking forgivably retro. But play it for the music, its genuinely good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Southpaw2451
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 21, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  The game has passable graphics for its time, a good replay value, and good sound/soundtrack to 
 augment the main fetures of the game.
  the game itself does not stray far enough from the earlier simcity games to make it a truly great 
 game, but it improves upon them just enough to make it a little refreshing and enjoyable to new 
 players and those who know the series well.
  while its gameplay is for the most part quite good, it still has lots of room for improvement and 
 fixes, which will hopefully come in a sequel
  -there is a noticable lack of variation in the style of buildings in each 
  zone
  -many commercial 
 buildings are the same, many residential buildings are the same, many industrial buildings are 
 the same, etc.
  -the advisors are not very helpful in giving suggestions for how to actually fix problems; they 
 simply complain about the problem and leave the solving entirely up to you
  -while this provides a fun and interesting challenge, some problems are a bit steep, and can get 
 quite frustrating, especially when the advisors are vague and annoying
  -and other problems are simply too easy to fix
  -taxes are not handled well
  -at one percentage 
 the people will be happy, but the town will not make enough money, while only a single percentage 
 above the people will instantly grow furious and leave abruptly, and a single percentage below 
 the town's funds will drop like a rock in no time at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koopatroopa1015
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  SimCity offers a lot of things to do. You'll be at the heart of designing a town or city and you're 
 responsible for managing it. You'll have control over every aspect of the city - power, water, 
 housing and business, law, transportation - you name it. Your advisors will help, and as your city 
 grows, you'll be put in real business situations. It doesn't get more realistic than this. It's 
 fun and relatively straightforward. However, making a great city can be very difficult. But with 
 all that there is to do, it'll keep you busy and having fun.
  
  The graphics are nice, and rather colorful and clear. The SFX are various, very realistic and amazing, 
 and the music is just something to die for. I say that it's definitely worth an investment. With 
 the city building that it has to offer, you'll be kept busy for hours with an entertaining city 
 simulator.
  
  I recommend this game mostly to those who enjoy business tycoon games. They'll get the most out 
 of this intense simulation. But everyone can enjoy it. SimCity 3000 offers an intense and exciting 
 simulation and city planning. It'll take skill and a bit of luck, but no matter what happens, it's 
 still enjoyable.
  
  By the way, if you think this is fun, try SimCity 3000 UNLIMITED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  The graphics not only look good, but they tell you everything you'd want to know: You can see how 
 well a developed area is doing at a glance, as buildings that look expensive probably are, and 
 those that are ramshackle and sparse are probably worth a lot less. The graphics are much more 
 detailed than SimCity 2000's, but only along the same lines - that is, you can zoom in closer than 
 ever before, down where you can see individual pedestrians and automobiles, and everything looks 
 real. At the same time, there isn't much variety in types of buildings, nor do you get seasons, 
 nighttime, or anything specific. In fact, the difference between SimCity 2000 and 3000 is only 
 skin-deep - it's a cleaner, prettier game, but if you're familiar with the series, you'll know 
 your way around.
  
  The game plays like it always has. You set up your residential zones, which you keep not too close 
 and not too far from your commercial and industrial zones, and tie everything together with roads, 
 power lines, and plumbing, and maybe rail- and subway. With three zone densities to choose from, 
 you can create suburbs or jam-packed urban jungles as you see fit, though high-density zones are 
 more expensive. In a nice, new touch, you can even create farmland with large plots of low industrial 
 zone along the outskirts of town. As your city grows, you need to provide it with police and fire 
 protection, and with schools and colleges as well as recreational and educational diversions like 
 museums, libraries, and zoos. Of course you need to generate revenue in order to fund growth, and 
 there's no good way to do that without taxes. High tax rates are tempting since they'll leave you 
 with plenty of money to spend, but then again your long-term vision may be for naught if no one's 
 going to stick around to tolerate your exorbitant tax demands.
  
  But all that's SimCity standard fare. In 3000, you'll face decisions previously taken for granted. 
 For one thing, you need to worry about garbage. You need to zone for landfill, a necessary evil 
 if you hope to keep your city clean. Just don't expect anybody to live anywhere near your dump. 
 Zone landfill with room to spare, and you'll hear from the mayors of adjacent cities asking you 
 to take some of their share for a fee. You can also sell excess electricity and water to your neighbors, 
 or if you're at the other end of the stick, you can buy these resources from them as well. At other 
 times, petitioners will encourage city ordinances, from a public smoking ban, to homeless sheltering, 
 to parking fines. These have short-term and long-term benefits and disadvantages, and to help you 
 decide whether to enact them or not, you can consult your advisors who'll tell you frankly what 
 they think you should do. Your advisors are good at their jobs - their suggestions are usually 
 right, although once in a while you'll wish to respectfully decline their advice (sure, it's a 
 waste of real estate, but you know you want to build that exclusive country club) . You'll know 
 when all such decisions are at stake, or whenever anything's awry in your city, thanks to the convenient 
 news ticker along the bottom of the screen that'll keep you ever-informed, if not in good humor.
 
  
  Things are bound to go wrong at some point. Your power plants and water pumps will grow old and 
 require replacement. Or worse yet, disaster may strike in the fearsome guise of tornado, earthquake, 
 fire, or even alien attack. You can disable disasters if you'd rather not deal with their consequences. 
 But the ultimate challenge of SimCity 3000 remains the same as it always has, and that is to keep 
 growing, and to keep growing better, while conquering the problems inherent to that growth. And 
 to that end, you have far more landmass to work with than in SimCity 2000, so you can keep busy 
 for a long, long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandyqbg
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  Stretch yourself... Clear your mind... Sit down comfortably... It's time to play Sim City 3000. 
 You are the mayor here. You run the things around your Sim City.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Clear and apt, the graphics are just enough for the game. In fact, hi-end graphics might actually 
 deal a blow to the game's overall quality. You might find that such graphics belittle the gameplay 
 and there you have it, the game's strong-point is weakened. The zoom levels are decent and the 
 extra animations just fit in.
  
  SOUND:
  
  There are several background scores that continue playing in loops. You can also select a specific 
 score to be played and turn the others off. Almost all of them are soft and pleasing. It doesn't 
 rush you up. The in-game sounds are quite insignificant here, though there are some apt sounds.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Entertaining gameplay. Doesn't pull you to the edge of the seat, but keeps you occupied for hours. 
 A modern city-building game, all you have to do is be a mayor and oversee the development of your 
 city. There are residential, commercial and industrial zones that yopu have to zone on the map. 
 And then come the vital necessities for a city like power, water, transport and even other civic 
 nessecities like police, fire-stations, schools, hospitals, parks, etc. The game has various aspects 
 like crime, pollution, traffic, unemployment, power and water requirements, etc to tend to. There 
 are various ordinances that usually cost some money based on the city size (But some actually bring 
 in money.) which you have to careful while issuing taking into consideration the city development, 
 the demands of your paople and the burden on the finances. You can also strike deals with neighbouring 
 cities. There are always your advisors, who might be of help and they also notify you of some important 
 issues.
  After playing for really long time you find that gameplay gets monotonous. There is a lack of variety 
 in the buildings. Another negative point is the deals with neighbours. You can't initiate a deal. 
 All you can do is plug your power lines, water pipes, roads and railways to the edge of the map 
 and wait for the neighbour to propose a deal. There are no campaigns; its just choose a location 
 and start building. It takes a long time before you actually start seeing profit and even longer 
 for it to stabilise and yet even longer to get a decent profit.
  
  FINAL VERDICT:
  
  No action. No adventure. Just the fun of building a city and watching it prosper. A game for soft 
 and analytical type and not for the others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oliver_475
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 2, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  Simcity 3000 is the 1st + only game I have played in the series, and IMHO is awesome in everyway.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Simcity allows you to build your own city (duh!) and control everything inside it, for example 
 how much u tax people, who you trade with from the outside world etc. The game has so many things 
 to keep track off, the only thing im going to say is, your never going to be able to relax in this 
 game :P The gameplay is goalless + been able to direct your own creation has an immense amout of 
 immersive gameplay + satisfaction when done right
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  Simcity's graphics are starting to show their age, but the game is still colourfull and everything 
 still looks like what its meant to be + as a bonus its all in 2D (well, its a bonus to me, 2D games 
 rock)
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The sound gets the job done, you'll hear the odd dog bark or two, but the best thing about the 
 sound is the musical scores, Blues scores and fast paced music suit the mood of the game, the scores 
 are truely excellent
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  Unlimited, you can do what you want, whenever u want + start over aswell.
  
  Tilt: 10/10 Excellent 
 idea by Will Wright, which many games have imitated but never come to the game's series success 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_sparrow_28
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 7, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Sim City is huge. I mean, who doesn't want their own city to control. Aren't we just all evil villains 
 inside looking for world domination, but we can't do that, so we settle to control a city in Sim 
 City, and Sim City 3000 gives us what we want.
  
  You play as a mayor, and though there is no storyline, the game draws you in well. You have a selection 
 of buildings and utilities, and you must have a good balance of residential, commercial, and industrial 
 areas. One feature which I love, is the little news ticker thingy at the bottom of the screen. 
 This tells you if residents don't like how your building the city, and will give you hints on what 
 to do. Your advisors will tell you what you need to do to keep the city running, and don't ignore 
 them. It was only when I was a little older, I found they can be a very reliabe source of information. 
 The graphics aren't all in super 3-D, but you can see the detail put into these buildings, and 
 you truly appreciate the work put into this game. You have a tutorial, and it is helpful, as there 
 are lots of things to use. I've never been great at the game, but the tutuorial helped, it REALLY 
 helped. The sound, well, there's nothing really to say about the sound. When you make a building 
 it makes a sound, and there's light, brezzy music, and isn't too much to make a song and dance 
 about, but it's in there just enough to make it enjoyable. The game will last you ages, as you 
 unlock all the mayor's gifts, and create numerous cities, where you can either have a bustling 
 metropolis filled with happy people, or you can have a crowded, over polluted city with constant 
 riots. SO HARD TO CHOOSE!
  
  Sim City 3000 is the best in the series in my opinion, and I recommend it to anyone with a little 
 patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeMeSiS_001
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  This is game at first glance looks a little boring but damn i was wrong this game is one of the 
 best simulation games that i have ever played to date. I didnt get the full experiance until i 
 got a new computer but its a very fun and exciting game to play with loads of things to do and 
 the most fun is that you can either create or destroy your entire city witht the click of a button. 
 i cant wait until they make a sim city where your can zoom in on any personal sim and see what 
 there doing. above all if you dont have this game go out and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikey_PJ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  Sim city 3000 is an excellent city simulation experience. This game is full of greats. Great graphics, 
 great gameplay, great sound etc. All of this combines into a great game thats hard to exit.
  
  In this game you will be building cities that must fit everybodies needs and keep your money 
 up. At first it may seem easy, but problems with pollution and education and other such things 
 really make it frustarating and fun at the same time.
  
  The graphics are amazing, all the scenery and buildings and even cars and buses look beautiful. 
 There are never any hitch ups which provides for a smooth nice looking game.
  
  The sounds are pretty cool to, however there is not much sound. I think that this game does not 
 need much sound though as without sound you get a very concentrated calm game of city building.
 
  
  The game is not to much on the easy side infact its quite hard but it is fun at the same time. 
 If you want a calm game thats fun and like city building then this is a good game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dilan94
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  most people would have to say that Sim City 4 is much better then this game... and I would have 
 to disagree. Sim City 4, is more of a all flash no substanse. Despite only needing a 2MB graphics 
 card (which means the game graphics are not going to be all 3d and such) in Sim City 3000, this 
 game is sick and great. The gameplay has made me playing this game for hours, trying to get building 
 get over 3 million population and don't forget disasters, this game is awesome. I think there are 
 20 sound tracks, and what I noticed is that when your city is rolling and doing good, good music 
 comes on, however when your budget is low, and your city is bad, sad music comes on. The value 
 on this game is preety okay, I really admire the graphics, even though it doesn't that a high graphics 
 card. Anyways, I say go out abuy this game is you can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chileanguy2
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  SimCity 3000 is an excellent game which makes you think and feel like a mayor without worrying 
 about losing a job for incompetence or destroying a real city! It is not designed for our typical 
 1-person shooter player or the racing games player (unless they plays other sort of games too) , 
 but it's ideal for those who play strategy games and RPGs. Yep, this game is made for the more 
 "pacific" players xD
  
  SC3000 doesn't have amazing graphics as its successor (SC4) has, but it's by far the best one. 
 The graphics aren't mediocre either, especially if you think that this game was created in 1999 
 and it must have the square-based design in order to improve the gameplay quality. While it isn't 
 focused in small details such as the small building's shape, the cars, the people, etc; the main 
 things like colors, brightness, or the larger building shapes are really good.
  
  The audio is amazing in this game. The sound special effects are excellent, but the best thing 
 is the background music. Its jazz-inspired music is, for some people, essential. That's not my 
 case, but I spent more than 30 mins. only hearing the music a couple of times. It's relaxing, soft, 
 and there are a lot of different songs so you won't get tired of hearing the same thing over and 
 over. There are a couple of terrible songs, no doubt about it, but all the jazz-inspired songs 
 are cool, and they are the most of them (luckily) .
  
  This game can be very fun if you learn to play. If you are starting, creating a new city even in 
 the "easy" mode is a challenge that you'll probably lose. Fortunately, there are basic cities which 
 you can use to start. Obviously, the most experienced players will create a new city. The challenge 
 of creating a new city is hard even for the most experienced players, but it's never boring. 
 
  
  Some people say that playing with the big cities that the game has saved is easy as hell, but you 
 have to play in Metropolis or Island City for a while to find out that it isn't as easy as it looks. 
 It actually reflects the problems of the modern cities, and that is one of the most interesting 
 things in the game.
  
  The game can get a bit monotonous by times; especially when you wait for receive the money at the 
 end of the year. The game also has some bugs. Some bugs are really nasty, like the water/power 
 selling thingy, and it has some visual bugs, but most of them are forgettable. As I said before, 
 this game isn't for every person, and those who don't like slow-paced games will find this awful.
 
  
  Overall, SImCity 3000 is an awesome game and it's the best of its group. I don't recommend it for 
 everyone, just for those who like slow-paced or strategy games. Oh, and if you are a fan of "The 
 Sims", you might like this too. Besides the name, they aren't very similar, but the main idea of 
 administrate is there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 26, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  So this is a series that has been around for some time. Maxis has been one of the more successful 
 long-term companies in the business and they were set to deliver with this one.
  
  Sim City 3000 contains all of the city building, people pleasing, disaster preventing action that 
 you are used to in the other versions. The Sim series has been one of those where nothing they 
 produce is ever actually bad (except maybe the SimTower kind of) . Anyway, the game is set up just 
 like the others, with a couple of a newer and more involved features. You can zoom in closer on 
 the screen to the point that you can make out individual cars and people. You also have to keep 
 track of more things, like the effects of a dump on the surrounding neighborhoods and the needs 
 of the cities around you. You may be able to set up agreements between cities to loan power for 
 profit or take trash for profit.
  
  The downside to the game is that it has an all-or-nothing complex. The game will tell you that 
 you are in diaster status one minute and that other cities are loving your design the next. The 
 idols and iconic buildings that you can create are basically worthless and you can add up to 10 
 to any city. Your advisors are usually right on the money, but they may ignore the positive effects 
 of building a country club and simply play it off as taking up space.
  
  I really like this game, but it would be interesting to see the direction the series takes with 
 new technological advancements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  I didn't play this game very much, but when I did it was very addictive. Though I did get pissed 
 off often when the aliens or some disaster would happen and make all my work fall to the ground, 
 but that is all part of life.
  
  I found it very entertaining to build my own cities the way I wanted them. I've even tried to make 
 replica's of real cities, but had a hard time trying to figure out how to use some of the tools 
 sometimes.
  
  There were no glitches I found in this game, it even ran surprisingly fast on my system. Sadly 
 when I ran it on my old Windows 95 computer, it wouldn't close when I wanted it to. I always had 
 to reboot just to get it off.
  
  Since this game came out 6 years ago, I'm not sure if it would even be worth buying. You better 
 really look around for a good deal on this game, or download it illegally, I don't think it would 
 be worth paying any money for a 6 year old game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faam
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  the graphics game are really nice specially because is an old game, but they are really nice...
 
  
  at the start of the game is difficult because you start with almost nothing and start loosing money, 
 but when you see your money growing and you city getting larger and larger and richer and more 
 beautifull it's really cool...
  
  i really like the game you should buy it or download it... the time spent playing i put 100h because 
 you can always keep playing your city until the end that depends on the person... (i haven't played 
 that much) ...
  
  the game has disasters (tornados, fire etc.) so it's really cool when you have a city very big 
 you can put a tornado so it sees cool... in the game you have to control a lot of things (crime, 
 disasters, water, energy, transport and a lot more things) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChowsSN
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 10, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  The SIMs has been creating amazing games since the mid-90's and continue to create them today with 
 close to perfect game, ranging from 8.0 to 10.0, never falling out of great. This game is no different. 
 Once you start playing, it's hard to get off the seat, which is why it deserves a lot of credit. 
 Although it seems like a very simple type of gameplay, just builiding stuff, and helping people 
 in your computer moniter, and not really helping yourself in real life, it is a lot of fun! So 
 here's the breakdown of this game.
  
  Gameplay: Really fun once you get the hang of it, although it can get a bit repetetive, but fun 
 nonetheless. You'll be building away, trying to find the best thing for your people as mayor. Although 
 it has no real storyline, you can grow attached to the people living in your city. It's fun playing 
 God/Mayor.
  
  Graphics: Nothing that great, it's good, but it's not great. It's nothing a PC can't handle.
 
  
  Sound: Although it can be funny and amusing sometimes, the sounds aren't anything that great, and 
 nothing to celebrate over, it's nothing different from the other games it came out with.
  
  Value: It's replay value is great. You might try beating the "campaign" mode more than once just 
 trying to find a better way of doing it. Once you get tired of those, you can start making your 
 own cities, see how great you can make your cities, and how unique you can make it. With all the 
 things the game has to offer, the uniqueness is limitless.
  
  Tilt: Overall, the game is just another hit. You'll start playing something that seems so simple 
 and plain, but end up being sucked into hours after hours of gameplay trying to perfect your cities 
 and make your citizens as happy as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2004 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Well, SC3KU is a remake of the previous SIMCity 3000 game. SC3K itself has to be, 
 in my own opinion, the best of the SC games. Maxis took there award winning series of SC games 
 and brought it into the modern world with much improved graphics, sound and gameplay. A short while 
 after SC3K was made, Maxis released the "Unlimited" version of the game, which was essentially 
 the exact same game, with additional features to really help you dive deeper into the world of 
 SC. The main things which were added, was a building creator, so now you could even MAKE the buildings 
 that would appear in your city yourself. Also, a scenario creator so you could make your own scenario's 
 and share them with the SC community. And finally, you could choose between differant sets for 
 the buildings, giving them many differant looks.
  
  Gameplay: As always, your goal is to create a thriving, wealthy metropolis. You lay down the infrastructure 
 for the city, building powerplants and water pumps, along with laying down underground pipes to 
 carry the water to the city's populous. You build the roads, schools and other fundamentals, and 
 then lay down space for housing, commercial and industrial zones. The sims will move into your 
 city looking for work and a good life, and will build there homes and workplaces to there own wills. 
 As with the previous SC game, you have a council of people to help govern your decisions, giving 
 you advice on how to reduce polution, increase money, and encourage people to move to your city.
 
  
  Story: ............................
  
  Graphics and Sound: The graphics are just awesome. You can zoom right down and see the small cars 
 and pedestrians walking thru the streets of your city. The buildings look very good, and you have 
 to zoom extremely close in to even see any pixilation at all, unlike SC2K where you had it even 
 at the farthest zoom setting. The sounds are fairly good. The bkgd music in the game can be addictive 
 to listen to some times, but that just add's to the effectiveness... since SC games are addictive 
 by nature... more then crack.
  
  Replayability: If there is one game you want to play many times, its this one. SC3KU is a fun SC 
 game to play, even to the most stupid or hardcore gamer.
  
  Final Recommendation: All in all, i give SIMCity 3000 Unlimited a 9.5 out of 10. Its a great game 
 that most anyone can enjoy. It doesnt require a great PC to run, and is good for many hours of 
 play, or just a few minutes. If you have any interest in SC games, this is the one id recommend. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CitizenKane-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 24, 2004 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best SimCity game of the series. This game is truly magical. The first time 
 I played this game, I knew it was great. The gameplay mechanics are amazing. You control all of 
 your city. You control the budget of all the major departmens of your government: polic, fire, 
 education, transportation, and others. If you have the budget low for a department, that department 
 starts to suffer. For example, if you have the transportation/roads budget, the roads will start 
 to degrade and pot holes will start to appear all over your city. You can build pretty much any 
 building you can it the city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HighStakes-
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2004 11:16 am PT
Review:  SC3000 takes a step in to the next generation of gaming with brand new graphics, and a revamped 
 gameplay. First, the graphics are totally new, and i think the makers tried to go for the psuedo-3D 
 graphics, and they did a very good job at it. The game runs very smooth if you meet the minimum 
 requirements, but things slow down if you are on a larger map and people starts coming in to your 
 town. Everything about this game is looking nice, and there is also a building editor; now you 
 can make any kind of building you wanted to! There is a big change in the gameplay department. 
 This time around, you can create farms, hadling the water system is much improved, and you have 
 advisors who tell you how to run your city more efficiently. Perhaps the biggest thing about the 
 game is the deals you can make with the neighboring cities, and they do bring in plenty of money. 
 There are also bonus offers, like a Casino, or a big mall; which also bring in plenty of cash! 
 For Simcity series, this is a good way to head in to the next generation, because this is an awesome 
 game. There are plenty of options to keep you busy for a long time! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
