-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SimPark
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/simpark/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 23, 1996
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 6.8 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 67 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Maxis
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1996

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In the Maxis tradition of creating totally immersive sim games, being a park ranger is more than 
 greeting park visitors - it's work, but it's also fun. 

 Managing the lives of hundreds of thousands of Sims in SimCity 2000 seems a lot less stressful now 
 that I've been a park ranger in Maxis' SimPark. How tough could it be, you ask? Plant a few trees, 
 feed some animals, and put in a few hiking trails... no big deal, right? Hardly. In the Maxis tradition 
 of creating totally immersive sim games, being a park ranger is more than greeting park visitors 
 and collecting fees - it's work, but it's also fun.   

 As the ranger, your objective is to create and maintain a park in the continental United States 
 while working your way up the ranger ranks. Determining which species are compatible to the climate 
 you've selected is simple. Each species has a color border around its graphic, indicating the species' 
 compatibility to the climate. That's the easy part; maintaining a happy balance of plants, animals 
 and people is the real challenge.  

 SimPark offers several helpful tools. First, there's Rizzo, your trusted froggy friend. He'll offer 
 many tips on proper park management techniques, although with a limited repertoire of phrases, 
 he quickly grows more annoying than helpful. Fortunately, Rizzo can be deactivated. The interface 
 also includes an e-mail system (used only to receive and respond to messages) , a budget screen 
 (planting trees costs money) , and a park information screen containing a current log of the plant 
 and animal life in your park and updates on each species' condition. If the mice are being overeaten 
 by predators, or the beavers are starving, this section will keep you informed. Monitoring this 
 feature is the best way to keep on top of your park's health. Although just because you know the 
 status, it doesn't mean you can rectify hazardous situations easily. How do you get rid of 400 
 porcupines? Very carefully!   

 Keep in mind that SimPark is targeted to the young and impressionable, so you'll find no National 
 Geographic-like "predator vs. prey" takedowns in this game. Prey simply disappears from the screen 
 when a predator passes over its meal. Also, SimPark is extremely forgiving. Even if you overrun 
 the park with hundreds of bison, the ecology of the plant life remains fairly unscathed. It's virtually 
 impossible to fail at park management. And while the head park ranger may send threatening e-mail 
 messages "encouraging" you to improve your park conditions, she never makes good on her threats. 
 As a result, you can expect hours of park play.   

 Curious about the status of any of your park's inhabitants? Interview them. If a plant looks a little 
 under the weather, you might just get a response like, "This is a beech tree, she is dead, her 
 species was overeaten." Perhaps this is why the game seems a bit intense. In SimPark you get to 
 really know the creatures in your park, while in SimCity 2000, your wards are just little black 
 faceless specks on the screen.   

 Although SimPark - with its simple interface, unalterable game pace, and educational tendencies 
 - was designed for the younger player, advanced gamers looking for a diversion from the fast action, 
 shoot-em-up titles might enjoy this game. While not exactly a walk in the park, it might help them 
 to stop and smell the roses before returning to their reign of death and destruction.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: natester10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1996, we were looking at games like Quake, just to give you a little standpoint as to when 
 the game was released. If you compare the graphics of SimPark and Quake... well, that's just unfair, 
 so were just gonna say, that the graphics could've been a bit better.
  
  Gameplay
  
  In SimPark, you are the head ranger of your own national park... although it's never officially 
 called a national park. Right off the bat, you decide where in the Untied States ( and a bit of 
 Canada) where you want your park to be. There is a big choice in where you put you put you park, 
 because, there are different climate regions in different areas. For instance, if you want to place 
 your park in Texas, the climate would be hot, and dry, so plants like cacti, and specific kinds 
 of animals would thrive here, and then if you put your park around the West Coast, you'd get more 
 precipitation, and coller temeratures. It all depends what kind of species of plants and animals 
 you want to see in your park.
  
  The parks have a pre-determined layout, but you can choose which one you want. The game will keep 
 generating maps until you're happy with one, and then your start the game.
  
  The building aspect of the game is basically put into three of the following groups: People Stuff, 
 Plants and Animals; and to keep your park equalized there are a lot of difficulties in the game, 
 and there has to be a good equalization in your park. For instance, if animal 'A' is overeating 
 animal 'B', you may have to put in animal 'C' to eat animal 'A', which would bring back the balance, 
 so there can be an abundant amount of animal 'B'... whew...
  
  There are little things like that in the game that really make it difficult, challenging, but suprisingly 
 fun. For 'People Stuff' you build tents, benches, gazebos, outhouses, and a lot more. Building 
 gazebos can be a profitable idea to put in your park. People will e-mail you to ask if your gazebo 
 will hold a wedding, or a meeting, or a birthday party, etc. The e-mail function of the game is 
 pretty neat. Other park rangers will mail you asking if you want a specified type of species to 
 be given to your park, for whatever reason, like that they have too many of the species and stuff 
 like that. You will also get e-mail from your cranky old boss (very annoying boss, at that) saying 
 how terrible of a ranger you are... actually, once in a while you will get praise from her... if 
 you did very well, that is. The boss lady will give you badges like a Wolf Badge, and all this 
 is is a sort of ranking system, to see how great you are. Your boss will also urge you to do a 
 little activity called Species Identification, all this is is a questionare that will give you 
 a series of questions in order to identify a species. So, for example, the game will give you a 
 picture of a leaf, and it will ask you, is the leaf knobby or smooth, oblong or fat? The game does 
 this to animals and shrubs as well as plants. While it seems a little unnecessary, it is kinda 
 educational, which in this sense isn't a bad thing because it is pretty fun.
  
  So, while laying out your park, you may notice that it is a bit annoying to look around it. You 
 have to use a little compass-like device to move your camera around. It's kind of annoying that 
 you have to drag your mouse to the top right-hand corner to see the parts of the park that you 
 want to see, instead of there being a right-click mouse function or something like that. There 
 is a map that will get you anywhere in your park with just the click of a mouse however, so it's 
 not that bad navigating around your park.
  
  Now, we have to cover one thing, one major, but avoidable annoyance... disasters. Never has a game 
 had such annoying and hard to get rid of disasters. Take Alien Invasion, for an example. It will 
 leave grad-sized pink and blue diamonds shaped items all over your park. Ruinging, pretty well 
 everything. When you look at your map, you will notice that the aliens have sent a message to you, 
 such as 'Release Dorothy' or something like that. Pretty annoying. Then, let's not forget Kudzu! 
 You'll know that your park has gotten Kudzu when you hear this terrible, evil (cheezy) laugh. It's 
 a rapid-spreading weed, and it's very hard to get rid of. You might as well give up your park, 
 and make a new one. There are other disasters, too but these two have to be the worst. Now, please 
 remember. RIGHT WHEN YOU START YOUR PARK GO TO THE TOP OF THE SCREEN (IN THE MENU) AND PLEASE TURN 
 THE DISASTERS OFF! You have been warned! Oh, and turn Rizzo off as well while you're there... do 
 yourself a favor.
  
  The game is plenty of fun to play, and if you have kids, it's something you would want to let them 
 play, it's pretty educational. However, if you're bored, just play thins game, you may be hooked 
 for a few hours.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound quality is not that great. You will constantly hear looping sounds of the animals in 
 your park, in which isn't repetitive, but poor quality.
  
  You can hear your happy camers, or not so happy campers talk about your park if you click them 
 while in the 'microphone option'. Not really that great, but can be useful as to what you should 
 add, or take away to your park. When you use the microphone option on animals and plants, that 
 annoying Rizzo the Frog will give you the info on how it's doing, and if it's being over eaten, 
 or if it's happy, or even if it's thriving.
  
  The sound effects aren't annoying (excluding Rizzo) or repetitive or anything, they just have low 
 quality, but it doesn't really bog down the game's experience.
  
  Graphics
  
  As said before, this game was released in the Quake 1 era.
  
  The graphics are all sprite animations. 
 While sprites may not looks so good now, the level of detail is pretty significant. Maxis did a 
 great job of getting in a lot of realistic detail on the different species of animals, plants, 
 and shrubs.
  
  The Wrap-Up
  
  Overall, SimPark is a great game. Although there are two major annoyances, they both can be turned 
 off. The game offers a challenge as yuo try to equalize the number of different species in your 
 park. The game is highly educational, but that doesn't mean that it's not fun. The game offers 
 a ton of info on all differecnt animal and plant species. If you happen to have this game, you 
 may want to blow the dust off of it a and give it a try again. If you don't own a copy, be sure 
 to keep an eye out for one, it can't be too expensive now, right? 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
