-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sim Theme Park
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/simthemepark/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 24, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.8, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 676 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Bullfrog Prod.
Genre: Business Strategy
Date:     Oct 31, 1999 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite its amusing setting and visual appeal, SimTheme Park is at heart a business simulation. 
 

 SimTheme Park is an amusement park management game that is part of Maxis' Sim series in name only. 
 Known as Theme Park World both in Europe and in the game's many intro movies, it is actually the 
 sequel to Bullfrog's Theme Park, a detail-oriented business simulator that happened to be set in 
 an amusement park. SimTheme Park is just as much a business simulator as Theme Park was, but it 
 removes many of the unnecessary minute tasks from the formula and adds some elements that make 
 the amusement park setting much more important to the game.  

 Your goal is clear: to build a series of profitable parks. SimTheme Park is loosely mission based. 
 There are four themes to choose from, including Lost Kingdom, Halloween World, Wonder Land, and 
 Space Zone. Success in one theme will help unlock later, more difficult parks. While every theme 
 has basically the same shops and rides, they are suited to fit the corresponding park. For instance, 
 a Ferris wheel ride in the Lost Kingdom will be a South American sun god statue, while in the Halloween 
 World the same ride is a spider on its web. Success in any park is based on undisclosed factors, 
 but your advisor will give you little clues as to how you can earn golden tickets, which earn you 
 mystery rides and the coveted gold keys that open new parks. The advisor's clues ("I bet if you 
 got a lot of people into this park...") hint at what will earn you a ticket, but the goals are 
 never stated directly. While this may seem vague, it actually works well to keep your focus on 
 building and improving and not on reaching some arbitrary numerical rating.  

 The advisor not only helps you earn golden tickets, but serves as a good tutorial and helpful ally 
 when building your park. He constantly draws your attention to problem areas and helps you get 
 the most out of your employees and attractions. Unfortunately, he can be a bit too helpful at times 
 and will point out areas that don't have janitors or security even if those areas don't need janitors 
 or security, or he will criticize the number of food and drink shops in your park even if they're 
 everywhere and customer satisfaction is high.  

 Unlike in Hasbro's RollerCoaster Tycoon, building rides is not your primary focus in SimTheme Park. 
 While you can design coasters to your heart's content, your real goal is to make money. And you 
 don't make money in SimTheme Park by having exciting rides - you do so by encouraging your customers 
 to purchase goods from your shops. This requires a great deal of shop building, and the most successful 
 parks will have two or three vendors or midway games strategically located near the exit to every 
 single ride.  

 Managing your shops is easy. You have control over the quality of goods at each kiosk through a 
 generically labeled "quality" slider, as well as through shop-specific sliders for ingredients, 
 such as the amount of salt on your fries and the amount of ice in your drinks. After you've set 
 the quality and price levels for one shop, you can easily set the same levels for all shops of 
 that type. Unfortunately, you can't standardize your preferences, so each new shop is built with 
 the computer's default settings. Rides do play an important part in attracting customers to your 
 park, and new rides let you charge higher prices at the gate. However, the game has some strange 
 problems associated with this correlation, as visitors will flock to any new ride even if it's 
 just a newly rebuilt ride you've already had sitting in your park for months. And though you can 
 design the layout for any track-based ride (go-karts, flumes, and roller coasters) , your designs 
 don't have any impact on the attraction of that ride. You can only make a particular ride more 
 exciting through research; researching will let you build loops for coasters, tunnels and jumps 
 for go-karts, and improve other types of rides as well. Upgrades will not only make a ride more 
 exciting, but will also increase its capacity, making long lines move more quickly.  

 Designing rides in SimTheme Park is a much simpler affair than in RollerCoaster Tycoon. You don't 
 have to worry about bad physics causing a ride to stall or a hairpin turn throwing the car into 
 the fountain. As long as you complete the ride, it will run. Some physics are modeled, but even 
 a really poorly designed coaster will creak its way over humps and through loops. What makes designing 
 your roller coasters exciting is that you can ride any of the attractions in your park, and seeing 
 a coaster you've designed first-hand is really fun.  

 Riding your coasters and wandering through your park in first-person view is made possible by the 
 game's 3D engine, which lets you rotate and zoom in and out of your park in the default isometric 
 perspective, much like in Bullfrog's Dungeon Keeper games. Yet while the engine makes things look 
 great, it can also get incredibly bogged down when there are lots of visitors in your park.  

 
 Despite its amusing setting and visual appeal, SimTheme Park is at heart a business simulation. 
 As such, there is a good deal of micromanagement involved. In addition to hiring the shop management, 
 you have to hire janitors, security, and entertainers and set patrol routes to make sure each area 
 of your park has access to each of these services. You also have to keep a close eye on the condition 
 of your various rides, and you need mechanics to fix them whenever they start to break down. This 
 is actually one of SimTheme Park's most aggravating aspects; once you have a good number of rides 
 in your park, you have to constantly assign repairs. Rides will automatically be repaired if they 
 break down, but this is undesirable because a ride's total life span diminishes if you let this 
 happen. SimTheme Park would be much less frantic if you could just set some sort of maintenance 
 schedule.  

 However, you cannot, and this is perhaps SimTheme Park's biggest flaw: You just have too many details 
 to manage once your park becomes large and successful. The initial planning and building for each 
 park is the game's best point because you have time to watch visitor reactions and to make small 
 adjustments in order to achieve maximum efficiency. But once your park becomes large and popular, 
 it becomes a chaotic mix of advisor messages and rides needing repairs. There's no longer any time 
 to just sit back and enjoy what you've created, which is a shame considering just how enjoyable 
 this creative process can be.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: koopatroopa1015
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  You've got four different themes in SimTheme Park: Lost Kingdom, Halloween World, Wonderland, and 
 Space Zone. Each park has different rides, roller coasters, shops, and features. Starting with 
 the Lost Kingdom and Halloween World, you'll build a park and try to make it as successful as possible. 
 As you complete certain challenges, make money, and impress your guests, you'll earn golden tickets. 
 Get golden tickets for special rides and such. You'll also earn golden keys which can get you into 
 Wonderland and Space Zone. You can ride the rides and even become a guest in your own park! You 
 can set the features and options the way you want. And you can even go online and visit other people's 
 parks and send e-cards!
  
  The game is straightforward, but making a good park takes some skill. It's fun and challenging 
 at the same time. Be wary of a few bugs here and there, though. It's pretty stable but you may 
 run into a few minor problems here and there. And the graphics aren't as good as they should be. 
 They're colorful, but rather choppy. But the SFX are nice, and the music is fantastic.
  
  It's definitely worth your time and money. SimTheme Park offers so much to do in so many different 
 ways. I recommend this game to everyone. This game can be enjoyed by all - the entertainment lasts.
 
  
  SimTheme Park is a great simulation game and it takes theme park tycoons to a whole new level. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Franko_3
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Bullfrog studio are genious. They designed some of the best tycoon game of the whole industry, 
 making other copy them. For example, Theme hospital and Theme park. Now they strike back with that 
 gem.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very easy to learn. There is plenty of thing to do and not one, but 4 
 theme worlds that you can unlock with key if you take the full simulation part. Graphic: They are 
 still nice in my opinion, but still its nothing like Rct3. But in 1999, they were ambitious with 
 the camcoaster feature that allowed you to walk in your own park and ride the coaster you created, 
 its a nice addition. All the ride are very clean, especially the science fiction park.
  
  Sound: Sound is a bit weak, the voice acting for the advisor is great though.
  
  Value: It 
 take about 7 to 15 hour to pass each world depending how fast you want to unlock the game. So the 
 value is pretty high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lio83197
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a wonderful game and I recommend it to anyone who loves amusment parks or enjoys running 
 their own business. It is a great simulation with tons of rides, shops, and much much more. It 
 is not just a game where you run a business, it has many goals which you can try to reach. You 
 can buy new land and expand your theme park and make it the largest in the world. Create towering 
 roller costers, go-kart tracks, and sooooo much more. There are four different ausment park themes 
 you can choose from. To unlock them you need to win keys by doing certain things in the game. You 
 are automatically given one key so you can get into two parks with it. The other two parks are 
 locked up ... for now. I enjoyed this game alot and I am sure everyone else will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brimasra
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Sim theme park is without a doubt, the best theme park or business strategy game out there. Just 
 creating your own parks alone is cool and this game has it down pack. The most interesting thing 
 about this game is how you can test out your own rides, now that part blown me away. You can actually 
 test your rides, put them together, and get many praises from the kids. I truly love this game, 
 it's highly addictive and there could be nothing that I really dislike about it. For the graphics: 
 I can't hate or love it to much, it's fine the way it is. The gameplay: excellent, everythings on 
 the right place. Overall: This game is a must-have. It's addictive, very, and the fact of owning 
 your own theme park is amazing. Great game this is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-Gen
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I recall purchasing this game at PC World way back in 1999 and being a fan of strategy games I 
 thought i'd give this a try. The basic premise of this game is that you must build and manage your 
 own amusement park. Of course with the help of your heavy-Scottish-accented adviser who is more 
 than willing to give you some tips and hints to make your park a success. You start with a certain 
 amount of cash and a little head start, but of course you have been put in charge to turn this 
 sorry excuse for a theme park into a sprawling success. The interface is fairly simple and it will 
 take no more than an hour or so to get the basics of how to run your own park respectively. Your 
 essential goal of course is to attract as many vistors as possible into your park and watch your 
 money grow and grow which you can later use to upgrade your park and of course gain those valuable 
 Golden Tickets. You gain these in many different ways like for example: getting a certain amount 
 of vistors in your park to gaining a certain amount of income.
  
  The gameplay is fun once you begin to expand your park and bring the dosh in which will grant you 
 access to purchase new rides, shops and other features needed to pimp your park up. There is a 
 decent amount of content to be had here and although you dont get a ton of different stuff, it 
 all adds to become a fun experience for anyone. Once you get the hang of managing a large park 
 it does begin to get quite hectic to put it bluntly. With rides constantly breaking down, vistors 
 puking everywhere, your employers going on strike etc. sometimes you feel as if your not in control 
 and maybe thats the emphasis of the game. Your inbox will become flooded with messages once your 
 park grows and you sometimes wish that Scottish announcer would shut up (although of course you 
 do have the option to turn the little bugger off, *phew*) . As you gain Golden Tickets you will 
 unlock new parks to experiment with each with a different theme (my personal favorite, Halloween 
 World) . In order for your park to grow you must keep your vistors happy and this can become a daunting 
 challenge, especially when your park is chocker. You must do a little customization and a little 
 brainwork in order for your guests to be happy whether there on a ride, having some grub, playing 
 on the sideshows or whatever. If there happy and then so will you of course even if you have a 
 bunch of smiley faces that dont mean some punk wont let off the occasional stink bomb to ruin the 
 whole show. Thats where your employers come in and you can hire: secruity guards (keeping your 
 park in order) , cleaners (keeping your park clean &amp; tidy) , scientists ( for inventing new rides 
 and other features for your park) , mechanics (to fix and upgrade your rides) and entertainers (to 
 keep your guests amused and happy) . Of course your got to keep your employers happy also if you 
 wish to be successful. When you have successfully created and managed a large park you can of course 
 move on to the next park and begin your little journey all over again. It does though do a good 
 job of keeping things quite fresh although the objective is still to earn more Golden Tickets. 
 You should have a good idea of what to expect on the other parks if you have done the Lost Kingdoms 
 Park. There is plenty of play to be had and although there is only four parks, if you spend a certain 
 enough time on each one and not rush ahead it does feel like quite a large game. The variety of 
 features keeps you coming back to jazz up your park to the point of covering the whole mass of 
 land. Although I advise not to go over the top since the more you have, the harder it will be to 
 manage and keep in check. If your loaded then it wont be such a big deal since you can buy anything 
 and give your employers a salary they wont ever dare turn away. Overall this is just a fun and 
 an addictive game in its own right, although at times things can get pretty hectic and messy and 
 may give you quite a different experience. However despite this there is plenty of fun and inventive 
 gameplay to be had here so I say give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgurl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 29, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  If you read my PS review of this game, you might have noticed that I favored this version more. It's 
 simply because, well, it's better.
  
  The game has you build, design, and manage your own theme park. This doesn't seem like such a daunting 
 task, but the game does a good job of serving up this challenge.
  
  One of the most difficult components of the game is managing the employees. In the game, you'll need 
 security  workers, and a few other types of ccupations for the park. You 
 usually choose your employees in the beginning of the game when the park is empty, which was something 
 that I found difficult. First, you need to train your workers and hire the best ones for the best 
 budget, since you haven't earned revenues yet from the park.
  
  Once the park is starting, the hard part comes. The workers may need more training, which you can't 
 track at all, or there aren't enough workers, or they simply quit on the job. It's difficult to keep 
 up with all the business regarding the employees since you have to look after the entire park. This 
 isn't a downside to the game however, just a major challenge I came across.
  
  Other than that, your theme park's success relies heavily on how well the park was designed. There's 
 a constant demand for entertainers and rides and shops and restaurants that makes you know that 
 the park has to be perfectly proportioned with each of these things. Also, the prices you set are 
 extremely important. If you charge to low for admission for example, then you losses will be greater 
 than what you gain. It's an important factor to keep in mind.
  
  One of the major strong points of the game is the ability to ride your own ride. Mind you, there 
 isn't much thrills in doing so, but it's a unique feature of the game that I appreciate. The coasters 
 and water rides are very fun to ride, especially if the design includes twists and turns and so. That's 
 another thing that drew me towards the game. The customization in design of rides such as roller 
 coasters is much greater than in the Playstation version. You're limited sharp turns in the PS version, whereas 
 in this game, you can actually make the coaster turn upside down. It was something I noticed right 
 away when playing the PS version.
  
  This game also have awesome themes for the parks. They range from a perhistoric dinosaur theme to 
 an Alice In Wonderland theme. They're extremely fun to design because you can see the imaginative 
 rides that are in each different park.
  
  All in all, this game is one of the few I one for the PC, but one of my favorites. It's different 
 but incredibly fun.
  
  The game really depends on your imagination, and how well you utilize it in the game. That is a recipe 
 for success. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvercineplex
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 23, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Beneath the crazy rides, funny looking staff, constant ride breakdowns and the funny looking ant 
 thing, lies a great Theme Park Business Simulator.
  
  There are unfortunatley only 4 themes to choose from, but the wide diversity of managment tasks 
 will keep you busy.
  
  Your primary concern is making cash! Do whatever you have to do to make cash and try to stay of 
 bankrupcy. Being bankrupt in this game is not like being broke in RCT. In this game, if you are 
 bankrupt and can see a steady decline in cash, you might as well restart.
  
  This game is quite fun in the beginning, but when your park starts to increase in size and visitors, 
 it is quite a pain to micromanage everything and what once was fun and challenging, becomes repetitive 
 and annoying.
  
  Overall Sim Theme Park is a great game to play. Try it out, it's only like $5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chococattia
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Sim Theme Park was made in the late 90's, originally designed for the windows 98, and can be purchased 
 at any store for about 10 dollars. Sim Theme Park is a theme park designer game, all of the customers 
 being young children. Sim Theme Park has 4 world types to choose from, Jurassic Land, Halloween 
 Land, Candy Land, and Space Land. To get to a higher level you must win a golden key, made from 
 golden tickets which are won from park ratings. A thing I like about this game is that you can 
 ride your rides in a semi-3D upclose view. After designing your theme park, you can also have a 
 3D view of it and take in walking around a riding the rides, as if you were actually a customer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 16, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  It's been over five years since Bullfrog released the first amusement park simulation game, Theme 
 Park. Though it was quite a resource hog at the time (high resolution would even bring a mighty 
 486 DX2-66 to its knees) , Theme Park was one of the most fun and innovative games of its time. 
 It put you in control of your very own amusement park, leaving the player in charge of everything 
 from ride placement, staff wages, concession stands, and even a bit of ride design. The game was 
 a godsend for type-A personalities, a triumph of micromanagement. Theme Park allowed you to control 
 even the most miniscule aspects, like the prices of your food and sideshows, the chance of winning 
 sideshows, the amount of ice you put in your drinks, and the amount of salt in the fries. Rides 
 would break down and require repairs, bathrooms had to be placed in the park for your patrons, 
 and when it rained in your park, the costumed entertainers you hired would hand out umbrellas to 
 all the park guests. What detail! Most of all, Theme Park was a showpiece for Bullfrog's signature 
 personality, as evidenced by the humorous and creative rides, the fact that sickened guests would 
 vomit at roller coaster exits, and the general "cuteness" of the art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frost6969
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  I guess it might be because I am more of a rollercoaster tycoon fan but this game is more to appeal 
 to children. It is not very reallistic but that doesn't mean a game can not be fun. The graphics 
 are nothing special and same with the sound. I would sasy the only real interesting part is the 
 ability to ride your own rides. I would have to say it was not that great for me I am not saying 
 it wont be good for you its just it's more for kids. This game in other words is the rollorcoaster 
 tycoon for kids. I do not recommend this game for adults. This game was entertaining for the most. 
 Had all the must haves for a theme park game including some new features. Recommened for kids but 
 not adults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhows61931
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I used to play this game for like 4 hours a day. It's so much fun to see how profitable you can 
 make your theme park and what rides you can unlock. If you've ever enjoyed theme parks or roller 
 coaster tycoon, you'll love this game. The first person viewpoint is especially fun. You get to 
 walk around your theme park just like one of your guests. This really adds to the fun of creating 
 a theme park. Everything you put in your theme park makes an impact on your guests enjoyment. It's 
 fun to watch them puke after going on a particularly thrilling ride, and to watch them jump up 
 and down when they're really enjoying themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suzabbe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 17, 2005 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Lots of fun and long hours of play with this game. Balance your budget, build rides, side shows, 
 food stands and make sure your visitors are happy. Keep the park clean, research new rides/concessions 
 and always employ enough staff to do so. Truly lots of fun with this one for adults and children; 
 the tasks are not too hard for kids and not too easy for adults to become distracted or bored. 
 I would suggest adults turn the tour guide volume off as he does become a bit tiresome, other than 
 that an all-around fun game. 
  
  Gameplay  7 (Menus are sometimes trying but other than that click-and-drag works well) 
  Graphics 
  7 (Not the best but still good) 
  Sound  7 (Theme Park sounds are well done) 
  Playability  10 (This can be played for hours and hours without losing interest) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LethalHead
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 3, 2004 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Sim Theme Park is all about building your own.... yup, you guessed it, ... Theme Park. It's one 
 of those few games on which I have spent entire days playing. Yes, it's that good. At least for 
 me.
  
  The whole concept of the game is to acquire the so-called 'Golden Keys' and unlock new theme parks. 
 You can't exactly call them theme parks as they are just a plain strip of land initially with a 
 couple of rides (if you choose the instant action mode. Otherwise, you'll start from scratch) . 
 It's upto you to build it into a super park with a variety of rides, refreshment stalls and toilets!
 
  
  You enter the game with just one 'golden key' which you can use to unlock one of two parks available 
 initially (all others are locked) and $50,000. You are given complete control of the park: from 
 deciding an employee's salary to actually setting up the rides. But it isn't as easy as it sounds. 
 Even if the park does well initially, it's graph will decline gradually if you don't add newer 
 and faster rides and keep the park clean. All this requires careful planning and if you are successful, 
 you get a golden ticket from time to time. You can use these golden tickets to buy 'mystery rides' 
 or keep collecting them to get a golden key (requires 3 golden tickets) .
  
  But there's one guy who I haven't mentioned till now. Your assistant. He's a cute little fellow 
 who will help you sail through the treacherous waters of managing the nitty gritty details of a 
 theme park. He'll tell if a ride is about to break down or if the employee union is about to 
 
  go on strike (pray it never happens) .
  
  The best part of STP is its micro-management. You'll love controlling each and every detail of 
 the park. You will be the one who decides whether your park requires 2 burger stalls or 3. You'll 
 decide how much research should go into the making of new rides and stalls. You'll be the one decorating 
 the park with fountains and statues. You'll even decide how much loan to take when you go bankrupt 
 (that's a decision you don't want to take) . You can test out the rides yourself and you'll love 
 deciding the price of items on the stalls. I once fixed the price of a burger as $220. It works 
 for some time but not long!
  
  The game does have a few flaws though. It doesn't seem to be very stable on any machine and it 
 isn't very compatible with XP. Its graphics are not ground breaking but you can't expect much from 
 a 5 year old game.
  
  All in all, Sim Theme Park was and is a great game. What are you waiting for? Go buy it if you 
 haven't already. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
