-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SiN
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/sin/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.1, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 572 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Ritual Ent.
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Oct 31, 1998

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sin is for the first-person shooter fan who wants more of the same, done just a little different, 
 but done right. 

 Sin is for the first-person shooter fan who wants more of the same, done just a little different, 
 but done right. Too bad that's just the sort who'd be especially intolerant of its bugs and occasional 
 shortcomings. Nevertheless, if you're looking for guns, blood, and action, not to mention one of 
 the best deathmatch games of the year, you'll get your money's worth.  

 When it's at its best, Sin looks like a violent comic book or an exploitative action movie. The 
 weapons are high-tech and over-the-top, the women are top-heavy, blood gushes all over the place, 
 and most everything breaks or explodes eventually. As dictionary-definition tough guy John Blade, 
 you must shoot your way through hundreds of gun-toting bruisers and nogoodniks. Sure, they all 
 look the same, but they die in all kinds of different ways. They'll fly backward, spin out, clutch 
 at their throats, clutch at their stomachs, collapse in place, or just plain blow to bits depending 
 on how and where you shoot them. The motion-captured death throes of your enemies always look great, 
 no matter how many you put out of their misery. Not that putting them out of their misery is an 
 easy task; not all these guys know how to shoot straight, but they move pretty fast, and they won't 
 go down easy. Of course, they'll go down a lot easier if you're a good shot - one of the best aspects 
 of Sin is the hit detection, where you can shoot your enemy in any part of his body and see appropriate 
 results. Sure, if you keep shooting that thug in the chest, he'll eventually go down; but even 
 one or two shots to his head will do the job just the same. But don't get smug because the same 
 laws apply to you. A lucky shot could even knock your weapon clean from your grip.  

 Most of the levels are intricately detailed, and some of them look very good. The game is richly 
 colored all the way through, and while certain areas are a bit dark, for the most part, every area 
 of the game looks plausible. While some of the level architecture starts to look a little plain, 
 with too many right angles and too many long corridors, there are enough twists and unique challenges 
 to keep you going and, more importantly, to keep you interested. In a throwback to Duke Nukem 3D, 
 the levels also tend to be highly interactive, more so than the usual shooter. Go on, you know 
 you want to flush those toilets, dial those phones, and open those file cabinets. Its graphics 
 look awkward sometimes, often during the in-game cinematics, but for the most part, Sin's slick. 

 There's a lot of speech in Sin, what with Blade and his sidekick J. C. bantering back and forth all 
 the time. Sure, real people don't talk like that, but the dialogue is appropriate in the context 
 of the game, and for every joke that falls flat, there are at least a couple that work. Unfortunately, 
 for the most part, Sin doesn't sound nearly as good as it should. Enemy thugs mutter the same boring 
 lines over and over, to the point where it's all the more satisfying to shut them up. Most every 
 gun at your disposal looks fantastic, but most every gun sounds meek and weak. It's almost sad 
 - you've got Blade looking like a real tough customer, toting that monster machine gun in one hand 
 and feeding ammo into it with the other, but the thing sounds like an electric razor running low 
 on juice. Meanwhile, you've got an interactive soundtrack buzzing away in the background, and though 
 it'll get you grooving to a good drumbeat once in a while, usually you either won't notice, or 
 you'll want to turn it off.  

 After all, you must concentrate what with so many tough guys trying to lay you low all the time. 
 The action in Sin is a lot of fun, and there's enough variety in between to keep the gunfights 
 interesting. Often times, you must use your ingenuity as well as your ammunition. J. C. will help 
 hack into various computer systems along the way, so you can disable security systems, open doors, 
 and more. Otherwise, sometimes you must be sneaky; other times, you must think fast; and still 
 other times, you must make some serious jumps. There's a lot more variety here than your average 
 shooter, although that's not to suggest Sin is unlike anything you've ever seen.  

 The fact is, at its core, this here's your run-of-the-mill shooter. Unless you think it's a unique 
 or revolutionary development to find the machine gun before the shotgun, you'll traverse familiar 
 territory most of the way through Sin. But who cares? This is the shooter made for diehard fans 
 of the genre, and if that's you, you'll like it a lot. After all, Sin rewards your finely honed 
 aim more than any other Quake-style shooter, and the more experienced you are with the genre, the 
 more you'll enjoy its wisecracks and shooter community in-jokes. On top of that, the single-player 
 game is rather long, and you'll always have the deathmatch mode when you're through.  

 Sin includes many different deathmatch levels, some of which are straightforward but well-designed 
 and some of which are pretty wild. One has you fighting on a moving train, while another puts you 
 in a giant living room. Meanwhile, the hit detection only makes matters more interesting. Even 
 the stock pistol can end a shootout pretty quickly if your aim is remarkable. But you needn't worry 
 about the hit detection ruining deathmatches, with instant-death head shots left and right; Sin 
 moves quickly, and most of the time, you'll have trouble hitting your opponent at all, let alone 
 hitting him in the forehead. And when you need a break from deathmatch, Sin's even got a training 
 facility that lets you skeet shoot with the shotgun, snipe with the rifle, and more; the game even 
 tabulates a score based on your performance.  

 But all this seems practically pointless in light of Sin's bugs. Sure, multiplayer Sin works fine 
 out of the box, but single-player loading times are unacceptable to the point where you'll have 
 plenty of time to wonder if it's worth the trouble. Sin isn't easy, and dying in it starts to feel 
 like a fate worse than death, what with two-minute load times as a consequence of every fatal mistake. 
 And the problems don't stop there. The game's incompatible with certain popular sound cards, not 
 to mention the first boss who stands perfectly still as you shoot him. Certainly, there will be 
 a patch to address these problems. But no one wants a game that doesn't work well out of the box, 
 and it isn't fair to force a customer to download a multimegabyte patch just to justify the purchase 
 (the beta version of the patch is more than 10MB) . Activision should be shipping the patch to every 
 registered customer, complete with a rebate and personalized apology. But fat chance that's going 
 to happen. So, for the time being, if you're looking for the best stand-in for Quake this year, 
 you'll find it worth your while to shrug off the bugs.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Aberinkulas
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Chick-chick. Boom. Sploosh. Chick-chick. Boom. Sploosh.
  
  This is my impression of SiN. It's pretty good, isn't it? 
  
  Those who happened to be playing 
 PC games around the time of SiN's release probably won't remember SiN at all, and for good reason 
 - it's really rather boring, especially because Half-Life came out the very next week. It's a fairly 
 generic, buggy-at-release, action-movie-style FPS. It has a very nifty name, though, despite being 
 a pain to type.
  
  Chick-chick. Boom. Sploosh. Chick-chick. Boom. Sploosh.
  
  That's all it is, really. It's one of the most basic first-person shooters I've played, managing 
 to be about as complex as Doom with Quake 2's 3D engine (of course, developed by Ritual, id's favorite 
 student and expansion-pack-er) . It's not a bad game, it's just extremely basic, and offering nothing 
 for it.
  
  As I've said before (along with Foolz in our joint-session review of Doom) simplicity is a good 
 thing. Yes, it is. But at least Doom mixed up the simplicity occasionally. In SiN, I never felt 
 like there was anything new, even when looking back on the entire game. I could have played the 
 opening Bank level over and over again and still achieved the same level of variety the entire 
 game accomplishes. Aside from gathering an arsenal of the same guns every game in the genre uses, 
 SiN does nothing to keep the player immersed and interested in the action, and it gets old, fast.
 
  
  The action-movie theme is sometimes well executed upon, but beyond a few neat vehicle sections 
 (like for instance, the opening, where you man a turret on a helicopter, not unlike a Matrix scene) , 
 it never goes anywhere. The ridiculous character designs are good, though - the abnormally large 
 breasts and Quake-graphics nudity are really hilarious - and the story, while weak, is still head 
 and tails better over "You are in Hell, shoot your way out!"
  
  But, hell, if I wanted to play Quake, I'd play Quake. At least Quake has a few extra monsters to 
 shuffle the game up a bit, and bothers to give the players some interesting levels to explore now 
 and then. Even Doom manages to come off as a better action movie. The only real feature SiN has 
 over those two is a story told through in-engine cutscenes, which are about as awkward as you might 
 imagine. The voice-acting is pretty funny, though.
  
  But without an understanding of pace, the game really comes off as simply a cheap knock-off of 
 Quake 1, with a few poor features Quake II mastered in that same time-frame. Without a rising action, 
 you can't have a climax or denouement, no matter how much the game wants to claim. This is something 
 the action movie aspect of the game never nails down, and for it the game suffers - without the 
 tension and variety of an action movie, the building-up of the ending never feels any different 
 than the rest of the game.
  
  Is it fun? I suppose, in the way that all shooters are fun if you like that sort of thing. But 
 I just can't bring myself to say that SiN was in any way a good game. It was a diversion, much 
 like Solitaire or Checkers. Anything beyond that falls down flat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kragspire
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  The Quake 2 engine has had plenty of use over the years. The long list of titles that used it almost 
 always came out on top due to the strong net code and overall design. One of these titles included 
 SiN, a FPS shooter based in the not so distant future. You play as Blade, a tuff future cop with 
 a limited vocabulary. You will run the gauntlet of typical levels with just about every type of 
 weapon already thought of before. What makes SiN worth playing then you might ask? Style.
  
  A mega corporation in a mega city of Freeport has been conducting experiments of ethical proportions. 
 Yeah I know, the typical clich for all FPS games these days. SiN tries not to take itself too 
 seriously while still providing a solid and engaging single-player campaign. You start out by responding 
 to a distress call sent out by the Freeport bank. This leads Blade on a merry chase through the 
 bank and out into the city, which then brings about the main plot. Instead of your arch-villain 
 being some scary large bad guy this time around, it is none other then the beautiful Elexis Sinclaire. 
 Along with this you will meet Blade's annoying little hacker sidekick J. C., who acts as the brains 
 of the operation. While the story has been seen hundreds of times before, I must give credit for 
 well designed characters and silly dialog.
  
  The gameplay of SiN is decent. Enemies have hotspots throughout their body that trigger extra damage 
 if hit. The same goes for the player, making it important to keep up on body armor. Luckily, the 
 bad guys are constantly dropping armor after you kill them to replenish your supply. What you will 
 find annoying however is the fact that you must trigger the use button each time to pick up objects 
 from the dead, sort of the same way you would in a slower paced MMO. The problem is that this is 
 NOT an MMO, leading to plenty of slowdown in the action due to picking the field clean. 
  
  The AI for these enemies is not the most impressive, as they will charge in after you through a 
 doorway right into open fire. The enemies are well designed though and some can give you trouble 
 if you don't learn their strategy, but other then that there is nothing impressive here. I did 
 find some issues with targeting enemies in doorways, where the targeting dot would be misleading. 
 Often times you would think you had a clean shot but the bullets hit the door frame at point blank.
 
  
  The game supports multiplayer but chances are you will be unable to find many people playing this 
 day and age. There is always the option to link up with others LAN wise, which can lead to some 
 typical long hours of death matching. Otherwise, once you played through the single-player campaign, 
 there is not much else to do unless you are lucky enough to find the expansion pack: Wages of Sin. 
 If you have played Quake 2 to death and are just dying for more of the same gameplay of that era, 
 pick up SiN. What you shouldn't expect is something revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  Sin is a Quake 2 engine game that was released at the same time as Half Life and man that was a 
 bad idea. Half Life did very well but sadly Sin was mostly overlooked. There were a lot of bugs 
 in the initial retail release that were fixed later but the damage was done by then.
  
  You a John Blade a member of HardCorps (basically the police of the future) you have to go up against 
 SinTek a mega corporation that has lots of power and money. Your nemesis at SinTek is the sexy, 
 evil seductress Elexis Sinclaire who claims that she is mother nature. You must stop her and her 
 nefarious plans.
  
  Good Points:
  
  Great graphics.
  Hit detection on various body parts.
  Great weapons.
  Interactivity.
  Lots of Speech.
  
 
  Bad:
  
  Some poor voice acting.
  Repetitive lines from enemies.
  A few bugs and glitches remain.
  Weak sound.
  AI isn't that great
  
  The graphics in Sin 
 are great for the time. Levels are intricately detailed (for the most part) and most look really 
 impressive. There is the occasional level that needed a little more work and some texture glitches 
 but these are by no means common. The particle effects are as you would expect from the Quake 2 
 engine nothing advanced by todays standards but really cool for that time.
  
  Sin features superb hit detection. Like in SoF shoot body parts and you'll see results you'd expect. 
 Shoot someone in the head and they'll go down with a hole in their head :D. Shoot someone in the 
 chest and you'll see there body armor become damaged. This hit detection also means you take damage 
 to different body parts as well but thankfully you can pick up various pieces of body armor from 
 around the level and of course of downed enemies. Lucky shots can also make you drop your weapon 
 and that's kinda cool.
  
  All the weapons in the game fun to use and look highly detailed. Unfortunately they sound weak. 
 I expect a heavy machine gun to sound awesome and really loud not tinny.
  
  Every level is highly interactive, go into a room and almost everything can be destroyed or used 
 in some way. Shoot furniture (bad furniture) , shoot pictures, use computers to open security doors 
 or to find out security codes etc (insert nod to Doom 3 here) . This level is interactivity had 
 never been seen before and it really adds a sense of immersion to the game.
  
  There is a lot of speech in Sin both in game and in cut scenes. The in game audio is mostly OK 
 but there are some great jokes in there and some great cheesy moments as well. Some of the voice 
 acting of the enemies is poor and during the game the enemies do repeat the same lines over and 
 over again. That does get annoying but it's even more satisfying when you down them.
  
  The initial release of the game had compatibility problems with certain sound cards, long load 
 times, bugs, texture glitches. I had issues with my Sound Blaster PCI64 looping sound on this game, 
 a simple console command solved it but it still shouldn't have had a problem in the first place. 
 The patch for it was over 10MB back in those days the internet was dial up. These problems meant 
 it never really got the attention it deserved.
  
  In Sin the AI isn't the best i've ever seen even for back then. The AI will usually run backwards 
 and forwards. On some levels the AI is scripted to kick over tables and use them for a bit of cover. 
 The AI mostly relies on numbers rather that intelligence which is kinda sad but this was back in 
 1998.
  
  Overall Sin is a fun game with some great jokes in it. It has a level of interactivity that was 
 unseen in those days. The story isn't bad but it's certainly no Half Life. It a game that's worth 
 playing and I game that I keep coming back to.
  
  Game version: Steam Version with April 18 2006 update installed.*
  
  Review System: QX6850, 
 4GB RAM, 768MB Geforce 8800GTX, SB Audigy 2 ZS, XP SP2.
  
  * I've played both the Steam version and the original 1998 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I JUST finished watching the final cut-scene from this game. It wasn't too bad, actually. It was 
 released as the same time that Half Life (the original) was, and so SIN 1 got a little lost in 
 its shadow.
  
  For all the flack that video games have received lately, I'm surprised that not too many people 
 raised an eyebrow (or two) of this game. The content was rather... well, some would say "mature," 
 while others would claim "immature." I guess it all depends on how you view slutty, big-busted 
 villains, and their homes decorated with giant peni.
  
  I must say that although I AM excited that I have downloaded the first part in the sequal (Sin 
 Episodes: Emergence) , I am now pissed that the SIN team has given up producing any more of the 
 episodes. So essentially, I'm going to get into the sequel, just to have my interest cut short. 
 *sigh* Oh well. Better to have played and loved than never played at all... or some **** like that.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 29, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- Straight Run and gun kill lots and leave. Not much to it. Lots To kill but only 3 main 
 weapons to kill with. overall not much to do here.
  
  Graphics- Good for the year 1998 when it came out. But ugly and unpolished for 2007. Still quite 
 a enjoyable experiance for your eyes. Overall graphics are ok.
  
  Sound- Horrible voice acting but great ambint sound and music. Gun sounds sound very realistic 
 and futureistic. Overall great sound experiance.
  
  value: You can buy it for 10 dollars our get it free if you buy sin episodes which is a great game. 
 Check my review of it
  
  The Good: Great Sound long game.
  The Bad Graphics and gameplay is to boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 24, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Despite on some of the lower reviews, Sin Gold proves to be a decent shooter, with a slightly modified 
 Quake 2 Engine.
  
  If you loved Quake 2, you will likely love Sin Gold. If you didn't care for Quake 2, then you might 
 actually care for Sin Gold. I actually found it more accessible than Quake 2. The issues with this 
 game is it's glitches, preferably, on the Macintosh. According to just about any resource, the 
 PC is not without it's Sin Gold glitches as well.
  
  in Fact, Ritual Entertainment was working their asses off to get this game out on time to complete 
 with Valve's Half-life. Well, much time has past, and it's still buggy, or as I would say- incomplete.
 
  
  When about 60% done with the game, Sin Gold repeatedly crashed on me upon launch. I reinstalled/re-patched 
 it, then it worked. Now, 90% done with the game, I get another crash. It is time to throw in the 
 towel. If this game requires 2 re-installs, then it doesn't deserve to be played in the first place.
 
  
  I saved my player files, so just maybe I might give it another go. What is interesting, is I wouldn't 
 have done this with any other game. Sin Gold might actually be worth the hassle.
  
  Aside from the crashing, there is also some sound bugs that are quite annoying on the menu screen. 
 Various other parts of the game could have been revised much better.
  
  With it's glitches and bugs set aside, Sin Gold is one of the best Q2 engine shooters and only 
 with it's bugs aside. There is a great story, excellent tongue-in-cheek humor, great voice acting, 
 and awesome gameplay. It's quite addicting to say the least.
  
  This game was much better than I expected. It might go down as one of the best games you havn't 
 played . But it needs another patch if it were to be a solid performer.
  
  It's just too bad that some games cannot be revised a lot more to provide thorough, stable gameplay. 
 Though, this game isn't the most unstable game I've ever played (Enter the Matrix) , it leaves a 
 hassle unless you are willing to constantly reinstall and re-patch the game.
  
  Give it a Try. I was using a G5 w 6800GT in OSX 10.4.10. Maybe there is better luck in OS9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMPACT_17
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Sure SiN has its ups and downs but all in all it's a great game. It makes great use of the Quake 
 2 engine, the only thing I recongized there were the particles. And there were some features there 
 that were hard to do back then, like vehicles and working, usable computers. The textures might 
 be glitchy and the models of people might be screwed up, but its almost unnoticable. In my opinion 
 the diologe was a little funny. And the workers running around with hammers trying to kill you 
 and are so fat if they lay down you could see their butt-crack is halarious. Its even better with 
 cheats. You put in wuss and /superfuzz and you're in. You can run around completely invincible 
 and blow peoples arms and legs off without getting even scratched. In my opinion this is a pretty 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSZX
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 3, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: I will be talking about this game as if I bought it the day it released and that it's $50 
 US. So, I won't say: Get Quake 4 instead. or, It's a good deal since you get it free with SiN Episodes: 
 Emergence. Now, let's begin. SiN puts you in the shoes of a John R. Blade, a typical badass who 
 shoots first, asks questions later. There's nothing wrong with him actually, I like him this way. 
 As Blade, you go through the game trying to stop the villiain, Elexis Sinclaire, the President 
 of SinTek. Elexis is using the resources at her disposal to create an army to Bring makind out 
 of the dark ages. The game is so vague on this element of the story that I'm not really sure how 
 she's gong to do that. They really confused me with how she's constructing mutants cyborgs. Assisting 
 you on your mission, is J. C. J. C. is a skilled hacker who helps you by feeding you information, 
 hacking (as you might have guessed) , and being an annoyance. He is the most annoying sidekick I; ve 
 ever seen in any game. I turned the volume off during missions I had to replay because he's so 
 annoying. He has the voice of a 13 year-old but he apparently, has an appartment. The SiN uiniverse 
 feels like a show that was trying to get air-time in the late 80's and after many failed attempts 
 the creators decided to make a video game of it insead. The gameplay, is much like what you'd find 
 in such games as Doom, Quake, or Duke Nuke'em. You run around, shooting things. Not much has really 
 changed or been innovated. There are some things that, while not Earth-shaking, are pretty cool. 
 One, is how when you shoot a guy in the head, he falls back, and when you shoot a guy with a fatal 
 shot in the foot,, he falls forward. Wherever you hit the enemies, they die accordingly. And that 
 goes for you, an enemy can get a lucky shot to your head and instant death! You're able to pick 
 up armour in three segments, legs, torso, and head. While this is kind of pointless, I think it's 
 neat. The coolest thing however, is that an enemy, with the right shot, can shoot a gun right out 
 of your hand! It seems that for everything cool about SiN, there's a bug or two to counter-act 
 it. The bugs are horrible. In one of the later stages, you see mutants in the air! What happened 
 here? So, to sum the gameplay up in one sentence: It's like Quake, except not as fun, with bugs.
 
  
  The graphics are well done. The levels and environments are detailed, the FMV's are nicely animated, 
 and guns look powerful. The only real gru=ipe I have is the character models look rushed and have 
 slight chopiness to their animations.
  
  Thie audio is where I really cracked down on this game. While I wouldn't call myself an audiophile, 
 I do care alot about sound quality. The music is not where I marked this game down. The music was 
 well played and fits in with the game's genre and feel. The voice acting and sound effects are 
 where I really marked this down. The voice overs are terrible. The voice actor for JC sounds like 
 he taped his voice on a tape recorder from 1992 and sent it in to the developers. Elexis' voice 
 actor ssounds like she didn't even know the character and decided to just do a generic horny girl 
 voice. The enemies sound like people that Ritual Entertainment pulled off the street and said We'll 
 give you 20 bucks to say these lines right here. John Blade's, while not fantastic is the best 
 voice in the game. His voice is the only one that I did not want to take a screw driver and stick 
 in my brain to cause deafness everytime I heard it. The voice actor sounds like he really did his 
 homework and played games such as Duke Nuke'em where the character just kicks ass and takes names.
 
  
  Overall, I say that, if you want a game that innovates and brings a unique twist to the FPS genre, 
 skip this game and pick up Half-Life. If you want a run and gun game that requires little to no 
 thought, then pick up Quake 2 which came out last year. If you've picked up Half-Life and Quake 
 2 and played every FPS dating back to three years ago, and don't want to play a different genre 
 of games, pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarlsonAJ
Rating: 3.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  SiN now ships free with SiN: Episodes. The lack of a compass, automap, or any other way to figure 
 which way you are supposed to go, or even have been, is a pain. One that you will experience over, 
 and over, and over, again and again. The graphics are dated, the music repetitive, and you'll wish 
 that you could turn the raucous alarms off. After a while I really wanted to go back to base and 
 pound the heck out of J. C., too. On the plus side, the hit effects are nice. For folks who want 
 a variety of weapons, there is that too, but once you get the auto chaingun, you will never want 
 to use anything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wse_jack
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 27, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I guess I'm not the only one who feels like they should write up their experiance of SiN, brought 
 to you via wise developers who realise that when you want to drop a game into the middle of your 
 previous two, you might want to have some background. Granted, a little re-cap would have been 
 nice, expecialy since Wages of SiN is the game in which most of Emergance builds off of, which 
 was not only un-included but is damned hard to find... some things just arnt worth the effort. 
 Besides playing through SiN gives you a very good feel for at least some idea of whats going on 
 during Emergance's hit-the-ground-running / we're not going to tell you whats going on cause its 
 more fun to piss you off and confuse you. Naturaly any one who couldent wait and tore into Emergance 
 as soon as steam's long, strangely complicated, yet all around good ol' Mcarthy style paranoia 
 for the rich self-rightous publishers.* For those that actualy want to know why they are doing 
 anything at all or what anything is other than the fact that you have a gun that is, well, from 
 SiN2's angle I get a difibrulator, but some would arugue shooting bullets is a gun thing. Oh yhea 
 hundreds of evil worker bee dudes are shooting at you. Eventualy I realised that I new nothing 
 about anything still an hour into it and went straight into SiN.
  
  The above is for those worried about SiN's age and dont want to play through pain in order actualy 
 enjoy Emergance... You must have played at least one or the other, SiN is best probably overall 
 since it's steam release is stable and other than no mouse on the menu which isnt an issue at all 
 the way it's set up.
  
  Now onto SiN. SiN to me is a game that cannot be summed up with a single catagory for classification, 
 I found surprisingly good is what most people will feel about it considering how old it is. Guilty 
 Pleasure comes to mind depending on one's opinions and zelosy about games that do something above 
 and beyond it's own time with gore. Other's that come to mind are old-school, imersive after one 
 or two hours of play and over all a fun and surprisingly fluid lesson in what life was before Half-Life 
 took standards and made them so high you would have to play ball. It realy blows the mind when 
 you go back and see it for real. 
  
  Thats not to say SiN dosent have it's share of one-ups to even Half-Life, coming out at the same 
 time it seemed I am sure thinking of one thing valve didnt pwn expecialy since valve is lazy about 
 one thing in hl, and that was sinper rifles, not only does the body massivly bleed as with the 
 crossbow from HL (only far more) but its a faster sharper shot, and depending on where you hit 
 them you can sever limbs, pop off heads, split a guy in two... and it's intergrated silencer (unrealistic 
 as it is) lets you play lawn mower with lots of guys all close to each other without having them 
 shoot back when cover can be found. Whats cooler is the animation of it that has it automaticaly 
 fold into a convieniant travel case to take with you to all the fancy um... ok its a f*cking oil 
 rig, but you do get to tour an estate on a tropical Island, where, a party could have indefeinatly 
 be held at.*
  
  I just felt that should be mentioned up front in the intrests of goodness first, and I must have 
 opened it and closed it for five minutes the next spare moment I had in sheer amaizment. Other 
 than that I dont realy see anything that would be a "SiN's own" factor in its gameplay; though 
 SiN's intergration of so many factors all in one and the unique style about the game make it far 
 from just another re-hash shooter. 
  
  The plot is well, solid at best. There is something to be said for plots and shooters back then... 
 expecialy shooters about cops, who do just about every thing but shoot in bank robbery situations, 
 much less mow down each and every participant and then hunting them down through the surrounding 
 crack houses, allys, sewers, and who could forget the abandoned, condemned, and allways so smashingly 
 creepy in the dark, the one, the only... subway system! One of the first things you learn is that 
 in the future thier are cops, and there is HARDCORPS. Hard Corps is the organization used when 
 the police feel wierd or something about a crime; for instance how many armed robbery's involve 
 RPG teams accross the roof to shoot down media and police choppers, as well as the ocasional pigeon.** 
 So you are sent into set things straight... just remember they cant sue the force if you cant ID 
 the body. When the bank is cleared you and the police fade into the slums of Freeport.
  
  I would also like to point out that very little is done with friendly NPC's in the game leaving 
 you lone with your geek guy who fills you in on layout and methodology to many of the locations 
 and objectives. This makes the game's levels in darkness boarderline creepy. You are not given 
 the courtesy of a flashlight which though can be frustrating after some time just finding like 
 a med kit or something. Though they never keep you completely in the dark it can be difficult to 
 tell some things. Thats not to say they never have lights out darkness at all and a fire fight in 
 blackness interupted by flashes weaving in and out of boxes illuminating a target for you it is 
 truly a phenominal sight. I have seen this in other games and even today this was the best display 
 since.
  
  So after the chase into the surrounding area draws you further from the bank, you noticed some 
 creatures, some dead, some far from it. The tests on the corpses of the beasts turn out to be robbers 
 from the bank. All with a substance warping their DNA. The manufacture of the g4 compound takes 
 place at one Biochemistry and pharmicudical reaserch corperation. The name: SiNtek, the presidential 
 CEO and majority share holder: Elexis Sinclaire. You are sent to recon the facility and if possible 
 steal a sample of the substance in order to connect SiNtek to the robbery, but more importantly, 
 the mutated corpses from the subway. 
  
  It sounds pretty cool when you wright it out but any serious tone is cut by cleche's strategicaly 
 placed as a satire of the genere. The majority of the dialogue is that on your com with J. C. but 
 as what I am convinced must be Jack Carver's long lost half-black brother. You can tell the different 
 parents as your name in this is Blade. When I say similer I refer to the Doyle/Jack conversations 
 during the first demo when Doyle was much younger and Jack was still a wise cracking baddass. Though 
 what would often sound just bad in FarCry's voice overs, Blade passes it off well, or better. Same 
 loud, inconsiderate maleness that DukeNukem pioneered.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, there are moments of stealth where you crouch, use fists and a silenced 
 pistol/assult rifle. To stay behind or in the dark of oncoming threats. Once a threat recognizes 
 you, Imediatly shoot him innocent or not., or the alarm will make those numbers worse. Just make 
 sure you plan movments around windows and have a as many clear shots as is possible between anyone 
 and the alarm. There are some jump puzzles as well, and a couple find keys and codes and then enter 
 them all in some way. 
  
  The rest is pure shoot them first and faster just with some of the coolest most inspiring gore 
 I have seen in an older shooter. You could riddle the corpses with bullets, a predefined decal 
 for that region would produce a gaping mangled wound and burned or torn cloathing around it. which 
 when you get good the only shots you tend to make are head shots which often leaves bodies lined 
 up or strewn about a shooter marble sized hole in the back of the skull spilling blood all over 
 the often shaved head of the ex-liviing guy. You can take your time or rush the game out, the only 
 difference is you, and rushing uses up lots of ammo. Even in 1998 graphics seeing the shells spit 
 out of the rifle and I riddled some poor bastard taking him arpart as each shot hit him and from 
 CC with a shot gun people often disovle into gore, if not jut become halfs or fourths. 
  
  One last thing worth noting is all about its style. One of the key selling points of it seems the 
 marketing of SiN: Episodes was a promise of sensuality. This is the first time I assure you they 
 were taking it seriously, but SiN... well even the first one with scripted deaths and all had some 
 sort of physics on the breasts of the female characters. I guess part of Elexis's thing is she 
 is turned on by every thing. It's more of a joke than anything else, but please understand, the 
 selling of this game using Sinclaire seems to be for that purpose only. The game is not overtly 
 sexualy explicit though every thing about Sinclaire is an inuendo, kids may not get it, but its 
 cirtiantly not worth the call from the principle's to find out why. 
  
  Thought I dont see any issue with adolecents playing this or the other two SiN universe titles. 
 And the point I am trying to make with this is that the game's name SiN, It dosent refer to sin 
 as in a lets make a game to piss off christians. I dont know if this were ever an issue but for 
 some reason they tend to take it personaly when you call a game like sin, sin - which has to do 
 with the corperate sydicate of coruption and the horrors that forgo stories of our arrogance and 
 narcessism as humans desparetly and dangerously mess with that which seemed better left alone. 
 
  
  Remember the Jewish prisoners who were used as experiment subjects by Nazi doctors, often testing 
 surguries, poisons, amputation and re-attachment, one that was noted at the musame was a guy who 
 was put in a compression chamber to be um-poped? to death, I think they were testing boots as well 
 the effects of that kind of death for german pilots. They also had counter photo's of a subjects 
 being crushed to death. If this dosent set the scene for you than I cant think of a better example, 
 which mabey that german heritige is what inspiered Crytek to use a very similer plot line in FarCry. 
 
  
  Of course Kreiger had delusions of evolution of the race. Sinclaire's character, and you will find 
 out soon enough... Though once finished with SiN go directly to Emergance and things just get damned 
 cool. Over all SiN delivers as much as any fan of graphic violence could want, It had fair AI, 
 It looked acceptable for its age, but most importantly is that once you get into the gist of the 
 game they try very hard to keep the back-then-super effects happening so, that incombo with the 
 blood and things like cups, computers and chairs less but similer to half-life's touches of everyday 
 realism. 
  
  OVERALL: 89%
  
  PROS:
  
  A great, very viceral, oldschool shooter wich makes up for graphics and age with memories of older 
 times to before Half-Life was the game ending up making us its b*tch.
  
  A must play for those who want to get into the incredible but very follow upish SiN: Emergance. 
 One cannot truly enjoy the game without priorly at least rushing through it to catch the major 
 plot points.
  
  CONS:
  
  1998 is still a long time ago, It was a game that caught quake IIs's accention to the gods. Even 
 main characters seem not focused much on.
  
  Opening sequince as well as all the cutcenes involving lots of movment are lacking even back then, 
 simplicity would have made a better more badass agent kind of point but would have looked smoother.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  ** (I now get where the DayHard guys got that, nice omage guys) 
  
  *After all valve has to keep up the impression that it was because the source code had been stolen 
 that they needed another convenient six months, oh wait, just another three, oh you know, common 
 just another three then I promise... TADA!! the game you all have been waiting for... and guess 
 WHAT! We didnt just work on security, thats right boys and girls we also took out A WHOLE THIRD 
 OF THE GAME!! And not just any third, no valve wouldent just cut out any third you know that, because 
 now not only is every real boss monster is removed, but we took out all of the guns and levels 
 that resembled something slightly unpathetic and took out several combat componets to make way 
 for nusencey and agrivating yet insainly simple and pointless puzzles involving distracting you 
 and insulting your intelect at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 10, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  SiNthe modern review. 
  Well the only reason I bought the original SiN is because I pre-purchased for SiN Episodes: Emergence 
 for $20. With that you get SiN, SiN Multiplayer and Sin Episodes: Emergence. Also since I pre-purchased 
 over STEAM I got it for $17. I would like to talk about this game even though I doubt anyone will 
 read this review. One note that when I review this game I will be judging it based off of other 
 games made in 1998 other than Half-Life. 
  
  This game starts you out as John A. Blade a hardcorps officer that is helping to take down Sintek. 
 In the first level you will notice that you get to ride around in a helicopter and shoot down the 
 enemy, thats fun. The guns do some cool stuff, thats fun. Shooting everything in your way and 
 saving hostages or choosing to kill them also, thats fun. Whats not fun is insane logic when 
 trying to figure out puzzles. Stupid AI that can take a beating, thats not fun. Not being able 
 to see the game in some places because the lighting is bad, thats not fun. Talking to bums randomly, 
 thats fun and cool. The menu for this game just sucks. 
  
  Gameplay I will say is solid with minor issues, its old school, run around and kill everything 
 to progress a story that is actually interesting. Yes, the fact that you are pursuing a very busty 
 woman who runs the company SiNtek is cool. Graphics at the time were ok, they werent Half-Life 
 but they werent bad. Music in this game is something to want, with techno beats through the whole 
 game you dont even need to play the game. This review will jump around since this game is old 
 and Im only reviewing it because its the most recent game I bought. Ill just say that the game 
 is solid except for some AI problems, some bugs, the guns are big but, wimpy sounding, If you are 
 in a need for a quick fix buy the game along with purchasing SiN Episodes: Emergence. I will have 
 a full length review on May 13th just 4 days after it is released. Also I give this game an 8.1 
 just for its cost and the fact that it will give you a fix until SiN Episodes: Emergence comes 
 out. 
  
  Reviewed on the following PC:
  2.8ghz DUAL CORE
  1gb RAM
  X800 256 GDDR3 RAM
  250GB HD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 18, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  SiN. Now here might be a waste of time and money. The graphics are horrible according to the standards 
 of the time (Ritual Entertainment and Activision, 1998) . The author spent hours trying to get past 
 the first mission. The game seems to initially have a very steep learning curve compared to what 
 is typically allowed and expected in a FPS genre game. Much of the progression depended on critical 
 thinking. Try thinking "out-side-the-box" on this one. Once past the first mission the game-play 
 made more sense, thus allowing easier progression within the logistics of reality.
  
  Elexis Sinclaire is waging a holy war against the security industry, so she becomes the figure 
 head of the enemy. Looking VERY sultry and seductive, the gamer never meets her, as such, until 
 the very end. The player is Colonel John R. Blade who is constantly being advised by radio communications 
 from some n00b/nerd kid who knows all and usually sees all.
  
  Overall the game is short. Once past the first mission the end was only a few hours away. The author 
 would only recommend this game if you are cheap, terrible bored, or desperate for any FPS entertainment.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 25, 2004 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Sin was released with relatively little fanfare at approximately the same time as Half-Life. We 
 all know what happened with Half-Life, and we all know that in comparison, Sin didn't sell very 
 well, or receive particularly good review scores. This was mainly due to the game being rushed 
 out (presumably to beat or match Half-Life to the shelves) , as the initial release was plagued 
 with numerous bugs - nothing completely show-stopping, but remarkably annoying bugs nonetheless. 
 Pre-patch, loading times were upwards of a minute in some cases, on a computer that exceeded the 
 recommended requirements. One of the midbosses had broken AI, and stood like a statue while you 
 attacked him. Another dealt with broken scripts in the game's stealth level, which made sneaking 
 successfully almost impossible.
  
  But those issues (and more) were patched within weeks of release by a dedicated team at Ritual 
 and the resulting game was more than playable. It may have been a run of the mill first person 
 shooter in some regards, but the exceptional level design and neat details helped elevate the experience 
 considerably.
  
  Sin places you in the shoes of cop-for-hire John R. Blade with a computer geek sidekick named J. C. 
 The plot follows multimillionaire Elexis Sinclaire and her plot to get the population addicted 
 to her super-drug. The drug causes mutations, however, and your job is to stop production and distribution, 
 and wipe Elexis out.
  
  The game itself plays like any other FPS, although for the time its hit detection was pretty cool 
 - shoot a bad guy in the arm and his sleeve would rip and show blood. Shoot him in the face and... yeah. 
 A shotgun blast to a weak enemy or one already riddled with bullets causes their torso to burst 
 and their legs to flop down on the ground. Blood splatters are gooey and satisfying, with splats 
 on the wall from every bullet that nicks your target. Weapons range from your standard pistol to 
 shotgun, machine gun, chaingun, rocket launcher, sniper rifle, plasma gun, and eventually a one-shot 
 kills super weapon. Er... okay, maybe originality doesn't sit highly there, but all the weapons 
 work well and none are particularly useless (even fist fighting is effective) . The level design, 
 however, is exceptional. The areas feel like real buildings but are also arranged in such a way 
 that everything flows smoothly. The first level, as an example, takes place during a bank robbery, 
 and the whole thing feels like a very opulent bank while still making it fairly obvious where to 
 go next.
  
  The levels carry through that way for most of the game, with only a handful of more monotonous 
 ones (the underwater levels are a bit sketchy) . Some are standouts, however - the aforementioned 
 bank, an oil rig, military missile base, warehouse, and underground science lab are all exceptionally 
 cool to play thruogh, even if some of the locations feel a bit recycled. Your enemies are varied 
 enough, although their strength is more in numbers than AI most of the time. A few larger ones 
 are tougher to take down, and the final boss is certainly no pushover.
  
  The graphics work - the style is a little less realistic than Half-Life and feels more like a comic 
 book, which suits the campy cutscenes well. Sound isn't very strong, however - the voiceovers are 
 good (not great, but not horrible either) but the music is forgettable and the sounds of your weapons 
 are woefully underpowered, and some don't even sound like guns at all. Thankfully, the shotgun 
 sounds basically as it's supposed to and everything from its design to animation feels like a nice 
 throwback to the original Doom.
  
  Then there are the little touches. If there's something in a room, chances are you can destroy 
 it. Chairs, tables, lamps, posters, etc, and will explode with particles flying all over. Two enemies 
 in a row can be taken out with a single headshot if aimed properly. Many levels have alternate 
 exits and there are a few levels you may not come across at all on your first time through (unfortunately, 
 one is the excellent missile silo) . At one point, you're supposed to prevent the contamination 
 of the city water supply. If you succeed, you go on to the next level. If you fail, you play an 
 extra level where you try to stop the contaminated water from reaching the city.
  
  One of the coolest (and geekiest) touches, however, is with the computer terminals scattered around. 
 You will have to access some of them to proceed in the game, whether it's to set up a hack program 
 J. C. has given you, or open/close gates, or open records in the bank to find out the combination 
 to the safe. Hitting the action key on a computer will zoom you into the terminal screen, and place 
 you in a DOS-like environment. In fact, in the bank level, you can exit the bank program and use 
 dir/p in a mini version of DOS, poke around in text files, and find out the account number and 
 password for various game characters. A needed addition? No. Cool? Definitely.
  
  There is also an interesting training mode where you walk around your headquarters. In various 
 spots are training simulators - one is a skeet shoot, where you walk into a side room, enter a 
 small booth, and try and hit clay pigeons fired over your head. There is also a sniper range and 
 an urban exercise where you stand on a moving platform and shoot wooden cutouts of criminals and 
 avoid civilians. Each one allows you to record your highest score, which you can view on a computer 
 terminal in each room. Again, unnecessary, but a neat touch.
  
  Sin is a lot of fun - the graphics may be a little rough around the edges and the audio isn't terribly 
 good, but the gameplay is fun enough, the level design is excellent (well worth checking out alone) , 
 and the small touches help bring the game to life. It's also a blast multiplayer (or was, when 
 people still played it) , and a number of those maps - namely a 3D representation of an Escher-style 
 stair room (complete with varied gravity in each section, so you could have people running up walls 
 and on the ceiling) - are absolutely brilliant. It's a shame that Sin received so little attention 
 next to Half-Life and saw next to nothing with regards to longevity. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
