-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SiN Episodes: Emergence
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/sinepisodes1/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Messy, fairly intense shooting action.
 Interactive environments make good use of realistic physics.
 Budget-priced package includes the original SiN game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only three main weapons.
 Limited enemy variety, lackluster artificial intelligence.
 Uninspired story and dialogue has a distinct lack of wisecracking.
 No multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.5, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 1,646 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Valve Software
Developer: Ritual Ent.
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     May 9, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is a pretty-looking, short, budget-priced, by-the-numbers futuristic shooter that's most notable 
 for its episodic nature and its old heritage. 

  One of the most highly anticipated first-person shooters of 1998 was SiN, which promised to combine 
 the action movie feel of Duke Nukem 3D with the impressive technology behind Quake, together with 
 an original storyline. But a game called Half-Life appeared practically without warning at around 
 the same time, stole SiN's thunder, and blew away all other competition. Now, in some sort of demi-miracle 
 straight out of a romantic comedy but with games instead of people, SiN and Half-Life are finally 
 together, in a way. SiN Episodes: Emergence is a budget-priced, bite-sized single-player sequel 
 to its old predecessor, and it's available alongside Half-Life 2 on Steam, Valve's digital distribution 
 service. It's rather strange but somehow satisfying that SiN, which garnered mixed reactions from 
 players and subsequently faded into obscurity, is back all of a sudden. The new game also seems 
 resigned to being purely derivative, so don't go in expecting anything other than a pretty good 
 Half-Life 2 clone, with less style and more flash.  

          John Blade doesn't get enough speaking lines, or guns, in SiN Episodes: Emergence.     
 

  In Emergence, you reprise the role of one Colonel John R. Blade, a macho police officer who is 
 trying to stamp out crime from the futuristic Freeport City, one low-life thug at a time. As in 
 Half-Life 2, you view all of the action from Blade's perspective, so the game never breaks into 
 noninteractive cutscenes. It begins with you strapped down to a table while buxom villainess Elexis 
 Sinclaire and one of her high-ranking cohorts, Radek, discuss your fate. They inject you with some 
 mysterious substance just before the rescue party arrives, in the form of Jessica, a spunky new 
 member of your SWAT team. Together you bust out of there, and you continue on Radek's trail in 
 order to stop him and figure out what happened. As you'd expect from the episodic nature of this 
 game, all the answers won't be revealed once you finish this approximately five-hour adventure, 
 though it will tease you so you'll anticipate the next SiN Episode.  

  Unfortunately, the game all but misses the mark when trying to draw you in with its characters 
 and storyline. In the original SiN game, John Blade served as the typical wisecracking action hero, 
 delivering all too many ridiculous lines of dialogue in between wasting countless numbers of goons. 
 In Emergence, he's practically silent, as if he's been spending too much time hanging out with 
 Gordon Freeman. In the first few minutes of the game, Blade experiences some weird whiteouts and 
 flashbacks, suggesting there's going to be some depth to the character. But this never really comes 
 back into play, so in the end, the main character of Emergence has no real identity -- or special 
 abilities, for that matter -- to distinguish him from untold numbers of other first-person shooter 
 heroes. The plot ends up going through some completely predictable motions, and the action itself 
 isn't exactly full of surprises, either.  

  Blade's weapons include -- are you sitting down? -- a pistol, a shotgun, and a submachine gun. He also 
 gets to use some incendiary grenades. Each of his guns has an alternate firing mode of some sort 
 and can also be used to bludgeon foes and boxes at close range. Despite how few they are in number, 
 the weapons at least have a solid feel to them. A headshot from the pistol often causes the enemy's 
 noggin to burst like a watermelon as the body flops end over end, a satisfyingly gruesome effect 
 that remains entertaining for the duration of the game. The submachine gun kicks up wildly as you 
 open fire, forcing you to pull down against it to continue firing where you intended to.  

  Much like how there's little variety to the firearms, there aren't many types of foes to shoot 
 at either. During the first half of Emergence, you'll fight the same one guy over and over through 
 slums and laboratories. This guy, who'll usually appear in groups of three or so, occasionally 
 walks side to side to make himself harder to hit, and sometimes he's wearing a helmet to protect 
 himself from a single shot to the head (so the trick is, you shoot his head twice) . He'll call 
 for reinforcements when one of his clones goes down, and he'll chuck a grenade at you sometimes, 
 but killing this one guy over and over definitely grows tiresome. If you're a veteran of other 
 first-person shooters, all this will be a cakewalk at the default difficulty setting.  

  The second half of Emergence is substantially more difficult, since it throws a few new types of 
 enemies at you. One of these, a minigun-wielding heavy assault trooper, can kill you faster than 
 you can kill him in a head-to-head shoot-out. So you need to listen for the distinct sound of his 
 weapon spinning up and then quickly get behind cover, stepping out to take a few potshots, or stopping 
 him dead in his tracks with explosives. This also ends up starting to feel old after a while, but 
 at least it's a lot more challenging than what was happening earlier. Battles against these foes 
 don't always seem fair, as they ambush you from around a corner or even drop down on you from the 
 ceiling. Yet by using that most powerful of abilities that's common to virtually all first-person 
 shooters -- the art of quick-saving your progress every few seconds -- you can overcome these tough 
 spots through trial and error. The game dynamically adjusts its difficulty to a certain degree, 
 by dropping more health and ammo power-ups for you to grab if you're running low, or by varying 
 up enemy types slightly. You can also fine-tune the challenge by using sliding meters, but since 
 the underlying enemy AI is unremarkable, don't expect a test of your wits so much as a test of 
 your reflexes.  

          Much like the original SiN, Emergence is decidedly better than average for a shooter, but 
 it doesn't seem to aspire to be anything more than that.     

  There's a good amount of detail in the environments, though it's probably nothing you haven't seen 
 before in many other similar games. You can interact with soda machines and kitchen sinks and things, 
 and the game has an interesting system for recovering health, where you can optionally shoot health 
 canisters to create a lingering regenerative cloud. You can also pick up and throw most objects 
 that aren't nailed down. Explosive canisters are the best choice -- you can toss one toward your 
 enemies and shoot it to blow it up. You never really need to use these types of tactics to get 
 by, but it's comforting to know the options are there. The environments also look convincingly 
 shot up after a gunfight, thanks to copious amounts of bullet holes and spilled blood. A good soundtrack 
 kicks in during key battles, and in general, the sounds of the combat match the look of it well. 
 Since the game uses Half-Life 2's Source engine, expect similar performance on your system as with 
 that game.  

  Fans of first-person shooters will get their fix from SiN Episodes: Emergence, but they might not 
 leave the experience feeling genuinely excited for the next installment. The idea of splitting 
 up a game like this into separate episodes seems like a good one, since many of us would be more 
 than willing to pay $20 for an excellent single-player game that ties into subsequent chapters 
 of the story. Yet the action and especially the story in Emergence aren't particularly impressive, 
 so by the end of this brief episode, the novelty will have probably worn off. At that point, you 
 can always fall back to playing the 1998 SiN game. And by playing it again, once you look past 
 the graphics, you'll likely observe just how little this style of game seems to have evolved.  
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (139 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: torinraven
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  When I got this game, I was pleasantly surprised by it. The storyline drops you into the action 
 with an interesting intro movie, in fact, this game does a decent job throughout of making the 
 whole game feel like an interactive movie. The graphics are top-notch (for the time) , and the sound 
 is also well-done. Emergence continues with the same tongue-in-cheek humor as the original.
  
  There were some negatives to contend with, though. The most glaring problem was that the combat 
 felt lackluster and there was no real sense of immersion in the fights because of this. Another 
 issue was the brevity of the episode. It was quite easy to play through in 4-6 hours. Finally, 
 the "dream sequence" with Elexis was gratuitous to the point of being adolescent.
  
  I would have liked to see how this series turned out, but alas, Ritual was bought out and tasked 
 with creating casual games. Oh well... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flUx_
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  One of the worst games for sale using the Source engine. Boring gameplay and run-of-the-mill guns 
 (pistol, shotgun, smg... that's it... seriously?) with stupid secondary fire modes that make no sense 
 and are not explained. The only thing good about this game is the AI which (when turned all the 
 way up) is actually kind of challenging, and learns from the way you play. But it's hard to get 
 past the fact that all you're doing is running the a boring linear city shooting random baddies 
 with your weak ass pistol for 3 hours. And then you get a weak ass shotgun. The story is disappointing 
 as well. I don't even remember what it was. Something about boob a boob job. They attempted (I 
 think) to put some puzzles, but they're not challenging- just confusing and, like most of the game, 
 pointless. Your sidekick, Jessica, is never actually any help either. It really makes you appreciate 
 what a great job Valve did on the Half-Life 2 series with Alyx. You never become the least bit 
 attached to Jessica. I'm not even sure that was her name now that I think about it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  ah yes.. SIN EPISODES.. i remember the first time i played an older game from the series (SIN for 
 95)
  
  and here is the same game different story and a few changes lets start:
  
  so SIN EPISODES will tell you the continue story about the pursut of BLADE after "unknown" woman
 
  
  the story: the story is nice.. could have been
  better.. no its ok..
  
  the graphics: if you are HALF LIFE fan or COUNTER STRIKE SOURCE fan you will love the graphics 
 of sin episodes (its the same graphics of half life and source) so you will enjoy it, the water 
 looks real and everything is great + the great visual effects
  
  sounds: again.. like in every game theres nothing special but the sounds are good
  
  gameplay: 
 ok so first the AI of the enemys is great the will hide from you and they will do every thing they 
 can in order to destroy you (you can also choose level of the AI) the gameplay is fun and all, 
 you can also lift things and throw them on you enemys, the weapons are the problem in the game.. 
 only 3 weapons? what the hell? you have only 3 weapons in the game and they are: hand-gun, shotgun, rifle, 
 not so good and even booring if the game had at least more 3 weapons it was better
  
  another problem in the game is that there is no multiplyer.. damn.. i mean even the first game 
 (of 95) had a multiplyer.. how this game has no multiplyer?
  
  so let me finish by saying.. the game was almost perfet the main problems are the multiplyer and 
 weapons but the game itself is great, fun, good looking, and i love it, i think you should rent 
 it before buying it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CommandZer01
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 8, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  ok so its not totally half life 2, but it basically takes a lot out of half life's book of cliches 
 and ideas involving the genetics and love boat syndrome. 
  
  You play as Blade, a special forces soldier of tomorrow charged with bringing down Elexis Sinclair (Who 
 clearly loves to spill out) and also torture people and change the world with her crazy corporation 
 known as sinTEC. 
  
  OK this game runs off the great SOURCE engine which powered THE half life 2 game of the year, so 
 giving another company the handle over such a great engine is scary seeing as how we won't know 
 how they will use it until its done..... so comes SIN EPISODES: EMERGENCE which is the first part 
 of a 9 part series of adventures of Blade and his squad of teammates in his attempts to bring down 
 sinTEC.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Running off the source engine, you can expect one thing, solid graphics, but what also is bad is 
 a few years old engine so it has a few dust and scars in a few areas of the levels. But besides 
 the graphics looking out of date, still has some of the best looking enemies and environments which 
 carry a very futuristic look. Which also helps with so much stuff being interactive as well as 
 diverse areas from sewers to office complexes. Plus it also seems that the developer was trying 
 to throw in some "boob" action every chance they got as well as making every girl out to be a certified 
 slut with having her thong and bra always showing, I guess some developers use sex to sell. The 
 thing that does outsell this game is the gore, yup Sin emergence ups the anti by shoving more gore 
 into the game, as well as more cussing! 
  
  SOUND: 
  The sound is kind of weak on the guns, personally some of them sound very underpowered, especially 
 the assault rifle. But you will hear plenty of diverse chatter from each of the characters with 
 at least each of the characters getting OVERACTED sooner or later in the game. But expect the same 
 basic sounds coming from FPS sounds, alarms, guns, splatter. You may recognize your partners voice 
 as it goes to MS CORTANA herself from the halo series nice huh? 
  
  CONTROL:
  
  what can I say it is basically WASD, with your standard jump and duck controls, nothing else is 
 easier but the control is also part of the difficulty which I will tag in!
  
  GAMEPLAY!:
  
  the gameplay is somewhat of halo meets half life meets..... really something else, the problem 
 with the sin series is this great idea is attempted but it is always overshadowed by half life. 
 Since they both came out around the same time, but lets focus on the somewhat great run and gun 
 gameplay, it is solid, but what makes sin different from other FPS's is the fact that it has a 
 dynamic difficulty which means it changes with each play and it will get harder and harder as you 
 get better and better! cool huh? yeah! Anyways the problem with this game is that you only have 
 like 3 weapons, a pistol, a shotgun and a rifle each with a primary and secondary fire as well 
 as of course melee but what really is weird about this game is simply that the nades take forever 
 to go off. Ok so basically, the gameplay doesn't really change much from scripted events and a 
 few driving segments where you are in the car just shooting people. The only thing is that when 
 you come into contact with a green gas you go into matrix bullet time but if you OD on the gas, 
 you get hurt, badly
  
  
  CLOSING
  
  Honestly this game is 20 dollars, and you get the original sin and the multiplayer with Sin Episodes: Emergence 
 but seeing as this is on steam, I would wait till a good deal but seeing as how the game is cheap 
 already, it lasts but not long enough you could clear this game in about 8 to 10 hours and seeing 
 as how its the first episode I wonder how the others will be...... anyways decent game that plays 
 like half life and a few other shooters out there.
  
  *NOTE yes I know the company has put a HALT on the sin series and I was hoping for more but, sometimes 
 games just don't make it.... like Blood... damn i miss blood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  SIn: Emergence is just based on all that HL2 was. You feel it through all of the game but the game 
 is not that fascinating as HL2 was. It's a good game yet but only if you're looking for a simple 
 shooter in which all you've got to do is to shoot whatever moves on your screen. You're not going 
 to follow a specific story or a big plan. And that pale story can't entertain you very much.
  Weapons: There're limited types of weapons. A pistol, a shotgun and a rifle. You may carry up to 
 4 or 5 grenades along them. All of your weapons have an alternate and a melee attack. Well, that's 
 Freeport city. Maybe they don't like to have arenals with different types of weapons. /* To tell 
 you the truth, I hated those ugly weapons. Why didn't they try to design something nice?! */ My 
 favourite weapon was the pistol which was effective enough to knock down marines.
  Crosshair is kind of odd! It's accurate but sometimes it's not very comfortable to aim. But it 
 won't disappoint you.
  Your enemies are not of hard-ass ones but they're accurate enough to shoot and hurt you easily 
 so you should be careful. Their easily being killed shouldn't fool you that they're stupid.
  Mutants are the same but harder to be aimed because they keep jumping up and down. Sometimes, they 
 really waste your ammo this way. Bigger mutants are easier to be aimed but it takes a bit longer 
 to take them down. Thank God that they only use melee weapon!
  Jessica, your pal, gives you a hand in some levels but she's not smart enough and she sometimes 
 acts silly. She's supposed to defend and cover you in some situations but sometimes she takes cover 
 or hides around and you've got to make it without her help. Hmmm, she's a rookie 
  after all.
  There're few bugs in the game. One (That's a well-known too.) is when you meet Victor 
 and when he finishes talking with you and you're supposed to leave the scene but because you're 
 walled by a force field (and that force field will not go away.) you can't leave. Hmmm, I used 
 cheats to escape! ;)
  The game was short. That means it won't take a lot of time to be played (Another reason is that 
 there's no puzzle. You just shoot, Drop grenades, rest beside health stastions and that's it! And 
 no big boss-battle to waste your time and energy on.)
  As a cheap game with that good graphic and sound it's worth to be played once. Hmmm... As an advice... 
 Well... Rent it, don't buy it!!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xilliah
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that makes my jaw drop down. I cannot imagine who thinks of these games. 
 Who designs them?
  Okay, the shooting is nice.. But wait just one minute!.. there are so many shooters out there, 
 and a lot of them have a better feel to them in my opinion.
  This game practically has no story and no characters. And a lot of stuff doesn't make sense since 
 you don't really have a reason to shoot people or to get to the end of the levels. What the game 
 does have however, is 1 pistol, 1 shotgun, 1 rifle and 1 D cup.
  
  The graphics are nice, but I can feel "Source" all over it. I see reused stuff, and glitches. And 
 now I think of it, I think this is either the first or the second time I have ever seen a glitch 
 in a game. With a glitch I mean the artifact you get when you put two 2D planes right on top of 
 each other, since it glitches. Source is a good engine, but I believe people need to know how to 
 use it before making games with it. Look at Vampire: The Masquerade, which uses the engine very 
 nicely I'd say.
  
  Anyways, seeing it is quite cheap, I'd say you should go and buy it and play it when you have a 
 bad-game day, since it does fill up your time, and there's an arena mode and some good challenges 
 to be found in there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edito24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  Story: Story is pretty standard, nothing new & just fills in the blanks. Sci-fi direction, which 
 is a sequel to the original sin. The ending leaves space for a sequel, and even shows a preview. 
 Pity the company is not going ahead with the production of the other episode/s. 
  
  Graphics: uses source engine, same graphics engine half life 2. Great environmental textures, and 
 awesome physics. Character animations are nice.
  
  gameplay: Gameplay is good, but the weapons dont feel like they carry the punch they should. Nothing 
 new but still provides good solid fun. The leaning feature is good, lets you peak around corners 
 and take a head shot.
  
  cons: too short, dynamic difficulty system doesnt work well - game becomes very difficult, story 
 very standard. Game leaves you feeling like there should have been more.
  
  Overall: The game is good fun, standard story and its perfect for the weekend, so you'll finish 
 it quickly. Just dont expect too much - its ja decent shoot em up with the half life 2 engine throne 
 into the mix. Could have been a great series though, if some more work went into its longevity...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: idontbite_much
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  SiN Emergence seems at first like a complete copy of other games, but as you play through the campaign, 
 the weaponry starts to grow on you. The weapon physics allow a convincing headshot, and you can 
 tell when you've hit someone (Unlike many FPS titles which are unsatisfying and inconsistent)
 
  
  This makes for a thrilling campaign, but the best part, in my opinion, is the new Arena Mode.
 
  
  The FPS genre generally stays out of reach of the casual gamer, because in order to get any sort 
 of satisfaction out of a game you would need to spend at least half an hour on a campaign, or searching 
 for a good online multiplayer game.
  
  SiN Emergence's Arena Mode sets you up in a small arena (much like a Free-for-All Deathmatch) , 
 and spawns enemies on all sides. This experience is like an extended fight-scene in the campaign 
 of a game, except that you are aiming to survive for as long as possible, and acquire points.
 
  
  Arena Mode offers something which is seldom seen in FPS, which is satisfying, short, exciting gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icehearted
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, this is a great little demo, which is really all it is. A long demo of a game that 
 will never be finished. You get a good amount of play, good voice acting, a fair story (from what 
 little they offer) , and a fun challenge. It's too bad they hopped on this episodic content bandwagon, 
 a trend I have hated from square one, but it isn't something that can be helped or changed now. 
 A good game was sacrificed for greed and the idea that customers would be willingly fleeced with 
 pieces of a game they could buy a bit at a time. This experiment in wallet milking has harmed the 
 customers more than I believe it was intended to, since what we're left with is a game that will 
 never be finished, something that despite their shortsightedness I doubt the developers really 
 wanted to do.
  
  I enjoyed it, though I must say that as it now stands a $20 dollar game it is not. Don't come here 
 looking for an ending, a long game or even a complete one, though to their credit it is nowhere 
 near as bad as Halo 2 with it's I'm here to finish this nonsense. SiN Episodes will feel like a 
 quick date with someone you really like a lot before they move away forever. You will enjoy yourself, 
 but you know that once the date is over there will never be another.
  
  I hope they've learned their lesson. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivanc
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 11, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  I just finished playing SIN Episodes : emergence. My situation is I bought the game for 5$ Canadian 
 at Zellers (wal-mart-ish store) in a bargain section. For what I paid, it was a good investment. 
 
  
  I found the weapons included to be effective enought for the task at hand. They were limited; 3 
 weapons plus grenades doesn't seem like much. But most enemies don't require more to take down. 
 Rocket Launcher was missing again those huge mutants though. I would expect a second episode (if 
 it ever happens) would have more weapons.
  
  I like the health system. Placing canisters in receptacle to gain health was a nice touch on top 
 of the pickups.
  
  Graphics were nice, though I have dated hardware, so I can't be too picky on this.
  
  I didn't 
 mind the fact my character didn't talk much ; I haven't played the original, so that's why. 
  
  Was fun fighting alongside NPC Jessica, like with Gordon and Alyx from Half-Life 
  
  I'd 
 recommend it to anyone who's looking for a quick game to shoot through, but don't may more than 
 the 5$ I did for it. The series being put on hold indefinitely isn't worth the investment of more 
 than that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I knew that this was going to happen before I even loaded this game for the first time - wait, 
 let me backtrack a bit. Sin Episodes was supposed to be Sin 2, broken into "episodes:" shorter 
 chunks of gameplay for a lower price. Rather like what television shows are to movies. - Ok, so 
 I knew that Ritual (the developer of Sin) had only completed the first episode, Emergence, before 
 shutting down work... which meant that although I could enjoy the first episode's story, I would 
 never see how the saga ended. Now that I'm finished, I'm sad that Ritual has chosen to cease production, 
 but I'm still glad that I played it.
  
  The STEAM engine is used to make some pretty amazing visuals, especially when you compare the looks 
 of the original to this latest iteration.
  
  Great, now I'm feeling angry. Somebody, alert Jack Thompson. 
  The STEAM engine also features 
 some great physics. As a result of this, hitboxes on your enemies have evolved beyond "headshots 
 hurt more" to include much more location-specific damage. In fact, I found myself often taking 
 out a sentry's knee, so that I could finish him when he crumpled to the ground. Beyond that, bodies 
 fall realistically, and parts can be seen flying through the air after a well-placed grenade lands 
 in the middle of an outpost.
  
  Other improvements to gameplay include the addition of secret locations (which are not new to the 
 realm of video games) . Why the developers chose to mark several of their secret locations with 
 a model of a retarded fish, however, is beyond me.
  
  The usual cast of characters join the protagonist, including the sexy villain Elexis Sinclair, 
 but also seen this time around is a new thong-showing sidekick, Jessica.
  
  The Beavis & Butthead ****of humor of Ritual continues in this game, complete with companies such 
 as "Schitt Brick Industries," and "Morning Wood Technologies." I probably should shake my head 
 at this kind of low-brow humor, but I found myself chuckling and muttering something to the effect 
 of "it never gets old."
  
  Further, the signs-that-ellicit-the-laughs (patent pending) are back. LOLZQ.
  
  Sin Episodes 
 also featured dynamic enemy AI. The game actually monitors how well, or poorly, you play, and adjusts 
 the enemies' abilities accordingly. Die over and over in the same place? You might just slower 
 guards and more health the next time around. Keep making headshots? Now the guards appear wearing 
 helmets. This feature is a God-send for players like me: those who want to find the game difficult 
 enough to feel rewarded upon complettion, but easy enough that keyboards aren't broken in two out 
 of frustration. Please developers, take note.
  
  Unforunately, I cannot talk about my experience without describing the first day of play. It went 
 something like this: open game, hardlock, reboot... open game, sound stutters, hardlock, reboot... 
 open game, watch three seconds of the opening visual, hardlock, reboot... play the game for one 
 minute (you get the idea) . It was only after scouring the seemingly defunct Sin Episodes technical 
 support advice on the internet that I discovered that a large number of players were having major 
 hardlocking and sound-stuttering issues. At the time, Ritual couldn't seem to figure out the problem... 
 and yet I saw two reoccuring issues within ten seconds of parousing the cries-for-help: everyone 
 with the problem had Creative Soundcards, and the game was coded on a version of the STEAM engine 
 that was over a year old. Ritual also said that they were planning on patching the game soon (back 
 in 200whatever) so that it used the most recent STEAM code, and hopefully that would have solved 
 everyone's problems... yeah. Note to developers: when you're using a dynamic engine, such as STEAM, 
 that has known sound-stuttering issues, check for audio bugs thoroughly before going gold. You 
 know, just a thought. 
  
  Eventually, I found the solution: set the video textures to "medium" (down from "high") , and open 
 the STEAM console (~) and type "snd_async...1". I've said it before, and I'll say it again. TEST 
 YOUR **** PC GAMES BEFORE RELEASE, ESPECIALLY ON HARDWARE THAT IS THE MAINSTREAM. Console gamers 
 never have to deal with this tripe, and neither should we.
  
  If it weren't for the bugs, I would definitely give this game a 9. I absolutely loved it. 
  
 
  Hopefully the community members will use STEAM's highly-moddable engine to "finish" Sin Episodes, 
 and we can all see the conclusion of this story. I'm not exactly holding my breath. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxiM_
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I mean, i'm sure you all remember the duke-nukemish badass that Blade was, don't you? Where is 
 he? Did cat took his tongue? Or is it Gordon with dreadlocks? Barney Miller has left the building...
 
  And JC... What the hell happened to this witty geek? Oh nevermind...
  
  No no no, this can't be SiN, the game i lover and the game that most magazines back in the time 
 rated as high as Half-Life. This is not competiotion to VALVe this time, it's a poor cousin. The 
 storyline is so simplistic i can barely believe it. The gameplay is pretty much boring and sometimes 
 frustrating. Sheesh.
  I loved original SiN - hell, even Wages of SiN, even tho it was a pretty weak addition. But this? 
 Nope, this won't do.
  
  R. I. P John R. Blade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: migcasas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  i enjoyed the game really well. I actually playing it thrice. however, there were flaws in the 
 game that i noticed that would make FPS fans such as myself fairly disappointed. But, first, i 
 would like to point out the game's positive side: - cool soundtrack - cool storyline characters 
 (yeah! elexis is hotter than ever!) - cutting-edge graphics (for a short game) - fairly good gameplay 
 - secret areas and easter eggs
  
  ... and it's negative side - lackluster a. i. - lack of enemy variety - short storyline (and linear, 
 too!) - lack of killer weapons - a very silent John Blade - unfair BOSS FIGHT in the final level 
 - no special feature unlocked after finding all the secrets
  
  hopefully, these would all improve in the next episode... which is i don't know when... hope they 
 would use the engine of HL2 Ep2... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAL5000
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  At first I was skeptical about buying the game. $6.00 well spentlol. The game offers a lot of 
 fast paced shoot um up or die. The AI was weak, and could have been better. But what do you expect 
 for the price. You easily become immersed into the game. Staying with the original story, right 
 from the start it is shoot to kill or be killed. The head shots were quite effective. As you progress 
 in the game you realize that the dialog is lacking as is the story line but is made up by the constant 
 combat. There is a lot that could have been done to make for a better gaming experience but understanding 
 that it is a budget game you either decide to continue or give it away. If you continue, you will 
 not be disappointed until the end. The roof top in the final sequence was short and left you with 
 a feeling of is that it but understanding the second episode will pick up were you left off. 
 But waiting will be the hard part. The ending is lame and will quickly have you searching for the 
 release of part 2. You do get into the game play but believe me, it was a short experience. I hope 
 that they will build into the story and give you more dialog and purpose and make sure the AI is 
 better than the first release. Overall it is a keeper. I would recommend this game to all those 
 who enjoyed old school game play. It is short but sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: welay
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 2:06 am PT
Review:  Well i bought Sin Epsiodes: Emergence a year ago and thought i would install it on steam (dont ask 
 why a year it took me lol) so i started the game and the graphics were cool but i started to see 
 the same enimes the soilder and the soilder with jetpack :P. i kinda dont like how valve has that 
 loading thing on there games tho. the gameplay was cool but i only had 3 weapons :O. so so 2 hours 
 later i got to the end pretty good game but in the next episode they should add more weapons and 
 enimes and there should a longer storyline because when i saw the trailer at the ending i wanted 
 to see what happend next? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 29, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  The Story of this game is quite simple. There is a corporation ready to make some kind of mutants 
 and your mad. You go kill everybody that works for them and try and stop em. But almost tunr into 
 a muntant yourself.
  Gameplay is quick and run and gun. Kill this open this hack this kill some more. Graphics Are nice 
 and polsihed with the look of half life 2 with more HDR. Great effects such as the fire and very 
 detailed enviroments. Sound is great 2 with only 4 weapon sounds but lots of enviromental ambient. I 
 picked up the game for 4 dollars at a local big lots. Great game for a good price. If you buy from 
 steam it will cost ya around 10 to 20 dollars.
  
  The Good: Great Gameplay and graphics
  The Bad: One level glitches out and makes you restart it. VERY VERY short game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makhdoom82
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the original series but when i played this game i was so disappointed to find 
 out that it was about 30 minutes long game .... although it includes all the goodies such as Source 
 Engine and good sounds and all but the gameplay is not appealing ... its all out shooting and thats 
 it .... The game is so short that it cannot even tell the story clearly and i have not been able 
 to understand this whole concept of releasing a game in episodes .... i believe in buying a complete 
 package and then add-ons later on if needed but this just takes away all the fun ... you have only 
 three weapons and thats it .... it's not worth the money until it is released in many episodes 
 combined in one package !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentenced83
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 31, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  when i started playing i didnt know what to expect from this budget shooter but certainly it doesnt 
 disappoint in delivering a good fun experience ! 1st the gameplay is really immersive , the shooting 
 is realistic ( you really get the feeling you're hitting the enemies , unlike Half life 2 ) , although 
 in the end the game is RIDICULOUSLY hard , enemies are endless &amp; hard to kill , the ai is good 
 but you're mate ai sometimes is a let down. , and the fact that u have only 3 shooting weapons 
 is annoying ( no sniper rifle )
  
  Graphics : although its built from an old engine but they're really good , with things flying around 
 whenever you hit anything , its really realistic , and the girl is really hot ;)
  
  Sound : the sound is the best portion of the game i think , the shooting sounds are really good 
 , the soundtrack during the game ( when you're fighting a dangerous situation) , and the menu song 
 ( what the world come to ) is really great , am trying to get the song but cant find it anywhere 
 . . go buy the game if you're into 1st person shooters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genewarner
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 6, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  So far I've played all three of the SiN games, the original, Wages of SiN, and now Emergence.
 
  
  I enjoyed all of the games except for the end of Emergence.
  
  The graphics and sound were good and for the most part the game ran smoothly, I did experience 
 a couple of crashes while playing Emergence.
  
  Emergence for me had two disappointments in it. The first was that Blade's comments and wise-cracks 
 were noticably absent, in fact Blade doesn't say a single word through out the game except maybe 
 as part of the openning cut-scene.
  
  The second disappointment and the game killer for me was the final battle, I played it over and 
 over and over and could never bring down the chopper, I always ran out of ammo.
  
  My guess is that unless you get it just right so that you have maximum ammo available the chopper 
 cannot be brought down, very bad game design.
  
  So obviously I wasn't able to finish the game and feel cheated because of it.
  
  Because of 
 this I doubt seriously I will be buying any more of the SiN games and probalby also avoid games 
 by Ritualistic as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skungy-Smith
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 15, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  Some games should come with a health warning and Sin Episodes in one such game. Because this game 
 seriously did me in. I'm not going to say that some games go too far. On the contrary, gamers need 
 to know how far they can go.
  
  I loaded up Sin: Episodes after picking it up cheap ($19.95) in Retrovision in Narrabi back in 
 November 2006. The young stallion at the counter, perhaps aware of the possible trauma ahead, smirked 
 as he handed me the receipt and stated 'Have fun, Grandpa'. And here is my experience with Sin 
 Episodes.
  
  I was sitting comfortably as the introduction screen came on and some fairly loud tune with a sultry 
 songstress singing a sensual serenade. In retrospect, I should have seen it all coming. The game 
 starts. I'm lying down, looking upwards. Some guy is talking to me, threatening to do me in, but 
 a woman to his side with hypnotic green eyes and long red fingernails tells him to cool it. And 
 then, WAMMO, she leans over and there's the biggest set of knockers I've ever seen bearing down 
 on me. They looked real to me. My 68 year old heart palpitates. I start to feel dizzy and shake, 
 my vision starts to scatter. But then this lass (apparently her name is Elixis Sinclaire) exits 
 the screen and everything falls back into its right place. Don't to that to me again - just let 
 me lay waste to some scoundrels, I think to myself.
  
  Back to the game and my trusty female sidekick has come to save me but that's just before my player 
 has been injected with some sort of serum. I stumble through the halls, following my mid-drift 
 exposed sidekick as she wiggled her buns and disposed of foes and find our way to a car. Thankfully, 
 my savior can drive. But during the trip, I black out and this was where the real trouble started.
 
  
  In some sort of strange flashback the same scantily clad bosomed brunette zooms into vision with 
 even less on and whispers sweet nothings - all through my 5.1 surround setup. It feels like every 
 bit of air is sucked from my weary lungs. She jiggles and shakes and says things I can't remember 
 but I reel in horror, gasping for air and grasping for my medicine. But in the process I fall out 
 of f my specially made orthopedic chair, smashing my head on the fall.
  
  In real life I wake up in Walgett Hospital. Dazed, confused and looking upwards from the hospital 
 bed. Tubes and stuff are coming out of me everywhere. And then, as if the Gods wanted to have a 
 laugh, comes a bosomed nurse and says Are you OK Mr Smith? before leaning right over me to check 
 the wound on my forehead. And I swear to this day, she had the same lingerie on as that blessed 
 Ms Sinclaire. I scream in horror, trying to escape this testosterone taunt of a nightmare but in 
 the end fall off the bed and dislocate my shoulder.
  
  I spent two weeks in hospital and Gladys gave me a real serve about the game, suggesting it was 
 something similar to a stick book at the local newsagents.
  
  I am home now, but Sin Episode's is gone. I'm playing SIN (the original) which has the same Ms 
 Sinclaire but six years of graphical technology makes a difference and I feel more comfortable 
 with that game.
  
  I'm giving 10 for the graphics and 8 for the sound. Tilt can have nine as I never received a single 
 injury in 45 years of farming and this game brought me down in three minutes flat.
  
  This should not be shown to our younger generation, they should out kicking footballs and learning 
 the land. Old blokes like me should give it a miss as well - I'm living proof.
  
  But the rest of you - go for it. But keep my blues in the back of your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigermous
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Great game-play depending on the level of play from easy to hard. Lots of good scenery to look 
 at and it keeps you going forward so there is no turning back, so pick up all the ammo and health 
 you can along the way. In the hard mode you have to really work the game or die, some of the big 
 fights where a little hard to beat. But all in all its a game worth playing especially if you liked 
 the original SIN. Great weapons to use and if you short the barrels some of them explode and so 
 do other items, which helps get rid of the troopers always trying to kill you. Can't wait for the 
 next one!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ufopuller
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Here is a great, cheap game (less than $10.00) . Since it runs through Steam (VALVe) on the internet, 
 many of the features smack of HL2. Steam features are not the only similarity to HL2. The player 
 can pick-up, shove, smash, roll, or toss just about anything in the game. The Laws of Physics are 
 applicable throughout the gameplay. There is no Gravity Gun, so heavy objects are not liftable 
 and nothing can be hurled with wicked force. The graphics are as good as HL2.
  
  The storyline has not changed much from the original SiN (no pun intended) . The villains are the 
 same. Blades punk, snide, computer geek, contact (JC) has the same part. The only real new twist 
 is now Blade has a companion (like Alex was to Gordon Freeman in HL2) . She is a cute, pig-tailed, 
 red-head. She is just one more thing to make the game more interesting.
  
  The game lacks weapons in number and form. There is a pistol, shotgun, and assault rifle, beside 
 the six grenades the player can carry. Each weapon has a secondary projectile, making battles with 
 only three weapons more interesting. Interestingly enough, the secondary projectile on the pistol 
 has the most penetrating power. There is a BOSS mid-way through the game and at the very end. I 
 enjoyed every minute I played the game. I am looking forward to playing it again soon, but at a 
 more difficult level. The end of the game is very abrupt. Being at the top of a tall building is 
 always a give-away. The other was being surrounded by power-ups, ammo, and more health than you 
 could ever use at once. Defeating the BOSS on the roof only leaves one of the master villains in 
 a helicopter to take out. I can see they purposefully did this to entice the gamer to buy the next 
 episode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mondars37
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Emergence is a faithful (yet disappointing) sequel/episode of the overlooked 1998 shooter SiN. 
 It follows the same protagonist of SiN, Blade, on his quest to stop the insane geneticist Elexis 
 Sinclaire from changing he world to her own twisted image. 
  It is a short but fun shooter that makes good use of the same physics of Half-Life 2. This is not 
 surprising as Emergence is purchasable via Steam and uses the Source engine. The physics and gunplay 
 go hand in hand in Emergence as the maps seem to always give you some explosive barrels or launch-able 
 propane tanks with which to clear the room. The ballistics in this game are impressive as each 
 gun behaves solidly and realistically. 
  Sadly there are only three gun types available: the magnum from the original SiN, a shotgun, and 
 a submachine gun. Each weapon behaves fairly well and feels like it should feel. The magnum is 
 accurate from long ranges and can eviscerate a single opponent's head with one shot (or two from 
 a helmeted enemy) . The shotgun is a powerhouse within fifteen or so feet and can eliminate an enemy 
 with one well placed shot. The submachine-gun will ride upwards during periods of automatic fire. 
 An almost redeeming quality of each gun is a secondary fire that is much more useful than the primary. 
 The magnum's secondary fire is a blue super bullet that leaves a Matrix-like bullet trail behind 
 it. The shotgun's secondary fire releases regular powered blue shotgun pellets that bounce off 
 of walls and the submachine-gun's secondary fire is a grenade launcher. Blade also makes use of 
 incendiary grenades that light up enemies and detonate any nearby explosives. 
  The graphics in Emergence are superb and don't let down. Emergence looks and feels somewhat like 
 Half-Life 2 but improves upon Half-Life 2's graphics and makes excellent use of HDR with every 
 scene. This effect is astounding especially in outdoors environments. Sun glare blocks the player's 
 view in certain situations which make for an interesting firefight. The environments are filled 
 with debris but don't clutter themselves to the point of annoyance. 
  The story still follows super cop Blade with his backup computer geek partner J. C. as they stop 
 Elexis Sinclair from changing the world into genetic freaks. There is an add on to Blade's former 
 two-man crew, a spunky redhead by the name of Jessica. Jessica helps Blade travel through levels 
 from time to time and seems to get Blade into more trouble by the minute. J. C. seems clearly jealous 
 of Jessica's intrusion between him and Blade but later grows accustomed to her presence. J. C seems 
 to be the only consistent protagonist from the original SiN as Blade keeps his wisecracks to himself 
 most of the time. Fans of the original will be disappointed with this lack of catchphrases and 
 would want the old dark comedy back into this game. The story is hollow and Blade is sadly static 
 and silent for most of the five or so hours of the game. 
  Emergence will keep fps fans busy for a while and remains consistently fun with its automatic difficulty 
 adjustment system and its somewhat smart AI. The AI in Emergence isn't as brilliant as newer shooters 
 are but that doesn't dishearten those who want a challenging enemy. The AI will take cover and 
 peek out to squeeze off a few rounds and sometimes seems to flank the player. It would've been 
 nice to see more variety of enemies but there seems to bee enough to keep the player entertained 
 for a few hours.
  Emergence is somewhat disappointing but keeps itself from being boring with some intense shootouts, 
 an almost compelling story, and hopes for a better experience in the next episode. It also doesn't 
 hurt to have the original SiN bundled with Emergence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nethrentol
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  SiN is the type of game that soundes like you kill and steal and other fun stuff, sorta like GTA, 
 but unlike GTA, you can only kill and steal, which, in a way, feels good. The point of SiN is that 
 you, John Blade, with the help of your sidekick, Alex Van... Jessica Cannon. And J. C, or Skeeze 
 and Jessica calles him, have to take down Ridik and Elexa Sinclare, and there mega corporation 
 that puts Umbrella to shame. SiNtek (I wonder were they got the name from) , although this is only 
 an episode, its like a full game, only shorter. You do need pritty good computer equipment, its 
 not really that needy. The Graphics are great and the action is good, but it brings me to another 
 point, YOU ONLY HAVE 3 MAIN GUNS!!!!!!!!! They are weapons i cant tell you but whatever. Oh by 
 the way, if you play and beat SiN, try out areana mode, which is the closes thing to Multiplayer, 
 so enjoy it. The gore in this game is unbelievable, if you shoot peoples head they explode in to 
 chunks of head. The AI in this game is pritty good, and the adjustable meter is pretty good .All 
 in all i think this is an awsome game you superb graphics and tones of gore and really hardcore 
 action with almost no puzzles. Oh and there is humar and the best game line in history, but thats 
 not importent.... Much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcro55
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 11, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Enjoyable game. Better than Sin 1. Could use more interaction via the radio with the two other 
 team members. Felt kind of weird running across a puzzle or two when most of the game didn't involve 
 them at all and ran very linear.
  
  Also whats with the monster in the construction grounds? Some explanation would be nice.
  
 
  If you loved the Half Life 2 engine, get this game. If you like going against human opponents, 
 this one works as well. Looking forward to part 2. Hopefully by going episodic they come more frequently.
 
  
  Nice writing as well: not exceptionally inventive, but lots of fun and doesn't seem to take itself 
 too seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudulobo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  The game is very good and the graphics are amazing but every time i look down, I hear a weird noise, 
 but this is the only problem and it doesn't spoil the fun. It's a very old school shooter because 
 you just have to shoot everything you see, but that's what makes it so good. The guns are cool and 
 the game is more violent than HL2 (You can blow heads with the pistol) but thanks to havok, it's 
 very realistic. But if you like puzzles or care too much about a good story, you probably won't 
 enjoy it as much as I did. Very good game to buy if you're as poor as i am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSULion
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  I didn't play the original SIN... if Iwanted to Icould now as they include the original on the CD! 
 I started it but the graphics are sooooo dated. My have things changed. This version looks sweet 
 with the HL2 engine and the environments are fun but boring. Enemies are smarter it seems... they 
 wiill come after you and work in teams. Late in the game that makes for some intense battles as 
 chaingun weilding heavies work with the grunts to take you down.
  Of course they leave you hanging (I won't spoil it) but let's say your cutie of a sidekick is elying 
 on you to save the day. Prior to that she's pretty good with the firepower and she makes funny 
 noises when she takes hits. Overall you could do better for more intelligent gameplay but for $20 
 who can complain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fyrephlie
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  i've tried to be brutally honest about this game. it's great and awful all at once. but my experience 
 with it has been mostly positive, and i find myself ill suited to regret over the download. it's 
 well worth the few dollars you spend, and since they have added the 'arena mode' it's replayability 
 has shot through the roof. here's the good things i'd like to mention: it's graphically stunning. 
 it's filled with nostalgia (for those of us who made the mistake of playing the original when it 
 game out) , there's a great stat system, tons of replayability, the automatic challenge leveling 
 actually works very well. the bad things: the controls aren't exactly the best, there's not a lot 
 of new and interesting things about this fps, it's fairly short to begin with, the story itself 
 isn't very in depth, and the weapons are not very believable. basically, this game has exactly 
 what you'd want from a basic first person shooter. the weaponry ranges from mini to maxi. you get 
 a kind of sick pleasure from trying to push your stats and watching your headshot count rise. there's 
 not a lot of extra hidden material, but there's enough to make it worth your time to search it 
 out. the new arena mode has made it a ton of fun, because you can spend a few minutes shooting 
 baddies, and then replay the whole thing and see where you made mistakes, then you can go back 
 in and try to beat your last score.
  
  all in all, the game is not meant as a blockbuster to win a 'of the year' title, it's just an interesting 
 and colorful game with enough to do to keeop you entertain for many hours. it's worth picking up 
 if you have the chance. remember, this was a 'first in a series', i'm betting they'll take back 
 enough feedback to make the second title even more impressive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 12:54 am PT
Review:  I just finished the game and I can honestly say I am looking forward to seeing Episode 2 if they 
 ever ship the game. The lack of information about the next episode is enough to make one wonder 
 given how long ago this came out now.
  
  In any case, the first installment is a very enjoyable good looking shooter with good sound and 
 music too. There's nothing particularly exceptional about it admittedly but what it does, it does 
 pretty well. There is plenty of action to enjoy and a fair variety in the level designs and enemies 
 considering its short length. It's about a four or five hour romp but I found it very fun one and 
 didn't feel bad about spending 20 bucks for it.
  
  The game makes good use of the source engine which on my system I had cranked to max details and 
 it looked pretty good throughout. I liked the music and sound in the game pretty well also.
  
  This isn't a game I can justifiably call great but I can certainly call it good and recommend 
 it. If you already have Steam and have throught about playing this for something different I'd 
 encourage you to check it out. The level of difficulty on normal I found just right such that I 
 didn't die too often but there was definate tension when I found myself running low on health hoping 
 to find the next med station before something killed me.
  
  There is a little bit of climbing and jumping around here and there but not anything I thought 
 of as being a bad thing. None of it was difficult or frustrating although I have to admit I did 
 manage to fall to my death a few times due to bad jumps. You can save anywhere anytime so its no 
 big deal if you die.
  
  I wish they had incorporated a multiplayer game and hope they do next episode. You should know 
 too that you are only going to see three weapons total but all are usefull and surprisingly I went 
 back to the pistol multiple times for its accuracy and convenience in taking out enemies with headshots 
 which are always fun. It tracks stats and I around mid game I'd already gotten something like 50 
 headshots in. In Dirty Harry style, one headshot will blow thier head clean off. Good stuff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oirish_Martin
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 6, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  Not many games begin with a mystery this involving right from the start- what is it that has been 
 injected into you that is turning you into a superhuman?
  
  The premise of Emergence is the urgent attempt of John Blade, a freelance cop, to track down Viktor 
 Radek and Elexis Sinclaire, the criminals who have altered his DNA and are planning to unleash 
 a mutagen upon a futuristic megacity. In this short but intense first episode, you'll fight through 
 a docks to reach a secret lab, defend yourself from hideous mutations, and fight a helicopter atop 
 a skyscraper. At the same time, you'll discover your own new special abilities.
  
  This story is told in the traditional Half-Life fashion of not giving away much information, and 
 keeping you as in the dark as the protagonist. We've no idea why or how Blade was captured (the 
 point where the game starts) by Radek and Sinclaire, or why Sinclaire is toying with him by manipulating 
 his genes. There are a lot of unanswered questions for future episodes to answer. As with Half-Life, 
 this method of storytelling not only leaves us gagging for the next episode, but what little we 
 do know at any one time compels us to keep playing, either to find out more or explore the ramifications 
 of our current knowledge. Unfortunately, they've also made Blade rather silent... perhaps he knows 
 Gordon Freeman....
  
  Yes, the rumours are true, we only get 3 weapons (4 if you include the grenades) and they are but 
 the traditional trinity of pistol, shotgun and submachinegun, but the gameplay is still unaffected 
 and the weapons are solid and fun to use. And that's before the secondary fire modes come into 
 play. The pistol, while powerful enough in primary mode, fires a depleted uranium shell that can 
 penetrate walls and usually kills most of the baddies in one or two hits. The shotgun's second 
 mode fires a shell with larger pellets, that ricochet off walls, and are just as capable of bouncing 
 back and hitting you. The machinegun fires good old fashioned impact grenades, as well as having 
 a scope. All these weapons can be used as melee weapons and each one has the option of aiming down 
 the scope.
  
  This back-to-basics approach creates a very pure first person shooter, with you striving for headshots 
 and making every shot count - not least because overall you can't carry that much ammo. The shotgun 
 isn't quite powerful enough to make its ammo last long, and the machinegun's recoil means that 
 you have to really concentrate to avoid wasting ammo - not easy when SiN's enemies have a habit 
 of firing on you from all angles, and they throw their incendiary grenades as often as you do!
 
  
  The twist in the tale (admittedly not so much if you're already familiar with the SiN series) comes 
 with the appearance of mutants. Three varieties are seen - a small quadrupedal sort which spits 
 poison (the better marksmen among us can shoot these poison blobs to pieces in midair) and mutated 
 soldiers, who, while not particularly tactical, are quite speedy and will absorb more than a few 
 shotgun blasts. The third type I shan't spoil.... let's just say you'll be lucky to have much ammo 
 left once he's down. All these mutants regenerate health if there are leaking barrels of mutagen 
 around (it also damages humans) and are damaged by clouds of medical chemicals (neatly, there are 
 medstations on the wall a la HL2, but you can also replace the canisters of chemicals if they run 
 out - if there's no station around you can smash the canister open and soak up some health from 
 the cloud of gas. It's not as efficient, but there are many times where that's your only option) . 
 Ritual have also tweaked the Source Engine so that gibbing is now possible, resulting in mutants 
 being blown apart by shotgun blasts and grenades, and soldier's heads exploding with a headshot.
 
  
  The real twist in the tale comes with the realisation that the mutagen that creates these monsters 
 and is highly toxic to humans is not as toxic to you - in fact it enhances your reflexes - in gaming 
 terms, this means the introduction of bullet time. This is to be used sparingly though - a few 
 lungfuls of mutagen is good enough for barely 15 seconds of slowdown. Any more than that and you 
 will start losing health. It's an interesting twist, one which is largely dependent on finding 
 conspicuous barrels of green chemical lying about, and the visual effect of slowed time also gives 
 you a bad case of tunnel vision.
  
  The action seems to take place largely in the afternoon and evening, which leads to some fantastically 
 coloured skies. It's a real shame that Valve's HDR wasn't around when this was released, as it 
 would have appeared stunning. That aside, some of the vistas, for example the lighthouse and the 
 view from the skyscraper are still awesome. The graphical quality elsewhere is superb - the new 
 character models are well animated and there are some particularly gruesome new mutilated corpse 
 models.
  
  As far as music goes, there isn't much that's memorable during the game, but the signature track 
 that plays during the main menu is of excellent quality.
  
  Many user reviews of this game have not been particularly high. A lot of this can be put down to:
 
  
  1. It's delivered on Steam, which is still hated
  2. The amount of money you'll pay varies from place to place
  3. It's only a (short) episode
 
  
  While unfortunately nothing can be done about people whining about the first two objections, the 
 third contains hope. SiN: Episodes does exactly what it says on the tin: It's episodic. Which means 
 that in Emergence we see the start of what has the potential of being an epic game. There are eight 
 (!) more episodes to come, and if at each break between episodes, Ritual do as they promise and 
 sit down and listen to the suggestions of the fans, then this game will be up there with the greats. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craig_J
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that before I saw this game I had never even heard of SiN! But I saw the game nonetheless 
 and was highly anticipating it and the inclusion of the original game served to sweeten the deal. 
 I downloaded the game from my steam account a couple of weeks ago and have now completed it twice!!! 
 This game was much better than I had expected and it just goes to show that games built on the 
 source engine aren't all clones of Half-Life 2. The graphics are in many ways similar to those 
 of half-life 2 which is to be expected, it's very obvious that it was built on source engine technology. 
 While the graphics are similar to HL2 they are by no means without merit. There are some good looking 
 textures and some interesting enviroments. I also particularly like the way the grenades sparkle 
 when they explode. Later in the game when you're in Supremacy Tower there are some lovely looking 
 3D cityscapes which were quite amazing to see. Ritual have certainly done well with the graphics. 
 The gameplay is again quite similar to that of HL2 but with some differences, unlike HL2 you are 
 more likely to die if you try to run-and-gun through the game, instead you are better off taking 
 cover behind whatever items are convenient at the time, while there are only three weapons they 
 all pack a hell of a punch, the depleted uranium rounds for your magnum are particularly satisfying. 
 Also the ability to fine tune your aim is a welcome addition which adds a little more depth ant 
 tactic to the way you play the game. Should you headshot that guy and finish him fast or hit him 
 with a sew rounds and risk more damage?
  
  The story too is worth mention in that it's not just a derivative FPS aliens invade story line 
 but actually fairly complex considering most FPS story lines. The sound is fairly standard FPS 
 fare with some sounds that may or may not have been re-used from HL2. The voice acting is solid 
 throughout the game which makes a difference from some of the tacky acting from other games. The 
 sounds of shouting from soldiers in the distance is always pretty cool to hear..
  
  All in all a solid start to a series that will hopefully keep on improving with every new episode. 
 I'm certainly looking forwards to the next game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wse_jack
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 3:34 am PT
Review:  I was re-installing a couple games that needed to be in the regestry to run after getting a new 
 mother board* and while I was pulling the boxes out of the display I came accross SiN: Emergence 
 again and out of bordem decided to play through it again. In that, I am not quite sure as to why 
 I didn't write a review or two for it when I first picked it up, but after going through it again 
 I felt compelled to give it a write up; that is since what makes it so worth playing and in that 
 worth taking the time to write about is still very relevent. (Also, please excuse my spelling, 
 I havent gotten around to installing office yet)
  
  To start, let us answer the question that exists in symbios to any review of, well... anything. 
 That question is: does this have value or does it not? Is this worth effort on your part to experiance 
 or will this leach from you that there of? It is a service that is neccesary on both fronts in 
 a consumer world, but I think it is safe to say that one would be more compelled to speak out in 
 terms of something of worth than what can be dissmissed as invaluble, unless of course it excells 
 so in its suckage that shear concious drives you to ensure that its value is put to its face for 
 all to see (Bad Day L. A.) .
  
  The seeming tangents of my writing answer the question in their own right since I wouldent care 
 enough to go there if I were worried about the potential sufferage that would be endured by this 
 (as it goes, women and children first eh?) . Essentialy, if you havent picked Emergence up allready 
 and you call your self a shooter fan, make a note to do so.
  
  While it is worth the purchase, do note that its probably not quite worth the intro. I dont want 
 to hype it up for any one beyond what it is, but I do feel that it is worth a lot more than what 
 the majority of reviews had laid it out as.
  
  On the game itself. People have said many things about it being the same old same old, nothing 
 new or exeptional. That is pretty much true. But one must look at the genre of shooters, it's not 
 exactly a slot that has been shown to have a lot of breathing room and to give (it) specificly... 
 sh*t for filling that space is massivly hyporcitical when people seem to be blind to such genericy 
 on the games with more of a following. There is more to be said along these lines, much more but 
 in Emergences case; it may not change the concept, but it does what it does to perfection.
  
  One thing issue that Half-Life 2 had was that while it was a shooter, it never realy seemed 
 to focus on the shooting. While yes there was a fair story going on around you the game like all 
 shooters pretty much was about 99.9 % shooter. This isnt a problem in itself but one would think 
 that if your going to spend the whole time shooting that you would make more out of it. Enemies 
 are engaged in groups of three or four, the times where you do face larger groups you are slamed 
 with the rigidity of the scripting so that variety is allmost a nill save the introduction of an 
 npc class which is brief. Beyond that the shooting itself was dated, run, gun and that was it. 
 They didnt even let you keep reasonable amounts of ammo for the style of play (one of the only 
 cases where being forced to switch weapons often actualy took variety out of the game since the 
 choices you had were allmost all crap ) . The enemy AI was fair but the scripting and poor level 
 design never let it realy shine; in addition the friendly AI was also fair but the default config 
 for it excelled allmost to perfection at making them not just usless but a hinderence as they would 
 go to a place, then comeback 15 secconds later, follow you to within a foot and get you killed 
 when they clog up a hall while a land mine goes off (who goes to cover, then runs head long into 
 machinegun fire to go back to their squad leader who told them to go where they were and didnt 
 tell them to come back, or who goes a cirtian amount of the way then turns back as if nothing happened... 
 usualy running into machine gun fire as well? its a simple number command to fix it and it makes 
 you wounder if valve beta tested the game at all) Another prize example of fanboism is Halo: Combat 
 Evolved. While I understand most of this sh*t comes from the kiddie console loosers who have never 
 seen a real shooter in the first place; the PC following was embarassing. Allmost the entire single 
 player campaign consisted of going into a room, shooting x amount of baddies, going into ANOTHER 
 ROOM THATS THE EXACT SAME ROOM AND SHOOTING THE EXACT SAME X AMOUNT OF BADDIES, AND THEN GOING 
 INTO ANOTHER ROOM THAT ALSO JUST HAPPENS TO BE THE EXACT SAME GODDAMN ROOM AND HAVE THE EXACT SAME 
 X AMOUNT OF GODDAMN BADDIES, I could keep going but I feel I suffered enough playing through it 
 and since discribing it is allmost the same thing its just not worth it. At least Halo had some 
 vehicles that were worth a damn in the looks department; Half-Life 2 couldent even manage that** 
 not to mention a compitent multiplayer that didnt mirror exactly its own 1998 predicessor and 2000 
 predicessor of CS. And people b*tch about a lack of variety... the horror. My b*tching at least 
 goes to serve a purpose and that purpose is to shed some light on the fact that Emergence may follow 
 the same formula as the major players but it dosent f*ck up all over the place. What it has is 
 complete and what it does is maximise the potential that has been left out of other games for how 
 a shooter can have a high body count and be interesting at the same time. While there are only 
 three weapons in the first release they serve to more than most of HL2's guns and I found that 
 for once I didnt miss numbers all to much once the game got started. Its still kinda skimpy since 
 it was the first release but I promise you wont miss the usual one bit in terms of the gameplay. 
 One thing I loved in particular was that the feel of the guns was strangly real and satasfying, 
 a vast improvement over the first. The weapon sounds are still a tad pathetic as seems to be the 
 trend in allmost all shooters that arent directly going for realism, but what they lack in volume 
 they make up in quality. When you mix that with the feel of the kick and the animation it realy 
 brings the game to life in a way that I dont think I have expirianced before. The guns of course 
 arent realistic and nither is the shooting, but the way they play out on the screen is... just 
 the bullets all go in one general place with accuracy even though your fireing from the waist.
 
  
  The pistol makes a return from the original, but the shotgun and assault rifle replace SiN's SG 
 and SMG; its a welcome upgrade. The shotgun is magazine fed and fires the usual with a seccondary 
 that shoots several high powered balls that bounce off of surfaces allmost like a flechet launcher 
 (great for around corners) . The Pistol shoots the same high powered rounds as the original with 
 a seccondary fire that is a sort of rail gun, shooting at incredible force a large blue slug that 
 leaves a lingering trail that warps the air like FEAR's bullet time effect only much larger. The 
 assault rifle fires the standard AR type rounds that you usualy see in these games, it also has 
 a low-magnification scope. The seccondary fire is the standard 203 type grenade you often see and 
 it has a hellishly long range making it all kinds of usefull. Each weapon has an Iron sight function 
 save the rifle which has the scope; when aiming your weapon headshots and other targets apear outlined 
 in orange to indicate that you have a clean shot. This is kind of annoying over all but with the 
 numbers you deal with it can come in handy, expecialy for the pistol. Also each weapon has a melee 
 attack: the pistol, well, pistol whips; the assault rifle flips up and bashes with the bottom corner 
 of the butt, and the shot gun is incredibly badass as it is lifted over your sholder and the stock 
 is slamed forward into the victim. Last in terms of guns is the grenades which arent explosive 
 shrapnel like the usual, but rather are incindiary divices that when they go off torch every thing 
 and every one within ten to twenty feet. Like in HL2 the best bet is to chuck it at the ground 
 and cook it off since the regular throw is pretty powerfull and is hard to mark something close, 
 not to mention that the fuse is rather long in comparison to what we usualy see in games. Like 
 all modern shooters grenades are a separete function and can be hurld while blasting away, eliminating 
 the annoyance of swaping weapons and such. The base gameplay like all shooters is shooting sh*t. 
 But Emergence dosent try to dress it up in meaning or other bullsh*t that only serve to act as 
 a mask over a developers lazyness all to often. Straight up, from start to finish you are pretty 
 much poping heads off, spliting them in half, lighting baddies up, b*tch slaping them, or just 
 torching them out right. There are a couple of physics puzzles in the style of Half-Life 2 but 
 most of that is instilled in the shooting as well. Often a stand will be made in a room with lots 
 of explosive tanks, from barbique propane tanks to explosive fire extinguishers (ironicly and oddly 
 enough they torch people) and what looks to be hydrogen or some such. Setting them up and getting 
 them to launch or explode where you need them is often a challenge since they never realy have 
 the decency to wait for you to set them up. Objects like thin walls, plastic trashcans and sofa's 
 (ect...) often wont stop the bullets making some interesting gameplay experiances where you on 
 a whim light up a wall or door and open it to a pile of bloody corpses and the resounding echo 
 of a scream... if only they didnt also use this to their advantage as well, providing the occasional 
 startle. While thats all good and fun the best part of the gameplay comes from its story where 
 you are at the begining injected with some sort of mutigen. Essentialy instead of running around 
 in circles as a creature till you tear apart your captors like in the first, you become sensitive 
 to the mutigen itself, increasing your reflexes beyond any human capabilities. Essentialy if you 
 get in a cloud of gas time slows down to the bullet time of FEAR or Max Payne. The gas is held 
 in canisters everywhere and shooting it will release it, though they only hold so much, you can 
 set them up and whipe out a whole mass of baddies without going back to real time. The gas is toxic 
 but if you watch the meter you can realy have some fun with it. Of course with mutigen comes mutants 
 and in that the gameplay is similer to the meth-head zombies in HL2. Its not the same, and thats 
 not all there is to it but its hard to deny the similarities. I will say most of the types look 
 a hell of a lot cooler though. Its kind of as if some one mixed the HL2 meth-head's with FarCry's 
 trigents, just nicer. There's still more to it but I dont want to ruin any more of it. All in all 
 there is a very happy feeling that you get from mowing down hundreds of baddies, Painkiller showed 
 us that like no other. This takes the slaughter and places it in more standardized terms. Same 
 rush, just with the addition of modern shooter gameplay rather than the old school rush that made 
 PK so endearing. It is short, it's value comes in its 15 dollar price tag and in that it includes 
 the original SiN game which is fair enough, but the next release needs to up the content a little 
 bit, lets face it episodic game as a medium other than test pilot (which is what SiN Episodes is, 
 an interview said that they are putting together feedback from the episodes for a full release 
 though I dont know if this is still the case) , just plain ass blows. Its not exactly the best written 
 game out their but by not focusing on that and focusing on the part we actualy play, Ritual wins 
 out by far over all. What I find funny is that it takes HL2's game, and b*tchslaps with jovial 
 mockery where Valve was to retarded to actualy make their game competent as a shooter. Lets hope 
 that dosent continue... whether by Ritual's examples of how a shooter should work, even on a stripped 
 down level, or by the fact that a user mod (smod and all its varients ) virtualy rapes its image 
 in gameplay, lets just hope that big time devs like Valve get the message and present a game, not 
 just a good story.
  
  Emergence is realy just plain ass fun. Fun goes a long ways when you deal in games, its sad a lot 
 of people dont realize this. Its not like I condone a thin story or cheasy dialoge (which this 
 surprisingly dosent have) , but when I play a shooter, I think the shooting should be important 
 too. If you cant do both sublime, just do what Ritual did and do the best you can with the other 
 stuff once you perfected your GAME. Out of 10 Emergence is about 8.3, what compelled me to write 
 this is that it gets there maximizing on something that so few do, in that it is different... just 
 like Painkiller was back in 04. *To keep my crap that was in my old install intact I just installed 
 windows again on another hard disk and pluged in the former, runing all my programs off it via 
 the executables.
  
  **Not to mention that they took one of the super guns from the first and turned it into some dingy 
 POS you couldent even carry around, Tau cannon my ass, more like a cattle prod with range. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eltodd124
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  After playing through all my Half-Life games a couple times, I decided to give Sin a chance. It 
 got mediocre reviews, but at 20 bucks, I could afford to be burned. So, I plunk down my money, 
 dl'd the game through Steam, and played it over the weekend, twice. Then, I got a new monitor and 
 played it again. I like it.
  
  I like to go with the bad news first. It's a short game. It has 3 guns. It doesn't do anything 
 innovative or different to distinguish it from other FPS games. I've thought long and hard, and 
 those are my only complaints.
  
  The good, the hokey but fun story is a continuation of the original Sin (which comes with the game) 
 and I enjoyed following it. Many of the reviews mention the large breast size in a negative tone, 
 I happen to like them. The action is very easily tuned to your abilities, and the game keeps track 
 of all manner of stats, from your hit ratios with the various wepons to the number of footsteps 
 taken, it seems every keystroke and its results are being tracked in one way or another. While 
 I do like my games to be inventive and surprising, and Sin falls flat on both fronts, it more than 
 makes up for it with solid gameplay, and fun levels that make good use of the Source engine, for 
 an appealing presentation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capt_karem
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  I have never played the original because I was too caught in Half-Life like everyone else. This 
 game provides a mediocre experience. If you have played any FPS at all, then you know what to expect 
 from this game. It has a near future setting thats been done countless times and the plot contains 
 the same old cliches (megalomania, evil corporations, etc.) . The characters are all one-dimensional 
 'too cool for you' Gen-X types. The Graphics are source powered so they are good to go but the 
 The weapons are pretty generic and feel underpowered (specifically the machine gun) . It might seem 
 that I am beating up on the game because all in all, it is a solid first person shooter experience. 
 If you want a quick FPS shooter fix then this game is good to go but it sure as heck aint Half-Life 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Have you tried a game that starts kind of weak, but slowly grows on you as the story progress, 
 the character become more well-defined and the action sequences are fast but challenging?
  
  Well, SiN Episodes: Emergence is not one of those games.
  
  SiN proves that the old formula 
 of shooting people and fighting monsters could have worked - if they've tried to add some story 
 and variation to it, they might even have a decent shooter. Unfortunately SiN falls into the pitfall 
 of FPS routines and clich&eacute; s to such a degree, that you have to look twice at the source 
 engine graphics to convince yourself that this is actually 2006.
  
  And what about the graphics? Besides the trademark Source engine water and character faces, the 
 graphics in SiN has a distinct lack of style compared to its big brother, Half Life 2. Especially 
 the model and object design of this game feels somewhat flat. This is by no means an ugly game, 
 but its not at the level of neither Half Life 2 nor any of the other recent visceral FPS games.
 
  
  Add in the repetive nature of the gunfights (reload, shoot, dodge, get hurt, heal etc.) with no 
 real breaks throughout the game, and you have a fairly sub-standard shooter. It even has some Doom 
 3 reminiscent gunfights, where bad guys lurk at corners too shoot you in the back. A trait that 
 can get tiresome - even in this short game.
  
  The story is so uninspired that you can guess all major plot points 10 minutes into the game. Well, 
 lets just say that the old SiN didn't exactly excel in the story department, and this game is by 
 no means any better. Its like playing a Steven Seagal movie: No twists, no surprises.
  
  On a more positive note this game is good value, as it is bundled with the original SiN which is 
 a moderate shooter.. if you can look past its dated graphics. In the beginning of SiN Episodes: 
 Emergence the gunfights are rather amusing (until they get repetive) and the source engine provides 
 physics for some fun moments. But all in all, this is not recommended for the discerning player.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  I really wanted to like this game, but having played through tons of similar games with more modern 
 and refined gameplay, SiN Episodes: Emergence feels like a tour de force to Christmas Past, leaving 
 all the presents unopened. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  SiN: Emergence is Rituals first foray into the world of episodic content. The resulting game takes 
 us on a ride by the seat of his pants and does not stop until the credits start to roll. Designed 
 with the idea that there are never enough bullets flying and women are to be stared at, Ritual 
 has designed a good starting piece that leaves you wanting more by the end of the experience.
 
  
  Picking up a few years after the first SiN game occurred and ignoring the movie that was made, 
 you play as John Blade, special agent for the police force. Your main goal is to find and stop 
 Alexis Sinclair, the antagonist from the first game. She is still at large and has continued her 
 research of the chemicals from the first game. The tables have turned as Alexis has captured you 
 and you begin the game strapped to a gurney, with Alexis and her cohort in crime, Raked, leaning 
 over you, discussing your fate. After your imminent escape, you meet up with Jessica, your partner, 
 who seems to have just left Victoria Secret before rescuing you with her thong sticking out from 
 her uniform. You then find yourself trying to find out what the bad guys have done to you and what 
 their plan calls for and how you can stop it.
  
  The mechanics of the game are fairly simple. Run and gun your way to the end of the game without 
 getting killed. It will seem simple at first as the first few waves of enemies you kill will have 
 the brain capacity of a T-Rex. As you progress, the scaling difficulty comes into play. Depending 
 on how well you are playing, the game starts to ramp up or notch back the difficulty of the game. 
 If you make too many head shots, the game will present you with enemies that wear helmets. If you 
 get killed far too often, the game will place more health on the level or have the enemies use 
 less cover. It is a novel approach, but you still feel like you are walking through the game regardless 
 of what the story throws at you until the half way marker when some of the tough enemies appear 
 in significant volume. At this point, the challenge is kicked up to another level with mutants 
 and armored troopers, armed with a mini arsenal in the case of the trooper. Many an FPS player 
 is going to be upset at the fact that there is a limited weapon selection in the game. While games 
 like Quake and Half Life give you a mini arsenal to lay down a swath of destruction, this game 
 limits it to the basics. You start with access to a pistol and can gain a shotgun and an assault 
 rifle. Throw in some grenades and that is the extent of the weapons in the game. A rather sparse 
 list at best, but you will never feel short changed by the minimal selection. It actually gives 
 the game a sense of realism in that you have a limit to the weapons you can carry and that are 
 available.
  
  The game is an absolute pleasure to look at. The character animations are stunning as is expected 
 with the Source engine. The detail in the main characters goes down to the last necklace or the 
 way their hair moves. You start to admire the sense of realism that was put into the characters 
 as they blink, make faces and just act human. In the face of this effort, it is unfortunate that 
 all the other enemies you face have a generic feel. There are about eight bad guy types including 
 the mutants and they have no real variation. It is a little repetitive to kill fifty yellow jacketed 
 bad guys only to have to kill fifty more of the same kind. Backgrounds show off the power of the 
 engine with their detailed splendor. Looking out the window, the end tower shows off a beautifully 
 rendered cityscape, which will just leave you breathless at the power of the graphics this game 
 provides. Whether you are in a railroad yard, or a submerged supertanker, you will never get bored 
 by the locations.
  
  The game stands out with all of its aural feedback. Popping off a few rounds from the pistol, you 
 get a solid blast with recoil that just feels right. A round of buckshot from a shotgun lets out 
 a thunderous boom that will leave you smiling at the resulting carnage. There is a backing soundtrack 
 and score that is pleasant to the ears while not getting in the way of the action unfolding in 
 front of your eyes. The main menu tune is especially memorable and will have you singing it long 
 after you are finished playing the game. Other ambient sounds are there, but never seem to stick 
 out. Occasionally, you get a door opening that clues you into an enemys location, but you never 
 notice much else in the background.
  
  Ritual knows that sex sells and the SiN games have never shied away from the concept of having 
 women that are pleasing to the eyes. Alexis Sinclair was great to look at with the Quake 2 engine, 
 and with the help of the Source engine, is a heavenly treat to be enjoyed. You know that the game 
 is catering to a crowd that enjoyed titillation when in the first five minutes of the game, you 
 have Alexis leaning over you with her ample lung capacity fairly obvious, then a rescue by Jennifer 
 with thong straps flying high on the hips and topping it all off with a full on thong shot of Alexis 
 in a flashback sequence. It is refreshing to see a company that is not afraid to infuse their game 
 with a healthy sense of libido, but here it is all about objectification and never about seduction.
 
  
  Upon completion of the game the biggest flaw becomes obvious at this point in time. Here we are 
 six months later and we have no part two of the series. If you are going to release a game on the 
 premise of episodic content, then you need to stick to a schedule or give the people a reason as 
 to why there is a delay in the product. The point is to keep you hanging on for the next episode 
 like an old style movie serial, but after a certain amount of suspense is lost by having to wait 
 an inordinate amount of time between games. Lets hope that Ritual releases another episode soon 
 or announces a release date soon or they risk losing people being interested in the game.
  
  SiN Emergence gives you a short but satisfying experience while you are playing the game. The 
 beautiful visuals will suck you in and the simple minded story is gripping enough to keep you focused 
 on working you way to the end. If you are prepared to wait for a sense of conclusion at some point 
 in the future, you will enjoy your time with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrysavast
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 24, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  people are paying good money for these games
  and are haveing nothing but problems playing them i had bought HL2
  CSS And Sin Episodes Im Runnin 
 the Extreme Core 2 x6800 Chip
  The 7950gx2 1ghb Of Video Card All High End Hardware And All Steam Games Crash.....
  I Passed 
 In All Tests Of There Diag Program So Its An Issue With There Software Please Be Aware That Its 
 Not Your PC its A Software Issue
  I Play Fear BF2 Guild Wars At Highest Settings NP At All Get On Sin And 30 Mins Into The Game BAMM 
 Crash So Im Lettin You No If You Wanna Wait 2 Years To Play the Game Then Buy It My Rating On Steam 
 Games Are a 10 But There Engine Licks @ss They Need To Wake Up And Smell The COFFEE Like I Said 
 People Are Spending Money to Play Not Run Into ****
  Like Crashes And Glitches What ever Happen To releasing A Product That Works Didnt They Test Games 
 Be4 Putting them On The Shelfs C, Mon
  Steam Do Something Im Not The Only 1 With Problems Read The Fourms Be4 Buying PLEASE............. 
 Save You Money.....
  buy Anything But A Steme Product. till these issues are Fixed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 16, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  This is not so much a new FPS as much as a series of FPS cliches strung together. The strangest 
 thing is, that it's actually the most fun FPS I've played in a long time!
  
  The plot doesn't bear scrutiny, but how many game plots do? The graphics, well they're quite Half-Life 
 2 (obviously running on the same engine) , but with more of an old school feel, which permeates 
 the whole game. A great deal of effort has clearly gone into making the main female characters 
 look good, the sexiest polygons I've seen... ... yes, I know that's a bit tragic; your sidekick 
 is clearly an Alyx Vance wannabe, in keeping with the whole game's seemingly self imposed Half-Life 
 2 wannabe-ness. Voice acting is good, if a little hammy at times.
  
  The gameplay? I dunno why, but I just kept coming back to this game for one more go, it's just 
 great fun! The comical level of gore is hugely satisfying, chain gunners expolde leaving legs with 
 a bit of spinal column, with a head lying 30-odd feet away, headshots are rewarded by pieces of 
 flying brain! The guns all feel great, err, all three of them.
  
  There's been a lot of gripes about the game's length, but considering that it's meant to be an 
 episodic piece of content, and that it's available through Steam at $14 (+tax) , the length was 
 fine by me, especially as it's full of shooting fun rather than waiting a good chunk of the game 
 before you get a weapon (unlike a certain more high profile release...) , first time through will 
 take about 5 hours, but it can be done in about 3. Other reviews have said that the difficulty 
 level adjusting to your level is flawed, but to me, this is a work of genius. Flawed maybe, but 
 your access to your stats gives the game tenfold relpay value!
  
  All in all, this is FPS by the book, but done really well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmp_here
Rating: 2.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Technical - There are numerous issues with the game freezing, sound repeating, etc. which immediately 
 makes the game unappealing.
  
  Game Play - The weapons are weak and don't convey the feeling of handling a weapon; unlike FEAR 
 when you shoot a weapon you hear it, feel it and see the damage it does.
  
  Stopped Playing - After about 30 minutes of gameplay I was bored. I went back and played F. E. A. R., 
 Counter Strike, and WarRock, all of which, blow this game away. Sometimes, I'm in a store and see 
 a game priced at $16.00 and I say, "Well its probably worth $16.00, how bad can it be?" And, I 
 don't take the time to read the reviews on Game Spot.... No More! If I add up all of the discount 
 games I have purchased to only see it rated at 8 and below once I return from the store I could 
 have saved my money and bought 5 great games.
  
  Take the time to read the reviews on this one... Save Your Money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdohaney
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 5, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Basically this is a rehash of Half Life 2 without the story line and length. If you liked Half 
 Life you'll at least be somewhat entertained by this game. But sadly I thought Half Life 2 and 
 its engine were poor productions that were hyped to extremes unseen before because of pressure 
 from the sales team. That isn't to say these games are without value, they can be entertaining 
 for those out there who like to brainlessly go around shooting everything that moves. That can 
 be fun for one or two levels. But looking at SIN Episodes, when you combine only three weapons 
 to choose from, six hours of game play, long loads, a fragmented storyline, absolutely no point 
 to your mission, and this shoot 'em up gaming style you'll find that you have a poorly developed 
 bore of an FPS on your hands. Skip this one if you want something with a little bit of body and 
 depth. Otherwise, if you are happy with this type of shooter, indulge in the SIN... every enemy 
 looks alike... Episodes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TedBob
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  I am pretty happy with the over all output of the game. I think it is a good start to a series. 
 I wasn't sure if I was going to like the concept of the "episide" type game. But it does make for 
 more affordable games. Granted the games wind up being a bit shorter that a typical more expenive 
 game. ($40-$50 range) but thats an ok trade off as a lot of the newer more expensive games are 
 getting shorter anyway. It's not really a thinking mans game, more of a "run and gun" in my opinion. 
 Don't get me wrong thats ok. Some times thats what I need in a game. I don't always want to have 
 to try and sneak past guards or whatnot so if its just easier to blow up everyone instead then 
 thats fine with me. I like the different weaponry offered in the game. For some reason I found 
 myself using the pistol the most. I don't know I just like it a lot. Jessica pops in from time 
 to time to help you out. She is mostly just eye candy. I will admit, not bad looking for a computer 
 chick. Also I noticed there was a little humor added to the game. When you shot down the guys with 
 the jet packs, if you hit the tank just right they went flying like a poped baloon. This is a game 
 that is currently in my "replay" pile. (so-to-speak) I am looking forward to the next episode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calibanvov
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  The game has some good aspect and some not so good. Graphics are good with the character models 
 and cutcenes, but rather unspectacular. The game overall is somewhat fun. It seemed like they rushed 
 the game almost. It starts out brilliantly, but soon ends up in a bunch of levels. You desire to 
 see a break from the action with some significant cutscenes adding to the story or something, like 
 in the begining.
  
  The game can be challenging as far as the difficulty. I had it around medium at first, you barely 
 turn a corner and can get nailed pretty hard. I recomend putting it at almost the easiest. if you 
 like to see the next level without restarting from the last save too often, you may want to do 
 that.
  
  Theres only 3 guns and they are not overly impressive. The creatures you fight dont have much variety 
 either.
  
  Overall its fun, but if $20 is hard for you to come up with, dont go for it. The experience is 
 very short.
  
  Shooting guys on rocket packs is cool. You start to become somewhat interested in your 2 teamates, 
 but they cut the storyline way too short with them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  SIN: Episode 1 Emergence is a great game, even though it is a short game.
  The game comes with the original SIN.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Good first impression
  +Decent story 
 (i didnt really care though)
  +HL2 physics
  +Interactive environments
  +Variable difficulties
  -Long loading times
  -No multiplayer yet (coming soon)
  -Story is 
 not really interesting
  
  Graphics:
  +Looks great
  +Runs great
  +Different environments
  -Long loading times (again)
  
  Sounds:
  +Nice sounds
  +Weapon 
 sounds are great and impressive
  +Good music
  -Sometimes you can not really hear the sounds
  
  Value:
  +Nice challenging singleplayer campaign
 
  +Budget priced, with original SIN
  -No multiplayer (Coming soon)
  
  Tilt:
  +Good first impression
  +Decent interface
  -No intro movies
  -No "real" character describing 
 ( you are just a man named blade, who has too kill some people)
  
  SIN emergency really impresses you, and i can not wait for the upcoming multiplayer and the next 
 episode.
  Cya all
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fkholmes
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 5, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  This game, I found did what it wanted to do really well, what that is you ask? It is being an action 
 packed B-grade story shooter. Lots of people complain about how it is has a "lack-luster" story 
 but really they just wanted to play half-life, why they do not do that you ask because they are 
 to lazy to install it on there computers.
  
  But enough of that, now to talk about the game it self. The graphics in this have a nice, almost 
 a bit cartoony [but more serious than that] style of graphics which work very well in this game 
 it would not work in a game like Half-Life2 but strangely enough some of the animatons in this 
 are from HL2. The sound is f***ing awesome the explosions, the bullits hitting people and the best 
 of all the music. The gameplay is very enjoyable and simple it can be difficult at times but most 
 of the time it is just right.
  
  Definitely worth the money espicially for people who like there FPS like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 4, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The original Sin was good, uncomplicated, violent and cheesy fun. It was also unfortunate enough 
 to hit shelves at the same time as Half-Life, which, well, ended up being one of the most pivotal 
 games in years. Needless to say, Sin got a bit lost in the shuffle - almost undeservedly so, as 
 the game was a lot of fun to play even if it was a bit straightforward.
  
  Emergence is a sequel of sorts offered up in episodic gaming form - like Half-Life 2's piecemeal 
 chapters, Emergence is the first segment in a three or four part series. As such, it features both 
 a budget price and a fairly short duration. Beginning with Blade strapped to a table with returned-from-the-dead 
 evil CEO Elexis Sinclaire and her new henchman Roddick, the game charges you to hunt them down 
 in an effort to discover what they injected you with. Naturally, this involves shooting endless 
 waves of foes with an assortment of weapons.
  
  It should be stated right off that Emergence is a good looking game. It doesn't feature HDR (perhaps 
 in a future patch) but the environments are well detailed, the characters look fantastic, and everything 
 has a much brighter tone than Half-Life 2, with which Emergence shares the Source engine. Sin always 
 had a slight comic book feel to it and that carries over well.
  
  In the same way the audio is spectacular, mostly with the punch of the weapon sounds. The few voiceovers 
 present are good, and the music is effective at setting a mood - it does, however, pale a bit when 
 compared to the fantastic Bond-esque Sin theme at the main menu.
  
  But it's in gameplay itself where first-person shooters are made, and other than a lack of quantity 
 there is little to complain about here. Blade only has three weapons during the course of the game, 
 but each has an alternate fire and can be used as a bludgeon in emergencies. The pistol is your 
 standby firearm but it is in no way underpowered - in some ways it brings back good memories of 
 Halo's pistol, as bother are capable of taking down enemies with only a few shots and are extremely 
 accurate. Running out of ammo for better weapons isn't a huge drawback in Emergence. You might 
 also want to use the pistol for one of the game's most satisfying experiences - headshots. From 
 close range or far away, all of the soldiers without helmets can be taken out with one well-placed 
 shot. The result is a delightful coconut-like sound mixed with the bass thud of your magnum as 
 the resulting body cartwheels end over end in an endlessly amusing way.
  
  The other two weapons at your disposal are a shotgun and machine gun. The shotgun has a powerful 
 close-range alternate fire (as well as a clip, which makes it a bit different from most games' 
 shotguns in that reloading from empty takes the same time as reloading after taking a single shot) 
 and the machine gun has a grenade attachment. You are, of course, also welcome to throw grenades 
 whenever you choose, and Emergence offers a bit of a twist as they're incendiary grenades intead 
 of frag. That's a good thing if you delight in the screams of your foes as they dance around trailing 
 flames.
  
  The levels fit well together, and calls back of a bit of Sin's level design in that it leads you 
 through relatively mundane environments without it feeling overly linear. There isn't a huge amount 
 of variety, but you also won't be spending enough time in each area to get sick of it, as the game 
 itself lasts three or four hours of solid playing.
  
  The story doesn't really take off in that time either. Roddick and Elexis get a number of little 
 speeches but Blade himself remains mysteriously silent (Ritual has addressed this as a fan complaint 
 to fix for the second episode) and the game itself ends a bit too abruptly.
  
  But really, for $20 you definitely get your money's worth. A simple but extremely satisfying shooter 
 that you can replay a number of times due to its short length, as well as an addictive Arena mode 
 that plays like Max Payne's Last Man Standing with endless streams of foes and a high score to 
 challenge yourself and use for bragging rights. That and the headshots. Those sweet, sweet headshots. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICTMaster
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  SiN Episode 1: Emergence has a very good gameplay with a good story. The graphics can't for example 
 compare to Half-Life 2, but it is pretty good. I think it is worth to try out, and I look foreword 
 to the next episodes. SiN is coming out with 6 episodes, and I can't wait for them after I played 
 episode 1!
  
  The graphics is good, but you can see that it is not next-gen graphics, but pretty good.
  
 
  My final judgment is that SiN Episodes is worth buying and play, the only thing that I was not 
 completely satisfied with was the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gphilli15
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Before I purchased this game, like a good shopper, I researched the game to make the best investment. 
 However, most of the reviews and scores I looked at portrayed the game as just another FPS that 
 would take a lot to inspire the true FPS fans. I felt that wasn't enough to stop me from buying 
 it, besides the fact that it was only $20, so i went ahead and got it. I'm a huge fan of FPS's 
 and it doesn't take much to impress me. This game overall was, I thought, extremely fun and a good 
 challenge. I became addicted to the game, though it only lasted a short while because it turned 
 out to be a very short game. I was surprised when it ended, although i read somewhere that it was 
 short. But I also read in many different reviews that it was very difficult to beat. I on the other 
 hand had no problems at all with the automatic skill settings and I beat the game very pleased. 
 I definitely think its worth the $20 if you're a hardcore FPS fan. The physics in the game are 
 great, they make the game a whole lot more fun. The scenery is nice, I enjoyed it. The characters 
 worked well and the AI wasn't too retarded. This game was one of the most entertaining I have played 
 since HL2 came out. This game is definitely under appreciated! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodreaverSlut
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 16, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Sin Episodes, Emergence is set in a city called Freeport city. You play as a character called John 
 Blade (people that played the original sin know who he is) . He is a cop that aims to kill every 
 villain that lives on the face of the earth.
  
  Graphics: 
  The graphics in SiN episodes, Emergence (SiNe E) are what you would expect from it: Nothing fancy, 
 but looks quite good. SiNe E makes good use of the source engine (original from Half Life 2) , with 
 good graphics and good physics.
  
  Gameplay:
  It is kinda straight forward, you are handed a gun, you shoot people in the head (or anywhere else) 
 and they die. They drop guns, you pick em up and shoot some more people. Going door in, door out, 
 room in, room out. This might be the same old formula used it almost any FPS, but like in those 
 games: it works. The problem with this game though, is the gunplay and enemy AI. Both are a little 
 unbalanced: weapons sometimes feel weak, enemies sometimes feel over powerful.
  
  Sound:
  First thing you hear (about the game, not the creaters/develepors introduction) is a very, very 
 solid theme song. It really sets the mood for the game and after listening to it a few times, you 
 really want to get the game started. The sounds in the game are good too, no really bad sounds 
 and also good voice acting.
  
  Value:
  first thing that is important to note, is that this game is a budget game, which means 20 bucks. 
 To be honest, for that kind of money, you can not expect a 8-10 hour experience (considering it's 
 all newly developed) . Because it's half the price, you will get appromimatly half of the normal 
 game time which comes down to 4-5 hours of gameplay. A problem the game has though, is that there 
 is no multiplayer and the single player aint worth going through more then once or twice.
  
  The verdict:
  It has nice graphics, ok gameplay, awesome sounds and decent value. If you 
 played SiN (the original) the package has less to offer since you get the original aswell, if you 
 havent played it, this is definatly something you want to get, either for a quick FPS fix or because 
 your looking for new interresting story-based FPS.
  
  I give this game a tilt of 7 because it's good, but it had more potential. Gameplay lacks a little 
 and it's kinda short because of no multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  This game is a short, short budget shooter, usually most budget single player shooters make me 
 cringe seeing that not too much in the way of good development cost are spent on the actual gameplay 
 of the game, well I was suprised that this game came out well.
  
  Graphically the game is very nice, in comparision to FEAR, Oblivion or Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter, 
 in my opinion SIN : Emergence does not equal to the level that aformention aspired, but it does 
 look really nice for what is presented. Overall, its not a knock your socks off adventure, but 
 what is given grapically should not make you turn your head, and scoff. 
  
  Sound, Isn't all that bad I could care less if my main character says anything as long as the weapons, 
 and other essential character base, even explosions have what is required to draw me in.
  
  This game uses the tried and true Source engine, which in my opinion is a good, stable tool to 
 use. Only misfortunes I have encountered is I have had a couple of crash to desktop issues, and 
 this is more of a personal taste, it could've used a multiplayer portion off the start instead 
 of utilizing SIN 1 as its multiplayer standpoint.
  
  It's a nice romp, and the latest patch did open a Deathmatch singleplayer option which I found 
 enjoyable! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  I was pretty skeptical of episodic content at first, especially because of the short amount of 
 content and the price. However, when I read the reviews, and saw this one on sale at Circuit City 
 for $7.99, I had to pick it up. 
  
  I played the original Sin, but had forgotten much of the story. Never fear, the first "episodic" 
 release of the new Sin includes the full first game (though it looks REALLY dated, and I stopped 
 playing it after the first level) . The new "Emergence" episode looks fantastic, powered by the 
 Half-life 2 engine and cooking with spectacular textures, excellent (and dead sexy) character models, 
 and great feel to the physics of the levels, weapons, etc. I won't ruin the story, but from the 
 get-go, I was very interested in moving on to try, as the protagonist, to kick Elexis Sinclair 
 out of power and find out just what she had done to me.
  
  The three main areas all have their different level design and feel, but the mechanics are mostly 
 the same. You'll fight the same guards almost the whole episode, which isn't necessarily a bad 
 thing, since you only have three weapons, but to be honest, I never got tired of the three weapons 
 and their alternate fire modes. And it is great fun to pop those low life guards in the noggin 
 with your simple Magnum (one shot to the heat pops it right off their shoulders) . Later, you'll 
 fight a couple of mutant boss monsters, a hover jet, and some super-soldiers from Sintek, even 
 jetpack flying guards. I think my favorite part of this short story is the way all of these guys 
 die! Hit a jet pack guard in the pack, and he starts zipping uncontrollably around in the air until 
 his pack eventually explodes! Take out a super soldier and his pack of chaingun ammo explodes, 
 leaving nothing but his legs and a bit of the spinal column sticking out of them.
  
  The voice acting is excellent, and the song that plays at the menu is actually haunting and perfect 
 for the game. I found myself sitting at the menu just to listen to the words. The sound effects 
 for the guns are very fitting, and surprisingly, I never felt like the guards repeated their comments 
 too much. I loved listening to a supersoldier getting caught in one of my thermal grenades, as 
 he catches fire, runs around yelling, "It burns! Put it out!! Augh!" until he explodes. Great gaming 
 moments.
  
  I pay $8.00 for movies in my area, and most only last 1 1/2 to two hours. For my $7.99 admission, 
 this game was a great entertaining romp. I would have paid full price for it if I had known how 
 much fun I would have had with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dghillza
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 11, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  Sin is a great FPS it has everything in it that makes it a great game. The game has a definite 
 half life feel to it but I guess thats what one would expect. Its not an over complicated and 
 the basic weapons available to you are sufficient. Once you get hold of the shotgun and machine 
 gun the pistol never really gets used again  unless the others run out of bullets and you in a 
 hectic battle.
  The game is short - even by my standards. A game like Far Cry took me a good 2 to 3 months to get 
 through. Ive managed to finish Sin in 3 days. But having said that it kept my attention enough 
 without getting repetitive or stale and its left me wanting to get the next episode. Graphics, 
 game controls, are all excellent.
  On the subject of Far Cry the basic story also seems very similar.  Bad guy genetically making 
 mutant warriors 
  Another excellent feature of the game is that it dynamically adjusts the difficult level which 
 I found to work very well. In situations where I was taking a beating, I come back to a not noticeable 
 easier situation which left me feeling as though I had got better and not the game being easier.
 
  For those who really what to practice there FPS skills there is the Arena mode. Which is great 
 to have a quick shoot em up and see how long you can last round.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  There are games that aim to make their mark and be revolutionary, and then there are games like 
 Sin Episodes: Emergence. The game features solid action, nice graphics, and a great soundtrack, 
 but it doesnt try to do anything very original. This is not necessarily a bad thing though. 
 
  
  The game is almost over the top in its imitation of Half-Life 2, so much that sometimes it feels 
 like a fancy mod. How much you will like or dislike this aspect of it depends largely upon how 
 much you liked Half-Life 2. Theres a long non-interactive first person sequence at the beginning. 
 Then, theres a long stretch with no combat before you get the pistol. Environments have tons of 
 little objects to pick up, throw, interact with, or destroy. The main character is essentially 
 silent, and you occasionally get an AI teammate to fight beside you. The menu screens look almost 
 exactly the same. Theres the occasional Havok physics puzzle.
  
  Yes, its like Half-Life 2, but everything seems a little bit off. The level design and the action 
 never feel quite as clever or fun though. Vehicle sequences are essentially non-existent. The game 
 only features three weapons, and not much of an assortment of enemies. Because of the games low 
 variety and simple AI, it tends to get repetitive, just throwing huge waves of enemies at you, 
 one after the other, to take blasts in the face from your shotgun. The game seems to rely on ambushes 
 a lot, and it makes up for its simple AI by granting enemies 100% perfect Insta-aim and wallhacking 
 capabilities. Thats a fancy way of saying that enemies have a frustrating ability to shoot you 
 in the face from 100 feet away the instant that you poke your head out from behind a corner. The 
 game supplements these occasionally frustrating mechanics with the ability for enemies to also 
 shoot you through thin walls. 
  
  One of the innovations that Emergence does offer is scaling difficulty. Having a tough time with 
 one spot? The game supposedly eases back on you. Game too easy? It supposedly compensates by throwing 
 more tough enemies or less power-ups your way. The concept provides mixed results. Sometimes, it 
 goes in the direction opposite of what its supposed to do. For instance, in one spot, I ran into 
 a few grunts and got myself killed. When I reloaded the game, I met not grunts, but tough chaingunners. 
 Thus, I got killed, and the game actually got harder. The system could use some tweaking. One moment, 
 youre breezing through the levels without taking a shot. The next moment, youre fighting ten 
 chaingunners in a row without any health packs. It seems as if the game overreacts to your play. 
 Its a good concept though. 
  
  Sin Episode 1s best feature is its graphics. Its not as beautiful as Half-Life 2: Episode 1, 
 but that doesnt mean that its not a very nice looking game. The games main characters, Jessica, 
 Alexis, and company, look very sharp -- not quite as good as Alyx from Half-Life 2, but sharper 
 than the NPCs in most other games. The indoor environments look pretty good, but the outdoor areas 
 are where the game shines. In particular, the gigantic Sin-tek building and the skyline of the 
 city looks excellent. Weapon models are pretty good, and so are the games numerous little objects 
 that litter the environments.
  
  One of the pleasant surprises that the game offers is its soundtrack. The theme song that plays 
 on the menu screen is very good, and so are the tracks that kick in frequently when the action 
 gets heavy. For a five hour game, theres a surprisingly large soundtrack. Voice acting is decent 
 and weapon sounds are pretty good. The over-the-top screams of pain that enemy grunts let out when 
 you shoot them is kind of funny. Sin Episodes: Emergence, as a whole, is a pretty funny game, full 
 of self-referential FPS humor. 
  
  Sin Episodes: Emergence wont be thought of as one of the all-time greats, but its a good choice 
 for you if youre looking for some nice graphics, simple over-the-top action, and good humor. The 
 game doesnt try to offer much more than big boobs, powerful weapons, exploding heads, and exploding 
 barrels, but it doesnt have to. Its a bit of a Half-Life 2 clone and its not as great, but then 
 again, not many games are. Its about five hours long, which isnt terrible for the price, but 
 you might want to wait for a price drop or the inevitable compilation pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teamgodmike
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 3, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Personally I dont like the episode idea, as I see it its just a way to get players to pay 60 
 for a game instead of 35. Yes, thats 20 for gamers in England. A rip-off, no? $20 is much better. 
 But anyway, that aside, Ill get on with the review.
  Although this game was, as a lot of people have been saying, very repetitive, severely lacking 
 in variation in terms of weapons and enemies, and very cliched in terms of settings and tired, 
 been-there-done-that storyline, I have to admit I quite enjoyed playing it. Theres something so 
 timeless about a game thats about pure, undiluted carnage that never lets up, and SiN Emergence 
 is definitely one of those games. 
  As many people have said, there are in fact only 3 weapons (4 if you count incendiary grenades) 
 but thesw weapons are very well designed, and as there are three types of situation in the game 
 - the pistol situation, the shotgun situation, and the auto rifle situation. There are in fact 
 9 types of enemy, not 5 as so many people have been saying. They are: Normal Soldier Guy, Heavy 
 Chaingun Guy, Jet Pack Guy (everyone forgets them for some reason, but if youve played the game 
 on the hardest setting, you really wouldnt forget them) , Zombie Thing, Mini-zombie Thing, Big 
 Beefy Thing that has a more than superficial resemblance to Rick Waller, Robot Drone Gun, Ceiling 
 Turret, and the Helicopter at the end. (OK thats cheating but Im the one writing the review, 
 so there) . It still doesnt seem like enough variation though, especially in the first third of 
 the game, where youll only see the Standard soldier. That seriously does get tedious.
  The humour element isnt as absent as some people have been saying - if you look closely you can 
 often find jokes, such as on the crates of wood in the courtyard below Supremacy Tower you can 
 see the words Morning Wood Technologies. Adult joke for you. :-D. And the caution signs in the 
 Warehouses are brilliant. Oh and theres a goofy looking piranha thing in the water near the train 
 tracks if you look hard enough, scared the living hell outa me to be honest
  The graphics, sound and physics are of top quality, as the source engine is used, and the Title 
 page music was quite a pleasant surprise. 
  Overall, the game is very polished and involves lots of shooting which lots of us cant get enough 
 of, however there are major letdowns in terms of variation, and it is by no means a game that adds 
 anything whatsoever to the genre of FPS. Still fun though you know, after all said and done. 
 
  By the way heres a hint: the auto rifle doesnt kick upwards when in sniper mode. Really comes 
 in handy fighting Chaingunners on the hardest skill setting.
  Im looking forward to the next episode, though nowhere near as much as Half-Life 2: Episode 2. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrhart24
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 22, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  I bought this for fun. 20 bux. And it used the Source engine. I think, haha. Anyways, good deal 
 for 20 bux and it has the original sin in it (if you want some old school 3D graphics) .
  
  It is short but for the price, it isn't that short. There are only 3 weapons but each as two firing 
 modes. The AI is awesome though. If you die a couple times at a certain part, you'll go through 
 and find a few less enemies or all the enemies you kill will drop health. I really like this option 
 in a game because it takes away the frustration and you can always turn up the difficulty and the 
 AI adjustment difficulty.
  
  If you like FPSs, its worth a buy. Oh, and for the guys, this game has the best boob bobbing I've 
 seen in a game to date. Very realistic. LOL! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cooked_Auto
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 19, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Sin Episodes is supposed to be the forefront of the new episodic gaming fad. The whole idea is 
 to give a couple hours of gaming for a decent prize. But if Emergence is supposed to be the first 
 of many parts, things are that bright.
  
  The game opens with John Blade (a. k. a. you) being tied down to a medical table and has been injected 
 by something. This just rang clich bells, as these things usually signal that you suddenly receive 
 weird powers in the end. But now it merely causes you to faint a couple of times, and inducing 
 some weird dream sequences. One which screams of fan service (Elexis in a bikini anyone?)
  But before your end is near, your new pal Jessica busts you out from where you're captured and 
 you get away from wherever you were. From here the games rolls on with this story. Which is what 
 exactly? Because that's one thing you dont hear so much of a story when you play. You get hints 
 here and there, but nothing conclusive on what's going on with Elexis and her new found friend 
 the russian-ish drug lord. The only real evidence you see is the very big mutants that you face 
 two times in the game.
  
  The AI puts up a good fight, even if they usually just stand there and shoot at you most of the 
 time. While some throw grenades at you, but most of the time they just stand there and shoot. Half-Life 
 2 had a bit more mobile AI, but this can probably be decided through the difficulty settings, which 
 feel a bit uneven, as I got the feeling that they didnt adapt after my play stile. As after I 
 while I started dying quite a bit on some areas, but the AI seemed unchanged as they shot at me. 
 And then I played it post-patch where the AI was even harder.
  
  The weapons in the game arent that much to look at. Its the standard three weapons of FPS games, 
 a pistol, a shotgun and a SMG. They arent that special from other games, they spit bullet at different 
 rates of fire and have their own typical special attacks. Nothing that impressive. Hopefully, further 
 episodes will expand your arsenal with something more diverse, doing all episodes with the same 
 weapons will most probably get dull. Ironsights are also in, but they are mostly unused anyway. 
 There is also a melee attack, but that's more because there is a lack of a crowbar or knife for 
 all the supply boxes.
  
  One thing that I noticed from the beginning was that the fabled car scene was gone. As some of 
 us do remember, Ritual boasted about their opening car scene that was supposed to be free flowing 
 and could change from play to play. But this scene was apparently removed at a later date, which 
 doesn't surprise me, as the other (few) car scenes in the game is more or less on the rail, you 
 just sit there and get from point A to B on a rail. Maybe this scene will return in a later episode, 
 but the boast has already fallen flat on its face.
  Ritual also promised that you would be able to have finger in what was going to happen in the next 
 episode. But the thing is that, this doesn't happen in Emergence. At one part you come across a 
 situation where the bad guys have your partner under the gun. The first thing I thought was "Hey, 
 I should put a stop to this. I should wait until I get a good moment to pull the shot." And then 
 the game just automatically lowers the weapon for me as if I was talking to a friendly NPC, making 
 me unable to throw of a single shot. And instead of a moment where I very well could change how 
 the scene plays, Instead you are treated with another exposition scene which in the end leaves 
 me with the same ending, despite how many times I try the same scene. So once again, I feel slightly 
 cheated by Ritual, as the promised changeable content is not visible, especially in such an important 
 moment where I should more or less as promised, be able to change what was going to happen.
  
  One sad change is that John Blade now plays the Freeman card. He is more or less mute in the 
 game. In total he speaks 4-5 lines. This consists of one or two words in total. He speaks more 
 in one of the trailers than in the entire first episode. While others around you speak like waterfalls. 
 Especially Elexis loves to talk when she's around you. So many bits of the game more or less consists 
 of you standing there, silent as a log, hearing others talk to you. And keeping in line with the 
 lack of decent plot available, this comes out like gibberish in many cases, as they try to be aloof 
 and not to expose too much. Especially Elexis loves to mention that you have powers to unlock (once 
 again, the clich bells are ringing about superpowers.) This in the end gets dull and long drawn. 
 Hopefully, these things will either become shorter or scarcer in later episodes. 
  
  On the graphical front, the game looks good. Being driven by the source engine and all. The game 
 has slightly shorter loading times than Half Life 2, which is good. As on a slow computer, those 
 can become aggravating in the end. But here, the loading times are a bit more slimmed.
  On the sound part, the only surprise for me was the quite good song in the main menu. Quite worth 
 to dig up from the game files and play on your media player. Other than that song, the music was 
 quite oblivious, can't say I remembered it that much. In comparison to Half Life 2 which has some 
 quite memorable songs, such as Triage at Dawn (opening of the Sand Traps) and CP Violation (beginning 
 of the game) the music in Emergence was either not just there or passed away very quickly. The 
 weapon sounds were okay in my meaning, nothing that mentionable as they sounded as such weapons 
 are supposed to sound.
  The voices, where okay. Elexis had that seductive undertone to her voice which was quite fitting 
 to her. While Jessica sounded a bit too similar to Alyx in some aspects.
  
  To be short, the game is a letdown. It can be finished way too fast. I made it through in under 
 5 or 6 hours, or perhaps even less, this in the "medium" setting. So for the price of the game 
 I got more or less a whole day of gaming with almost no replay value, not even finding the rest 
 of the secrets are that much of an enticement to do it. As it feels like an incomplete product 
 without the other episodes to back up its story. Also the lack of being able to change things is 
 sad to see. One would at least want to explore other options in certain situations, as you were 
 promised. Instead you are ushered from one non-revealing exposition to another with no way of doing 
 it otherwise. The ending is a let down too, all you get is something that can be classified as 
 a boss fight, or two succeeding boss fights to be correct, which are post-patch not even that hard 
 to do if you know how to do it. And after that, there's just a teaser for episode 2 which seems 
 to promise an expansion of the story, but for that we have to wait and see. In the end, Emergence 
 is nothing but a teaser of what's to follow in Episode 2. As nothing really spectacular happens 
 throughout the entire episode. If this is to be classified as the pilot for the future Sin Episodes, 
 I wouldn't be the least interested in the rest of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: londo2001
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  Ok I've just finished playing the first instalment of Sin Episodes - Emergence. It took about 7 
 to 8 hours but it was very entertaining all the way through. The levels are well thought out and 
 varied enough to keep you interested. I did find the AI a bit easy  you have the option to set 
 the difficulty level at the start of a new game so I set it midway between easy and extreme and 
 it really wasnt that much of a challenge and it claims to auto adjust to your level of play but 
 I didnt get the impression it was getting any harder, maybe it thought I was a wimp and took it 
 easy on me? Im tempted to play again and set the difficulty higher. Some players have complained 
 about the lack of weapons in the game but they seemed ok to me and I never felt it was lacking 
 in this department. The only real issue I have is the price tag of 14 for 8 hours of game play 
 , having just finished playing Oblivion which took well over 80 hours to complete and only cost 
 24 it does seem a bit steep and should have been priced at 9.99 but that aside; very well done 
 and looking forward to the next episode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ak72
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 18, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  SIn: E did nothing revolutionary, as a 20$ game it's decent enough. It didn't offer anything new. 
 What you get is a balls out action ripped directly from the 80's movies like Rambo and terminator 
 where enemies are coming , guns are blazing and people dying. While the plot could use some work, 
 the combat isn't. i dare to say it's one of the best shooting game out there now there is nothing 
 as great as using a magnum to blow people heads off. The graphic is great and it scales really 
 well with entry-mid level rig , as long as you can run HL2 you can run this.
  Old School game it is but as long as it's a great fun who cares?
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -generic-
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The premise of episodic content is highly polished, short-but-sweet gameplay. While Emergence largely 
 fulfills that promise, it can get repetitive and uses too many cliches seen in all too many FPS 
 games. The game itself is quite good, but I felt that Ritual borrowed too many things from Half-Life 
 2.
  
  Gameplay:
  From the beginning it looks hopeful, you've somehow been captured and are at Elexis' and her partner's 
 mercy when fighting erupts and sets you free, but not before they had the chance to do something 
 to you. The rest of the game is pretty much trying to find out what it was they did to you before 
 it's too late. You'll be going around in pursuit of a big criminal boss while slaughtering his 
 minions on the way. Sounds alright, but most of the game involves going into a room, cleaning it 
 out, rinse and repeat. The number of weapons is also unimpressive, you have the bare essentials: 
 a pistol, shotgun and SMG. You'll get to carry some incendiary grenades as well. Each weapon has 
 an alternate attack, a melee attack and can use an iron sight style aiming or zoom. Ammo is also 
 quite plentiful so you won't have to worry too much about your reserves, although the alternate 
 ammo is much more scarce.
  
  The enemy AI is alright but nothing extraordinary, when you are fighting alongside Jessica she 
 can have difficulties keeping up with you. Enemies will occasionally chuck grenades and will hit 
 you if you get too close. However, there was an issue (that's been fixed) where the AI wouldn't 
 ease up on the player, making the game excessively hard. While it was patched in good time, the 
 fact that it was there in the first place and not noticed and fixed during testing is just unacceptable 
 (unless the game testers happened to be the greatest FPS players on the planet) . I have much higher 
 standards for episodic games, because in exchange for quantity, I expect much more quality, and 
 something as obvious as this can't be overlooked.
  
  One big thing you'll notice if you've played the previous incarnation of SiN is that John Blade 
 doesn't utter a single word except for a brief radio acknowledgment. Merely having the protagonist 
 impersonate Gordon Freeman isn't some secret sauce of making games into immersive masterpieces. 
 Blade is supposed to be a wisecracking badass who takes crap from no-one. Mr Freeman has a good 
 alibi because he's just a physicist. People also talked to him instead of having large parts in 
 lonely silence. In this game, proper conversations are few and far between, but some of the conversations 
 tried in vain to be mysterious and scary but mostly came out as gibberish. For example, Elexis 
 explains to you later on about your potential, what you can really become, that you could be great, 
 blah blah blah. What the hell is this? A Sith teacher talking to his apprentice in Star Wars?
 
  
  There were also some concerns over the reintroduction of JC, the smart but cheeky hacker, as some 
 saw him to be immature. Well, those people will be glad to know that JC acts much more grown up, 
 although his former personality seems to have manifested itself into Jessica, who is merely the 
 female incarnation of the old JC with a gun, so not much has changed in that respect; you're still 
 going to have a quick-lipped sidekick.
  
  Graphics:
  Being powered by the Source engine, Emergence looks similar to what you'd expect Half-Life 2 to 
 look like. It's looks great. It's also easy on system requirements and level load times are thankfully 
 shorter than Half-Life 2. But you can tell that several things were borrowed from Half-Life 2 - 
 some props and textures are the same, and how enemies behave are quite similar. For example, all 
 enemies will chuck items at you if they're near enough, and the Sintek soldiers you'll meet later 
 on have a striking resemblance to the Combine soldiers, as their voices are muffled and they seem 
 to act in a less human way. Some of the monsters you'll fight may also remind you of some of the 
 zombies in Half-Life 2.
  
  Sound:
  The sound was very well done. The music was fine and suited the occasion and the weapons sounded 
 great. They all sound like they can pack a deadly punch, which they do. The voice acting was mediocre, 
 and the lip syncing was good enough but didn't seem as good as in Half-Life 2.
  
  Value:
  This game comes with the original and patched up SiN, which is quite a good game, as well as SiN 
 multiplayer. But this game itself doesn't have much replay value, and you'll need to buy the rest 
 of the episodes to get the complete game.
  
  Conclusion:
  SiN Emergence largely delivers it's promises of a highly polished and entertaining game, but it 
 did have an extremely frustrating AI flaw which was allowed to be released. Also, the boss fight 
 at the end was anything but entertaining and after about 10 attempts, the end of the game was nothing 
 but a teaser for Episode 2. I have little reason to rush out and pre-order the next episode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlienXS
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  If you want to shoot shoot shoot, then you will be happy with it. But after a while you get bored 
 by the dumb AI that gets stucked in some parts of the games and get used with their attack type, 
 making the gameplay less and less interesting. 
  
  Easy game interface, some funny spots, gorgeous curves, ridiculous accents.. but basically a bad 
 game that had the chance to use part of the HL2 Code - and used it in the wrong way. No mind puzzles 
 to solve. few useless dialogs, Easy secrets areas, Skinny Arsenal, too short... boring boring boring 
 zzzzzzzzzzzz
  
  The Old original one was more fun.
  
  Programmers! Deeper Story! More Weapons! More catching puzzles! Smarter AIs! Cheaper game! 
  
 I paid it almost 20 Euros and had less than half of the fun compared to last Battlefield 2 - Armored 
 Fury ( 9 Euros!!!! NINE EUROS!!!! ) booster pack.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: natasha8384
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 12, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  It's not something I'll remember playing 2-3 months from now. 
  
  Good stuff:
  - fun shooter (better than average)
  - pretty good presentation considering a rather shallow 
 story
  - decent graphics and sound quality
  - most people can play it in terms of their equipment and gaming skill level
  - weapons "feel" 
 good when fired (and they do some serious "graphically explicitdamage to the oponent; recoil 
 feels right too)
  - after playing for months games where you can't jump or jump over (including some "realism" games 
 like GRAW) , it's simply refreshing to be able to do that again.
  
  Not so good:
  - dialogs -- if they were not present nobody would notice
  - story -- maybe a fun shooter doesn't 
 need one
  - short game -- it's short, but it's also $20 (and not $50)
  - weapons look cartoonish (pistol for example looks like an industrial strength staple gun)
  
 - "Steam" -- I've never understood the concept. Why would I need an online account if I have their 
 DVD? I'd appreciate more a standard website with downloads, patches, etc. rather than something 
 that always connects to the Internet. This becomes a very bizarre requirement in games like this 
 one that don't even have a multiplayer component.
  - no multiplayer
  - the concept of "episodes"? -- make a full-featured game and call it as you wish. Why not simply 
 SiN 1, SiN 2, etc . ... there's no story or some deeper meaning here to be serialized. It looks 
 more to me as ... "we need some cash flow and we don't have a finished full-featured product".
 
  
  But beside my subjective negative comments above, the game is enjoyable and it could be fun for 
 most people who like FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaunTaunto
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 11, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Being a casual gamer, i feel it is necessary to have a game that has a decent story and a good 
 fun factor. SiN emergence has both of those. Being that as it may, it is a bit short, but when 
 you look at the big picture, there will be several follow up episodes. To blatenly say that the 
 game is bad due to the shortness of it is wron when there are going to be future episodes to tie 
 it all together. The graphics are quite nice, not the best, but it utilizes the Source engine quite 
 well if you ask me. The AI isn't exactly something to brag about but the difficulty setting that 
 the game has by changing it due to your status is indeed ingenious. I feel people overlook these 
 sort of things, but i don't think it is right to bash others opinions. The game depends on your 
 playing style. If you liked the previous one, and you liked Half-Life, then you should enjoy this 
 game. If you aren't into the episodic content and can't deal with a shorter game play that will 
 in the end be much longer than an average game, then that is completely fine, just don' t play 
 it. It deserves a try but you can do whatever you want with your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobsmith12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  How to review a game that isn't bad but feels exactly like Half-Life 2 with a different character 
 and different title, and swearing don't forget the swearing. The only problem is I enjoyed playing 
 the game, but I was slightly disappointed mainly because the originals story line was so good and 
 could have been greatly expanded on in this the sequel. I do have to admit though I would have 
 also liked to see a few more weapons in this issue but that could be just because it didn't fit 
 in with this episode and I'm sure more are coming in the next few. I'm still going to say buy this 
 just to see what comes next mainly because it is just getting started and this is new to everyone 
 including the developers. The real deal we will see in the next episode which I am still looking 
 forward to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frog_jr
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 7, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  The shooter action is not terrible. But the story is weak, the characters have no character, and 
 this is one of those classic games that use pictures of hot chicks on the cover of the box and 
 apparently in Gamespot pages to lure buyers. That hot pic of Elexis, the uber bad gal in the skimpy 
 thong bikini is a pure teaser, shown in a 60-second cutscene in the first few minutes of the game, 
 and then is never repeated. In movies this is called "sexploitation," and I haven't seen a better 
 example of that in a video game since "Wargasm," which has a hot buxom babe in combat fatigues 
 on the box cover firing a rocket launcher right at you, who is never to be seen in the game itself.
 
  
  You will be spending many hours going up against a total of 4 types of soldiers, 3 types of monsters, 
 with pretty weak AI, and pretty repetetive actions. Like, when you get in close range to most of 
 the bad guys, they will slam their forehead into you. Pretty surprising eh? Not after the 1600th 
 time, since they don't have any other action in close quarters. Or for instance, you will hear 
 the same words spoken by all your enemies throughout the game. That is, the shotgun guys all say 
 shotgun guy stuff, about 6 different quips in all. And the chaingun guys say ... Well, the gore 
 is the most convincing gore I have ever seen. If a FPS used the HL2 engine and showed pieces of 
 entrails, I might almost puke, how's that for realistic. The AI's are pretty weak, but that is 
 compensated by their being able to shoot you through walls and such. So save early and save often.
 
  
  And don't just go into god mode and cheat your way through, because you will be bored to death.
 
  
  And a minor gripe: I could never get my keybindings to work, or more specifically, the "turn left" 
 and "turn right" would not assign to a key. I HAVE TO have this assignable to a key as well as 
 the mouse in a FPS. This was my main gripe for Unreal 2, a similarly disappointing game with a 
 buxom cutscene babe.
  
  And while using the HL2 engine and being pretty good, The graphics are NOT as good as HL2, and 
 mostly you have to move through the most generic FPS scenarios that could have been rejected graphics 
 from any number of other games. A gunfight against mutants in the sewers? Sound familiar?
  
  All together, I got the feeling that this game was just thrown together to add something to 
 the list of Steam games that you can buy after you are forced to install Steam when all you really 
 wanted to do was play Half Life II. I tried this one, and found it to be pretty unimaginitive and 
 not very deep. HL2 blows this one away, has some real imagination. Me, I hope some more real good 
 fps games come out with the HL2 engine, and I will probably buy them. I thought Vampire Bloodlines 
 was pretty good, sort of the exact inverse of this game: great story line, graphics (and BTW, super 
 hot babes) but terrible gameplay. I would take that over this still (Not like the super hot babes 
 had anything to do with it! :-) )
  
  But look, maybe I just don' t appreciate the qualities of the game as a pure shooter. Me, I want 
 a story line in a FPS single player game that is not retarded. For that, look elsewhere. And I 
 want to look at good-looking virtual chicks in skintight outfits, sure, but I want them to have 
 some kind of character. I mean I know real women like that. They almost always have a good sense 
 of humor. Why? Because of having to deal with dumb guys like me.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1SleepyGit
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  Sin Episodes doesn't do anything that hasn't been done before, as many people have already said, 
 but it does it fine and is a good, fun shooter that doesn't take itself too seriously. Many people 
 have made comments about how bad the plot is, but considering it is only the first 'episode' you 
 shouldn't really expect much more, but rather view it as a TV series, with episode 1 setting things 
 up for when the plot gets going. 
  
  Whether the plot will actually get going or not is of course not known until they release the next 
 episode, but by itself its worth the low price tag for a short game, but as it is a episode don't 
 expect the ending to answer much.
  
  Overall, it is pretty, well done, and a solid FPS. I am not, admittedly, a big FPS so I have not 
 played that many, but I enjoyed it and the music in the menu screen is actually very good, while 
 the ingame music and sounds are decent, and the graphics are good with the characters and scenery 
 in the game very well designed. 
  
  Get it for a weekend blast, but don't expect anything more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erock7
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 6, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I finally got around to finishing this game yesterday. Overall it was by no means a bad game, in 
 fact Ill even say I thought it was pretty fun. I think the reason it has been getting bad rating 
 is because the pre-release hype was overwhelming. It was made out to be the next big thing in FPS 
 games, an aspect which it certainly did not deliver. Kudos to the marketing team though.
  
  One of the things I liked was the logging of stats, along with the variable difficulty it adds 
 some replay value to an otherwise very short game. No complaints about the machine gun either, 
 that turned out to be my favorite weapon w/ the grenade launcher secondary fire. I liked the recoil 
 effect it had as well. The nades were fun, and I rightfully earned my status by the end of the 
 game as accomplished pineapple tossin lieutenant john blade: champion for hire. Also the headshots 
 were cool no matter how many times you saw it.
  
  One of the things that hurt this game is definitely the guns. There just aren't enough rampage 
 worthy guns, I found the shotty to be just shy of completely worthless. Pistol was ok except for 
 that awkward zoom mode: what ever happened to crosshairs?? I used the zoom once or twice in the 
 first section and never used it again. 
  
  The biggest thing that hurt the game was the lack of an involving story. Honestly I went to write 
 this review and couldnt remember for the life of me what the plot of the game was without looking 
 it up... if that tells you anything. 
  
  Besides the lack of story and arsenal I thought the game was a good all around shooter. Kept me 
 entertained for a while, even though it only took me a little over 5 hours to complete, I played 
 a little bit every few days. Will I buy the next one though? Eh... well see, but I have a feeling 
 if Ritual doesnt step it up with the next two episodes we certainly wont see the predicted 9.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hatefull
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 6, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  stupid game!! stupid gun!! what is it with those weapons? stupid gun! stupid shootgun! and stupid 
 rifle! you call this AI? half life 1 is way better then this ... again.. stupid stupid stupid game 
 ! how am i supposed to bypass this guards if they shoot me the first milisecond they see me ? i 
 dont understand this game. it is stupid! every pixle in this game is frustrating! i've ruined my 
 keyboard dying from 5 to 5 seconds! i dont wanna see another sin episode ever! just keep it away 
 from me! someone give me money for a new keyboard pls ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspking111
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I was all hyped about the game it was so cool looking and i thought great $20 then once i learned 
 that i beat it in 2 hours i was kinda dissappoted but i found that Sin 1 and Sin multiplayer was 
 free so i was so FREAKED that was a good deal i play online all the time now and i beat the Sin 
 episodes: emergence 11 times now and its still fun i have to say $20 is good i wouldnt pay anymore 
 than $20. The price is good but even better the graphics is GREAT i was empressed i think its the 
 best fps shooter in its price range. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciFiShooterGUY
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  First, and most importantly this is just an episode. So, it's my belief that the more games that 
 come out the better. But still I must review it according to what it is. The hype of when a game 
 first comes out, always makes the score a lottle higher. Had I done this earlier the score may 
 have been higher. Its good to play for a while then review later. Thats why I think Gamespots community 
 reviews are a good idea. Anyway......
  
  Gameplay I gave a 8.0, because the game is very fun, but it lacks some insperation. it's like a 
 new version of Half-Life 2. But since Half-Life 2 is such a great game, at least it's taking after 
 a good source. And this wasn't a big issue for me, but since the game was short, I think Multiplayer 
 may have added a few more hours. Although I still have a chance to play more singleplayer. After 
 completing the game, you unlock special difficulty settings.
  
  Graphics I have an 8.0. Mainly because the environments seemed a bit steril. To much like an older 
 XBOX game. Some parts were even Halo-ish. But the character models themselves were done very well. 
 Character models I would give a 10.0 if I could. I especially like how detailed they made that 
 sinister brunette babe. Very detailed, indeed.
  
  Sound I gave a 7.0 because voice acting isnt breakthrough, but its enough to ad life to the game. 
 Sound effects are decent.
  
  Overall value i give a 7.0, because I personly thought the game is short. Had it not been an episodic 
 game, my score would be higher. But, this doesn't mean it's not worth playing. Still want a multiplayer 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebtr
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  A very disappointing effort by Valve. No Surprise here with low to average game play ,and very little 
 new, creative game play.
  Other than the occasional shot of T & A.... this game is a weak attempt to use all the features 
 of HL2 while only changing a few characters and remove driving of any vehicles. Graphic quality 
 is similar to Hl2, most of the maps have a familiar dej-avu (hl2) .
  I can see why they have chosen to market this game as a sequel with the next edition due in less 
 than a year.
  It would have to be a better game than this one for me to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMonkeyPC
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  + Plenty of bad guys to shoot up
  + Very challenging game
  
  Cons:
  - Story isn't really interesting
  - Gameplay is too straight forward
  - Voice acting was ho 
 hum
  - Only three weapons
  - Blade barely comments at ALL! WHAT HAPPENED???
  
  Review:
  The game itself isn't really great... nor is it bad in particular. It just felt like 
 another first person shooter that wasn't really polished. I just didn't find myself immersed into 
 this game at all. The only good thing I could find was that trying to fight off the enemies near 
 the end was extremely challenging, but that's about it. Can't really recommend this game to everyone. 
 I was a SiN fan back then, but this game dissapointed me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliah
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  - too short (only a few hours of gameplay for 20$)
  - only three weapons
  - no variety in enemies
  - almost no story
  - no missions to complete except for continuing 
 the game
  - nothing new at all to to FPS genre
  
  Well, I have to write 100 words in order to submit a valid review, so here there are : disappointing, 
 disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, 
 disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, 
 disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, 
 disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, 
 disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, 
 disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, disappointing, 
 disappointing, etc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrOpinionated
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1998, Ritual Entertainment released it's first game Sin, at the exact same time as the 
 first Half-life. It was a fun first person shooter with a B-grade plot and awesome multiplayer. 
 Unfortunately, all the attention was stolen by Half-life as it won Game Of The Year awards from 
 just about every magazine and website that covers PC games. Still, Sin had an expansion pack (Wages 
 of Sin) and a community that created some awesome multiplayer maps. You can check out the orginal 
 Sin game after you install Emergence, but be warned: it's quite dated by today's standards!
  
  Sin Episode 1: Emergence
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is similar to Half-life 2. There are 
 no third-person cutscenes meaning that you are always in control. There are only 3 weapons, but 
 they all have a powerful secondary fire mode. I like the magnum's secondary fire, where it shoots 
 a depleted uranium round which can penetrate through most walls and through several enemies. Your 
 enemies include mercenaries, chain-gunners, flying robots, and mutants. My favorite has got to 
 be the mercs with jetpacks. It's fun to shoot their jetpack and see them fly around like a deflating 
 balloon in the air before exploding and plumetting to the ground as they scream.
  
  Graphics - Emergence uses the Source engine which was used in Half-life 2 and other Valve games. 
 The characters are very detailed as are the environments. Like Half-life 2, Emergence uses the 
 Havok physics system which provides more hilarity as you blast away your oponents. 
  
  Sound - The sound has improved greatly since the first Sin game. Voice acting is top notch and 
 not cliche at all. I like how you can hear the soldiers yelling in the distance as they get ripped 
 apart by mutants...
  
  Value - The singleplayer game alone is worth $20. Multiplayer and a SDK will be free and released 
 before Episode 2 comes out.
  
  Verdict - Get this game if you love challenging shooters and big boobs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzDraon
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 30, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  The beginning of the game will get any straight guy a good impression of the game at first. It 
 startes office and you think it might start the way Halo did at the beginning but you later find 
 out its like the Xbox game Breakdown's beginning. Basically a bunch of nonsense and you dont know 
 whats going on. As you play on you quickly learn to hate the pistol that you first get because 
 of its slow fire rate and weak shots. The secondary function is the only good part of the gun. 
 As you work your way through it is interesting to explore your sorroundings a bit but this gets 
 old because unlike Half Life 2, there is not much to explore. This is a very linear game. Later 
 on you will get the shotgun which in my personnal opinion is the best weapon of the game. Bosses 
 are hard and fun. But otherwise to short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grysh
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 29, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game. First comment - thank you for the sexy females, it made a great distraction 
 from the norm - more of it please. Does every game with an adult rating have to be rated by its 
 violent content only? More cleavage and cute butts - no ones asking for porn for gods sake but 
 for a 50 year old fan of PC gaming it's a nice break from the blood and gore.
  The game is nothing new and its nothing special but it is solid and has some nice open spaces. 
 Not enough weapons and some of the creatures are just way too impossible to beat on the more difficult 
 settings. Still for 20 bucks I think I got my moneys worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 28, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  The game is cheap which is good the game is a decent length which is good. the game is fun which 
 is good. I found this game to be very much worth the money although if i wanted to play through 
 the whole series problary end up costing a couple hundred dollars. but thats ok since its spread 
 out. The graphics arent quite as good as those in half life 2 especially considering the character 
 models but they do look good. The sound effects are nothing spectacular but theres nothing bad 
 about them theres only 3 weapons but thats understandable since this is the first episode. They 
 have pistol shotgun and machine gun each gun having an alternate fire which i found very useful 
 against the armored dudes. im not really sure about the story i didnt catch why exactly u were 
 after the boss. but there is an evil lady elexis who you problary wont get to fight until much 
 much later in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 28, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  I have had alot of fun playing this game. it is a fps gamers dream. it is alot like half life 2, 
 so if you liked that, you will like sin episodes. I pre-loaded it from steam and had no problems 
 with it at all. was able to play it the day it became available. steam is pretty reliable. it may 
 take a while to download but when you get the game you will be in for a big surprise. it is alot 
 of fun to play. the enemy ai is pretty good. bad guys will see you and start shooting at you. you 
 just have to shoot back! the story is excellnt. your mission is to find a drug lord named victor 
 radek. he is into all kinds of criminal type stuff. a real bad guy. and he has hundreds of hengemen 
 guard his fortress. it takes about 3 shots to kill them unless you hit them in the head. then it 
 takes just one shot. so you will have to be smart, out think him in order to beat him. one of my 
 favorite parts of the game is when you get down into his lab. there are mutant creatures that he 
 has created for world domination. you can destroy them pretty easily. but the fight will get pretty 
 intense. this game has alot of cool elements, it is full of action, like half life 2. the character 
 models are well made and pretty damn scary. it has a health meter so as you go along you have to 
 watch your health. if it gets too low, you will die soon. but like half life 2, there are health 
 stations along the way to increase your health. so i have gotten pretty far in the game and logged 
 about 20 hours so far. i think i am pretty close to finishing it. i am sure the ending will be 
 fantastic as the game has already been really great so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bojangles
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 26, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Remember grasshopper, you have a zoom key. I found the assault rifle escpecially accurate with 
 zoom activated for sniper mode and even pulled off some single taps. You'all got to remember, short 
 bursts with the rifle. None of them are accurate in the real world on full rock and roll auto. 
 Sides full auto wastes ammo. Can't count your shots in the real world on full auto. Not good if 
 you are the only one on your side. You can even do bursts in sniper mode. The only pain is to kick 
 in and out of sniper to look around so you don't get waxed by some baddy out of your range of scoped 
 vision. So look around, zoom around, snipe away, and go out of zoom. Even distances of 50 feet 
 work for multiple targets in sniper mode in confined areas. 
  Can't wait for the next episode. Quite frankly, I thought the Original Sin was better than Half 
 Life for actual SHOOTING! The graphics are better as well.
  Ta Ta!
  Bojangles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: velvetkloud
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  I have already seen a few reviews of Emergence and it does seem to me that some people seem to 
 be missing the point. 
  Lack of variety of enemies? Only 3 weapons available? Indeed, but have they forgotten that this 
 is an episodic game? What would be the point of cramming too much into this first part? 
  I am assuming that as future episodes are released we will be treated to new enemies, weapons and 
 locations and personally i can't wait til that happens. I thoroughly enjoyed the 4 hours or so 
 that it took me to play through this episode and according to the stats screen there are plenty 
 of secrets I have missed that I can go back and have a hunt for while waiting for the next installment.
 
  The graphics are very nice indeed offering a bright colourful, vibrant world to gaze at as you 
 travel, this is a nice change from the dark strobing gloom that a lot of recent games seem to have 
 adopted, and the sound, particularly the music, is spot on.
  Admittedly the AI can be pretty crud at times with the enemies getting stuck in absurd places leaving 
 themselves open to being shot in the head while they frantically try and detatch themselves and 
 the story does reek somewhat of various other first person shooters that have come before. However 
 it cannot be denied that Emergence achieves the most important aspect of a game; it is bloody good 
 fun.
  It is certainly an innovative concept but the idea of the episodic format did raise doubts in my 
 mind as to whether it could work, however having just completed emergence those concerns have been 
 well and truely quashed. For less than $20 I have given myself a couple of nights of fast sexy 
 shooting fun and now I can't wait until the release of the next episode.
  Until then i still have 33 missing secrets to find... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heffect016
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  Ofcourse most people will be looking for something else when at the store. But will run across 
 this game for only 20 dollars and wonder why a game that looks so good and plays well with be this 
 much. Well simply cause the game is the first part of a few games Im guessing. It can be beaten 
 in roughly 6-8 hours and has little reply value but to just have some good old fashion gun fits. 
 Since the physics are fairly impressive with the Source engine at hand.
  
  Overall. 
  +Good Engine, Solid gunplay and Nice sound.
  
  -Story doesnt lead anywere (YET) , only 3 guns 
 to use, No Multiplayer, and short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bybeach
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 25, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I havn`t even played the first episode through, so I am walking on dangerous ground, twice-like. 
 Howver, I`m into it enough that if they contine how they are doing, I can rayr, and hopfully even 
 predict the future. I also can (Finally!!) gainsay, IMHO, the gamespot reviewer. 
  Goes like this. The grapghics are pretty. They trow out some flashes that remind me of Chaser. 
 Unfortunatly, Chaser tankes towards the end, don` know how it got an` 8. something.
  It`s a modern gme in this respect, it honours what game mechanics can do. AI may occasionally be 
 iffy, hey there were times even in FEAR, AI was questionable. But what SIN does remember ,is the 
 old sense of humor, tho macabre, at times. You shoot one of the flying guys, things go screwed for 
 him real quick, and they convey fairlywell how they arn`t/wern`t happy about it. still, the flying 
 around, explosions, and colour of the whole tghing is pretty neat.
  Something caught my eye, I`m sure got past the reviever. In those old games, of a few years ago (?) 
 you would have some pretty funky envrioment interaction. A classic scene, Blade turns on a faucet (choice 
 of 3-4) , only the center runs. No matter what you do, that is all that happens. As a person who has 
 workedw/faucets, I am offended. Also, it shows some of the poorest 'drain' I have ever seen, unless 
 you saw stuff like DukeNukem#D. yet, and I`m sure on purpose, you got some intricate enviromental 
 interplay, in the next scene, involving some very decent graphics. It was a joke.. yes, I think.
 
  Story line, oh well, what for the 'naughty girl' to show up anyways. I like her... Radek don` care, I 
 think he said he was gay in the beginning.
  And, I am having fun w/ this old shoot them up, I like the reflex approach. FEAR wasn`t really much 
 different on that.. Tho` FEAR is on it`s own pedastal, I`m not going to far out there.
  What do I not like about the game? Too dark. Gawd how I want a flashlight. But I have checked opions 
 time an` time again, they won` give me one,... bastids. Also you jerks, don` give me a crane again 
 to jump a chasm, when all I really needed was that damned barrel, Embarrased as hell, and wanting 
 to blame someone else.
  So I give this game a 7.9. Ultimatly, there are better games More complex, iff`n nothing else. W/ 
 a moredeveloped storyline, which does matter to me.. This one, so far (!!) makes the grade. Somebody 
 else said "thankyou Ritual, for making the game your way"ie, not HL2. 
  I do solidly concur. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 7
Date: May 25, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Sin Emergence is the first of many new episodic games being released to gamers and the idea is 
 a good one. Sin's story jumps you right into the game and requires you to have the played the older 
 Sin game to know the main characters and the whole story but you can manage if your new to the 
 series. Sin has nice (but not next gen or anything) graphics along with intereactable and highly 
 exploable environments. It portrays the future as kind of an urban New York just with technology 
 playing a higher role in life and is shown in the weapons which are better than normals pistols 
 and such in other shooters. The A. I. can be fairly smart at times but has its down which will be 
 explained more later. Sin has a lot of ammo, cool special weapon attacks such as the antigen against 
 your mutant enemies, and can be challenging at times but always tries to keep it fun with a setting 
 so if a player dies after X amount of tries the game will make it easier on the player after he/she 
 loads again. Some of the cooler features of Sin are breakable health packs that can create a health 
 regen mist, HL like saves which are player-friendly, secret areas with ammo/health or plaths to 
 take to get the drop on the enemy, and closed captioning for handicapped players. Sin also has 
 a few downsides as most shooters do. Some are only three playable weapons, A. I. getting stuck glitches 
 (also a huge glitch where a console command is needed to continue) , a higher end PC is required 
 to run with less lag (duh) , and the hud is bulky. Sin takes from many games too because you feel 
 like your playing a dumbed down half life 2 in certain areas throughout the game but theres no 
 multiplayer! Finally Sin jumps you right into the story which by the way steals from Farcry very 
 much with its mutants and you getting injected with a mutagen. All in all, Sin is a good 8-10 hour 
 episode with some faults that will hopefully be fixed in future releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kernon
Rating: 7
Date: May 25, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  A Win for SiN?
  
  Let's be honest with each other here for a moment. We haven't really seen anything revolutionary 
 in the first-person shooter genre for a while. Every game can be broken down into a pretty standard 
 run and gun format. Sure they change it up a little bit with a locked door that requires you to 
 find a key or some other gimmicky excuse as to why you can't proceed through a particular area 
 yet. Am I the only one that's become completely bored with this format?
  
  Enter SiN Episodes; does SiN really do anything differently?
  
  I'll admit that I never played 
 the original SiN. As such, there is no nostalgic affect which makes the game appeal to me instantly. 
 However, with eight years between the original game and this sequel, I'd think it would have been 
 designed to stand on its own for a new audience. With that in mind, how does it do?
  
  Visually SiN is about as stunning as can be expected. It's built on the Source engine which is 
 very pretty. That being said, it definitely looks like it's been built on the Source engine. The 
 game looks and feels like Half-Life 2. I'm not about to say this is a bad thing as Half-Life 2 
 was indeed very pretty. I'm just saying that there really isn't much here that stands out anymore. 
 We've all seen what Source can do. The question in my mind has shifted to is that all it can do?. 
 If the answer to that question is indeed yes, then one might argue that it's good enough. We'll 
 see how well that opinion holds when the next major engine breakthrough hits the market.
  
  Perhaps SiN will really shine when we move away from the technology and consider the underlying 
 story? You play Blade, a mercenary or something, I'm not really sure as there isn't a whole lot 
 of introduction or back story offered up immediately. You start off on a lab table where some guy 
 and some girl with really large breasts shoot you up with some sort of drug. A moment later, some 
 other girl in a tight midriff baring combat suit shows up and rescues you. You spend a few moments 
 driving with her in a car then you pass out. There's a short dream sequence with the large breasted 
 woman in a skimpy bikini and then you wake up to find yourself at some sort of port on the waterfront. 
 You wander around for a while searching for some guy, then you start getting shot at. You find 
 a gun and start shooting back.
  Does this sound like fun so far? I'm not going to give this game a whole lot of credit for originality. 
 Without giving away too much, let's just say that it falls apart into some sort of genetic experiments/mutations 
 gone horribly wrong kind of scenario. In short, not anything we haven't really seen before.
  
  The one thing that really has the potential to stand out with this installment of the SiN franchise 
 is the concept of episodic content. This may not be a real first for the gaming industry but it 
 has definitely never received much attention from the big industry players. What remains to be 
 seen with SiN and its implementation of this model is whether or not the new content can benefit 
 from being episodic in nature or whether it turns out to be a way for the developers to simply 
 release their game in chunks because the whole game simply isn't ready yet.
  
  Overall SiN Episodes isn't a bad game, there just isn't really anything offered up as new and interesting. 
 We've seen the technology before and this doesn't really showcase anything new on that front. The 
 story is pretty uninteresting and the gameplay quickly dilutes into a traditional run and gun first-person 
 shooter. If you need an FPS fix, SiN might not be a bad way to go, but don't bother wasting your 
 time if you're looking to broaden your palate of unique experiences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss33
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 25, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  after a many long time since i played fear i couldnt find a good first person shooter for my pc 
 .after all we have many fps games for pc but some of them are really playable and enjoyable .like 
 black for ps2 or half life serise and..... but i promise to you if you trying to find a good fps 
 you have good choice with sin episodes .its just great and good enough to spend money to buy and 
 time to play .and i say its simply good on any thing not so great and not so bad. one weak point 
 in game is its bugs and they sometimes fuc [k your head for example in one mission you already killed 
 every one and the door that lead you to the next mission is not open or its not there .so lets 
 talk about game:
  
  gameplay:
  here is the big part in video games .its very important for one game to have good gameplay and 
 its a key for win or lose .sin has a good gameplay. you never get tired of playing and you want 
 to keep playing in order to know what is happening in game and thats enough for sin to be a good 
 fps 
  
  graphic: 
  graphic in this game is very good and i couldnt play the game with high graphic details cuz my 
 pc isnt so powerful and i play it with normal option but i am satisfied cuz its really good atleast 
 for me i tell you one thing :graphic is not the important part in games 
  
  sound:
  sound yes in this case i just can say its good but i think its not very important in this kind 
 of game and you dont need sound's help to solve things.
  i love sin's menu music [what the world up to] its great. 
  
  valu:
  game is long enough 
 and very amusing but the weapon collection is not very good and you dont have a wide choice with 
 guns and i think its boring
  
  tilt:
  after a 6 review i am not sure of its meaning if you want to know ask gs for more info but the 
 gs score is 7
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rem_intellegere
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 24, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Not many people remember the game SiN, which is understandable. It never really took off. Now with 
 the publicity via Steam, more people are interested in the game and, in particular, its price tag. 
 $20 gets you a guaranteed amount of gametime no matter how good you are. This new episodal style 
 system not only offers cheap prices, it's a great testing ground. Because of the short time in 
 development, usually on pre-existing software, the developer can try new things that weren't feasible 
 on traditional styles of games.
  
  SiN's contribution in this first episode is an adaptable gameplay experience. Believe me, I've 
 tested the game out and if you really are good at headshots, your enemies start wearing kevlar 
 helmets and body armor. Plus they gang up on you and even will flank you. Be careful, the game's 
 difficulty is also variable by the computer.
  
  The story continues on of the original SiN with the main character Blade. I haven't played through 
 the original SiN so I can't bring you up to speed but the game starts with you lying in a scientific 
 lab face to face with a beautifully modeled antagonist (aparently) and an old enemy. The girl pictured 
 on the box, the new HardCORPS rookie, comes to your rescue and slaps you into a car faintly remiscent 
 of a BMW/Astin-Martin.
  
  From there it's urban style combat all the way to a direlect ship where your old friend (id est 
 enemy) is head quartered. Watch out and keep your head down. If you start running, your enemies 
 will get gunning. This isn't Half-Life where you can take quite a few hits, nor is it Halo. If 
 you're hit a couple of times (your enemies will sit there and gun you from behind cover big time) 
 you're dead.
  
  All in all, this is a game worth buying. Worst comes to worst you wasted $20. That's better than 
 $50. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastercleft
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 23, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  as you all may know back in 98 two games were realesed sin and half life sin was okay but half 
 life came out before sin sand was amazing so no one payed attantion to sin, now in 2006 sin episodes 
 is released and is fallinhg into the same problem. You have to go into this game open minded and 
 not thinking that because it uses the source engine it is like half life 2 it looks different then 
 half life 2 but uses the same engine and that you hate it thsi doesn't play like half life 2. Don't 
 get me wrong Half life 2 is a great game but every game doesn't need to be compared to it same 
 engine or not. I will review this game as its own game and not "the shadow of half life 2"
  
  Graphics- The graphics in this game are pretty good, there not oblivion but are definatly something 
 to look at. They have a very distinct look and ritual has definatly took full advantage of what 
 source can do- they have fully destructable enviroments very good physic system and excellant enviroments.
 
  
  Gameplay- theres alot here so here i go. FirstThe AI in this game is excellant, Ritual has included 
 a dynamic AI system which allows the AI to adapt to your every move, but was pretty glichy until 
 they released a patch that fixed many of the problems other then the spawning enemies, but when 
 i say spawing i don't mean pop an enmey appears in front of your face i mean if your in a firefight 
 and guys are reppling from the ceiling they keep coming until you move one but when you travel 
 back that area they won't continue to spawn. Over all the AI is excellant. Second the game itself 
 plays very smoothly and you really feel emerced in the game. You can't look at this game though 
 as a FULL game its an episode so there will be gaps and by playing through the game again you may 
 fill some in or you will have to wait for the next episode but it will keep you on the edge of 
 your seat.
  
  Sound- I have mixed reactions with thsi one over al the sounds are good but the enemy voices are 
 sort of weak and repetive but the main characters voices really fit there character and fit the 
 characters perfectly, the weapon sounds are very good and are enjoyable to hear whether its close 
 up or far away
  
  Value- Youmay on'y get 4-6 hours of game for 20$ but there is plenty or replay value and secrets 
 in the game, also its on; y part of a game so its a pretty good deal. plus you get Sin1 which i 
 pretty good (in a nut shell i'd give sin 1 a 7.5-7.8) and fun. And considering there are games that 
 are 50$ and you get only 6 hours of gameplay and no rplay value its a pretty good deal.
  
  So overall sin: episodes is a great game and is very fun and from what i cansee from this episode 
 the future episodes are going to be very good
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkalla
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 23, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  A game with 2002 graphics/models/animations and 1999 gameplay.
  
  For those of you wondering, some of the graphics and textures/effects are quite good, but they 
 are few and far between and stick out enough that they make you do a double take. All the rest 
 of the game screams "value", there is nothing glitzy or nice looking about this game.
  
  The game play is Quake 2 or Doom II, whatever you prefer. You don't need to try any doors, it's 
 the most linear experience ever, you are not guided but forced in the direction you need to go, 
 all the doors that work are open all the ones that don't are closed, viola. The story line is the 
 exact same one from the original game, crazy hooters chick wants to create mutants to ruin the 
 world... lovely.
  
  Almost no environment interaction, just forget about playing with it. You can sit down and pass 
 this game in probably 2 hours. $20 for 2hrs? So $40 for 4hrs? I don't think these guys understand 
 the idea of "episodes" and "micropayments"... this should have been $9.99
  
  If you are used to and have been playing the Republic Commando series, Half Life 2, Quake 4 (to 
 a lesser extent Doom 3) and some of the other really excellent FPSs comming out, go to eBay and 
 pick those up for $20. I was bored when I bought this game and I'm still bored and mad now... so 
 it didn't help.
  
  I hope their 2nd episode is better now that they are mostly done with engine work and can just 
 focus on assest (animations, story, voice acting, etc.) . Who knows, good luck to Ritual I suppose. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norm325392003
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Great game. Starts off with a story that you never really figure out. What did they shoot you up 
 with. Having played the original SiN several times, I was expecting to turn into something before 
 the game was finished. Anyway, I was glad for the free copy again. I wish they included Wages also, 
 which I've never played. I think this is a good start, and am patiently waiting for the next adventure. 
 The first was a little short, but fun to play. I found myself looking for more weapons. Graphics 
 were awsome. It was fun to find the underwater surprises. Played similarly to the first SiN game. 
 That's what I wanted. I wish they would create SiN-Source (for free of course) . I'm hooked. Keep 
 them coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royboy2100
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 23, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  Now that SiN is out, hope everybody was happy. I sure was very happy and hopefully John Blade was 
 also. If you ever played SiN, then like the original, Emergence dumps you right into the action 
 before you even know the story. Anyways, on to the gameplay.
  
  The gameplay is the same good ole SiN. You'll either hate it or love. Simple. The only differences 
 is on certain level, your girl companion will fight along side you. Also like the game, you'll 
 get a call from J. C., your sidekick computer nerd who is constantly always gives wise-crack comments 
 or warn you but the job of warning you is now by the new girl. 
  
  The voice acting was pretty good. Most of the cast who like the bad girl, Blade, and J. C. are back 
 and new people are also added too. If you played Halo with the purple girl Cortana, then you'll 
 know who does the voice for the new girl here in the game, also joining the game is the person 
 who does the voice for Sergeant Johnson from Halo does the voice of Roddick. So pretty much you 
 got a great voice cast and this really did made the game worth playing just to hear. Too bad Ritiual 
 didn't invite the guy who does the voice of Master Chief and then it would be cool with the original 
 SiN cast voiceover joining with the Halo voiceover people.
  
  As for the soundtrack, Ritual should release the soundtrack. Probably one of the best soundtrack 
 I ever heard since Unreal and Quake. 
  
  The graphics is outstanding and on par with Half Life 2 and Oblivion. All the character models, 
 although doesn't look realistic in Half Life 2, had its own likeness to the SiN universe. Using 
 a pair of Geforce 7900GT in SLI mode, the game already looked awesome at 1920x1200 on my Dell 24inch 
 LCD monitor.
  
  The time frame of the game unfortunately is whats causing the downfall. At $20 dollars an episode, 
 the game sometimes last from 2 to 6 hours depending on the level of difficult you choose. For $20, 
 usually you'll get 2 to 3 episode of anime cartoon on a DVD. It really depends how you feel about 
 spending a hard earn Andrew Jackson bill on 2 to 6 hours of fun. 
  
  Anyways SiN episode one is a really fun game which unfortunately ended too soon where I'm really 
 hyped up what is going to happen next in the other episode. Sounds like Ritual is going to follow 
 the way of how some companies are releasing anime in episodes. If this is good, then Half Life 
 2's episode will be out also but in the mean time, go and to do some SiN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViSK88
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  The effect of an Enemy that flay away when you hit him is just GREAT!
  A hing-gameplay, uninspired, just fun shooter
  
  Remember to set-up the challange at the beginning 
 of the game ;-)
  
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manual80
Rating: 7
Date: May 21, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is very difficult to review, there are some promising things in it but also somethings 
 that are plane wrong. Beginning with the first, i think the story is pretty good, some interesting 
 opponents (guys with apache guns where there hands should be) also the different secondary fire 
 on the guns were good you really have to think witch gun you use on a opponent.
  The game has a difficulty level that changes during the game, so if you shoot a couple times in 
 the head the opponents start to wear helmets. Also at some parts of the game it seems that you 
 "shall not pass" the opponents are spawing al the time you kill one group and there comes another. 
 Oke so what doesn't work? Like i said before you have 3 guns! It's a shooter with 3 guns what were 
 they thinking i wonder. Maybe they want to give you new guns is Sin episodes: "Real" Emergency 
 but i could have used them in this one. The enemy is sometimes to strong, you die at every corner, 
 so keep saving also they can shoot through doors and stone walls which is annoying. Also stupid: 
 the end of the game, the crazy big boobs ( you know what i talk about!) , annoying bugs in the middle 
 of the game. All in all a game that has great potential but the next part has to be much better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodylotion
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 21, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  
  There are a lot of good shooters around, SiN: Emergence is also one of 'm, Although it can't compete 
 to games like F. E. A. R. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The game is quite enjoying if you like 3D shooters. Every area has living things it or at least 
 something that explodes or moves , that's what i believe the best part of the game. Killing enemies 
 is nice too but it's not that hard mostly because the A. I. is kinda bad.
  
  Graphics: 
  Since it uses the HL2 engine so it looks like that ofcourse, good and solid but nothing spectaculair.
 
  
  Sound: 
  Just plain and solid, nothing special.
  
  If you're looking for a plain and oldschool type of game, SiN: Emergence might be something for 
 you. If you're really into scary shooters, shooters with a very good story or shooters where you'll 
 see limbs flying all over the place, try different shooters.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  This game could've been awesome but it's not.
  
  the enemies animations are poor and not up to HALF-LIFE 2,
  the physics lack any physics (lol) 
 and feel poor, again unlike
  Halflife 2, the sound is great, the graphics are good too.
  
  i'm not impressed with this game, although as a low-budget
  shoot shoot... run ... shoot with 
 a little story, it does the job well.
  
  but the AI is dumb..... and i mean VERY dumb.....
  their in-front of me and as i go near they 
 look somewhere else
  and shoot ,then turn to me and shoot me..... sometimes
  they don't do anything, i pass em by. :-\ weird.
  
  HALF-LIFE 2 was perfect, SIN - EMERGENCE 
 takes HL2
  and transform it but instead of making a better use
  of all these things, it's done to low budget standard
  lacking any kind of interest.
  
  Recommended 
 (not really) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 8
Date: May 20, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Sin Episodes: Emergence is certainly a well prepared FPS game. Running off of the Half Life Steam 
 engine it gives a graphically excellent game with an interesting storyline that was first presented 
 in the original SiN game in 1998. If you look at this installment as being the first part of the 
 whole game it fits well with what it did. You only recieved a few weapons, but you would assume 
 that more will come in later episodes as you meet stronger enemies. There are many loose ends and 
 questions that beg to be answered as you finish the first part of the game. As was said of the 
 first SiN, this new version doesn't revolutionize the FPS, but it does put together a solid game 
 that is fun to play. 
  As far as the success of episodic content I would say this could be an interesting new trend. I 
 had a good five hours of play out of the game, though I could see how you could blast through it 
 in less than that if you don't spend any time checking things out. With most new full games barely 
 clocking in at ten to fifteen hours for three times the price, these episodes certainly not a waste 
 of money, but certainly not a huge bargain either. The kicker being we might get more play over 
 a period of time. I'll certainly be buying the next installment, and if you buy early you usually 
 get a discount as well. 
  The only thing missing from this game was the interesting player interactions that made the first 
 SiN so fun. John Blade has little to say as he's gotten older. Otherwise Sin Episodes is a worthwhile 
 game for any FPS fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slick_Mike
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 19, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, it was a fun game. It follows an old formula, but if follows it well. And, as 
 I mentioned, it feels like I'm playing a cheesy summer action flick, which is cool with me.
  I don't plan on buying the next episode unless they bring the price down. If they made the full 
 game (all nine episodes) or released half that as a full game (bringing the game to about 15 hours 
 of play) it would still only sell in the stores for $50, $40 on sale.
  I understand that more weapons will probably be available in later episodes, so three weapons didn't 
 really bother me.
  
  Bottom line: While not the most revolutionary game I ever played, certainly a lot of fun, but not 
 worth twenty of my bucks for every episode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigun0006
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 18, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I think that most people who review this game are forgeting one thing. its only one episode. with 
 this in mind, its hard to not like this game. it may be short, with very few weapons, but makes 
 up for it in some awsome areas. the difficulty system is an amazing idea. at the begining, you 
 set a bar for difficulty and for assistence. the difficulty changes throughout the game keeping 
 it at a constent rait, so if you go through a room and headshot every person as they stand still, 
 the next big fight, they will have helmets and will move a lot more. The graphics are good, but 
 unlike HL2, it wount totally blow you away. 
  
  i think the best part about this game is that its only the first part of a long saga. it doesnt 
 have very many levels, but the game still has plenty of space to redeme itsself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiFilms
Rating: 2.4
Date: May 18, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  My own, at the time of installation and starting up the game, was one of hope and excitement. Episodic 
 content in videogaming has always been a tantalizing idea to me. Sometimes, in the need to wrap 
 up plots and contain a game's storyline to a set number of gameplay hours, developers cut corners 
 in the narrative and end up with some contrived ideas. Episodic content would allow the fans to 
 voice their opinions, allow the writers and coders to take their time with a story and flesh out 
 these 3D characters into just that: three-dimensional personalities.
  
  However, after a few hours with SiN: Episodes (Emergence) , I found myself wondering where the innvoation 
 was. I'd seen all this before - and to be honest, done much better and skillfully from other developers. 
 I understand Ritual could be trying to stay true to the original SiN in tone and execution, but 
 as Greg Kasavin mentioned in his review, we're talking about carbon-copy enemies and predictable 
 environment interactions.
  
  Where are the set-piece, epic conflicts like the hollowed-out highrise fight against the Striders 
 that Valve so wisely incorporated into their masterpiece? Instead, we get a cutscene of partial 
 nudity and some uninspired voiceover work from your jacked-in partners back at HQ.
  
  To be honest, I'm not sure I'm intrigued enough to purchase the next chapter. I'm pretty sure I 
 know where the plot is going, and it isn't fresh ground in gaming. Ritual will need to pull out 
 the stops in their sophomore effort if they want my next $20. Unfortunately, this time I'll be 
 waiting for the review instead of preloading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This games is just plain fun nothing else. This is a middle level shooter with a bad story that 
 tou will soon forget once you enter into the game three minutes later.
  
  The gameplay is a little boring considering that I am playing Oblivion right now but this is not 
 a comparison. The point is that this is an extremely linear shooter and I'm kind of disappointed. 
 If you want a game with better gameplay, then this game is not for you
  
  The graphics is just great but would have been better if it was 2004. The source engine is superb 
 and I think it is scalable but ritual did not even improve on it I think. 
  
  The sound is not a problem with almost all cards and 5.1 systems and if you are not watching the 
 game while playing you would swear it sounded like Half Life 2. 
  
  The user interface in the beggining is also boring and out of place and what is up with the blue 
 interface........
  
  Total value is low and not recommendable to anyone who wants to go online and frag a few friends.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 18, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  The Good: cool weapons, good physics, good graphics, good audio, and a pretty looking game overall. 
 and it's kinda like half life 2 in terms of engine but of course that half life 2 is better with 
 physics, graphics and gameplay and just overall, but whatever, and it's a pretty looking game as 
 i said
  
  The Bad: it's doesn't have a multiplayer which makes it not a really good game cause it would be 
 really nice to see some multiplayer.
  
  This game is actually great but not what i've expected and if the game was having multiplayer then 
 the game would be a lot better but it still a great singleplayer first person shooter game out 
 there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: innerwar
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 18, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  I'm one of those crazy people that really, really enjoyed the original Sin, in spite of its crazy 
 bugs, terrible script and retarded characters, or perhaps because of. Sin, as with most of Ritual's 
 games, has an air of audacity to it that i always found deeply refreshing, with its giant chested 
 antagonists and wisecracking beefcake jerk protagonist. Even the annoying hacker kid somehow lent 
 the experience a coherence that many "smarter" games can only dream to match.
  So naturally, i've been excited out of my mind about Emergence.
  
  What was i hoping to see?
 
  
  * Hacking into people's bank accounts to steal their cash.
  * Bizarre one-liners and bad jokes from mr John Blade, aka The Most Notoriously Unsympathetic Protagonist 
 In History.
  * T&A across the board.
  * Some needlessly complex interaction to frustrate the hell out of me.
  * Some kind of retarded 
 mutant that makes no sense and has all kinds of muscles.
  
  What did i get?
  
  A pretty, quiet, polished shooter that was over about as fast as i expected it to be, but contained 
 only cruel teases as to the greatness of Sin's mindshattering retardation. I have MILES of goodwill 
 as far as Sin and Ritual goes. I think Ritual are mad testosterone-fuelled artist geniuses that 
 are in sore need of technology help, and are necessary in the ecosystem of the game industry much 
 like defecation is necessary to the human digestive system. Ritual have always represented catharsis 
 at its purest (though sometimes at it's most flawed) with their unapologetically derivative but 
 sparklingly polished creations. I still look at their Heavy Metal FAKK game and consider it a work 
 of art, even though it plays like a cactus in the small intestine. Sin was and still is their magnum 
 opus, sporting impressive levels of interaction, visceral combat, levels packed with set piece 
 battles and more idiotic action movie dialogue than both Bad Boys movies put together. Emergence 
 brings only a morsel of this vision with it. 
  
  I might as well get down with the stuff i liked. 
  
  Emergence looks as coherent as any Ritual 
 game before it, with one particularly impressive climb up a skyscraper as a standout. Freeport 
 really looks like a town you want to explore or at least blow up good. In terms of creativity it's 
 not a mind shattering experience, but it looks together, tight and makes sense, and i liked it 
 a lot. This coherence extends to everything, colors, uniforms, weapon designs, menus, dialogue.. 
 Freeport is as realized as any game world, and i'm looking forward to more of it.
  
  The weapons, although there are only 3, really do their work very well. The gunplay is always visceral 
 and fast paced, and Emergence marks the return of The Single Most Awesome Handgun In The History 
 Of Ridiculously Huge Handguns. This thing looks *insane* and takes heads off left and right. Emergence 
 sports a headshot effect that never ceases to amuse, and blowing off heads at a distance with the 
 handgun always made me smile. Most enemies, although there aren't many of them, die in creative 
 ways that are always visceral and sometimes utterly hilarious, which is 50% of what makes a shooter 
 experience right there. The limited arsenal holds together just fine for the duration of this experience, 
 and i didn't find myself missing any more. Having only 3 to switch between keeps the action fast 
 and tight, and i liked it a lot.
  
  Now for the rough edges...
  
  Motormouth Blade keeps his mouth shut for the entire adventure (!!!!) , and leaves the wisecracking 
 to his largely uninteresting partner, Jessica. Her delivery is flat, and she keeps putting you 
 in situations of terrible danger for the sake of her own pet peeve with the main antagonist of 
 this episode, a drug dealer type named Radek. As a result, i kept wanting to kick her face in, 
 or at least hoped Blade would tell her to shut her yap even ONCE. But no. Ever the silent feller. 
 Freeman can be a silent protagonist because his character is in his ESSENCE, being intellectual 
 rebellion. John Blade is no intellectual; he's an ass-kicker and a name-taker. His rebellion is 
 about fist against face and spitting on corpses, a rebellion against what is socially acceptable. 
 For episode 2, i hope Ritual let this guy speak up, because his wisecracking bs is ESSENTIAL to 
 the Sin experience.
  
  Worse is the detachment you feel from the storyline. Emergence is a game that demands prior knowledge 
 of the Sin universe, and as such is really really hard to get into if you don't have it fresh in 
 mind. The story, being the beginning episode of i don't know what, is shallow and simple, taking 
 you through a short lived chase after this Radek guy, who i have no real reason to want dead other 
 than Jessica's constant bantering about how big of an a-hole he is. So the real reason to fight 
 is simply that everyone apparently wants you dead, and that's not good enough by my book. I felt 
 detached throughout, and it became more about gameplay than experiencing a game world. 
  
  Emergence is a game that has the spirit but lacks the soul, and most importantly it lacks the insane 
 audacity and over the top action movie feel Sin'98 had in spades. John Blade's silence is the biggest 
 culprit here. Here's a character that's pretty damn hard to like from the beginning, and when all 
 he ever says is "come in jessica, what's up jessica, come in JC" etc, what are we supposed to feel 
 for him? John Blade MUST SPEAK, lest he become generic. And generic is the last thing Emergence 
 needs.
  
  Was it worth the 20 bucks? I think so. It's a solid shooter experience that's thoroughly enjoyable 
 purely on the merits of its visceral shooty nature and coherent art direction. Is it worth another 
 20 for episode 2? I hope so, because i will be paying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 18, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  Let's be honest: Where would this game be without big-boobed bad guys and cute, foul-mouthed sidekicks? 
 It'd be even more of a run-of-the-mill FPS than it already is.
  
  The graphics are decent, though still not on par with Half Life 2, both of which are built on the 
 Source engine. The polish is lacking... some clipping on character meshes and low-detail textures 
 to be found here and there.
  
  The dynamic difficulty system is a good idea, they just couldn't get it to work quite right. Game 
 difficulty increased sharply towards the end, pitting one against large numbers of minigunners 
 and fliers on 3 foot-wide ledges no less. In one memorable sequence, I must've died no less than 
 15 times before passing it. Despite the more frequent deaths, the difficulty system never seemed 
 to let up. A patch or two should iron those glitches out.
  
  Overall, the AI was erratic. Sometimes I caught enemies staring at walls with their backs turned, 
 apparently oblivious to all the gunfire. There was also a scripting bug which required a console 
 command to move the game along - nothing that can't be quickly fixed, but that should have easily 
 been caught by QA/testers.
  
  The character designs were rather mundane and lacked imagination. In fact, the mutants looked remarkably 
 similar to those found in HL 2. There aren't many types of enemies either - basically 3 human types 
 and 4 mutant types, one of those being a boss. 
  
  Jessica is cute and Elexis has two bowls of Jello. Barring that, this game has nothing special 
 to set itself apart from any other FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSlater85
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 17, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Well first off I'm not a fan of steam... I don't like that it takes me 30 minutes to install this 
 (including registering and all that) . I wanted to just play. The storyline was a bit weak and for 
 a mature game there was not quite enough maturity for me... A little more romance between blade 
 and his sidekick might have helped and a longer game. 5 hours first time through on easy... I would 
 have liked to see a nice machine gun or something a little more powerful then what I had. They 
 did fine on the regular levels but often I was running out of ammo before I did anything useful 
 to the Boss. As long as you get it for less then $15 US you should be okay. It's worth that but 
 not much more.
  
  Now that I am done complaining... It had very nice graphics, Havok Physics, and excellent sound. 
 So really if it was not for those annoying things I mentioned I would have liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrclem
Rating: 8
Date: May 17, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  SiN Episodes: Emergence is the first of, as the title suggests, a series of short episodic games 
 from Ritual Entertainment. Having never played the original SiN, I was able to come into Emergence 
 with a clean slate. That is to say, I really had no idea what to expect.
  
  Despite a fairly slow start involving a rather lengthy in-game cutscene and the first 5-10 minutes 
 of gameplay spent walking around without a weapon (in homage to Valve I would guess) , eventually 
 the action kicked in and rarely slowed down from then on.
  
  The story of Emergence, briefly, is that your character, John Blade, is held captive by the game's 
 villain Elexis Sinclaire and her mad-doctor associate Radek. On Elexis' order, Blade is injected 
 with a mysterious vaccine just before being rescued by Jessica Cannon, a fellow member of the HardCORPS 
 private security organization.
  
  And so begins Blade's quest to discover the truth behind the strange experiments performed by the 
 SinTek corporation, and find answers about the substance that now courses through his veins.
  
  Emergence is based on Valve's Source Engine and, as you would expect, is a visually impressive 
 game. The characters are all very well designed, with the main cast of characters being intricately 
 detailed. The environment is also well-done, despite occasional textures appearing somewhat blurred 
 or stretched. But honestly after an intense gun-battle, with copious amounts of blood, bullet holes, 
 and scorch marks scarring the floors, you really don't care. Some people have also mentioned that 
 they are disappointed by the reuse of a lot of Half-Life 2 resources, but I have to admit that 
 I didn't really notice.
  
  The sound in the game is also fairly solid. The title track of the score is actually a well-produced 
 song that I found myself enjoying much more than most non-symphonic game music. The voices and 
 effects are all quite good as well, with the only low-point being the surprising amount of profanity 
 in the game. It largely doesn't come off well, and seems forced into the script most of the time. 
 Also, there doesn't seem to be any way to disable it, that I can find.
  
  Since Emergence is powered by Source, you might think that there would be some interesting use 
 of physics in the game. But unfortunately you would be wrong. There is a handful of physical "puzzles" 
 that require either causing a large object to smash through a door, or an explosive barrel to blow 
 up a door. The one bright spot would have to be the jetpack troops, which fly off in erratic spirals 
 when their packs take too much damage.
  
  Prior to the release of Emergence, Ritual spent a lot of time talking up their Personal Challenge 
 System, which they promised would utilize "one of the most elaborate statistics systems ever created" 
 to offer a dynamic challenge that actually adapts to your style of play. In my personal experience, 
 it went largely unnoticed until, in the final portion of the game, a bug caused the PCS to go haywire, 
 and playing the game an exercise in futility. However, it's very important to note that a patch 
 released less than a week after the game's launch completely solved the error.
  
  That said, the AI in Emergence isn't very impressive. When unable to fire through walls, wear full 
 body armor, and come at you in Mongol Horde proportions, Blade's adversaries can be fairly easily 
 dispatched. The strategy of choice of SinTek troops is to stand behind any available cover and 
 then pop out, taking pot-shots at you, all the while shouting "Flank him!" which will occasionally 
 result in a grenade being tossed your way. The mutants are a much simpler breed resorting to charging 
 straight at you in a suicidal attempt to eat your face.
  
  Although before Emergence was released, some (myself included) were apprehensive about the value 
 that you might get from an episodic title. Given that I started the game pre-patch, it took me 
 right around 10 hours to complete; at least 2 hours of which would be reloading the same sections 
 over and over. But I would imagine that now that the problem has been corrected, an average player 
 will be able to finish the game in 5-6 hours on their first run-through. And I am actually looking 
 forward to playing through the game again soon.
  
  The story isn't quite as engrossing as I had hoped, but to be fair it is only the first in the 
 series. However, with a planned 9 episodes, all to be released at a $20 price-point, I think my 
 time in Freeport City may be brief. But overall, SiN Episodes: Emergence at least is a solid first 
 person shooter that any fan of the genre will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triumph69420
Rating: 8
Date: May 17, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Sin episodes: Emergence offers only a taste of what makes a great first person shooter great due 
 to limited amount of weapons, foes to battle, memorable music, and the dialogue that the original 
 offers. What you do get is some of the brilliance that first person shooters like Half Life 2 offer 
 which include solid level design and tame AI which offer challenges that rarely over step into 
 the frustration zone with a nice dose of Sci-Fi that most should enjoy.
  
  The world of Sin is still a bit goofy with bits of humor but the characters seem to be dull for 
 the bold and brightly colored universe created for them. Overall the characters seem uninspired 
 when they speak which greatly reduces the attachment to them. Disappointing sound also doesnt 
 help the game because the original Sin generated excitement through the use of its music which 
 seems non existent here. On the other hand the weapons are just right for a Sci-Fi game and stuff 
 does both sound and blow up real good.
  
  The weapons are a bit on the generic side because they feel almost like carbon copies of Half Life 
 2 weapons. I feel that one or two more weapons with or with out a secondary fire option to flow 
 along with what the later enemies used would have greatly increased the games value.
  
  I got Emergence for 15 USD, ran it all on high with a 6800GS + X-Fi, and Im pleased with the purchase 
 but overall I feel that Emergence lacks the exuberance that the original offers. Lucky players 
 will also get to play the original which helps the overall value of the purchase. I just hope that 
 the lacking dialogue and the weapon content issues are addressed in episode two with the price 
 of 15USD, and maybe a nice multiplayer to add some sweetness to the purchase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WindowlessHouse
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 17, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I purchased Emergence from Steam in the hope that maybe episodic gaming would be feasible. After 
 playing it, I am convinced that it will be.
  
  I am not going to go into the story, because it is such a short game, but I would like to say that 
 the voice acting and is very well done. The characters expressions are overblown, but it works 
 for the style this game is going for. Radeks voice in particular, just clicked with me.
  
  I cant remember the last time I played an FPS where enemys heads explode into chunks as if they 
 were watermelons when I shot them, or even zip around and explode when I shoot their jetpacks (go 
 Tribes!) . This game does not skimp on the gore, f-bombs, and sexual themes, but does not overdo 
 any of them to be outright offensive. In fact, I found theses elements refreshing because so many 
 other games just dont have them.
  
  There are three weapons that are accurate (thank god) and feel right when firing. They all have 
 alternate firing modes, each of which I find useful in the harder sections of the game. I dont 
 believe this is too few, when one considers the length of the game. As long as more guns are provided 
 in future episodes, I can forgive the scarcity in this one.
  
  The AI is fun to fight against. It can hit you hard and fast and always find ways to trick you. 
 They also have quite a few sayings, so you wont hear the same two phrases over and over. You are 
 not strafing to dodge bullets in this game. The most you can do is duck behind a corner. The enemies 
 will shoot you immediately, so it is a test of who can pull the trigger first and not whether you 
 can sneak up on them.
  
  Difficulty wise, I found this game hard. In several sections, you will find yourself flanked by 
 the enemy and it very difficult to win the fights if you dont throw grenades in the right spots 
 and go for headshots to take care of the leftovers. There are different methods of dispatching 
 your foes, so you are never stuck using the same trick over and over. If you do, you will run out 
 of ammo and have to adapt by using the other guns anyway. Expect to die a lot on the harder settings.
 
  
  This game is basically a corridor shooter and it looks great on the Source engine. There are very 
 few moments where you wont be in a hallway of some sorts. However, the way the designers loop 
 you around the locations is very interesting and well put together. It feels like you are actually 
 going through them rather than running through random hallways with no purpose. 
  
  This should be a very entertaining "first episode" for those who enjoy plenty of action and cool 
 characters. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodman1
Rating: 8
Date: May 17, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  If you like FPS with a M rating, this game delivers. I thought the game felt like HL2 and by halfway 
 through it started feeling like FEAR. I hold alot of my rating to how a game runs on my rig and 
 this one was stable and ran smooth. It is getting harder and harder to find new realeases that 
 run well on my AMD Opteron@3ghz with 2 GB of ram and a 7800GTX512@610-1820. What good are great 
 graphics if they run below 60FPS. I enjoyed this game the whole way through, however I think the 
 price was abit high considering the content. 14.99 would be the sweet spot for Episode 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptravis
Rating: 4
Date: May 17, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  It's difficult to write about a game that was so tedious to complete. The generic sci-fi plot (or 
 lack there of) , stock characters, and uninspired level design made me want to quit many times. 
 There are about four different enemies you will have to shoot again and again. And again, once 
 they've re-spawned. The loading is long and the AI is ridiculously dumb. One would think that nowadays 
 there would be at least some standards in regards to game AI.
  
  The bottom line is that this game is repetitive as hell. There's simply no variety at all in what 
 is essentially four hours of game-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 52fitz
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  Congrats to the team at Ritual for creating a great-looking FPS that is truly FUN to play, and 
 can also, if you want it to, present a real challenge.
  
  The feel and pace of the action will be somewhat familiar to anyone who's played Half Life 2, but 
 without the sometimes time-consuming physics puzzles which pepper that game. And of course being 
 built on the Source engine with Havok physics, there are other echoes of HL2. But make no mistake 
 - SiN Episodes: Emergence has a flavour all of its own, and it offers consistently entertaining 
 shooter action in a constantly changing variety of locales.
  
  I'm half-way through my second trip, and I can guarantee you lots of replay value thanks to the 
 dynamic difficulty system. Where you set the two sliders will have a BIG effect on how difficult 
 the game gets - it'll always be easy at first, but if you set'em 'too' high, it could come back 
 to haunt you later, as you can't adjust the difficulty mid-game. I've seen some complaints about 
 the difficulty settings over on the Ritual forums, but I personally have no issues with them. And 
 of course there's the inevitable patch coming out.
  
  A great game, a real blast that promises really well for the series... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomjhyde
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  The reason I bought SiN was because it was powered by the Source engine and I was wondering what 
 this new idea of episodic content would be like. I found an action-packed whirlwind of adventure 
 that sometimes made me want to punch out my LCD.
  
  SiN Episodes: Emergence is a solid FPS experience with very intelligent AI, interesting levels 
 and an intriguing storyline. The addition of the new Personal Challenge System also threw me for 
 a loop. Im used to a certain bit of challenge in my gamesthough I usually play it on easy first 
 just to experience the storebut the PCS game me some serious run for my money, to the point where 
 I almost went insane.
  
  The problem becomes that you are tasked with killing at least a dozen chain-gun toting enemies 
 with at least twice the health of you with very little access to health packets. Unlike Half-Life 
 2 where you had the Health and the Suit (Armor) , this game only gives you the health, bringing 
 a huge amount of challenge to the process. It becomes a trick of learning when to quick-save more 
 than anything else. While those of us with a tactical bent might appreciate the challenge of trying 
 to approach the problem from different angles, it often becomes an issue of just how lucky you 
 are.
  
  While I know this was only the first episode, I do wish that I had at least one more weapon. Limiting 
 weapons to a pistol, a shotgun and an SMG is a good start, but I wish we had at least got something 
 else to liven things up.
  
  The characters all were well-constructed and playednot to mention stunningly gorgeous. The Source 
 engine really shines in this title as you can see when you have a vision of the lovely Alexis Sinclair 
 in a string (that may be too strong of a word) bikini. 
  
  The gameplay was solid and interesting and definitely keeps one on your toes. The sound quality 
 is quite high though I did run into the glitches near the end sequence. 
  
  The cost of $20 for a 4-6 hour game seems a little steep. I think that a price tag of approximently 
 $15 would be more reasonable.
  
  Finally, the distribution of the game on Steam makes things a lot easier. I enjoy Steams ability 
 to preload and then install at the moment of release.
  
  All in all, Im looking forward to Episode 2 and to discover what exactly was in that needle. At 
 least when we find out, well have a cute little redhead to experience it alongside us.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonkaz
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 16, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the original SiN when it first came out. I thought it never got the credit it 
 was due since it was released in such close proximity to Half-Life. It had some innovative game 
 play and humor, though it certainly was with its share of bugs.
  
  This is where SiN: Episodes Emergence stands presently. The ideas behind it are great and its certainly 
 fun to play, but it definitely suffers from some bugs. Throughout the game I noticed quite a few 
 clipping errors with soldiers falling half through walls and inside each other. One character's 
 tie disappeared inside his chest and reappeared near his belly. While these are minor gripes, the 
 whole premise of releasing this episodically is to ensure the highest production values, which, 
 albeit good, are not quite there. 
  
  Furthermore, the dynamic difficulty setting works great until right near the end of the game, where 
 it can turn near impossible. I would say I am a pretty seasoned FPS player, but I always like to 
 set my difficulty in the mid-range the first time through. Despite setting the difficulty sliders 
 at very moderate levels, near the end of the game a new enemy, the chain gunner, is unleashed. 
 After being mowed down about 30 times in one place by these enemies the game was still throwing 
 them at me in hordes making it near impossible to progress. Much more work has to be done on the 
 dynamic difficulty scheme, and if you do play, set the game to help you out quickly if you run 
 into trouble, otherwise you may find yourself cannon fodder for chain gunners much more often than 
 is entertaining.
  
  All in all, not a terrible start, but I expect a much better showing from episode 2 if they expect 
 me to keep buying this series.
  
  THOUGH... The dopefish did make an appearance and make my day. So a solid pat on the back to Ritual 
 for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daedalus2040
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  SiN Episodes: Emergence was pretty good right when I started it up. At first I wasn't too sure 
 what to expect. All I knew was that the original game was released in the shadow of Half-Life and 
 Ritual Entertainment chose to utilize the Half-Life 2 source engine. 
  
  The gameplay is quite good really. Its fast paced with lots of explosions, gunfire, blood, and 
 more explosions. The physics are slightly exaggerated, but thats not a bad thing. The physics make 
 for some hilarious moments such as shooting soldiers with jet-packs in mid air. One of the things 
 the developers boast about in the game is how the difficulty automatically adjusts based on your 
 skill. For instance, if you start shooting head shots left and right, the enemies start to don 
 helmets. Or if your the kind of person who enters a room and finds a corner to sit in, the enemies 
 begin to come in multiple waves from all over. However this system does get a little sporadic at 
 times. Particularly later in the game when tougher enemies emerge. There are also only four weapons 
 available, but that is because this is only the first episode. The weapons include a pistol, a 
 shotgun, an assault rifle, and grenades. For better or worse, no particular weapon is significantly 
 better than the next. They each have pros and cons. My only real gripe about the gameplay is that 
 certain points of the game combined with the auto difficulty get extremely hard and that the story 
 leaves you wanting to play the next episode right away. Those who have beaten Halo 2 will know 
 what I mean
  
  The graphics are excellent and everything in the game from the characters to little things in the 
 environment have subtle details that really can make you want to take a second to look around after 
 you eradicate all the enemies. 
  
  The sound is one of the things that really stands out to me honestly. Particularly the soundtrack. 
 SiN's soundtrack was produced by Zak Belica and is available at iTunes. As for those of you who 
 are wondering what the theme song is called, its "What's the World Come To". Everything throughout 
 the game as far as sound goes is well done. The voice acting decent and and all the sound effects 
 are good to go.
  
  Overall SiN Episodes: Emergence is a solid shooter with a lot of potential and is only the first 
 in a series of nine episodes. With any luck the developers will listen to the feedback from gamers 
 and release the next episode relatively soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adema360
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 15, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  SiN Episodes: Emergence, is the newest game in the SiN series. You once again play as John Blade, 
 and you fight your way through the game against the sin tech army that apposes you. The game is 
 full of some fairly well done voice acting and some an interesting battle system which actually 
 fits you according to your skill and what the difficulty setting you choose is. Really innovative 
 if I say for myself I think more games should be like that. The story in this game is pretty straight 
 forward, your infected with something, and you think you might be changing into a monster or something, 
 you have to find the people who infected you and find out if you can be cured, while getting revenge 
 if you can. The musical score for the game is fairly good, but you can easily tell if there is 
 any enemies near because the music changes when you enter a room usually. There are several flaws 
 in the game though. I played it on my computer and it ran fairly well, I downloaded the game through 
 steam and it worked really well accept for the lag right after load sequences, which often took 
 too long in my opinion, and an occasion glitch after saves where you cant move forward unless you 
 move backwards first, which is a strange and aggravating glitch when you find out there was an 
 enemy right around the corner and you end up being killed since you have problems moving. My friend 
 bought the game from a store, and it was horrible, he has a PC practically the same as mine, he 
 has a faster processor but a slightly worse graphics card, the game often froze, and lag was a 
 big problem. There was allot of glitches as well. I really don't know what might have caused it, 
 and the fact that allot of reviews of this game have been loved it or hatted it makes me wonder 
 if the people that hated it bought it from the store, and the people that loved it bought it from 
 steam. Hopefully they fix the games errors so everyone who buys it may actually enjoy it. All in 
 all this game is about 6 hours long or so, and its a pretty good deal for 20 bucks, actually a 
 great deal, but don't buy it from the store or you may end up regretting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpgannon
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded SiN Emergence apprehensively; I loved Half-Life 2, but I don't tend to like shooters 
 much. However SiN Emergence's story was well worth the $18. It plays like a movie, and is entertaining. 
 
  
  I must say, I was a little dissapointed when it came to the city. In this particular episode, you 
 go to the port, drive around a bit, and then to SinTEK Tower. That's it. This episode does not 
 feel urban in character. Since the majority of the action takes place at the port/oil tanker, it 
 feels more like exploring a new level of HL2 than Freeport City. However, from the Episode 2 preview, 
 it looks like we'll be seeing plenty of that... in six months.
  
  I say download it on a rainy day. It's good fun. But don't feel obligated to get it RIGHT NOW. 
 You literally can beat the whole thing in six or seven hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 15, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is a little different. but for those people that just play games cuz you can get them 
 cheap, i would get it it is fun and a little different in places, but all and all it a fun shooter 
 and good game play and things and I dont have much to say about it all and all, just get it if 
 you can but just dont go out and wait for it like you should do for halo 3 and stuff just wait 
 tell the price gos down and then get it and have fun. You should have a good pc if your going to 
 play it. Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RayneJarre
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 15, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  SiN Episodes: Emergence is a first person shooter released in 2006, which is a sequel to SiN, released 
 in 1998
  
  Gameplay - 9/10 - This system introduces a dynamic AI, essentially, if you start the game on easy, 
 but manage to run around getting headshots all the time, the game will adjust accordingly. This 
 was included to keep the pace up for anyone who plays the game. With this, however, initially came 
 many complaints; the AI would sometimes scale higher than expected for some people, making the 
 end of the game near impossible for them. A patch is going to fix this problem. My experience was 
 perfectly fine; there was a long time at the end when I was sitting at 5hp on the edge of my seat, 
 hoping that the stray enemy bullet would not hit me. I completed the game in a little over 7 hours, 
 which was expected. There are only three weapons in the game, four with grenades, but they suited 
 me just fine. Running on the source engine, and with Havok physics, blowing away an enemy at point-blank 
 range with a shotgun has never felt so good.
  
  Story - 6/10 - The story for this game is lacking, and requires at least a bit of back-story from 
 the first game. In the SiN Universe, the world is set about 30-40 years into the future, the police 
 force in the world has all but dissolved, being accused of being ineffective. With this, many large 
 corporations began hiring internal police, and many mercenary groups arose. HardCORPs is one of 
 these groups, however these groups do not get along very well, and there is a bit of tension among 
 them. During SiN Episodes, you will slowly uncover a plot revolving the drug U4, which makes a 
 return from the first SiN. The Story is there, but unfortunately, not told well. Many people will 
 probably be lacking the back-story from the first. However, which the purchase of SiN Episodes 
 on Steam (At least, for me... I am not sure how long it will continue) You will also get a copy 
 of SiN 1, so you can go back and learn the back-story if you like.
  
  Graphics - 8/10 - The character modeling, level design, and texture design is very well done. The 
 environments in this game are brighter than say, Half-life 2. However, it is created very well. 
 The effects in the game are there, but they are not as impressive as the other First Person Shooters 
 on the market today, playing through the game, I saw little that made me say "Wow! I haven't seen 
 that before!" However, I personally also rank graphics lower than game play, and so I was not really 
 looking around for visuals as much. What is neat is that the system allows you to shoot gas containers, 
 explosive barrels, Gas canisters, and other destructible objects, which can create for some humor 
 when faced with difficult encounters; and, at least in my game, there was a lot of fire going 'round.
 
  
  Sound - 9/10 - The sound in this game was quite nice, coming from a musical background, I am usually 
 critical on sounds in games. The opening theme is very nice, and the music in game flows nicely, 
 minus some hiccups between track changes. The in-game ambiance is quite nice, and uses, from what 
 I can tell, an environment map; for I had EAX disabled, but still had environmental audio, which 
 was quite pleasing. The enemies have a variety of unique lines to keep them interesting, and it 
 is fun to hear them yell, "Look out! Incendiary!" to "Ahhh! I'm burning!"
  
  Play Time/Replay Value - 6/10 - The playtime is estimated (From Ritual) to be 6 hours, however, 
 I put about 7 hours in. There is a bit of replay value in the game, as they give you a nice important 
 stat monitor, so you can watch stats from how often you get headshots, to how many footsteps you 
 have taken, to how many enemy grenades you have thrown back. The stats are _very_ detailed, and 
 with good reasoning, as these stats are (optionally) uploaded to Ritual, which in turn is how they 
 are going to develop the next games in the series. If they see people setting off traps to kill 
 their foes much more than just running in and killing them, then they will structure future levels 
 to incorporate that. It is a nice system, and allows players to run through and see how they are 
 doing. There is also many secrets in this game, which for some people, adds in a lot of replay 
 value to go find everything. I could not foresee me running through this game more than 3-4 times 
 in succession, simply due to its FPS nature.
  
  Final Recommendation - If you enjoy first person shooters, then I would say try this game. It retails 
 (In stores and on STEAM) for only $19.99, which really is not too bad. If you don't like first 
 person shooters however, I don't really foresee you liking this game either, it doesn't add enough 
 away from the genre to draw in people who are looking for something more.
  
  Overall Scoring:
  Game play - 9/10
  Story - 6/10
  Graphics - 8/10
  Sound - 9/10
  Play 
 Time/Replay value - 6/10
  
  ____________________
  
  Total: 7.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_beef2
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 15, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  Most people seem to overlook the fact thatthis is just Episode 1. If all 9 (?) Episodes were colaberated, 
 it would make probably the best game you have ever played. It's short because it's intended to 
 be. While there are alot of reused materials from Half-Life 2, you don't notice it when pl; aying 
 the game. Not even when watching someone. I really liked this first episode. Alot. This is the 
 very first episodic series title, ever. Maybe people are just a tad bit confused on how it all 
 works out. You don't get it all in an episode. The story is pretty good. The AI is amazing, it's 
 much like F. E. A. R.'s AI in many ways. The difficulty really varies. The sound, phenomenal. I have 
 never played a game with so manyu sounds like this. The only problem I saw was how I was left wanting 
 more when I finished the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archvile700
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  the story seems a little choppy and confusing, but its not horrible. also the game can be really 
 hard because there is no armor in the game, and there are only 3 weapons. before i lose track, 
 i must say that the game has a very annoying bug where you cant get past the part where rodeek 
 is behind the glass door and your stuck between the force field and that door. i had to reload 
 and do the whole part with the cart over. not a big fan of that. on the plus side, 2 hot chicks 
 in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwarsfr3ak
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 14, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Keep in mind that I'm cheap. Really cheap. And not by choice. I have bills and obligations to meet, 
 and buying games is somewhat of a rarity for me these days. However, I got this game out of sheer 
 curiousity, and I'm very impressed with what I bought.
  
  First off, you get the original SiN, which seems to have been slightly enhanced with some Source 
 effects, ala Half-Life 1 Source. I never got to play the first one, so having this game in the 
 package alone had sold me. Ever since I read the review for SiN in PC Gamer a looooong time ago, 
 I was intrigued to play it. And I've gotta say, for a game that's what, like 8 years old or so, 
 it was a blast to play. Sure I beat it in a couple of days but that's with most games. It got me 
 hooked into the SiN series though - over the top, crazy FPS action. Kinda reminded me of that spoof 
 spy game, No One Lives Forever.
  
  Anyway, SiN Episodes: Emergence is a wonderful FPS. It shares many aspects of the Source engine, 
 you'd swear you were playing HL2 again, but you soon realize how much different it is. I love how 
 the game plays (headshots freakin' RULE, and grenades are satisfying) , and I swear I played this 
 for at least 3 days before I beat it. I don't know how people are beating this in 3 hours, but 
 they sure aren't taking in the game for all it's worth. This game is also great cause of the eye 
 candy. Jessica Cannon is definately a tasty morsel - and don't blast my post about how I need a 
 life - I have one, and a girlfriend of over a year, so I'm just saying this as a general fact. 
 Get over yourselves, she is a attractive piece of pixel and you know it :p
  
  Even after you watch the credits, there's somewhat of a blooper reel which I found hilarious. And 
 a sneak peek of the second Episode. Plus with all the stat tracking, and other features... it's 
 well worth a few bucks. BIG thumbs up to Ritual and everyone who made this game, I freakin' love 
 it. Can't wait for the next episodes!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimrod97
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 15, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Sin episodes: Emergance being one of the first episodic games to come out got me very excited to 
 buy it off of steam. Hearing that valve was also helping making it got me all excited too. So for 
 only 20 bucks i bought it on steam and started playing. The storyline wasnt bad but the gameplay 
 wasnt anything i havent seen before. It was fun but could be a little repeative at times. After 
 3-4 hours i beat it but i did have some freezing issues. The game was defiently worth the price 
 but nothing i havent seen before except for that the you interact with almost anything which i 
 really enjoyed. Its not a must buy but if you like FPS and dont have 50-60 dollars you should defiently 
 pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morrowind
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  First of all, it should be noted that, as the name implies, this is merely one "episode" of a game. 
 It is about the length of an old-school shareware game (roughly translated, 4-5 hours of gameplay) . 
 I'll talk about the value of the game later, but first I would like to just get the actual review 
 of the "game" out of the way. The gameplay is a great throwback to some of the older fps's (the 
 original SiN comes to mind) . There is no lean function, and there is no real complicated gameply 
 mechanics, its just wholesome run and gun action. The story is light, and may as well not even 
 be there, but it works. There are only three weapons included, and each of them has an alternate 
 fire, that uses a seperate ammo from the main fire. This adds an element of strategy, as you will 
 have to conserve the ammo for your secondary fires for when you really need them (and believe me, 
 you will) . On a non-gameplay note, they seem to have spent a lot of time and effort into making 
 sure that bodies explode satisfyingly when they are on the wrong end of a shotgun blast. Heads 
 explode, arms and legs get torn off by explosions, and the ragdoll bodies go flying in an oh so 
 satisfying manner. The incendiary grenades also provide some great "feel good" moments, when they 
 set a few enemies on fire. On the graphics side, some very nice enhancements have been made to 
 the source engine. Nothing earth shattering, but fire certainly looks a lot better here than it 
 did in HL2. You will find lots of fun gunfights here, including one on the outside ledges of a 
 skyscraper. For $20, I found it to be well worth it. Considering you pay $10-14 to see a movie, 
 I find the $20 for 5 hours of game to be quite fair. You get all of the action of a full length 
 game, in about a quarter of the time. There are no slow down moments in the game, no real "puzzles" 
 to solve. If you enjoy the run and gun style, I dont think you will be dissapointed with this game. 
 The main gripe Ive seen from people is the length, but this is NOT being marketed as a full length 
 game. If you keep that in mind, I dont think you will be disapointed in the least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hegemon44
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 14, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Underwhelming. The idea that I'll be making additional payments to see what amounts to an OK HL2 
 mod doesnt set well with me. There wasn't enough substance or variety to justify $20 on one episode. 
 Enemies and locations were rather repetitive and the models were unremarkable, though the cityscapes 
 were expansive and quite well done. A bit of strategy or puzzle solving (if only to break up the 
 repetition) would have gone a long way. Im assuming therell be another purchase made for Episode 
 2, so I think Ill wait for it to hit the bargain bin on Steam to make the next purchase in the 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omali
Rating: 5
Date: May 14, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  In the last year or so, Steam has seen 8 (yes, 8) third party games added to it's database. Ranging 
 from unique (Darwinia) to never seen that before (Rag Doll Kung Fu) and quality entertainment (Several 
 simulation games and rts's)
  
  What do these games have in common? They all sell to a certain market.
  
  Sin Episodes: Emergence 
 is the latest game to come out of Steam (Created by Ritual Entertainment, but you already knew 
 that) . The game was up for preorder last month, buyers got 10% off (2 bucks) the 20 dollar asking 
 price. 
  
  Now, anyone who's read my (if long between) reviews would see a trend. I usually only review the 
 good games (the lowest i've scored a review is an 8.7) . That's because I feel that only the good 
 games really have an impact on my daily routine (IE: Playing them for instance) . But Sin Episodes 
 went in the opposite direction.
  
  Also: Since I know that i'm going to be hunted down and killed for saying this, only 3 days before 
 it'll be fixed, the review is for the unpatched version. That's how all reviewers... review.
  
  So on to the game.
  
  Sin Episodes: Emergence takes place after Sin (Go figure) . You play, 
 once again, as Blade, the lovely character who likes making one liners and punching out Sintek 
 scientists (If you played Sin, you'll probably remember having fun with that mission) who's been 
 shot up, in some crazy movie fashion, with a drug by his nemesis Elexis Sinclaire (Who makes a 
 stunning appearance in a very small bikini almost right at the beginning of the game)
  
  JC, the hacker, makes his rounds again on this episode, along with Jessica Cannon, a rebellious 
 young girl who happens to be an expert hacker (Like alex, but better looking out of the game, if 
 you watched E3 this year) 
  
  The whole game seems to be a stunning narcissism from Ritual Entertainment. Right from the start 
 they are showing off Alexis's.... em... ballistic technology (Believe me, you'll spend most of the 
 introduction simply staring at the screen) . After that, the game takes a Max Payne 2 approach and 
 spends a good amount of the level simply showing off the source engine's physics.
  
  The graphics, sadly, don't live up to the source engine expectations. The objects look great and 
 are, for the most part, detailed. The rooms however, will become increasingly familiar as you realize 
 that most of them were seen a level or so before. 
  
  The sound is exactly as I expected it to be, immersive. You'll hear your enemy's chatter on the 
 radio (to a point where the voices in your head start mimicking them) and they'll scream when they 
 catch on fire (ahh, incendiary grenades....) The weapons all sound great and realistic (Of course, 
 by weapons, i'm talking about the pistol, shotgun, and machine gun) .
  
  Speaking of weapons, there are three of them. There is a pistol, a shotgun, and a machine gun (in 
 case you missed the previous paragraph) . Each weapon has it's own alternate fire, but I'll let 
 you find out what those are for yourself. Also, each weapon has ironsights, although putting ironsights 
 on a shotgun is basically useless, since the shotgun is only good for close quarters combat anyway. 
 My only disappointment was that Ritual decided to retire Blade's fists as a weapon.
  
  A. I: Ok, this is the part where the game got it's 5.1 from. The A. I is either doing one of three 
 things: Working fine, stupidly accurate, or stupidly stupid.
  
  In the first case, the game is working fine and the enemies are reacting to your moves. This is 
 rare. In the second case, there are times when you'll get shot through walls (Ritual says that 
 weapons have penetration power, but I've never seen my own weapons be able to penetrate the walls) 
 and even be shot by enemies who can be facing the complete opposite direction. For the most part, 
 the enemies will have horribly accurate aiming (To a point where you'll have 50% of your health 
 taken off before you fully make it through the door) . This isn't helped by the fact that, later 
 in the game, you'll find yourself matched against chaingun enemies in close quarters. At this point, 
 the enemies seem to be endlessly spawning.
  
  Ah yes, and spawning. Did I mention that enemies spawn instead of being placed there when the level 
 starts? It's a good concept for the dynamic difficulty, but ends up making enemies spawn behind 
 you (leading to quick deaths out of nowhere) .
  
  By the time you hit 20 deaths in one part of the game, you'll wonder if it's possible to have multiple 
 aneurysms at once.
  
  Oh yea, forgot about the last one. Sometimes (not sure if this is the difficulty system kicking 
 in) if you die enough, the enemy won't be triggered at all.... I've had times where I simply walked 
 through the room of five guys, not one of them moved until I fired a shot.
  
  And before you tell me off for complaining about the difficulty, I have Mike Tyson's punchout. 
 I know the meaning of difficulty.
  
  All in all, the game is not bad for it's 20 dollar price. If you're going to buy this, I suggest 
 you have something that you don't value too much by your side (So you can smash the ever loving 
 hell out of it when your blood starts boiling) . Or a stressball. I personally won't be playing 
 the game again until wednesday when the patch is supposed to come out to fix the AI issues (I'll 
 talk about it in a blog post when I get the chance to review it again)
  
  Omali out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddlagarry
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 14, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  I obtained this game as a download from Steam for 17 bucks. I figured that anything that uses the 
 Source engine can't be all that bad... and minimally will be nice to look at.
  
  I was correct on the "nice to look at" part. The textures are nicely detailed, the ambient sounds 
 are well done, character detail is also well done. I was disappointed that the environment does 
 not seem to vary much; its basically city-scape and classy building interiors, with a few brief 
 forays into underground tunnels and waterfront. I guess I was spoiled by Half Life 2's wide variety 
 of environs... but then again this is only "Episode 1". I'm told that future episodes will take 
 place oin other environs.
  
  This is definitely a "mature" game. There is a lot of swearing and "jiggly bits" if you get my 
 meaning.
  
  The plot is not revolutionary by any means, and has been done many times before, and better. I 
 won't go into much detail here, but once you wander around enough you will eventually let out a 
 sigh and murmur "oh. its one of these stories again".
  
  Interaction with the universe is almost exactly the same as HL2... objects can be picked up, smashed; 
 some interaction is possible with a few objects. I liked the interaction with the computer consoles 
 to trigger certain things.
  
  The puzzles were not particularly challenging. The AI apparently has the ability to "learn" from 
 your playing style, although this was not evident to me, even after adjusting the difficulty. 
 
  
  After it was all over, about 6 hours later, I felt like it was a nice diversion. I satisfied my 
 urge to kill some bad guys and got some eye candy. I wasn't "moved" in any way though, like I was 
 while playing HL2. My reaction to HL2 was "oh, man, this is sick!" every 10 minutes. Maybe future 
 episodes will improve the Sin: Episodes series; certainly the toolset is there to create something 
 truly astounding.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shub-Niggurath
Rating: 4.2
Date: May 13, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Sin Episodes: Emergence is the lead-in for a series of video games from Ritual. These are also 
 supposed to form the sequel to the old, under appreciated PC Game simply titled Sin. The hype 
 behind this game was pretty intense, especially for those of us who have subscriptions to Steam. 
 I have to say that this game was quite disappointing, and now I shall explain my judgement.
  
  Im not going to bother with the story because they give you so little of the story at present 
 with nothing more than a 45 second blurt of exposition at the end of the episode that it isnt 
 really worth pointing out. Picture your typical BS FPS plot (or crappy Ah-nold action film plot)
 
  
  Sin Episodes: Emergence makes use of Valves gorgeous and sophisticated Source engine. This game 
 definitely has the good looks it needs to make it. They make excellent use of the effects and the 
 use of light and shadow is admirable. The sound is another high point in the games flashy aesthetics. 
 The VOs are strong, fitting, and they may not make you say Oscar but they arent wooded, flat, 
 or painful to sit through. I scored the aesthetics well but not too well because this is just another 
 HL2 look-alike in appearance. This is where praise from me is going to end for the most part.
 
  
  The game starts out with a nice cut-scene with a pretty decent view (play it and youll see what 
 I mean) and the story they seem to be setting up certainly seems intriguing enough.
  
  However, after only a couple of minutes of playing the game crashed out on me. My drivers are all 
 up to date so I know that wasnt the issue. Also, while playing I found myself getting stuck on 
 various pieces of debris such as pieces of smashed crates or other broken objects. I also hit more 
 than my fair share of invisible walls in the game with crates and other large objects which didnt 
 look like they were blocking my path but the collision detection said otherwise. These glitches 
 combined to add roughly an hour or so to my play time simply because I was either stuck on something 
 and open prey for enemies or I was forced into a long fall by some glitchy collision detection. 
 
  
  This issue also seemed to ring true with the enemies who attacked with melee combat techniques. 
 I clearly seemed to physically be out of range of the attack but would suddenly find myself taking 
 damage. This is very frustrating. And this is only made worse by the enemies less than underwhelming 
 AI. They seem to abide by one simple doctrine: When in doubt stand there like an idiot and shoot. 
 This means that if you storm a room full of enemies they start out strong and some initially fall 
 back to cover while shooting but for the most part they will just stand there, pelting you with 
 unbelievable accuracy while your health whittles away. They also have the uncanny ability to hit 
 you when you cant see them. I was in many a scenario taking damage from enemies with whom I had 
 no clear line of sight and was therefore unable to respond in kind.
  
  This brings me to my next gripe: The health system. Enemies seem to hit you once or twice and you 
 go from 100% health (or more if you found any of the "secrets") to 35% from a couple of bullets 
 in the leg. Meanwhile you stand point blank and nail them in the face with the shotgun (one of 
 only 3 weapons made available to you in the less than 7 hours of gameplay) and hes fine and dandy 
 still plugging away at you with an almost hideously over-powered pistol. Then the next guy comes 
 along and you dispatch him with one off center shot to the body. They didnt seem to work for too 
 long on this aspect of the game. It is very inconsistent and more than a little frustrating. This 
 was, needless to say, another let-down in a game that seemed to be riddled with them. It's almost 
 like the game under-went no play testing.
  
  But dont despair! The game is seriously less than 7 hours of gameplay straight through. This is 
 due in part to the fact that its part 1 of a series but I still think that for the hype, the BS, 
 and the anticipation they could have invested a couple of more hours into it just to keep us around.
 
  
  Following your succesful completion of the game your only reward is a preview of the next game. 
 The plot, once again, looks pretty decent but so little of it is revealed to you that it's almost 
 not tempting enough. I don't think I'm going to DL the next episode.
  
  This is one of the shortest reviews I have ever written for one of the shortest games Ive ever 
 played and I have to say that this game deserves nothing but a word of warning: Dont waste your 
 efing time unless you just want to kill a few hours before an appointment or something. And seriously, 
 $20 was still over-charging... and I even got the pre-order/pre-load bonus that knocked it down 
 to $18 and still felt gypped. Painful. Id say they should have provided us with a free demo but 
 with the game being this short it felt like a demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jhoey
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 13, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  SiN Episodes: Emergence is one of those games, where it's totally awesome, but too short, and leaves 
 you wanting more...
  
  Gameplay-wise, SiN is your basic Action-FPS, explosions, tight controls, cool things to do, but 
 it's really short, as in, "I finished the game in around 5 hours short." But those five hours were 
 AWESOME. The only problem is that, there are about a total of 7 or 8 different enemies the game 
 throws at you, and although you'd think it would be lame to see them over and over again, SiN presents 
 you with enough of a challenge to keep your interest long enough to finish it. Also, some tidbits 
 of the game were blantantly ripped off of Half-Life 2, and since the game is using the same engine, 
 you'll tend to notice. Also, your arsenal consists of three weapons, and chances are you'll end 
 up using them all though. Also, when you start a new game, you have an option to select your difficulty, 
 but as the game progresses, if it notices that you're getting crazy headshots, it'll start spawning 
 enemies with helmets to force you into finding a new method of killing, making the game much more 
 replayable. A little problem with the game is that, in order to progress, some of the puzzles are 
 ridiculously hard. At one point, you have to find a way into a warehouse, but there are no openings, 
 and you have to go back to a barely noticeable open train door to get inside. So it is difficult, 
 and I suggest you look everywhere if there seems to be no escape route.
  
  Graphically, it's the Source engine, used for such games as Half-Life 2 and Counter-Strike: Source, 
 so it DOES look like those games, but it has it's own style so it's not a clone in any way. The 
 shadows and lighting effects are used and are executed flawlessly. The model detail is great, especally 
 on the enemies. The particle effects are fantasic and so are the explosions, which you'll be seeing 
 a lot. It's also much more demanding than Half-Life 2 because of this.
  
  The sound is the game is exceptional, which I didn't doubt considering it's the biggest part of 
 the game clocking in a 1GB of pure awesome sound. The soundtrack is cool and is available for purchase 
 on tie iTunes Music Store for a measly $10, but I suggest you point that money towards the next 
 episode becasue you'll definately take a look into it.
  
  For $20 dollars SiN Episodes: Emergence is a very good bargain, regardless of it being short, and 
 it keeps you wanting more. A definate buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bouche
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Here's my BIGGEST beef in this game and almost all FPS games. It is now 2006.... Why on earth do 
 I still swim with a GUN in hand underwater? I think Far Cry is the only game that got this right 
 along with climbing ladders. It's so unnatural that it completely takes you out of any immersive 
 feelings. Once you notice that, you're completely screwed. 
  
  The environments are nice, the fire is gorgeous and the amount of things I can blow up to make 
 fire are plentiful. That's all adding to the sheer joy of destroying the baddies in the game.
 
  
  Aside from killing, there should have been a phone number quest, or at least have the game track 
 the amount of phone numbers that I keep finding and looking for throughout the game to try on the 
 many phones scattered in the game. It's such a simple addition to the game, but I am having fun 
 finding the little numbers delicately placed on various posters and graphitti. I'm writing them 
 down so when I get to a phone, I can dial them.
  
  a few examples:
  
  0212 - Vive le Revolution!
  0630 - deathstalker radio
  0828 - pipes and creates
  0906 - dj 
 5quid
  
  So there isn't anything too exciting, but they sure could build on that concept.
  
  I'm also 
 finding that throughout the game that I could use more grenades. I usually horde grenades for when 
 I really need them, but they are plentiful. They are dropping from enemies like pennies in a walmart. 
 Perhaps that's affected buy the difficulty slider which I set above the default, but not by much.
 
  
  The difficulty and assistance sliders will probably allow for more replayability, but I couldn't 
 really tell from any information in the game how exactly the game would be affected by the sliders.
 
  
  I noticed some chatter in the background environmental noise in some areas. It's probably a decent 
 schizophrenic simulator as I really started wondering if they were in my own head. I guess that's 
 the price to pay while playing with Bose Quietcomfort 2 headphones.
  
  I worried that the game would be too short, but I've got plenty of gameplay out of it for the pre-order 
 price of $17.95, and I still don't know if I'm halfway through the game yet. It's worth picking 
 up, and it will be interesting to see where they take the next episodes. 
  
  I sure hope this new way of gaming allows for more frequent releases. I'm sure that's the plan 
 here, but whether they'll be able to live up to that promise (and Valve's Episodes) is something 
 that only time will be able to tell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mafiaman8386
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 13, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  Overall, it's a good game. Can't complain of the length due to it being an episode. However, for 
 the price, you will be spending around $100 for all the episodes. It starts off easy, but the constantly 
 adjusting skill level keeps it interesting. Also, 3 weapons aren't really enough, although they 
 all work very well. A little more variation would have been nice. Also, sometimes it feels like 
 you are basically playing a HL2 mod, which isn't necessarily a bad thing. I think the game is very 
 promising, and should get better with every episode released. I will definitely buy the other episodes, 
 I just wish they would drp the prices a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: True_Blu3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 4, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  SiN episodes: Emergence is the first episode in this nine episodic trilogy. It is the sequel to 
 the original SiN that dated back to where games started to come at a new revolution, and that date 
 was 1998. However, since Half-Life came before SiN, SiN turned out to not be a revolutionary product 
 like it should have been. So, Half-Life won the race to the "One of the Greatest Games of All Time" 
 list, and SiN turned out to be an ignored bum on the street that was not known by that many gamers. 
 So, SiN wasn`t a famous titel. It didn`t sell well, it wasn`t loved well, and it got eyed-off well. 
 
  
  Eight years later, episodic games were poping out of no where in the vALVE market. Half-Life2 episode 
 One turned out to be an exciting product to many PC gamers, since it was the episodic sequel to 
 one of the best shooters of 2004. Then everyone saw another episodic game that was running on the 
 Source engine. It was called SiN episodes: Emergence. This game was strange to people, many game 
 critics (like GameSpot) said it was a sequel to a game. "What game?" asked all the PC gamers. They 
 found out it was a game that they rememberd, but ignored. "But why would vALVE want to help out 
 its eight year competeor?" We all said in confusion. Because SiN was a game simialer to Half-Life. 
 SiN and Half-Life were both close to the revoltuionary line and these two game developers (or publishers) 
 made the episodic sequel to SiN.
  
  After a few months from the announcement, SiN turned out to be the first episodic game to be released 
 on STEAM. And I myself have been waiting for the game, because it looked fun and smoothly paced. 
 So I got the game, and I have to say, SiN is an intense expierience from start to finish. Sadly, 
 the game isn`t finished yet which makes this a slide-show.
  
  In SiN, you play as the commander of a police force called, HardCorps. His name is John R. Blade. 
 John wants to stop a mad-women, named Elexis Sinclaire, from destroying the world with unexplainable 
 projects she controls. Elexis controls the futuristic town of FreePort city because of her highly 
 powerful richess she has at her dissposal. John wants to stop her from making these dangerous projects 
 come to life and make the city of FreePort, or the world, a better place. But the main priority 
 is a rookie cop named Jessica. She seems to have a quick and caring relationship with John. This 
 makes Jessica a formal, combat side-kick and now, these two must fight off a powerful corporation 
 with John`s wiz-kid friend, JC. 
  
  You`ll be fighting enemies in very similer enviroments. You will keep fighting in metal made labs, 
 watery docks, and into a large complex building, and they all look very familiar since it all takes 
 place at dawn. The game never goes at night, it will stay at dawn for four or six long hours. It`s 
 weird that the daylight never changes, but maybe the game was supposd to be like an hour or so 
 in real-life instead of playing the game which was six hours. Anyway, instead of the repetive enviroments, 
 the enemies are very smart. This is some of the most intensly made A. I. I have ever seen since 
 the original Halo. They will throw grenades at your cover position so you can get out of cover 
 and get shot by the swarming enemies with their blazing gun-fire. At first, your enemies are normal. 
 They don`t throw grenades, they don`t put up that much of a fight, and they dodge to slowly. But, 
 after three hours in the game, you will feel what true intensity is. Your enemies change their 
 skill and A. I. and after a few moments, you will see them carrying mini-guns, wearing heavy armor, 
 and they will advance in your position since they might know that you`re completely outnumberd. 
 The difficulty is done so well because you are taken advantage by the difficulty its self. The 
 challenge system just scans you to put your skill up a very large challenge to make your heart 
 pump. If you`re a gamer that wanted a challenging game for all these years, you`re looking at the 
 right place. Enemy positions will change when you play the game again which brings up replayabiliy, 
 so this game is worth buying for its challenge. 
  The game has three weapons. Each one is supposed to have it`s advantage for each fight, but the 
 weapons are actually unbalanced. The shotgun will be the most unused weapon since it is so weak, 
 even at close range, and the ricochet secondary fire is useless. The pistol is an accurate weapon 
 that is powerful enough to blast open someones head, but the magnum shot can take down most enemies 
 in one hit and you will find alot of ammo for it which kind of makes fights a bit to easy at times. 
 The best and most used weapon in the game is the assualt rifel. The grenade attachment is important 
 to have if you`re in a hot spot on where you are surrounded by hordes of heavy SiNTek soldiers. 
 The rapid fire is not really that accurate, but very powerful. The scope on the weapon makes the 
 shots have no recoil, so you can take down a large group of weak enemies by just spraying att hem 
 in the head without being shot at long range. The shotgun and Magnum have iron-sight capability. 
 This does feel realistic, but why use it if your shots are already accurate and you don`t have 
 a moving crosshair? The ironsights are strictly there for realism, but it is not that important 
 for use. You do have a left hand grenade for your disposal, but these grenades are useless too 
 since they bounce way to much to get to your enemy`s cover position. The game is very dark sometimes, 
 and there is one problem with that: there is no flashlight what so ever. Most shooters today have 
 flashlight capability but this game doesn`t which makes enviroments kinda dark.
  
  The game`s visuals use the source engine. The game looks good, but not as good as Half-Life2. The 
 wierd thing is, it isn`t that good looking and the game is a systemhog. When ever the game goes 
 to large enviroments with a lot of water reflections, the game will turn out to be a slide-show. 
 Especially your grenades that explode. The fire effects have been enchanced in the Source engine 
 all thanks to this game, you will see sparkles in the fire. But the fire effects make the game 
 run like a slug most of the time, so watch out when throwing grenades into big fire fights. Half-Life2 
 runs better then this game on my PC, and I`m getting chuggy performances on my 7800GT graphic card 
 (I have enough RAM, thank you very much) . If Half-Life2 runs great on your PC, don`t let SiN Emergence 
 trick you. It will run badly with some great PCs. I guess Ritual didn`t finish the game yet, which 
 leaves us with buggy frame-rate problems. The sounds, however, are amazing. The guns pack a large 
 punch (except the shotgun) , and voice acters are amazingly acted. The musical score is moody and 
 dramatic, and the battle cries of your enemies make you feel alot more intense then usual. The 
 coolest sound effect that suprised me the most were the echoes of commands from soldiers. You will 
 hear soldiers from far away holar out to make you get ready from what lies ahead. The small problem 
 with the dialouge is the main character, John. In the first SiN, John always made funny one-liners 
 and always talked on the radio with his friend, JC. In the sequel, he turned you to be like the 
 new Gordon Freeman. He talks only when he answers on the Radio to hear his friends comment on what 
 John sees.
  
  Since this game is episodic, the game is very short. The game is a 4-6 hour gaming expierence and 
 their isn`t any multiplayer what so ever. The game does include the original SiN and its CTF multiplayer 
 modes, but they are all out-dated and their story just isn`t topped up a notch like games today. 
 But it is good to play the predecessor to a game that is good in its own right. The game is $19.99, 
 so don`t consider this game a rip-off.
  
  SiN Emergence is a great package for the gamers that want a challenge or just want to play the 
 original SiN. If you want this game for multiplayer or a longer gaming expierence, look somewhere 
 else. But this game is worth buying if anyone loves Half-Life2 or just loves vALVE alot. And hey, 
 it is only $19.99! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 12, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Most people are saying this game is really bad and just a user mod for Half-Life 2. Well, Im guessing 
 most of these people went into the game thinking it was bad. I never did finish the first SiN because 
 I didnt like it but, this one after the first 20min it started to grow on me. I mean people buy 
 this game give it a chance and you will have fun with it. Although word of warning, if you arent 
 the best gamer in the world I would tone the difficulty down a whole lot, do this and you should 
 be fine.
  
  The first thing I liked about this game was that it has an awesome soundtrack and main menu. The 
 music on the menu is very cool and I tried to get into the files and find it to add it to Itunes. 
 Now when you actually get in the game you will notice that the graphics of this game are very stylized. 
 Some people saw this as bad graphics and that the source engine was aging. No it is stylized graphics 
 and you all need to get use to it. Now I will admit that there could have been some higher resolution 
 textures and some of the non-main characters could actually be render well, with those and HDR 
 added the graphics Im sure would be phenomenal. (Ritual also make the game more detailed please) 
 Other than that I gave the graphics an 8 because there are times when they look good and times 
 when they look bad.
  
  Now game play is another factor. Personally I liked going to a game that had some good shooting 
 in it, instead of strategic game play. For most of the game I had a whole lot of fun blasting enemies 
 and taking people down with the awesome shotgun. SiN: Emergence Episodes can be very hard especially 
 near the end. Otherwise I gave game play a 10 especially with the secondary fire on the shotgun 
 makes it really fun. The Sound in this game is a very nice techno style and only plays during high 
 points of the game, which is a plus. 
  
  My thought on this game is that it is a very fun and good game. Just ritual should spend more time 
 adding detail to the textures, making textures run at higher resolution, improving non-main character 
 rendering and add HDR and the graphics will get a 10. This game is fun, addicting, and very hard 
 so it will keep you busy. Ritual does deliver and for around $20 for a 4 to 5, 5 hours game for 
 me. It is worth it. I dont suggest playing the original SiN its horrible. So people please buy 
 SiN Episode: Emergence and go into with a positive attitude and I promise you will have fun if 
 you have a good attitude with it. 
  
  Reviwed on:
  X800
  3.2 Dual Core ghz
  250gb HD
  1gb Ram 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _sander
Rating: 6
Date: May 12, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  When I saw the first pictures of SiN Episodes: Emergence, I wasn't impressed at all, while some 
 folks were quite hyped up about this game. There seemed to be nothing new or interesting. Same 
 old gameplay and mediocre graphics. Now that It's out, I just wanted to check out why people were 
 so eager to get the game. And well... I was right. There's really nothing we haven't seen.
  
  The graphics aren't anything special. To be honest, the picture is rather outdated and some 
 of the visuals (explosions etc) are really dull.
  
  Another thing that was really bad, was the moving. It just wasn't right, I felt like the main character 
 was sliding on skates.
  
  There really isn't much to talk about this game. Even many of the user made mods for HL2 are a 
 lot better than this.
  
  People, don't waste your time with this game, it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mismajor99
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 12, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the opening storyline but for the most part the action in the game is a bit repetitive. 
 Graphics look good, not outstanding though. Physics are on par with HL2. I was a bit disappointed 
 with the content for the first episode. I went through the game in about 4 hours and it seemed 
 to all blend together with very few memorable moments. There weren't that many different types 
 of enemies and there are only 3 weapons in this episode, all with secondary firing options. All 
 in all, I enjoyed it, but it felt like a budget shooter. I wish they made the storyline a bit longer 
 for the first episode. I will give this series one more shot in episode 2 when it comes out, but 
 if it doesn't improve, I don't think I will invest in the remaining episodes. On the plus side, 
 I love the steam delivery system and the main menu song. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Georhack
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 11, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  This game have great graphis and the gameplay is perfect. there is action every place in the game. 
 but the game lose value becose there is no multiplayer.. but why, can anyone can tell me why there 
 is no multiplayer.
  i whis there will be a multiplayer in SiN Episodes. when i have play to the sing player ,it was 
 fantastic the gameplay the soung the world every things in the game is good good good good. hope 
 there will be a multiplayer in this game in future updape or patch.
  
  so i recommend this game to all fan of shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masaville
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 11, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to SIN, assuming it would be a step up from HL2, but it isn't and in fact 
 feels more like a step down. It's very average in every way and feels a lot like an community mod 
 of HL2. There are a few cool features here and there, but not enough to keep you enthusiastic about 
 the game.
  
  If you're expecting HL2 or better, this title is probably not for you. If you're bored out of your 
 skull and need something to do, it'll help you kill a few hours. It's not terrible - it's just 
 not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Gundam01
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 11, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  very well made game, i like the 3 weapon arsenal, makes it a bit more realistic than carrying around 
 10 guns + a BFG i suppose. problem was that it wasn't that hard. I think if they added more enemies 
 it woud have been better. Except for those stupid armored soldiers, really thought those bastards 
 were annoying; no skill one shot kills on them. story line seemed good and the physics was very 
 realistic, just think they could have put more into it. I suppose i bought it off Steam for like 
 $18 so i really can't complain that it only took me a day to beat it on the hardest difficulty. 
 i'll get the next one. Maybe add a super gun (BFG style) to take on those damn super white gorilla 
 things. 
  
  meh, it was good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalMan666
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 15, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Performance-wise it ran beautifully and gameplay was very good but the overall feel left me feeling 
 like I was playing a mission pack for Halflife 2. I know it's built on the same engine but it's 
 too similar. Even the ambient sounds were too close to what is heard in Halfllife. And what's with 
 Alexis and her boobs hanging out? Please, I think we've all seen enough real boobs to not have 
 to see fake rendered one's in an action game, just gratuitous T&A.
  
  But let's keep in mind, this is only Episode 1, there is much yet to come and I am hoping for more 
 in the next installments.
  
  Oh, and did anyone else find the dopefish under the docks? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasgueado
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 11, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  Sin Episodes: Emergence is the new first person action game from Ritual Entertainment that aims 
 to deliver a compelling action game experience in an episodic format. The game revolves around 
 John R. Blade, a commander in the hardcorps security force and his on-going battle with the discreetly 
 evil CEO Elexis Sinclair. Despite having an original premise for delivery and an interesting setting, 
 the opening chapter in this new series doesnt quite achieve the goals that the developers have 
 clearly attempted to set out for it.
  
  The game is built upon Valves Source engine, and for anyone that has played Half-Life 2 or Counterstrike 
 the feel of this game will be quite familiar. The visuals in Emergence are generally very good. 
 The lighting effects and models are all very nice, the particle effects are effective, explosions 
 are delightfully devastating, and glass breaks in interesting ways. The art direction is pretty 
 good for the most part. The environments are all very colorful and interesting to look at, despite 
 being the same familiar industrial areas that action games are famous for. The game really shines 
 visually in the few places where you are given a clear look at the city from a height until you 
 look straight down and see an overtly low resolution ground texture below you. 
  
  Despite many of the visuals being fairly good, there are some very odd and somewhat jarring choices 
 that were made by the art department. There are more than a few instances where glaringly low resolution 
 textures will stand out from the rest and bring the entire scene down around it. This aspect of 
 the visual style is somewhat confusing given the attention to detail that the developers have put 
 in to other parts of the game. 
  
  Ritual clearly spent a fair amount of time coming up with various ways to allow the player to interact 
 with the virtual city of Freeport. They have stuffed all manner of little knick knacks and gizmos 
 into the environment to play around with and use to your advantage. A lot of the interactions are 
 of the simple kind (i. e. picking items up to use as cover) though if youre looking carefully enough 
 there are some fun little easter eggs scattered about for you to find (some of the phone numbers 
 that can be found are pretty funny) . 
  
  Canisters play a big role in Emergence. There are explosive canisters, canisters for health, and 
 bullet-time inducing mutagen canisters. Most people will already be highly familiar with the explosive 
 barrel, but the mutagen and health containers are a neat system that the developers have built 
 into the game. Scattered throughout the levels will be either small blue canisters (health) or 
 larger green canisters (not health) . The health containers can be used in one of two ways: you 
 may place it in a health dispenser to gain a large amount of health, or you may shoot it and release 
 the gas into the air giving you the ability to heal a moderate amount of damage while behind cover. 
 The green containers contain a mutagen that enhances your reflexes while under its influence. 
 A meter to the left of the screen will slowly fill the more exposed to the poison you are. The 
 higher it goes, the slower time becomes and the higher the risk of taking damage from the gas. 
 There are some cases where the slowing of time is helpful, but generally it isnt because everything, 
 including you, slows down to the same rate. 
  
  Youre going to need all of these little canisters because the action in Emergence is fast and 
 furious if you want it to be. The developers have spent a fair amount of time talking about their 
 new dynamic skill system. The game is supposed to tailor itself around how you decide to play the 
 game. If you find the combat is very easy at one moment you will slowly start to notice the enemies 
 becoming smarter and using more aggressive tactics and weapons. The system is generally fairly 
 effective at keeping you on your toes at all times. At the start of the game you are given the 
 opportunity to set how difficult you want the game to be and how quickly, if at all, you want aid 
 should the action become too difficult. 
  
  Ensuring that the difficulty is always working at an optimal level is something that is very important 
 for Emergence since the game is pretty short. There are thirteen levels in Emergence and it should 
 take you between 5-7 hours to complete it for the first time. The length of the game feels about 
 right for the small chunk of story they were trying to tell, but in terms of game play once youve 
 played through it once there is very little incentive to do it again. 
  
  One of the best parts of the original Sin was the divergent nature the story could take based on 
 decisions and actions you took while playing it. There were some levels and bosses that you didnt 
 even see unless you decided to take one path instead of another. This game is far more linear than 
 its predecessor and generally doesnt reward you for taking the time to explore the environment 
 a little more. Each level does have a certain number of secrets inside it, but there is no apparent 
 reward for finding them all. To help track your progress through the levels the developers have 
 included a fairly comprehensive stat tracking system into the game. It tracks how many times you 
 have died, shots fired, what weapons you like, how often you use secondary modes, percentage of 
 time at full health it even breaks it down into graphs. With all that stat tracking to measure 
 how good a player you are, its too bad that there isnt any multiplayer included with it to really 
 show off how good your skills are.
  
  Another strange aspect of this titles diminutive nature is the arsenal at your disposal. There 
 are only three weapons for you to use in the game from start to finish. These are: the old magnum 
 pistol, the scattergun, and the machine gun. Each weapon also has a secondary fire mode attached 
 to it that requires specific ammo to use apart from the standard ammunition. The magnum doubles 
 as a rail gun, the scattergun fires a volley of shots that rebounds off of walls, and the machine 
 gun has a grenade launcher attached to it. The weapon sounds are fairly weak, but that is thankfully 
 made up for by how aggressively they destroy the environment and enemy heads.
  
  The rest of the sound in Sin is actually pretty good. The 3D modeling is nicely done and the array 
 of nasty crunching and wet thud sounds from bullet impacts is fairly effective. The music, for 
 an action game like this, is also pretty good. It has higher production values than a lot of other 
 action games do, and it even has a theme song! (I dont love the theme song personally, but it 
 doesnt sound out of place)
  
  Sin Episodes: Emergence is a difficult game to review. It is short, has no multiplayer, aspects 
 of the graphics and game play systems feel rushed, there arent that many weapons, and the story/scripting 
 events feel stiff and rigid. The story itself doesnt really go anywhere or explain much (like 
 how it starts for example?) and the dialogue also contains some cussing that just feels forced. 
 (Use your naughty words responsibly and not just because you want to be edgy) The game play itself 
 isnt pushing any boundaries and in some ways is even a step back from the original game in the 
 series. Despite all of these problems the action is still fast and fun, the visuals are mostly 
 very good, the enemies have a decent AI system that will keep you on your toes, and the price is 
 fairly inexpensive. If youre a fan of the series, or are interested in playing a quick and fun 
 action game than Sin Episodes might be a good choice of game for you. If youre the type of person 
 that needs a little more polish and variety in your games than you might want to consider something 
 else. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BNOv5
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 10, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I just got it in the evening, i couldnt connect in the morning, but i really think this game is 
 awesome, i dont know bout you guys, but i can shoot thru walls.. thats cool!!! i love the the first 
 level.. havent played it all yet.. but theres no 64 bit available, its still cool, I must say steam 
 is really cool!!!!! well 
  
  to the first poster,,,, HALF LIFE how,,,,, i can shoot thru walls and no v64
  and its the only 
 game i know that reads out on my logitech G15
  i would like to go blow up some stuff now
  
  yea it looks like half life2 a lil but its a game that doesnt have a half life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poppy425
Rating: 7
Date: May 10, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I had fun playing the original Sin game but I can't say I was totally impressed then. It did bring 
 alot of action and more story than other FPS' at the time but it wasn't legendary by any means. 
 This version has more story but the execution is lacking. I don't have the best computer but it 
 has more than is recommended and I still had major issues. Load times are just TOTALLY crazy. I 
 took naps between computer load times. Sound glitches that actually lagged me during play didn't 
 endear me at all. How about a pistol that I could dead-aim at long ranges way beyond what I should 
 be able to do with a pistol. I am still playing but I have to say that even Alexis' super-rendered 
 sexiness will not save this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoseArt
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 10, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Well to cut right to it the first installment of SiN Episodes is disappointing. Why you may ask? 
 Simply because for the current $19.99 you are asked to shell out you get what undoubtedly feels 
 and looks like a fan mod of Half-Life 2. 
  
  An unfair assensment? 
  
  This first episode, Emergence, feels just like you're playing HL2 except you never see the HL2 
 characters, although I kept half-expecting to see Barney or Alex standing around a corner, or perhaps 
 a combine coming at me with a stun rod. While watching the preview trailers for Emergence I could 
 already get a good sense of "HL2" but with a different developer behind the game you expect alot 
 of difference too. 
  
  Well, the adaptive AI is impressive and the scripting and voice acting are nicely done but when 
 the textures are quite low-res, models low-poly, and the art style is heavily borrowed from HL2 
 you get the idea that Ritual took the Source SDK and plugged their story, character, and new models 
 into it and plugged it into steam for a "nominal" price. This very likely has just as much to do 
 with the Source engine as it does Ritual or to an extent anyway. Aside from the physics and character 
 animation/voicing the Source engine isn't aging very well. In the hands of Valve it creates an 
 often stunning experience, but so far in the hands of other developers it's just ho-hum.
  
  Emergence also has a heavy dose of profanity in that unnecessary, but "it's cool" vein of thinking. 
 Basically just too much of it. It's not just the damns and hells but the FU and GD too. So be warned 
 if you don't like too much or any of it.
  
  It's got a strong does of sexuality as well which is pretty apparent from Ritual's advertisement. 
 The evil lead female has unnecessarily (and very unrealistic) jiggling breats that almost seem 
 to have AI of their own. If this just made up your mind to buy the game then I am sorry.
  
  Bottomline: This is something I would expect to see from the mod community not a well established 
 development house. It's a stylistic game with a cool techno punk feel with good AI but that doesn't 
 make it feel any less like a HL2 episode. It's certainly not something so polished and well executed 
 that the mod community couldn't do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathd20
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 10, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Hello all, Its me firts time I write a review on Gamespot. I just just got it today on steam. Soo 
 for the learning its a game of great interest. When you start the game you like a sci-fi movie. 
 Big Corporation and Drug Lords start the sequence perfecly. Then your sidekick there too help you. 
 The action start right away and there non-stop afterwords. You beging with no weapons but as you 
 evolve in the game you get greater and meaner machines. The sound its like a movie, always there 
 the give a ambiance to every seen in the game. For the graphics are excellent! You can see the 
 blue skies and see the background evolve. Its like Half-life2 the precise but in another dimension. 
 The sounds are I can tell awsome (the guys talking eachother) you feel that there human. The enemy's 
 pretty funny burn up but sometime a little repetitive on this side. Its like the same voice actor 
 for all the soldier or merc. For the other enemys I dont whon't you tell you the punch for these 
 guys. Overall you got a great fellling in the physics, exploding barrels and falling objects. You 
 can interact you computer and phone both. Soo too resume everything if you like Half-life 2 and 
 that you like the gendra of Blade Runner movie soo welcome to Sin episode : Emergence.
  
  Thanks all
  
  Math 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
