-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Singles: Flirt Up Your Life
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/singles/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 26, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.0, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 616 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Rotobee
Genre: Virtual Life
Date:     Oct 5, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It doesn't succeed at portraying or simulating an intimate relationship between two characters, 
 which is what it genuinely seems to be trying to do. 

  Singles: Flirt Up Your Life is, in a word, European. For the most part, it's a shameless, stripped-down 
 copy of The Sims. Only, here, the goal isn't merely to keep your characters nourished and gainfully 
 employed but to get them to knock boots, as it were. This is a strange premise, and it's one that 
 might never have made it to these shores were it not for publisher Eidos, which took upon itself 
 the task of releasing a downloadable, Adults Only-rated version of Singles in North America. Anyway... 
 While we desensitized American savages gleefully absorb scenes of graphic violence, we hypocritically 
 express shock and dismay at the sight of an unclothed human body. Apparently, however, it's kind 
 of the other way around in Europe. Indeed, Singles was originally developed in Germany, a country 
 that's notoriously strict about depictions of violence in its video games yet has no qualms about 
 full-frontal nudity, if Singles is any indication. But the truth is, Singles isn't nearly as racy 
 as it sounds. It's also not as bad of a game as you might expect, though this is not to say that 
 it's good.  

          So as not to mince words, in Singles, your purpose is to get two roommates to have sex 
 with each other.     

  In Singles, you always have direct control over two different characters. The premise of the game 
 is that two swinging, unattached singles (of course) just so happen to move into an apartment together, 
 and it's up to you, for some reason, to get them to hook up (as if inter-apartment relationships 
 are a good idea) . The proverbial  dance  all starts with playful flirting and teasing and gradually 
 works its way up to hugging and kissing. It culminates in, finally, what the game refers to as 
 "the wild thing." One of the major shortcomings of Singles is that, unlike The Sims, the range 
 of character actions here is actually very limited. There are four categories of actions -- romance, 
 sensuality, fun, and friendship -- and just a handful of different, possible options within each 
 one, all of which are represented by a single animation that plays out the same exact way each 
 time. The ultimate point of Singles, apparently, is to unlock all the different, possible animations. 
 This will, maybe, take you a weekend's worth of casual playing time, though the process is purposely 
 dragged out so that you can't see everything the game has to offer in a half hour.  

  Like in The Sims, in Singles you need to manage the mundane aspects of the lives of mundane characters. 
 You can't make your own characters but instead are limited to a fairly small selection of Caucasian 
 men and women, the latter of which are all quite pretty, and the former of which all look like 
 dirtbags. In practice -- though you supposedly have characters that range from yuppies to swingers 
 to artistes to girls-next-door to computer nerds -- there's really no obvious difference in gameplay 
 terms, regardless of which sort of mismatched pair you select. What's also rather strange is that 
 there's a token gay male and a token gay female character that you can pick for attempted same-sex 
 partnerships... only, you can pick both these characters together. So, Singles purports that any 
 combination of two young people, regardless of their sexual orientation, can eventually be made 
 to hook up. Surely this is not the strangest notion ever presented in a game.  

  The characters in singles all look to be somewhere in their 20s, and some of them are described 
 as being "always on the scene looking for some action." So it's ironic, then, that the game is 
 actually somewhat conservative in its structure (as if these types of people, in real life, would 
 be averse to a one-night stand) . You can't just make your two characters hop into bed together 
 from day one. Instead, it'll take a good couple of weeks of game time to work your way up to that. 
 You'll instead have to make your singles eat together, watch TV together, play board games together, 
 flirt, sweet talk, do chores for each other, and generally be civil to each other (and little else) 
 before their relationship can reach a stage where they're willing to spend the night together. 
 Even after they do, the game's canned, text-based dialogue in story mode doesn't match up with 
 what has already transpired, which suggests that the characters' relationship hasn't blossomed 
 as well as it would appear, based on what has actually happened.  

          This Sims rip-off certainly looks nice in screenshots, but it has very little variety when 
 you get down to its actual gameplay.     

  In fact, for a game that's set in the real world and presents fairly realistic-looking characters 
 and situations, Singles comes across as surprisingly, mind-numbingly, bafflingly implausible. Shouldn't 
 hipsters such as these have the desire to leave their apartments at some point for purposes other 
 than work? They can call their friends on the phone, and they can run out to buy gifts for their 
 roommates, but that's the full extent of their interactions with the outside world. The apartment 
 can never be occupied by more than just the two characters.  

  Furthermore, the sequence of actions that becomes unlocked as your characters' relationship develops 
 doesn't seem to reflect the way in which anyone could plausibly expect such a relationship to blossom. 
 Flirting suddenly gives way to full-on French kissing in just a couple of days of game time... and 
 only days later do the characters find the courage to give each other simple pecks on the cheeks 
 or seemingly innocent hugs. Characters will have long since been sucking on each other's faces 
 for days before they're comfortable with seeing one another in their underwear as well (until that 
 point, they'll automatically run away from one another in embarrassment) . Furthermore, characters 
 that are ready to take that all-important step in their relationships literally won't be able to 
 do so unless their apartments are furnished with double beds. So much for raging hormones... Also, 
 the game's distinction between "romance" and "sensuality" is perhaps too subtle for our shallow 
 American minds to fathom. As a result, the characters need to have these two separate criteria 
 independently satisfied at all times, as though the two were completely unrelated. All these types 
 of things conspire to make Singles a truly nonsensical game. But that doesn't mean it can't be 
 fun for a while, and one could probably argue that the nonsensical qualities are to the game's 
 credit.     

  The game itself is simple, and its characters, in practice, all seem to suffer from obsessive-compulsive 
 disorder. All you'll really do is make them repeatedly wash their hands, bathe, go to the bathroom, 
 and eat; you'll use any idle time in between to make them flirt and chat and such. For some reason, 
 they gradually gain "experience points" from all this, which occasionally results in your being 
 able to upgrade one of their abilities (like cleaning or flirting, among others) , most of which 
 have no discernible effect on gameplay. Again, on weekdays, characters will waste most of their 
 time offscreen, while supposedly at jobs. On weekends, you've got two whole days to repeatedly 
 cycle through the same types of actions in an effort to advance the relationships as quickly as 
 possible. All that, in addition to occasionally cleaning the apartment, repairing appliances that 
 break after a certain number of uses, and buying new stuff from a rather paltry selection of mostly 
 meaningless options, constitutes the gameplay in Singles. There isn't much to it, but it does keep 
 you busy since you have two characters to be thinking about. And the game basically controls well, 
 with its fairly intuitive mouse-driven interface. It's easy to move the camera angle around and 
 switch between the two characters instantly, and though you can always pause the game to queue 
 up additional instructions for your characters, it's manageable to do so without having to resort 
 to stopping time.  

          Only in Singles do slender, attractive women in evening gowns spend their Saturday nights 
 using the Internet.     

  Singles is an easy game, which you'd have to go out of your way to fail, though it's theoretically 
 possible to do so if you purposely neglect your relationships over time. Singles isn't nearly as 
 interesting as The Sims in this respect, though. Your characters can't die or anything, so don't 
 expect surprising or interesting events to occur if you completely ignore their needs for days 
 on end. We tried throwing two naked characters into an empty room for several days (purely for 
 the sake of experiment, we assure you) and were disappointed to find the two of them still blushing 
 at each other -- paralyzed -- after a week's worth of game time without any food or sleep.  

  As mentioned, the other thing about Singles is that it's surprisingly tame for a game that's unabashedly 
 all about having sex. For what it's worth, there's no alcohol, smoking, or drug use -- or references 
 to any of these things -- anywhere in the game. Then again, you can order your characters to remove 
 all their clothing at any point just by selecting the "naked" option when you make them use a clothes 
 dresser. And, indeed, the game features full-frontal nudity at this point, which explains the Adults 
 Only rating from the ESRB. However, this nudity is presented in an almost clinical fashion. The 
 interactions between your characters are all very straightforward and are certainly not any more 
 graphic than what you'd find in an R-rated movie.  

  For what it's worth, the graphics in Singles are actually legitimately impressive. The game is 
 demanding of a fairly fast system and is bogged down by lengthy loading times and awkward pauses 
 in transition from morning, to day, to dusk, to night. But the fully 3D character models and, to 
 a lesser extent, the environments actually look great. Unlike in The Sims, you're free to manipulate 
 the camera angle as you see fit here. The default isometric viewpoint is useful, but you'll naturally 
 want to zoom in for a closer look during interactions between your characters. The characters can 
 be truly expressive, exhibiting genuine-looking emotions on occasion. Still, the closer you zoom 
 in, the more likely you are to notice some graphical problems that mar the presentation. Characters' 
 limbs will clip through each other and the scenery, and, depending on which pairing you chose, 
 sometimes your characters won't even seem to make physical contact when they should, such as when 
 they are kissing. Assuming that the goal of Singles is titillation -- not that there's anything wrong 
 with this -- these types of graphical issues really get in the way.  

          The nubile characters of Singles aren't as interested in love as you might expect. You'll 
 spend a lot more time having them perform necessary, basic chores.     

  As for the audio, like The Sims, Singles incorporates fake speech in conjunction with the characters' 
 interactions. The speech, like the actual animations, is the same each time, and many of the voices 
 are repeated from one character to another. As a result, Singles' gibberish language doesn't succeed 
 at conveying the personalities of the game's characters. Apart from this, some sparse sound effects 
 and an upbeat musical score fit the bill just fine, but they get very repetitive in due time, just 
 like the rest of the game.  

  If you succeed at Singles' story mode, the ultimate option is to have one character "pop the question" 
 to the other character. At this point, both may teleport from their apartment to a beachside condo, 
 which is a superficial change of scenery that doesn't introduce much of anything in the way of 
 new gameplay options. To be fair, Singles deserves some credit for its great looks, as well as 
 for its straightforward broaching of previously taboo subject matter in gaming. Yet Singles: Flirt 
 Up Your Life has no long-term, lasting appeal, and, more importantly, it doesn't succeed at portraying 
 or simulating an intimate relationship between two characters, which is what it genuinely seems 
 to be trying to do. As it stands, the game definitely could have had a lot more to it, but then 
 again, it certainly could have been a whole lot worse. It's worth a look if you're curious about 
 it and have reached the age of consent.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mikylin
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  Well, of course, it is a Sims based game, so it has some of the general features from that game 
 included. So, you might want to saying other words, it is a SIM-wannabe-game. It is as simple as 
 that.
  
  Ok, it has the good images (before SIMS 2 came out, that is) it looks pretty sweet, but, then again, 
 I played it in a Samsung 19 LCD Screen in 1280X1024 resolution, and it did definitly NOT look like 
 what it looks in the Screenshots. The game is not capable of doing much neither, I really missed 
 some features of THE SIMS which are included even in the first version. People around don't really 
 seem to get better at anything, the logic of experience is a lot different 2, which would not be 
 any bad, if it weren't for the fact that it does not make quite a lot of sense.... AT ALL!! One 
 thing is true, the way you can move the view around is surprisingly accurate, zooming in and out 
 is pretty good made to. But is this a good reason to buy this game? NO, it is not. I certainly 
 regretted, not so much for the money as I am a collector, but for the time I lost on it waiting 
 for something else to happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  It would be easy for anyone to dismiss a title like Singles: Flirt Up Your Life, as nothing but 
 a cheap Sims clone destined to fulfill the fantasies of perverted voyeurs; after all the screenshots 
 and the AO rating make it pretty clear this game has sex written all over it, and while that is 
 true (getting your singles into bed is one of your main goals) this game has a lot more to offer. 
 Getting past the tutorial you will realize that sex isn't the only aspect of the game; as a matter 
 of fact there's very little "hardcore" material in the game, and unlocking it requires you to deeply 
 develop a relationship between 2 singles in several areas, while talking care of some of the more 
 mundane aspects of life and avoiding any trouble that will cause your relationship to go down the 
 sink. Though the game itself isn't groundbreaking, it's got a certain charm that will keep you 
 going until your singles tie the knot.
  
  (On a small sidenote: It's ironic that a game like this gets slapped with an AO rating, while games 
 where you can blow the brains of thousands of people are ok for teens to play. That's America for 
 you.)
  
  One thing that should be mentioned, is that this game takes a lot from The Sims. Even though I 
 have never played The Sims, it's perfectly clear it was the main source of inspiration and a lot 
 of the game mechanics are very similar, so if you're a Sims fan you won't have any problems adapting 
 to this game.
  
  The game allows you to play a heterosexual relationship as a well as a gay/lesbian relationship. 
 It would've been nice to be able to create your own characters, but at least the predefined list 
 of characters is pretty decent. Regardless of which characters you choose, or whether you play 
 a gay/lesbian relationship the gameplay will pretty much be the same, but you'll have to focus 
 on different activities to develop each character. Once you start the game you can choose to play 
 a free game, where you'll start in an empty apartment and will have to build from scratch as well 
 as develop and satisfy your character's needs, or you can choose to play the story mode in which 
 you start in a pre-built apartment, and your ultimate goal will be to get your singles married 
 (and of course, get them to "do the wild thing") .
  
  The game itself is really simple to play, choose one of your singles click on the item you want 
 to interact (or your other single) , and choose the action to perform. Most of these actions will 
 revolve around satisfying your character's basic needs (hunger, hygiene, comfort, sleep) , repairing 
 items around the house (a chore you'll have to perform a lot until you buy better stuff for your 
 apartment) , and then there's the interaction between the characters (friendship, romance, sensuality, 
 fun) . While there are plenty of options and you will unlock others as the relationship develops, 
 some of them tend to get a little repetitive and the game could've used a more interactive world 
 (and it would've been a welcome treat to be able to get out of the house other than for work) . 
 Still, most of these actions are charming enough to enjoy, and the unlockable ones give you a sense 
 of something new every once in a while.
  
  A neat addition to the game are the skill points your characters receive for their experience in 
 the game. You gain one skill point for every five experience points and you can spend it on improving 
 a certain trait of your single, such as their career, cooking, flirting, etc. You can balance these 
 skills between your singles, so that you can focus tasks such as repairing items and cooking on 
 one of your singles, while letting the other one carry the relationship.
  
  The story mode also includes several dialogues that will trigger when certain aspects of the relationship 
 are met and this dialogues will help you figure where the relationship is going, while also warning 
 you for any signs of trouble. It's a shame the same dialogues are used regardless of the characters 
 you choose, so once you play the story mode you've pretty much seen it all regardless of the characters 
 with which you play. However watching your singles go from untrusting roommates, all the way to 
 tying the knot (the marriage dialogues are pretty hilarious) is very satisfying and gives you an 
 ultimate goal to aim for while playing the game. The story mode itself is engaging and entertaining 
 enough, and is in my view the main attraction of the game.
  
  I've gone several paragraphs without even mentioning the sex aspects of the game and that's because 
 it won't be until very late in the game that you'll be able to get your singles in bed. Sure, at 
 anytime you can choose the naked option from the drawer to have your single proudly display their 
 stuff (and it's very graphic stuff, unless you have the M rated version of the game) , but if the 
 relationship isn't deep enough they'll get shy and quickly dress back. Once the relationship is 
 strong enough, you can order your singles to "do the wild thing", but it's not really as expilcit 
 as one would've thought (or in the case of some people, would've hoped) .
  
  One area where the game truly excels is the graphics department; the characters look really sharp 
 and their animations are handled very well, not to mention that their emotions are expressed marvelously. 
 You'll see some funny stuff like a worrying face when they haven't gone to the bathroom for too 
 long and you'll be able to tell how touched one of your singles was when the other character mentions 
 the L word. The detail in the apartment is also superb and with considering you can customize several 
 things around the place, you'll be guaranteed a visual treat.
  
  The sound is also pretty good, though it doesn't excel that much, as it consists of a few tracks 
 looped over and over again (thankfully they're pretty good and are very suitable for the game) . 
 The characters speech is some sort of gibberish language (another trait from the sims) , but it's 
 perfectly clear to interpret what they're trying to express and some of the gibberish phrases will 
 get stuck with you; I now associate the word flirt with a pickup line that goes something like 
 "kudo masa".
  
  Once you finish the story mode you unlock the beach house and you're free to customize it however 
 you want. However with the goal of getting your singles married complete and no further dialogue 
 added, there's not much incentive in continuing the game and it's more appealing to start a new 
 story game with different characters, but even then the story will be the same so it's safe to 
 say this game is more of a one time endeavor. But it sure is fun while it lasts.
  
  What else can I tell you about Singles? I absolutely loved it. Even with it's flaws, it was a lot 
 deeper than one would've expected and most importantly, it was fun to play. If you're mature enough 
 to handle the game's content and don't mind it's obvious similarities with The Sims, you'll have 
 a good time playing around with two lovebirds in Singles: Flirt Up Your Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeed_lp_69
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 14, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  Singles: Flirt Up Your Life is a video game by Rotobee and published by German company Deep Silver 
 in 2004.
  
  It is very similar to The Sims in that the player is responsible for characters who have to be 
 taken care of, such as by ordering them to eat, sleep, go to work, etc.
  
  Only two characters are ever in the same household. The aim of the game is to get them from being 
 casual acquaintances through to having a sexual relationship. There are several characters of either 
 gender with the possibility for a gay/lesbian relationships as well.
  
  The game is available for sale via download from the company's website, with payment required to 
 continue playing after the one-hour time limit was up. In the UK it was given an '18' certificate 
 by the BBFC due to its content and in the US 'Adults only' by the ESRB. In Australia, it was banned 
 by the OFLC as it had exceeded the highest allowable rating for video games, which was MA15+. It 
 has been debated as to whether or not an R18+ rating (which currently applies only to films and 
 DVDs) should be introduced for video games.
  
  It contains full frontal nudity, with the character's anatomical attributes drawn in great detail.
 
  
  Singles was largely panned by critics for being a rip-off of The Sims and the way it offered little 
 challenge, with the player required to simply follow a routine of making the characters progress 
 from making small talk through to professing love then running off to bed together via the simple 
 interaction menus. The 'needs' are also considered fairly inconsequential, with the characters 
 never starving to death even when their 'hunger' need has dropped to zero. One critic suggested 
 that the game was the expensive equivalent of stripping the clothes from an Action Man and Barbie 
 dolls and putting them in compromising positions for fun. Others thought that game was not sexually 
 explicit enough.
  
  However, despite such criticisms, the game has proved to be fairly popular download. One thing 
 most critics can agree on is that Singles has a very impressive game engine and superb visuals. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:10 am PT
Review:  I have been curious about Singles for a long, long time. I had heard as much bad as I heard good 
 about this game, so it was only recently that I got it and started playing it. Let me also point 
 out that I have been playing the European release of Singles, since the North American release 
 only features "partial nudity".
  
  At first glance, the game seems like a rip-off of The Sims 2, which is something I had heard so 
 many times before and that made me very reluctant about buying it, especially considering this 
 title was released shortly after TS2. But to me the game can be defined as a Sims RPG, since your 
 characters will actually gain experience, levels and skill points.
  
  There is one major difference between the Singles and TS2 that I feel compelled to point out: full 
 nudity and anatomically correct characters. No sir, there's no censorship blurs here, and they're 
 not Barbie and Ken either, but very realistic 3D models.
  
  With that out of the way, let me tell you about the gameplay.
  
  You begin by choosing a couple 
 of characters, one male, one female, from a pre-set group of ready-made "singles". Each of these 
 characters has his/her own personality traits and a career already picked out for them.
  
  Unfortunately, the gameplay becomes this monotony of work all week and socialize only on the weekends. 
 Since there isn't much time left after a character returns from work, you are stuck with fulfilling 
 their basic needs (hygiene, hunger and energy) and then cleaning up after yourself.
  
  If you're familiar with the mechanics in The Sims, Singles will be a breeze to pick up and play. 
 There's a twist though. You don't limit yourself to study to gain a cooking point. All the activities 
 and interactions you do throughout the day (including go to work) give you experience points, which 
 in turn make your characters gain levels. Each level you gain a skill point that you can use to 
 raise any of your skills.
  
  I recommend raising your career level first so you can afford better furniture and other goodies, 
 then raise the slacker skill so you can work few hours and still be paid the same. At the same 
 time, have one of the characters learn cooking and another learn repairs so they can split house 
 tasks between them.
  
  The game lacks in interaction, decoration and clothing options. Yes, you do unlock new interactions 
 according to how well your relationship is going, but it's just not enough. Seeing my characters 
 wearing the same outfits all the time became boring fast, so I decided to play around with some 
 of the textures in the game to alter their colors. Better, but not enough customization there.
 
  
  The same happened to the paintings, major makeover there, I re-textured them all. Finding them 
 on the catalog was the problem, since I had only altered their final appearance and not the catalog 
 image. Still, it made me warm up the apartment more than with the original paintings that came 
 in the game.
  
  In sum, variety is not the Singles strong point.
  
  Once your singles get in bed and have sex with each other, that's it. But until they do, and if 
 you're playing just to see this event happening, there is a long hard (no pun intended) path to 
 follow. A relationship takes time to build, and it will take a lot of talking and flirting to have 
 them finally walk around each other in a towel or in their underwear.
  
  While the concept of the game is innovative there just isn't enough in it to keep people interested 
 for long periods of time. Unless you're into voyeurism, but that's a completely different matter.
 
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puppylove4me999
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2005 7:29 am PT
Review:  I love the game singles but you can't have children i love, love, love, love, love, love, love, 
 love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, , love, 
 love, love, love, The Singles but make it adult content were they have sex, have babies, the babies 
 grow into todlers, todlers grow into kids, kids grow ino teens, and teens grow into adult and adult 
 get old and die. I think that from kid to grandparent should be able to get pregnant and make love!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 I think you should be able to shop and buy food, clothes, furniture, and designs but i think you 
 should start out with 100,000 dolars to build and furnish a home 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drswank
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 28, 2005 6:37 pm PT
Review:  It's obvious that the life sim has been a popular genre amongst PC and console gamers ever since 
 The Sims was released in early 2000. Unfortunately, there hasn't been much variety outside of The 
 Sims franchise and its piles of expansions, at least until now. 
  
  Singles: Flirt Up Your Life is a life sim that focuses on relationships rather than getting a job 
 and bringing home the bacon. The game throws two single people into a house and it's up to you 
 to make the fireworks fly in addition to getting the housework done and getting your singles to 
 work. Instead of creating your own characters, you choose from a handful of prefab characters. 
 The women all look great and have varying styles to them, but the same can't be said for the guys 
 as they range from extreme yuppie to dire straight ghetto in appearance. In addition to males and 
 females, you can also get the token same sex characters if you're up for some girl-on-girl or guy-on-guy 
 action. 
  
  The game puts you in control of both characters and allows you to easily switch between them. You're 
 also able to move the camera around and zoom in during those intimate moments  if you're a perv. 
 You build up relationships by interacting with each other in a variety of categories such as friendship, 
 fun, romance, and sensual. Your characters will gain experience points for each category which 
 allow you to unlock new and sometimes more intimate actions. One problem here is that the order 
 of how actions are unlocked isn't too realistic. I had two women in a flat who were kissing with 
 tongues and snuggling in bed before they got confident enough to hug or give pecks on the cheek. 
 Either way, it seems that your ultimate goal is to get your singles to (as the game refers to it) 
 do the wild thing and unlock all of the actions that are available. You'll find yourself spending 
 the majority of your time flirting with your roommate repeatedly to get to the next level of the 
 relationship. This can be somewhat repetitive and somehow feels rewarding at the same time. Especially 
 when you get past their initial shyness and make them walk around the house naked  full frontal 
 nudity and all. This game definitely earned its adults only rating. Sensual acts also look realistic. 
 Kisses look passionate; characters will pet, look into each others eyes and speak to each other 
 while cuddling in bed among other things that shouldn't be mentioned in a review written by an 
 amateur trying to write like a professional. One really annoying aspect is that when you get enough 
 experience to do the aforementioned wild thing, the characters will only do it if you buy them 
 a double bed. I know if I were living with a hot chick and the time came for some action, I'd settle 
 for a twin bed no matter what. 
  
  In addition to your blossoming relationship, your singles also have to do chores and get to work. 
 Like the Sims, your singles all have needs like hunger, body, comfort, surroundings, relationship, 
 and love. Naturally, you can stave away hunger by pulling food out of the bottomless fridge or 
 cook for you and your roommate. You can get your body levels to normal by washing your hands, taking 
 showers, or going to the bathroom. You can even get by just taking showers and not using the toilet 
 for the entire game without one complaint out of your single. There is also housework to be done, 
 lest your comfort levels go down to abysmal levels and start causing arguments amongst your roommates. 
 Sharing the housework also helps your relationship along. Sorry, no master/slave scenarios here. 
 
  
  One unfortunate aspect is that the game world doesn't exist outside of your living space, which 
 means your singles will disappear from 9am to 5pm to go to work or go out and buy a gift for their 
 roommate, but that's about the extent of outdoor activity. What the game offers in terms of indoor 
 environments all look great, if it's any consolation. You'll also have the life sim standard of 
 buying new furnishings for the home that increase their effectiveness on your needs. None of them 
 are quite as creative or interesting as what The Sims had to offer, but at least its there and 
 offers a little more depth than the somewhat shallow gameplay. 
  
  Speaking of visuals, the characters all look great as they're all a couple steps up from the sims 
 of old. One drawback is that all of their animations are recycled, no matter what character you're 
 playing. It just depends on who you want to see naked. There are also a host of graphics glitches 
 abound, mostly consisting of clipping issues. For instance, when a character is brushing their 
 teeth, you'll get the somewhat horrifying sight of them stabbing themselves about the face and 
 eyes with the toothbrush instead of keeping it in their mouth. Same goes for when they hug or snuggle, 
 arms and hair will go through the other person's body. 
  
  On the sound side of things, the game features a pretty good soundtrack of three to four songs 
 that can get repetitive after a few hours of game time. The characters also speak their own simish 
 language and while it's voiced well, there isn't a lot of variety as far as speech is concerned. 
 
  
  All-in-all, Singles: Flirt Up Your Life is a solid, if not shallow take on the things that the 
 Sims were missing. Though the game can be entertaining while your relationship develops, the fun 
 quickly drops off once you reach your ultimate goal. If you're tired of the Sims (and let's face 
 it, it's been four years) and you're not squeamish about virtual nudity and adult situations, Singles 
 can make an entertaining weekend of casual play despite its questionable gameplay and visual glitches. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Typhoon89
Rating: 3.2
Date: Feb 13, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the worst gmes I've ever played! The graphics are appauling! The sounds attrocious 
 and the gameplay is even worse. Don't buy it!
  If I were you I'd spend my money on The Sims 2, and if you must have sex and nudity get Playboy: 
 The Mansion, at least that has a fun factor to it and a purpose.
  Don't even waste your time on Gamespot's free download! It would just be a waste of mbs on your 
 harddrive and a waste of Gamespot's bandwidth!
  
  If you get this game then you're not the brightest of people, but if you're an immature little 
 teen/preteen then it's perfect for you, but don't expect it to make you look more mature to others. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdolhon
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2004 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Apparently there are two versions, an edited version sold in retail stores and an only purchase 
 that is not. So if you downloaded and played the demo and then went out and bought it, they are 
 not the same games. But of course you only find out this fact AFTER and only after much searching 
 on their website. Also the camera controls and build and buy modes are really poor and its not 
 easy to use (in comparison to The Sims) . There is no grid option, so placing furniture, objects, 
 walls, etc. can get quite messy looking. As far as camera control, the angles are poor and you 
 have to zoom out to move around (no moving your mouse to the edge) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syprimadonna
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 10, 2004 9:27 am PT
Review:  Well... I'm a very sttuborn person... I should have listened to the warnings of the others reviews... 
 So.. I didn't and I bought it!!!
  At first you like it because its graphics are good... after a couple of hours you are tired of flirting 
 and chating.... or telling jokes. The caracters interactions are poor and repetitive. Who in the 
 world have only 2 outfits to  And, finally... I couldn't stand 
 to be only inthe flat.. that was the most annoying. When they get to make love... I totally lost 
 my interest.. what a waist of $$$. As a big fan of the Sims, I was trully disapointed. The caracters 
 of Singles look more human and real then the SIms 2, but even then, there's no comparisson of story 
 line and gameplay.
  People... don't buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decker12
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 29, 2004 1:55 am PT
Review:  Singles is a simplistic knock off of the Sims with a juvenile twist. I totally agree with the Gamespot 
 review. You perform mind-numbing tasks over and over again, all in an effort to get your two roommates 
 together and comfortably naked in order to perform "the wild thing". Yes, it's written in the game 
 as exactly that. It's like the developers used a "Lingo of Hip Terms from the 80s" for this game's 
 dialouge and interaction options.
  
  You pretty much go to the bathroom, shower, cook, wash your hands, and then chat with the other 
 roommate constantly, until you have enough relationship points to head to the bedroom and screw 
 around. That's it. Being a Sims player with a tad of skill, I was able to obtain the entire weird 
 sexual "goal" in under 45 minutes of game play. The whole game is about as hard as the first original 
 tutorial in The Sims.
  
  There's little need to buy furniture or rearrange your shared apartment, and many of the options 
 make little difference on your relationship (such as selecting what TV show to watch, or buying 
 a bigger couch or more tables) . It's a bit frustrating when you start out, as you cannot build 
 new rooms in your loft so more than anything, you'll find your initally prudish characters fighting 
 over bathroom usage.
  
  Gamespot hid it right on the head when they described the weird social interactions and how they 
 don't necessairly coincide with each other. You can be a tiny fraction away from having enough 
 "points" to actually have sex with the other character and still run away when you see them in 
 their underwear. It's bizarre to repeatedly tongue kiss and flirt and fondle the other roommate 
 for an entire week, but still be unable to walk around in your underwear or brush your teeth while 
 they shower.
  
  It's far more difficult to try to make your roommates hate each other than to have them screw their 
 brains out. Once you get them in the sack there's little else to do, except play it again with 
 another vague set of characters who have no differences other than their hairstyles and descriptions.
 
  
  The nudity is a bold statement in video games but ultimately unnecessary. You can zoom right in 
 on the privates of each of your characters but strangely, the shower and bathroom still gets a 
 Sims-like censor over it. Other than the hair and face, all the character models are the same when 
 they're naked anyway.. and they all look like sculpted models anyway, so there's never a question 
 of one roommate not being attracted to the other's body. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JGrieger
Rating: 2.6
Date: May 27, 2004 6:20 pm PT
Review:  As much as reviewers and gamers seem to be giving this game a chance in one way or another, this 
 game has got to be the biggest waste of time and money imaginable (okay, maybe not the BIGGEST 
 but still... pretty close) . Note, I am going based off the trial version with a little save game 
 tweaking to advance the relationship a bit faster.
  
  As mentioned time and time again, the gameplay doesn't bring anything new to the table. Many aspects 
 of interaction, UI, character audio and goals are direct knockoffs of the Sims. I know this is 
 repetitive but please. The selection of interaction choices brings up what you'd expect to be able 
 to do, even going as far as to show (via icons) what the actions affect in terms of character needs. 
 The Simlish or whatever you want to call it is... well... gibberish but is very repetative.
  
  The new twist the game brings to the table is the whole intimacy thing along with nudity. Granted, 
 a hack exists for the Sims that allows you to circumvent the pixelation used to hide nudity in 
 the Sims, but the resulting nudity was obviously not expected to be seen (i. e. it wasn't anatomically 
 correct, really) . In Singles it is, though it seems more as an excuse to add a bullet point to 
 the box (or Website in this case) than anything else (I mean, what else would you need it for?) . 
 As is the "sex" which is really just two 3-D polygonal meshes bumbing and grinding under a sheet 
 with audio. It almost seems like a waste of time slapping an AO rating on this game as it does 
 nothing but help sell it with some extra buzz. 
  
  When you get past the sex and nudity, the game engine and experience itself is deflating (no pun 
 intended) . "Skills" are represented by a window with a set of buttons that you click to dole out 
 skill points you receive as you gain experience. Seems like a convoluted way of doing things. Consider, 
 in the Sims, your character gains skills by interacting with furniture or other items. This provides 
 a sort of experience that leads to increased leveling with particular skills. The result is a reduction 
 of risk (i. e. cooking fires) and time required to perform a task. In Singles, you simply gain experience 
 by interacting with your roommate which results in skill points as you hit certain levels of XP 
 which are then used by you to improve whatever skill you want. So, while you have control over 
 the use of the skill points (in the Sims you controlled it, more imaginatively, via the object 
 you used in the first place) , you also need to perform an extra set of steps to get there. And, 
 instead of achieving stats goals, as in the Sims, as well as collecting friends to gain promotions 
 at work, here you just need a skill point. Get six skill points and you'll be making more money 
 doing whatever job the game automatically selected for you. 
  
  Given that the game revolves entirely around the two singles you've chosen to work with in one 
 of two places, graphics and UI would be important things to get right. I'm not sure what game other 
 reviewers have played but the graphics in this game are nothing special. If you're used to the 
 2D sprites of the Sims, then, sure, this game might seem great since it's in 3D and you can view 
 just about anything in the apartment/flat from any angle. But, when you compare the graphics to 
 existing titles in other genres like first-person shooters (which tends to be where the bleeding 
 edge of 3D graphics resides) , this game looks dated. Outside the windows are 2D bitmaps of some 
 anonymous locale. Inside, the object geometry is relatively simple, perhaps to accommodate a large 
 amount of objects, while the texturing is also rather mediocre. Consider that I ran this on a P4 
 3.0Ghz 800 Mhz FSB, 1GB PC3200 RAM, 256MB ATI Radeon 9800 XT. Even with this rig, transitions from 
 night to day and back were accompanied with a 5 second or more pause as the game engine redrew 
 everything (I'm assuming) . This was with an apartment that had barely any furniture in it. Getting 
 around the apartment was fairly straight-forward, though some camera controls like rotation and 
 yoke require keyboard-only commands.
  
  After playing a game like Far Cry and seeing video from HalfLife2, this game's graphics make me 
 think of last year. 
  
  The character animations and modeling are decent with a good selection of facial expressions, but 
 the number of character models is limited to around a dozen, including an individual (token if 
 you think about it) gay/lesbian character. Despite it's "softer" rating, the Sims does allow for 
 the possibility that your sim's, regardless of their personality... so long as it's compatible with 
 another sim's, can "fall" for a same sex partner. Sure there's no sex in the Sims but there's so 
 much more.
  
  All in all, Singles proves one thing: you CAN make a Sims 2 in 3D but it's best to leave it to 
 the experts at Maxis (or wherever they are in the depths of EA) . German developers are known, along 
 with many European game developers, for developing games that often put the game developer's desires 
 above that of the final gamer. Ultimately, I would NOT recommend that anyone use this as a tide-me-over 
 until Sims 2 comes out. Just be patient for 3 more months. It'll be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arune821
Rating: 7
Date: May 26, 2004 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Singles has its ups and downs. Its OBVIOUSLY a Sims knockoff. From the gibberish to the menu system.
 
  
  It's much better to LOOK at, compared to the now dated The Sims. I think that its pretty cool to 
 be able to see AND do more adult things. I always thought having sensors were lame. But unlike 
 the Sims, the goal of the game is more to get your roomates to mate.
  
  This is cool because it lets you focus on two characters, but the downside is... you can ONLY use 
 your two characters. It would be nice to have a party, or interact with neighbors!
  
  I guess the designers wanted the characters to have personalities... but you dont really get to 
 experience any "personality" in the game, really. They shouldve left some default characters and 
 let you create your own character. Also, there should be more choices of clothing. I mean, everyone 
 has the same SWIMWEAR and the same jeans a T. How boring! Also... its lame that you can only have 
 gay relationships by selecting the "Pink" character. And why are the gay and lesbian charcater 
 so.... uhm... stereotypical? Tom looks like Carson from Queer Eye. Pacifica is big and butch. It 
 wouldve been nice to have that freedom.
  
  Overall, I think the game is good only because of the game it tries to copy from. It will satisfy 
 Sims fans until The Sims 2. Also the Adult-ness of the game may also be a little bit of a distraction. 
 AO games definately rare, and most Adult games are pretty corny... so as a game, its pretty cool, 
 and a good distraction until Sims2. But its pretty darn good for an AO rated game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PopnFresh
Rating: 4
Date: May 26, 2004 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Singles: Flirt Up Your Life is a game about having sex. What it's not about, unfortunately, are 
 three fun loving, present opening, rhyme dropping, ultra hip aliens on a mission to Earth. As such, 
 it doesn't really matter how good Singles really is, because the bottom line is that it's most 
 definitely not Toe Jam and Earl III.
  
  In a way, I guess I can understand the novelty. Imagine being at a friend's house, putting down 
 your Xbox controller, and saying "Hey, let's play something that's not Toe Jam and Earl III." Chances 
 are, your friend (s) would most likely respond by vomiting or throwing heavy boulders at you. But 
 maybe, just maybe, they'll agree with your kooky idea and will want to play a game that has 3D 
 models engaging in intercourse instead of a game that focuses on three jawesome misfits. 
  
  But really, is $30 a good price to pay for some passing fancy? For a game that's not Toe Jam 
 and Earl III? I say nay. If you must have a sexy game to play during ToeJam and Earl breaks, then 
 please, wait for ToeJam and Earl IV: Gettin' Wit' Latisha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer11115
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 26, 2004 3:45 pm PT
Review:  
  People have speculated Rumored Probably dreamt of a game that would one day surpass the dominant 
 Sims franchise. To say the Singles: Flirt Up Your Life has met that goal, would be a total, complete, 
 and blatant lie. It has its fair share of strengths and a clear list of flaws Its no surprise 
 that with this knowledge, the game is considered to be no more than Mediocre.
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  For Americans, Singles has its ways of throwing a curve, which will, at first, 
 appeal to a large bunch (Maybe out of curiosity, perhaps more) . After awhile though, you cant 
 help but feel as if the Gameplay becomes repetitive and maybe a little forced. The linear goal 
 doesnt help matters much. Your primary objective is to get two people, characters that are integrated 
 into the game and lack any modifications, to get together in a relationship. These characters have 
 jobs and needs yet it all seems a little plain, lacking variety, and in turn failing in the long-term 
 fun department. For those who have not played The Sims (Yet are interested in Singles) , its a 
 definite recommendation with one primary difference: Graphics. 
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Details arent as lush as it could be and for the most part, everything carries that common theme 
 of being no more than a little too plain. Fortunately, the characters are a pleasant contrast. 
 While not toned to perfection, its apparent that some respectable work went into the figures. 
 Faces carry somewhat realistic curves and features and the bodies have an apparent relation to 
 that of the human form (Both clothed and otherwise) . They also managed to keep animations fairly 
 interesting, at least for the first 20 minutes of Gameplay. With that said and done, the flaws 
 start to pop out. Some of the movements seem a little irregular and awkward while as mentioned 
 before, the environment is a little too square. It balances out the equation, with the characters 
 standing out though with some work, it could have been something Great. 
  
  Sound: 7/10
  Think The Sims and youd get a recycled version of the sound effects used in the game. Its good, 
 nothing spectacular and could have used some definite tune ups though there is honestly nothing 
 special to say about it. Keep in mind that the Sound also has its fair share of Glitches (Ex: Pausing 
 the game while the characters talk will not pause the conversation and leads to some very awkward 
 results) .
  
  All-in-all, Single: Flirt Up Your Life has some decent qualities though its glitches mask its potential 
 and a lack of detail can easily run a simulation such as this, dry. For the price, I would not 
 recommend a purchase and if at all possible, take a shot at a demo.
  
  Value: 7/10
  Reviewers Tilt: 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyman
Rating: 1.6
Date: May 25, 2004 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Singles: Flirt Up Your Life is one hell of a poor excuse for a game. If you have a desire to form 
 a relationship, you're far better off doing it in real life, which sucks to begin with. If forming 
 a sexual relationship is so difficult and more often than not, unrewarding for most of us, who 
 gave the developers of this garbage the idea that a video game based on this mundane real-life 
 task would be fun? Sure, if they had done it correctly, (pornographically or otherwise) , then it 
 may have been worth playing... but they didn't, and it's not. The graphics, while decent enough, 
 require ridiculously high minimum system requirements (I don't care what the website says, you'd 
 need one hell of a system for this game to run smoothly) in order to do things as simple as scrolling 
 around your flat. This also takes a huge toll on gameplay, as one might imagine, because getting 
 your singles to move anywhere, or do anything takes a very, very, sluggishly long time. While I 
 was not a particularly huge fan of The Sims (of which this game is clearly ripping off in many 
 aspects) , this game actually manages to make the Sims' formula worse. At least in The Sims, you 
 could do things such as create your own character, raise a family, advance in your job, and so 
 forth. All of the afformentioned nuances are absent from Singles. You can not create your own character 
 (you choose from only a handful of boring, generic stereotypes) , your job is useless aside from 
 the obvious monetary gain it brings, and the ultimate goal is to get married of all things (but 
 most of us don't want to be married in real life, so why do it in a video game?) . You can not have 
 children, nothing. The selection of decorative items also pales in comparison to The Sims, and 
 everything is placed on tiles, giving you limited options in terms of where you move and place 
 them. The bottom line is, if you want sex, get it in real life. If you want a life-sim, buy The 
 Sims. The only possible value this game has is for those who sit in their parent's ba****t, masturbating 
 to 3D renderings of naked women (or men... whatever floats your boat) , in which case, you could 
 still do better by walking to the video store and renting Jenna Jameson's Built For Speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 25, 2004 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I'll give credit to singles for pushing the game boundaries but there's not much else you can find 
 in this game. 
  
  Your singles start out as just room mates so it'll just be gentle flirting and sweet talking to 
 begin with. As you get more points you'll be able to kiss, hug, make out and be more intimate, 
 and eventually with enough points they'll get hitched and go on their honeymoon. Occaisionally 
 at certain levels your characters will talk a bit about how they are feeling to each other. 
  The dialogue is non-interactive though and you'll find different couples will generally be saying 
 the same sort of things. 
  
  Another problem is that there is quite a lack of things to do, you'll find yourself queuing jobs 
 and interactions between the couples. It's amazing how often you need to clean these people. There's 
 no way to do stuff like going out on dates or anything that you'd expect in a relationship, everything 
 is done in the flat. You do have to go to work to earn money but I found it such a waste of your 
 "sim day" that it was more fun hacking extra money in and then having all day to work on extra 
 relationship points.
  
  You can decorate the rooms and add different items for bonuses to some of your needs, but again 
 people aren't really going to be spending hours designing their flat. Sound is standard, just the 
 usual, showers going, Tv etc. Music is woeful, there must be like 4 tracks in the whole game. You'll 
 find once you've done one or two couples you won't have a neeed to try any more since they all 
 follow pretty much the same path and do the same things. 
  
  I feel the developers didn't spend maybe as much time on this game as they liked because the audience 
 would be very limited due to it's rating, and there's even a window that pops up when you've done 
 the story mode then says to look out for Singles 2. 
  
  Singles was fun for a while (I can see why "pink mode" is probably the main drawcard) but does 
 not have the replay value. And really, simulating a relationship has to be a new low for computer 
 games. Games are about doing things you couldn't do IRL like flying a plane or shooting aliens.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevek
Rating: 2.3
Date: May 25, 2004 3:46 pm PT
Review:  If you want to have a relationship. Go out and find someone to date. I don't care what you're excuses 
 are this kind of game, and the patetic populace that buys them, is what I consider to be harming 
 the game industry as well as money-greedy corporate developers. Plus its a Sim knockoff, another 
 bland useless game that is a silly sembalence of real life. You want to live? Go take a risk. Rock 
 climb, learn to spelunk (spelling on that?) , row a boat, learn to fly a plane, hike, find a real 
 relationship. Travel to the wonders of the world. Live. If you want to play games, go for something 
 unattainable - fantasy, sci-fi, shooters. Don't support games of this "genre". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediLord
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 25, 2004 12:13 am PT
Review:  Think about the sims with nothing but relationship between a female and male,
  but offering nothing special in this aspect at all.
  Basically you have to pick a male and a 
 female at the beginning, decorate your tiny tiny apartment (or use the pre-designed one) and then 
 start making the two talking to each other. You are restricted to do 2-3 tasks (task, flirt, talk 
 romance) etc and can't do any of the advance tasks until your relationship meters reach high values. 
 
  These tasks are extremely repetitive, not only that, it will take basically hours and hours doing 
 the exact same thing to get your meter up.
  In the mean time, just as you expected, you also need to take care of their needs which are exactly 
 like the sims but less.
  So basically the game come down to this : doing extremely small set of boring tasks repeatly and 
 taking care of the sims need (like going to eat, take shower etc) and eventually you can watch 
 the sims to have sex (being completely naked)
  so you will spend 99% of the time doing completely non-fun, worthless tasks. and then 1% watching 
 the sims get into action at the end.
  If you think doing these are not boring, then play the sims! because it offers much more. if you 
 are only interested in seeing your electronic character get naked and have sex, then don't waste 
 your time.
  either case, don't play this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomerx
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 24, 2004 3:16 pm PT
Review:  the singles has great graphics and is fun and it lets us get down an dirty like we wish the sims 
 would no magic baby here. they block the nude parts out in shower there are all ready nude mods 
 and player made plots. you use skill points to upgrade work, flirting, cleaning etc. You start in 
 the house but after you get maryed there is a weekend home and other after you beat it. sex is 
 kinda a let down as the only do missonary lots of boob rubbing. 
  it's funy but after that way play? but i'm sure mods will be made hehe
  
  You can have gay 
 singles too , but they can't have sex , but you can fix that too! not manny out fits for your singles. 
 but like the sims you can skin your own . money is easy to get but not really manny objects to 
 buy. you work on the weekdays weekends they have off. http://www. modthesingles. com/news. php is 
 a must if you buy this game! singles is a good buy and will last longer then a few hours. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
